The first half hour of Season 2s first episode is torture and more torture. The series is now outside the purview of Margaret Atwood's original work. Unbearable to watch and beyond having a point. The point was made, and then some. This is just torture porn. Disgusted by the relentless and horrible torture (and I don't usually object to violence in the context of exceptional writing. I don't think I've ever before stopped watching something solely for this reason) I stopped watching.
Much of the buzz about "The Handmaid's Tale" is that this is what could happen if America turned into a Christian theocracy. I'm not a religious person, but I don't see how anything in the show matches up with any Christian doctrine. Religious people I know don't have practices that match anything in "The Handmaid's Tale". Especially the part about keeping a mopey girl around the house so you can bang her to have kids. Yeah, I know, the women are infertile, but wouldn't a clinical method of getting the mope pregnant be more likely? This dystopian future is highly structured, with plenty of cultural taboos and enforcement infrastructure. How did this all get implemented? All the characters have a recent history, so this societal reboot happened in a span of five years? I can't imagine it in America. Gays have been a political force for 40 years and they just recently got the right to marry.As others have mentioned, not much really happens. None of the characters have any charisma or are likable. The viewer is supposed to be sympathetic to the handmaids. They have no freedom and are essentially property. As the show drags on, I start noticing other people. I feel sorry for the guards who have to stand on the sidewalk holding a machine gun all day. That's it, just stand there. At least the handmaids can chat with each other and are in a comfortable house.If you love this show, its because you make yourself love it. Or you are politically insecure and like to be frightened. There are many other shows you can watch that are much more engaging.


                
The series tell the sad story of a slave woman in a post revolutionary America. It is a story about a life of struggle in a country that is now ruled by some religious dictators. The story is sad and makes the watcher angry. How else could it be when freedom tends to be valued?
The thing that the series are missing is an explanation of how the revolution has succeeded in building a new order. It doesn't show clashes between military units of the state and the religious fanatics, it doesn't show people throwing molotov cocktails at the new police, it doesn't show cities burning. And it doesn't show the process of building new institutions. Rather, revolution was successful. And that is that. 
The thing is that the success of the revolution that the series speak of requires explanation. Without it the series become similar to the stories about zombie-apocalypse. Some virus-like infection outbreaks, zombies emerge, cities burn and countryside is patrolled by some police-like-zombie units.
So, do the zombie movies really have to be "sci-fi"? Or should they try to provide us with some explanations? After all, flesh eating zombies do not have to build some new institutions, but religious zombies do.


                
I don't give a damn about how politically relevant this show is, how nicely it portrays the future stupid,pious Christians are leading us to, the social commentary it has. One thing every writer must understand, you are writing a story, I don't mind if you push your ideology here and there, but it must have a story worth watching.And all I got was a story I could barely keep my eyes open to finish, a dystopian world whose history doesn't make any sense, neither did it's present. It felt like writer first decided the messages she wants to send, like about religion, gay-rights, personal freedom etc, you know, the whole liberal package. And then hastily built a world to fit the narrative. I know I must be a stupid, product of "evolution gone wrong" to not like this show, as intelligent writers here before me has pointed out. Anyway, in the midst of overwhelming positive reviews, there had to be a review for all those stupid folks out there.


                
After hearing great things about this show, I gave it a try. I watched the first three episodes to make sure I was giving it a fair chance. The production quality is decent, and the acting isn't awful. I find myself actually liking some of the characters. But that's about all this show has going for it. As a viewer who knew very little about the show before I started watching, the writers waste no time alienating certain groups and (dare I say) religions within the first 20 minutes. (Christians). I have no doubt that folks with a certain worldview will find this as some sort of cautionary tale. But if you have any perspective on the world at all, you'll probably find this premise lazy and worn out. What modern television show doesn't feature the main villain as some version of an evil white Christian male figure? This show is very politically charged and not subtle about it. If you're a Christian, you will probably find this a bit insulting. Unless you're a Christian who enjoys watching self proclaimed "Christians" raping a woman while "Onward, Christian Soldiers" plays in the background... And that's only the first episode...I'm not religious and I found myself very offended by some of the implications here. Especially when there are religious societies RIGHT NOW that operate in ways very similar to the society in this show... And they aren't Christian societies. A better title for this show might be: "Saudi Arabia"So, if you enjoy television that bases an entire story line on the idea that white Christian men eventually take over the world and do what they've always really wanted to do deep down, which is control every aspect of a woman's life, then this is the show for you.


                
great production values; costumes, sets and action sequences, but terrible writing and the direction was abysmal -----has there been a show on TV that is this slow? Did the broadcaster want 10 episodes and they only had scripts for five and the production team said no problem and them made every scene 3 times longer than necessary? I felt and then confirmed the directors were more cameramen than story tellers; i.e. in love with this long long shot that is pretty but doesn't move the tale along overly flashbacked, filled with narration; all back enough but the worst was slamming on the brakes to take us into "Lucas on the run story." that's when i realized there were too too many producers on the project and none had the character or personality or strength to rein this in.As it looked very expensive---and that cast isn't cheap either yet they've ended up with a dog's breakfast of a series instead of a quality project. I also want to mention how I, and so many others that make up the "audience" are so fed up with that "natural" light movement from Denmark that started 10-15 years ago. Natural light does not mean you can't see anything; there is a lot of room between a sitcom and a drama in terms of lighting. Only north America is still hooked on this "convention," and it screams follower and hack, rather than cutting edge.


                
I've read the original novel of Margaret Atwood, which I have very much enjoyed, because it had a very important message namely a women's worth and goal in life should not be to procreate only. One message I remember particularly is the line of Offred (Jane)to her mother: "I am not your justification for existence." This line has stuck with me ever since.I have watched the first 4 episodes of the series so far, and I don't enjoy it as much as the novel. The cinematography is beautiful, the acting is also superb, the only problem I have with is the lack of empathy from one women to another. Especially in Serena Joys case, who's behavior in the movie resembles rather that of a psychopath than an elegant, young, well educated and loving women. In the Novel Serena Joy was portrayed as an old, sad and bitter women, walking with sticks and showed signs of mental madness, and while she did not show any physical aggression towards Offred, the other Serena Joy in the movie does.Now this makes me wonder, as she and Offred are almost about the same age, one would except to show some kind of understanding and empathy of the whole situation, or if not, just don't let her character use physical aggression towards her maid, because it makes the whole story rather ridiculous and overacting.
This is one of those shows that received such overrated glorifying reviews that you want to watch and connect with the story and characters but just can't. I really wanted to like this show and watched about 5 episodes but realized I am really not enjoying it. I like Margaret Atwood and her interviews. She mentioned this novel was written in the 80s when IVF treatments were probably not yet introduced. This show seems to have missed that boat. It should have been made in the 80s. It's too politically driven on agendas that are impossible to actually happen or believe would happen because we have moved past the 1980s ideas of what the future (being now) might be like. There are no cell phones or computers in the show or a nice park with people. The whole city is empty with men driving around to kill other men in suits. who are they doing business with around the world? for what purpose when all creations and creativity seems to be dead. Overall it's a very dreadful, tense, dark and cold world without women having any control. A show about aliens or time travel is more believable than this show. Don't waste your time unless you have no other outlet or you have a very low IQ.


                
Idiots actually think that this could become Trump's America. This is also not any goal of Christianity. Science fiction needs to be feasible, not the fan tastes of some radical feminist.


                
So what can you take from this drama, providing you have the strength to sit through it despite it's many failings...perhaps:
1. The story carries the view of a climate-change alarmist from the 80's who foresaw a 2005 man-made dystopia - end of the world types just have to keep kicking that ball down the road to sound relevant, so no surprise to see it here.
2. Men (well, to be more precise, white men) are all complete (insert insulting word of your choice here) - how modern a view is that!
3. Religion is terrible and is out to get us....or at least a religion that doesn't look like any religion I know but a sort of Christiany thing that suddenly everyone in the USA believes in, or at least in sufficient volume to take control of the state - oh and anti-abortionists and anyone not in favour of gay rights is lined up alongside white men as the baddies here.
4. Even in a totalitarian state, everyone drives black Mercedes!
5. Forget E.L. James, the author of this novel had some weird fantasies that they appear to be playing out through the series!Unless you already live in a PC echo-chamber, I don't think you are going to like this one. If you do and you want your world view to be confirmed, fill your boots and jump in...there is a second series on the way....that I won't be watching.
These are just my thoughts on the first episode, because I'm pretty sure I won't bother with the rest of the series.I'll get right to the point. It's clear that this series wants you to feel Offred's pain every step of the way. What gets in the way of this is the total lack of political context and therefore the believability of its created world. In an attempt to avoid the dreaded exposition dump, the writer explains - well - nothing. We just do a pole vault over the major causative factor of this 'dystopian future' - what happened to get us to this apparent coup? What was the clash of values? What were the early warning signs of political trouble? In a way that is eerily reminiscent of Lady Macbeth, nothing is adequately explained, just a long and tedious procession of people abusing the protagonist. As such it just hits the same or similar notes over and over again. Imagine a pianist only using three of the keys.Therefore its difficult to feel anything for Offred, because the world as created just seems downright silly and so it neither draws us in, nor thrills us.It also uses a confusing flash-forward structure - it starts with Offred on the run with her kid, which she then re-explains in the dystopian future in a way which is dramatically redundant. Signs like this indicate to me a sloppy approach from conception to execution.And to think this is what replaced Homeland on C4...
When I saw the trailer I already expected that sort of feminist nonsense, but the show managed to be even worse. These people really have no shame or decency, they will try every kind of propaganda they can. I should say that Im no religious fanatic, in fact Im an atheist and a leftist, but my disgust for these so called "liberals" or pseudo-leftists, as I call them, is only increased when I watch this show. The show itself is maybe worth a watch, although you should be aware of what the makers are trying to do to you. The book itself was very interesting, the show is also interesting to a certain extent, but the mentioned propaganda ruins most of it. Normally I would give the show a 6 or 7, but considering the propaganda, I can only give it a 2.


                
Seen a few episodes and really think they should call it Christian's acting like Muslim with a fertility problems. If they did it would be a realty show not science fiction. The only Christian theocracies that exists is Vatican City and I would hardly call that a country. If you do a google such of countries with a theocratic Islamic government you will find 7. If you just look up Muslim theocracies your going to find 43. This show is so misleading.


                
I miss a moment where is not a full screen June's face thinking / suffering / remembering in slow motion. 
It's really painful how they managed to destroy a good distopic story with some society criticism ( season 1).


                
I can't get over how bad season two is - we waited for ages for this to air and I'm so so disappointed.Season one got the balance just right overall - so this isn't from a needlessly critical perspective


                
An uninspired, limited, repetitive perfomance by Elisabeth Moss, as she has the camera constantly zoomed in her face, twitching, low-gazing and swallowing her saliva. The plot could be summed up as 'these men are pigs'. The production is nevertheless really good.


                
Unlike some other reviewers, I don't see this as a Christianity vs Islam or US vs the rest of the world of FemLib vs conservative story. And I didn't like much the movie or the book for the same reasons set below.there may be some spoilers comingThe premise is: the human race (not a single state, not a single country, county,town or village but as a whole entity) faces extinction because of (unexplained and untreatable, possibly genetic) infertility. Therefore, to go on the human race chooses to treat the still fertile females as baby machines.Here be the questions.And I hope the formatting will keep.1.It all starts with a (fertile) couple trying 2 cross the border from the fundamentalist US to the free-floating Canada (which must be facing the same infertility problems, if we are consistent). If they are fertile they should be honored, sponsored & encouraged to procreate further for the good of the human race. Breaking their family is totally senseless and unproductive (deducing from the inner logic). Thus, the series is stupid.So, the story breaks from the very start.2. The handmaids r to bear children "4 the leaders & their barren wives". And they r discouraged to have sex, which is not productive. The barren should not have a higher status. They should not have any status at all (by the inner logic). And if it's a global problem, there should be no talk about the "leaders".3. The "rapist" execution scene is absurd (by the inner logic). If he is fertile, he should have been given full access to the handmaids, if not - he should have been enjoying the company of the barrens like himself.4. It's not any longer a story of human race survival - it is a story of a country bent on a nun fetish. So - let them die, I say.5. The funniest thing is the depiction. The Hollywood actresses with bags under their eyes with "no makeup". As filmed in a detox. It is as asexual as it can possibly be. Good luck to anyone who tries to get his dick up on it.6. This is the lamest premise for a FemLib. Does the final survival of the human race trump the fuzzy feelings of a female person? Oh yes, it does. As stupid as it is.
First of all, the very slow pace killed the mood and the whole show.The casting of Moss is a very poor choice, as she is extremely annoying and her overacting is excruciating.This first season should have been a 3 part miniseries at best. It got so diluted and repetitive that you could easily go to the fridge, make yourself a sandwich, come back and not miss anything.Very little "action", no twists and no verve.Decent acting, good cinematics. Too bad, this could have been a very good show, instead you "peterjacksoned" it.


                
Ok, I get it's a TV Show. But the issue I have is that the world they live in totally goes to hell in only a few short years and everyone's mindset has changed on this new way of thinking.America, easily the best country in the world is not going to Fold like some third world African country.What makes our country so great is the US Constitution and how it has not changed in over 200 years.The people today who are currently not in favor of changing the Constitution are the Republicans. The people who want to change the Constitution and take away Rights are the Democrats.So in order for this TV Show to work. Democrats had to assume power, limit free speech, shout down people who they disagree with, take away rights to bear arms and then turn women into property.The only way this would happen is if there was a seismic shift in the voting population. Let's say if 10 million new people were allowed to vote and voted the Democrats in and they changed the Constitution.No way that could happen....oh wait.I equate this TV show to that of the Planet of the Apes. Just no way it could ever possibly happen. Monkeys are not going to take over the world no matter how smart they are. You can have the smartest monkey in the world but they still have to be taught.And there is no way men from the South will ever let their Sisters, Daughters ever be used as breeding cows. They would take up arms and defend their loved ones until death.


                
The awards and high ratings got my attention. I was also excited to see what Elizabeth Moss is up - loved her in Mad Men. Alas, a big disappointment in many respects. Incoherent, boring and very politically charged plot. Entire show is incredibly pretentious and blatantly feminist in the worst way. My wife laughed through the entire series at the thinly veiled girl-power agenda. Acting is just as bad. In every "dramatic" scene Elizabeth Moss shows off her glazed-eyed stare into empty space and seemingly tries to dislocate her jaw as a display of deep emotions. It gets old the first time you see it, but of course these scenes are repeated. That's it for acting really. The rest of the cast are just tasked with portraying stoic yet slightly disgruntled appearance. The tone is all over the place. While the show clearly takes itself way too seriously for it's own good, it stumbles over itself at every chance of making the audience care about what is going on. *Minor spoiler alert* Case in point: the scene with smuggled letters is apparently supposed to be a major moment as it drags on for good few minutes. Ugh, yeah right, after years of pseudo-Christian nazi regime it's a **really** shocking revelation that someone's kid has been take away, et cetera.Now, what the show really tries to do is a few basic things: 1. It uses the recipe of The Walking Dead trying to lure the viewer with depiction of the familiar world that turned upside-down. Problem is zombie apocalypse was more believable and more plausible in substance. 2. It targets political insecurity of the society. North American society first and foremost of course. It gets really hard to see past the ham-fisted message warning of radical conservatives lurking around the corner and plotting against democracy (*cough* Did I just hear a name that rhymes with "rump"? *cough*). 3. Canada. It's just the coolest place on earth, eh! As a Canadian myself, this theme was strangely embarrassing.
Well i watched 2 episodes, and like similar reviews said, the story could be told in 2-3 episodes not 10, well maybe i'm not target group for this tv show, about acting is good, views are nice, but still truly boring. From movies i expect that they take me to their world and happen something interesting, also for my brain to something think about and this... well.. give it a shot if you have some time maybe u like it or don't, for me it's just boring


                
This is a shocking USA vision/version of the book's dystopia. Carefully constructed bits of 'drama'. Carefullly constructed 'katharsis' a la Hollywood. Disregard for certain carefully thought out scenarios that were in the book. FRUSTRATING!Blatant disregard for the dystopia's suffocating inability to communicate. People chatting all over! Awful use of the Hollywood need for for 'back stories'. Surely the whole point is that we NEVER KNOW ABOUT Luke OR THE CHILD..... None of this banging on windows and almost dying rubbish has a place in Atwood's dystopia. The whole point is the lack of knowledge for both Offred AND reader.I am teaching this book and we were very excited by the thought of this series. Episodes 3-10 are pretty much off plot (could that be OFFPLOT) and so silly that we cannot even consider them in relation to the text we are reading which has complexities far far beyond this 'we know what the viewers want' series.Margaret Atwood where were you in the making of this silly travesty?


                
Started watching based upon the reviews and the overall rating. I didn't know what it was about and didn't know what to expect. Two episodes in and I couldn't watch anymore. 
I found the show to be slow-paced, confusing and downright weird.


                
Yet ANOTHER misguided show. Yet the "#MeToo's" will clammer to this show like mindless idiots (that they are)Of course, this makes every man who walks the planet a total jackass.And the women who watch this crap? You're feeding INTO the bull-crap!If you're SO enthralled with topic such as subjugating women in the WORST possible way, then go for it.However, I find it odd that a WOMAN would even want to watch this without some "male bashing" agenda in her head. It's "poor programming" like this that makes the sex chasm even a deeper divide.


                
As a woman, I 've found the whole storyline ...degrading. Seriously trying sooo very repulsively hard to denounce the very elements ,just to exploit on sexual differences on stimuli


                
