"The Handmaid's Tale" is the TV adaptation of Margaret Atwood's dystopian novel of a right wing religious takeover of the USA that subjugates women. While beautifully produced, the two biggest problems of the series are the tortuously slow pace and the painfully boring performance of Elizabeth Moss in the leading role. Being one of the show's executive producers may account for her casting but she's five to eight years too old for the role which is about a woman being exploited for her fertility. The other major problem is that "The Handmaid's Tale" was a masterpiece of understatement and brevity. In trying to drag the story out over multiple seasons, the producers have been forced to go off on uninteresting tangents that did not exist in the book and slooow the pace of show down to an aggravating crawl. Do we really need to see endless scenes of Offred (Moss) climbing the stairs going into her room, slowly taking of her garb, all the while alternating between her three default expressions, dazed and angry, dazed and stricken and dazed and confused? Relieved by brief sequences of action where the story actually moves forward, insert the above in almost every other scene and that's the gist of the show. If you're a fan of the book, the only way to watch this show is on fast forward. A better title for this series would have been "The Handmaid's Snail."


                
I tried to power through season 1 but couldn't handle it. Watched nearly all the episodes, 90% of the time it was slow long winded boring garbage. Scenes are constantly dragged out providing nothing to the show or storyline.


                
After reading the book by Margaret Atwood and seeing the film with Natasha Richardson, I was interested in viewing the latest version, but oh was I ever disappointed! Had I not read the book I, like many viewers, would have thought the series was a brilliant concept of the writers.Other than padding out a slim novel with fresh plots and back stories to milk as many seasons as the viewership and advertisers will tolerate, the main problem is the casting of Elizabeth Moss in the main role. As Offred had already had a child and the two year posting to Waterford's home was her fourth, the previous three possibly having been unsuccessful, we can assume that she would have been in her late 20's approaching 30. According to her biography, Ms. Moss is 32, but she looks much older. Whether due to the blue lighting and the endless extreme close ups of her scowling face, she just does not look like the healthy fecund young female expected to produce healthy children. The casting baffled me until I found out that she was the producer.The other irritant was the glacial pace of the acting, especially the character of Nick. Again, like the blue lighting it might have been by design on the part of the director, and in the book it was never clear whether which side Nick was on, but expressionless stares and long pauses drag the show down. We are not doing a Harold Pinter play here.The only redeeming feature of the series is the chilling subject matter, for which we have to thank Margaret Attwood. The fear that it could happen here is real - after all in recent decades it has happened in Russia, Germany, Saudi Arabia, Iran, Syria, and Afghanistan and various religious cults in the US - not always due to religious obsession but sometimes a political ideology. For those too young to remember, people of African descent were brought to the Americas North, South and Central, for about 200 years, enslaved and became the property of their masters who could sell them at will, including their children, and after the transportation of slaves was prohibited, use the women to breed more slaves which did not have to be paid for. To the best of my knowledge, no slave owner or white man was every prosecuted for rape of a female slave. Those same slaves were not allowed to read, in fact teaching a slave to read was a criminal offense. All this was sanctioned by the bible, and reinforced by the law. Millions of people in the US south actually went to war to preserve the right to keep slaves.The warning is that we must be extremely vigilant to prevent it happening here. It has ALREADY happened once in the USA, and accounts of the creeping effects of Communism and Nazism sound very similar. Just read of the experiences of ordinary people in the countries, such as France, which were occupied by the Germans in WW2. Read the accounts of young women in Ireland who were forced into Industrial Schools (workhouses) due to being unwed mothers or just because there were too many mouths to feed in their families, and the unwed mothers whose children were sold off without their knowledge to adoptive parents in the USA.Overall, if it had only run for one season and the leading actress had been somewhat younger and more attractive, I might have been able to watch it. As it was, I stuck with it for a while, then found it became an unnecessary and depressing ordeal. The story is a brilliant concept which the TV series fails to do justice.


                
First of all everybody calling it a scifi, wait a moment here, (science fiction = scifi, but the Handmaiden's tale is a religious fiction... hmm) I haven't seen anything relevant to science, if anything the most scientific in this series are the automobiles... Moving on, they same who call it scifi they also call it horror film... ok let's see again "is a film that seeks to elicit a physiological reaction, such as an elevated heartbeat, through the use of fear and shocking one's audiences", I can't say that I felt any of this feelings watching this (I've only managed to watch 1-3 and 10-13 eps from both seasons 1 and 2). The rest had to fast forward them, way to slow and repetitive, it reminded me of a high budget soup opera.
Drama, cliches, ok mediocre to good acting and directing... yeah it was alright but man way to many close ups (soup opera much).
Moving on the script, is ok, you are not expecting any butterflies, or any surprises, what you see is what you get. 
I can understand why so many liked it, it's 2018, lgbt movement is strong, women working in Hollywood are now trying to free themselves from the sexism in their field, but ok we need to see clearly and judge it fairly, it's an ok dramatic series that brings to light some awful and terrible situations during the 50s and till the late 70s but it's not a masterpiece. And absolutely not a "MUST WATCH" one.
Anyway that was only my opinion, give it a go you might like it more than me. After all I was lured from the scifi tag... and miserably disappointed.


                
As a lover of the original Margaret Atwood novel - that is a chilling story of subjugation and ideology gone wrong in the face of terror - I was looking forward to watching this. Unfortunately, the teleplay is overstated, the direction is sloppy and the attempts at emotional intensity read as flimsy and juvenile. I was also disappointed by the lazy feminist tropes being rolled out every few minutes - which was beyond tedious. Overall the acting, cinematography, and effects were overdone. Additionally, the value system in their world is so distorted - but we are not given nearly enough context about the surrounding changes and terror to make it believable.No doubt people will rate this film highly for the political content, which is timely (and has been since the book was first published in 1985), it's just a shame that the screenplay and filmmaking are amateurish at best.


                
Having never read the book, some of my complaints my stem from the source material. For myself, this series has two enormously fatal flaws.The first is that all the premisses the show is based on to lead up to the dystopian "future" are impossible in every way, and completely immersion breaking. Even assuming some religious cult paramilitary organization would be able to take down all three federal branches of government simultaneously, the US military wouldn't just stand idly by and let such a group take control of anything long term. Yet supposedly this story is set in real-life USA (not some alternate universe) and somehow the military is just AWOL, aside from a brief mention of the national guard and the pentagon. Even more absurd is the idea that this group somehow managed to take down the US, and yet inexplicably left Canada untouched.The second is the mind-numbingly slow pace of the show, where nothing really happens, nothing changes, and we get the same repetitive garbage over and over. I can't believe I actually got through the first season and partway through the 2nd before I couldn't take it any more.And those are only the things about the show that are objectively awful. There are many other more subjective things that many viewers will find equally objectionable on a personal basis.
This Series suceeds in bring boredom to the highest level. It's so so so soooooooooooooooooooooooo Boring that it's ultraslow pace is the best friend of a good night of sleep. The best medicine for the insomniac.


                
I was really excited about this series and have really, really, REALLY tried to love it. But, I don't. I'm not even sure I like it. Try as I might, I could not get caught up in the story and the characters aren't interesting enough to garner sympathy or even curiosity. The plot isn't well thought out or explained. There seems a lack of tension because it's so easy to predict what will happen -- who's good, who's bad and who's gay. OF COURSE, there's an underground, OF COURSE The Commander will take an interest in his Handmaid, OF COURSE there will be a male hero for Offred...I bet it'll be the Driver who is probably part of the Eye but will turn from all of that out of love for Offred. I hadn't read the book, so I didn't know what to expect. I had a general idea of the plot and it does seem somewhat reflective of what is happening today, but it lacks the sense of stark realism and energy of say "1984" or "A Clockwork Orange". Handmaid's Tale feels almost trite and seems to want to feed into some very irrational fears. In order for us to be gripped by the story, we'd have to feel that what's being depicted would be possible or could be possible. And even though Trump's in the WH welcoming dictators and wishing he could be one too, I don't feel that the series has tapped into that reality(or, rather, that fear) well enough. I know that Trump wasn't a glint in the GOP's eye, when the novel came out in 1985, but you'd think the producers could take a little creative license and tie it in a little better. It's a deliberately slow moving drama (okay, I'm willing to go along) that never picks up pace or passion (...and.... I'm out). The cinematography is gorgeous, although it seems very cheaply done in that they don't waste one moment of extra film to give viewers a better understanding of the characters and their connection to one another. There's a LOT of standing and staring and the little dialogue that exists is delivered in dull monotone exchanges. And MANY, MANY closeups so we can let the character's reactions flood over us. (We get it, you don't need to hit us over the head with it.) More story and less reaction, if you don't mind. Elizabeth Moss as Offred seems habitually teary-eyed and looks at everything and everyone with a wide, vacant expression. And it seems to me that instead of holding the camera on an actor's face for what feels like ENDLESS minutes, spend a little more of that time in flashback of that character's life. I think there are far better uses for those little :30-:45 closeups on character reaction. We KNOW how they feel about what's just happened, what we want to know is how they got there or who or what they are thinking about -- former husband, wife, lover, friend, the resistance????? Do I buy a reality -- even in my wildest dreams -- where women's rights are reversed? Sure. Recent passage of that law in Tennessee regarding the legal definition of "man" and "woman" is enough to make my hair stand on end. But, do I buy a reality where women are relegated to certain well-defined roles and and color-coded uniforms? No. If the Christian right did rise to power (beyond where they are now) and could reverse equal rights, then we might, indeed, land in a strange dystopian reality. But it wouldn't be as amateurish as this muck and it would be far more terrifying.


                
What a shame! How can an amazing storyline be so poorly translated and developed beyond the first season? I love the protagonist, but I do not love her endless desperate monologues that are heavily prevelant throughout Season 3. There is nothing endearing or interesting to watch after mid way of Season 2. This series had amazing potential! I just shut down the last episode of Season 3 out of sheer boredom......go figure writers?! I do not care what happens to June! Big fail. 1 star for the first season!


                
Season 2 needs to get the plot moving. Even after 10 episodes we are no closer to the only possible end of this show: The undoing of Gilead.All we see is female humiliation upon drawn out female humiliation. We get it: Gilead is evil. It doesn't have to be hammered in with a sledgehammer.Please get new screenwriters.
A TV show about what goes on in leftists deluded heads. Due to boredom i couldnt get past the 3rd episode.


                
The only GREAT thing about The Handmaids Tale is its idea. Set in the nearest future - a future that we are all afraid that is coming for real, these series come as a true warning, maybe even to prepare us. That's pretty depressing but I don't mean it in a bad way exactly.Everything else is below average. The scenes are extremely slow, half of the time all you will see is a slow motion of the main character's face, showing but one expression - as if she just ate something bad. And by episode 3 you will be so annoyed by that face that it will be very hard to keep watchig. As an example of how slow and annoying the series - be prepaired to watch a woman giving birth for 12 full minutes, then the nasty baby, then every single women in the room's face (at least 15 of them) for another 8-10 minutes. Bleh.. And this baby was not inportant AT ALL, not even a real part of the storry.. There were no birth complications or anything emotional there either - you just sit and watch a birth for almost a whole episode.I don't know, maybe it was made for women, but i still doubt that even women enjoy watching other women giving birth for half hour..I's say that watching an episode or two is not really a waste of time - the idea really IS worth it. But just bravely skip every annoying scene - you're not gonna miss on anything.


                
It's really hard for me to believe in the Gilead society. It just won't function. There's guards on every corner. How much would that cost? What happen to CCTV if you want to keep an eye on everyone? They explain it that the society has gone low tech but then you see the medical facilities and its all high tech. You have disobedient Handmaid sent to the colonies and all they seem to do everyday is dig the ground and eventually die from long term exposure to radiation.


                
This show had great potential! There is so much good stuff to work with here. But the casting is just .... off, which pretty much ruins it. Honestly, it would be so much better if the actress who plays Ofglen (Alexis Bledel) played Offred. Or if the gorgeous Yvonne Strahovski played Offred and switched places with Elisabeth Moss, who would in turn play the bitter, barren wife. As others have noted, her casting as our protagonist looks and feels completely wrong. I like Elisabeth Moss but she is terrible and downright annoying in this role and her story arc more than beggars belief. I really hate to be the guy who points out that a female actress is too fugly to play a role, but in this instance we need an actress who can convince us she would be irresistibly alluring to two men in one household.


                
I loved the movie version of the Handmaid's Tale but I couldn't say the same for the TV version. I really hate Elizabeth Moss's portrayal of Offred. Natasha Richardson was so much better in the movie version. Elizabeth Moss seems to equate strength with a constant smirk. Her acting was one-noted and I am so surprised she received so much praise here. There is nothing new apart from the overall premise.
If you are interested in the story, watch the movie instead. It is much better made and save you tons of time
Fantastic I thought... Finally this classic tale would be given the 'long' treatment with plenty of time to tell the story and fill in the characters.Only trouble is... I spent most of the series squinting to see what the hell was going on... You can take dark and moody so far and then it becomes a fault.May I suggest to the producers, before you waste anyone elses time or ruin any more classics that you introduce your production teams to the concept of lighting... It's quite a simple field in film making, everybody is doing it.... Everybody except you of course.


                
First up i am not a practicing Christian. This is clearly a representation of Islam but they are obviously to scared to say that so they just make it about Christianity. Pretty weak. You continually see things that actually are happening to women in islamic countries right now in the real world but they have decided to pick on a liberal religion instead of a real life oppressive one. Apart from that the show is enjoyable but quite slow


                
Take a decent dystopian story and quadruple down on all the most ridiculous aspects of it and then call anyone who tells you its a little over the top "misogynist". Too dark, too slow and even an even more blatant pile of anti-Christian and anti-male propaganda than it was to start with but now with obvious race baiting too! And all brought to you by the same folks who tell us we need to let in unlimited numbers of military age males from a REAL rape culture. That being said, the use of music to reinforce emotion is well done, and Elisbeth Moss is apparently great in just about anything, even this. Watching this is not as much of a waste of time as a lot of other stuff on TV now.


                
Low-life protagonist, creepy society, nothing likeable about this show. I can bet writer is an atheist and thats how he imagines religious society, it means he just projects his own creepiness about the subject he has no clue about.


                
George Orwell died again by the hands of this series. If you're to steal from the best dystopia ever produced in human history (1984), do it right. The handmaid's tale contradicts itself from episode to episode leaving behind a very lazy screen adaptation. It is never clear what the point of it all is (the point of telling the story, I mean), and so the characters arches are clumsy, the different directors can't agree on what to emphasize on from episode to episode, so therefore we are left with a mess with an open ending because... of course, why not? The editing is sh#$t. The photography is also sh#$t, the master takes they ended up choosing are sh#$t, and while we are at it, so are the color palettes. But the thing that bothered me the most were these flashbacks. Why? A mean, really; why?!Because we are curious about how we got there, to the dystopia. OK, I get it. But then it turn into a sort of explanation about how the character chooses one thing over an other, and about their feelings over their circumstances when doing so. OK, but then the flashbacks begin to serve the purpose of returning to certain plot points in order to follow another character journey. But here's the thing: all of these reasons are valid ones... with the condition of not using all of them at once, because it ends up being a fu#$%ing mess which is in fact what this series ended up being.Anyway, I just wanted to explain my 3 stars to it.
I really don't understand how this serie has such a high score. Very bad directing and after the first season it was going only down with the story. I don't know how long they will continue torturing the viewers. Honestly it's a total waste of time with so many others really good series out there


                
when i saw the promo i expected so much more but when i watched season 1 it clearly should've been one episode and it would've been amazing it feels like 1 good episode stretched out for 10 hours so boring it could've used a better writing a faster base the cinematography is amazing the acting is good but it feels so empty though it had so much potentials and not much going on it really was supposed to be one episode to be OK


                
