Season one held my interest. It was fresh and unique and painted a great picture of religion gone amuck. I loved the trip to Canada - brilliantly done. I loved how the Mexicans who visited showed no empathy for the handmaids, illustrating just how alone they were. I loved the anger and tension between Offred (June) and Serena, the growing love in Nick, the way June handled so many people and was as helpful as possible to the other handmaids. BUT - as dystopian worlds go, enough is enough. In season two, when June gets away and has the baby and then has to go BACK? I felt like I had enough. I know the book ends dysmally and I absolutely hated the ending. I was encouraged to read that the director of this show feels the same way. But my god! Enough is enough. It's become a string of episodes depicting misery - even shot on dark sets. It is depressing, dismal, and feels utterly hopeless. I think it's dragging out too much and would love to see it end in season two.As iMDB got rid of the discussion boards (NOOOOOOOOO!!!!!), I can't discuss this with anyone. I would love to say these things and read the opinions of others. I loved that. There are always those rude people who would tell me to grow up or to stick with "unicorns and rainbows." But many more will engage in meaningful discussion and I miss that SO MUCH. I learned tons of things from people who disagreed with my opinion on iMDB. Okay - enough whining. Everyone is in their own place in life. I have a career that immerses me in the pain of others. I see much of suffering and have to diagnose and explain absolutely terrible illnesses. So yeah, unicorns and rainbows are nice for me. I do not need "realistic" dystopia for my entertainment. I do enjoy dystopic stories - loved The Hunger Games - but they had HOPE. This thing is just a looooong experience of being stuck in deep, dark, depressing mire. I'm weary of it. Knocked my original rating from 10 to 4. Wrap it up already, guys. Or give us more bits of HOPE.
Season one was somewhat ok despite dragging on slightly. However season 2 is diabolical - this show just goes around in circles with no real development. So many scenes and episodes that have been dragged out for no reason. You can actually fast forward entire sections and still miss nothing.


                
I watched the film version of The Handmaid's Tale several years ago so the storyline was pretty familiar and the film I might give six or seven stars. However, in this adaptation, I had expected a little more than mere filler to justify the extended length. I don't think there was a major plot point which was not in the film. Both film and television versions seemed very two-dimensional, it has to be said, the dystopian world in which it was set seemed to operate without any explanation of what those in this world who do not occupy one of the roles we see actually do. It was a bit like looking at the cardboard set of a cheap sci-fi movie with banks of unconvincing fake spinning tape reels and purposeless flashing lights. The dystopia may have only existed in the lives of the households of the commanders and the lives of the handmaids for all the viewer knew; everything else was hidden from view. In the film, perhaps this was acceptable but in ten hours we learned more about the characters' lives in our near present than we did about the world into which they were forced.I don't really know why I watched it. Perhaps I hoped that the dimension missing from the film was going to be furnished but it wasn't.


                
Watched the first season with "horrific" curiosity and started season two until asking myself, "Why are you upsetting yourself by watching this fictional crap?" Just wanted to say.


                
I found it interesting at first, but, dragged on and became a bit tedious into Season 2. We gave up on it quickly.Overrated


                
The entire premise of the show is that if white men got their way, who are all devout Christians by the way, women would be nothing more than vessels that spit out children and go shopping for food. The show isn't artful or even subtle in it's approach in attacking Christians and white men, it's all very apparent and kind of just makes you roll your eyes at every amateurish critique of modern day Christianity. What is even more strange is that the show takes place in the "future" but there's nothing futuristic about it and the writers seemingly couldn't care less about explaining how we even got here in the first place. The backstories of characters attempt to chip away at the why but it seems like an after thought at best. Even more strange is perhaps attacking white Christians for things that are happening in the world today, not by Christians, but by Islamic countries with theocratic governments. Pretty much everything that happens in the show to women, is currently happening to them in countries with a Muslim majority. So you end up asking yourself, then why demonize white Christians? The answer is quite simple, because it is clearly written by vapid, male-hating, angry, new wave feminists. I don't mind a political agenda in a tv show or a movie but those agendas are better served as underpinnings to a larger arch or statement. Strip away the leftist propaganda and you'll find there is quite literally nothing else there in terms of story or entertainment. The dull and lazy story is only made worse by characters that are impossible to empathize with. If you want a viewer to understand the plight of women, don't cast women that are seemingly void of any human emotion.I gave it a 4/10 because I got through 4 episodes before I had to turn it off. If you want a show with great female leads, go watch Godless.


                
Slowest . Show . Ever ...
Sorry my review is so short that I have to explain that they could have squished season 1 into about 3 episodes.


                
Filled with the bloated paranoia of a feminist on an acid trip, this slow moving drama with it's poorly conceived backstory on how we ended up here, serves up cringe after cringe, and chuckle after chuckle (when the slow moving drama isn't putting you to sleep).It's filled for no particular reason with just about every far left talking point you can think of, from LGBT marriage, to mansplaining, and focuses especially deeply on an irrational fear of religion. It has all the logic and good sense of the previously mentioned feminist on a bad LSD trip - the backstory makes to sense, the society makes no sense, the social dynamic makes no sense. But its filled with lots of dramatic music and women being hurt with special camera angles, so if anyone is neurotic enough to like that stuff, they might find it as compelling as a not terribly lucid conspiracy theorist finds reading the bible backwards. I do however give it four points, despite the dreary pace, and insane premise, because it unintentionally lampoons feminism. It's hyperbolic and in the first place, inaccurate view of social mechanisms and biological realities, echoes the distorted lens of the modern far left, providing insight into the insanity, and at the same time, it's warped so far, so exaggerated, even from an initial point of delusion, you'd need drugs to buy into it.


                
I was mesmerized by the novel when I first read it. And again when I read it prior to seeing the movie. (A stinker.) And yet again when I heard it was being serialized for the small screen. It is an important work by a master wordsmith. Unfortunately, Atwood's considerable talents couldn't save the movie, and it appears they will be unable to save the serial. She should never have allowed Bruce Miller and MGMTV to extend the project past ten episodes. The impact is lost. The vision becomes obscured. An important piece of literature is exploited for the sake of Twitter memes and political talking points.There is some value in this, I suppose, in that such exploitation might encourage some substantive dialogue on the topics of feminism, theism and authoritarianism. All of which will probably be more entertaining, and have greater impact, than the entirety of seasons 1 and 2 combined.Four stars for effort from a talented and committed cast.Read the book. Please.


                
Here's a genuine review from a woman with no agenda who has read the book, because I'm seeing a lot of unbelievable negative reviews from ultra conservatives saying this is PC Garbage, etc. I'm also seeing ultra positive reviews from .... marketing bots? But not much from the audience this is aimed at.This series is well made, slow-paced but tense and suspenseful, with some truly superb acting from a very strong cast of characters. The production quality (lighting, design, costumes, editing) is also top notch.  The story is based on a work of speculative fiction, written in the 80s (before IVF and fertility assistance were commonplace). So, if you can look past the glaring holes in the science and see this as one bleak future vision of someone living in the 80s, you can appreciate it and maybe even enjoy it. But, to be fair, this series doesn't belong on television in this decade. They should have revamped the story for modern times, forcing the handmaids to be surrogates, inseminated in labs, etc. Unfortunately the scenario is too ridiculous to believe by most people today. I'm also not a fan of Elisabeth Moss. I think she is a poor actress with limited range and a very irritating face. The fact that she's a Scientologist playing a feminist heroine really bothers me. So, I can't enjoy this series that is built around her. Others who like her will probably like it though.


                
Having seen the first (1990) movie version of this book, I was greatly disappointed and often too frustrated with this current iteration. This thing suffers greatly from a terribly slow pace. I mean it's so dragged out in parts, you could leave the room, go cook dinner, do the laundry and never miss a beat. The acting was mostly passable, but I found the main protagonist Offred, to be painful to watch and forced at times. The cinematography was good, but the dark and dank atmospherics left a bad taste in my mouth. Yes I know it's suppose to reflect a dystopian reality, but its overused. But what really irritates me the most is the whole premise of this show. An earlier reviewer said it best, "it's too politically driven and not relative to the 21st century". The plot calls for more than a suspension of disbelief. You have to discount any/every common sense or that something like this is reasonably possible. It's as if the writers all got together and developed an idea that ALL Christians who somehow, completely overthrow the government, round up or kill hundreds of millions of other Americans, or at least convince people to throw off the old US Government, in favor of a Theological government ruled by a small and select few. even worse one ruled almost exclusively by white men.Furthermore, it's an indictment against white women giving up any control or advances in order to kowtow to said men folk. I mean come on people, Christians have their moments of stupidity, but none are about to do anything resembling that. And then there's the issue of being politically correct in writing this mess. The producers and writers would have us believe all other ethnic groups would be in cahoots and allow this type thing to happen. In the original book, blacks and other undesirables are round up and placed in extermination camps, ala nazi death camps, and not integrated into this new society. The book explains that there was a limited civil war using nuclear weapons on its own populace which lead to the coup. In my mind, the premise of the novel would more appropriately fit this view.Then there's the idea that women would so easily give up their human rights and be easily lead to breeding ceremonies. Forced rape is acceptable, but a single man accused of rape is torn to shreds? Come on really! But the coup de gras has to be (SPOILER ALERT) the handmaids are used as commodities to be traded? WTF. Now after all the build up and hyping the handmaids being vassals to breed a new generation to allow this society to rebuild and thrive, they would for some reason trade away their future. And as said earlier, ever hear about IVF? Would that not be more acceptable to such a pious society? This is the height of stupid ideas. Why cut off your nose to spite your face. If Gilad did such a thing, that would doom said country. Again here is a perfect example of how the writers and producers just using that as a plot device to both exploit women or push gratuitous sex. It's just bad writing in my mind. Why can Hollywood make films without the need for explicit and pornographic sex. Instead or writing a good, solid, and believable human drama, we the audience are again subjected to using sex as a draw and going one up on the shocking sex. Yet another example of poor writing talent.Lastly for me, has to be the total disregard for Offred's life and love for here husband Luke and missing daughter. Yes they touch a bit on their backstory, but Offred seems to have immediately forgotten all about her husband. Even if she thought he was dead. Barring Luke being a complete cretin who beat and cheated on her, I don't think this a reasonable assumption. Preferring instead to focus on Offred becoming romantically attached to Nick the Driver. This then would suggest that Offred is indeed a very loose woman who cares only for herself. Although the producers did do one episode about Luke, it's as if someone on the writing floor suddenly remembered Offred was married to him before and decided, "Hey guys maybe we should say something about Luke". I just can't watch this thing anymore. Too many stupid mistakes, poor scripting, plot and slow as molasses pacing make this show unwatchable. The 1990 version and book were far more relevant and believable. I knew it was doomed halfway into the first episode. Still I wanted to be fair and give the show time to develop. Now it has become an assault to intelligence. Instead focusing on ridiculous, politically motivated ideals without a snowballs chance in hell if succeeding. Unfortunately there's far too many people who go for this sort of thing, regardless if nothing like it is remotely possible. Choosing instead to indict Christianity as the true Satan of our time.
I hate this show. The first season was great, but the second season? Normal tv shows have moments that lead up to the big finale where everything comes together. But not this show. In this show nothing happens for an entire season, pointless moments that mean nothing, like the first two episodes that were spent enirely on a failed escape. Complete waste of time. Then, its like they forgot they only had one episode left, so theyre like, "uhh right okay, uhm, emily kills aunt lydia for no reason and somehow june gets another chance at escape." Literally there were so mant times I wanted aunt lydia dead and they made her death completely unsatisfying. Maybe shes not dead but it was still stupid. Then june convinces serena to let her take her baby to safety, and then leaves the baby with emily? The woman she barely knows, In a van that could be a set up, while the baby is still nursing and they spent the last 3 episodes showing how important it was that the baby got junes milk (remember what I said about everything being pointless). I swear to god if I have to watch another season with june in the waterfords house im gonna lose it. Also, this has been the fourth escape in the show. How many more escapes do we have to see before she finally freaking gets out. I cant take it. Id give it one star if we could rate it by season. Terrible terrible writing. The writers say they "like when people get frustrated and annoyed." Thats not how you write a show. This couldve ended this season but they know they can keep making money as long as junes still in Gilead.
I read the book when it came out, so I knew the story. This production could have been so much better with a different lead actress. Elisabeth Moss does not disappear into the role, as great actors are able to do. You can see her acting.The overuse of closeups of her face confirms this. The plot drags, probably in order to make this production at least a two part series. This production could have been so much better without having each plot point made over and over in case the viewer missed it the first time. The locations are interesting, the costumes are excellent, and many of the supporting actors are wonderful.


                
Great acting isn't everything. I had high hopes after hearing about this show - sadly it didn't even meet my expectations at all.I watch quite a lot of series, but this is hands down the slowest and most silent one i've ever seen. Absolutely NOTHING happens in 99% of the show. Just slow shots of the same things over and over again.The plot is interesting but the story isn't.I dont mind slow and/or depressing but this was not at all my cup of tea.It was a great sleeping pill though. Fell asleep in 3 of the 5 first episodes...


                
Plato's "The Republic" warned that from the Democratic Form of Governance evolves the Tyrannical Form of Governance.Historically, Plato was proved correct. The American Founding Fathers had Studied Plato's "The Republic". After the American Revolution, the Democracy of America turned into as George Washington stated, "The Seeds of Democracy hath sprouted into the Tyranny of the Lynch Mobs" as the Democrats were murdering anybody that spoke out against Democracy and the Democracy 1781 Articles of Confederation, they demanded that the American Founding Fathers be Lynched (Murdered) for stating they were going to Amend the Democracy 1781 Articles of Confederation, this turned into the Democracy Rebellion, Democracy Riots, Democrats Extreme Violence after Shay's Rebellion was crushed by British Hessian and Prussian Mercenaries employed by the American Founding Fathers.The American Founding Fathers then decided to make Democracy Illegal by completely Eliminating the Democracy 1781 Articles of Confederation and wrote the Republic of America's (Republican) 1787 U.S. Constitution as creating The Union of States of the United States of the Republic of America, the American Founding Fathers then became the United States Founding Fathers, the British Colonies at America then became States.The U.S. Founding Fathers then created "a Republican Form of Government" as required for All U.S. States to have or not be defended from Invasion nor Domestic Violence as stated by the Republican 1787 U.S. Constitution's Article 4 Section 4. The Republican Form of Government, A Representative Form of Government is Republican and Definitely NOT "Democracy", Three Branches of Republican Government Executive, Legislative (Congress), Judicial (Supreme Court) to further End Democracy the U.S. Founding Fathers created the 12th Amendment to End the Democrats Popular Votes of the Democracy "Tyrannical Mobs" from Determining the U.S. President, the Republican Electoral College Process would determine the U.S. President.The Second well known example of a "Democratic", "Democratically Elected" Government that evolved into the Tyrannical Form of Governance was Democratically Elected Chancellor Hitler of Germany. Chancellor Hitler attempted the same things as depicted by "The Handmaid's Tale" to breed the "Master Race", while Exterminating "Undesirables", especially those with Physical defects since 1934. Then all Jews and Non Germans were then considered "Undesirables".The 1990 Movie "The Handmaid's Tale" was much better none of the overused nonsense "Flashbacks", and She tells the Tale in Chronological Order like most people would.This new 2017 version created by the Politically Extreme Left as "Social Engineering", interjected that this was/is "a Religion Based Autocracy". When in fact this is the Tyrannical Form of Governance that Evolved from the Democratic Form of Governance, the proper Term is Totalitarian Form of Governance, like Chancellor Hitler's National Socialist German Worker's Party a Political Labor Union Party (like the Socialist Democratic Party at Germany, the Democratic Labor Union Parties at Great Britain, the Democratic Party's Ties to U.S. Labor Unions created from the Model of the NAZI Party a Labor Union, very long list of other "Democratic" National Socialist Political Parties at other Nations).Just like how Chancellor Hitler's National Socialist German Worker's Party attempted to discredit the Religions of the Jews and Christians, so that they could make the NAZI Party, the Aryan Race, the New German Religion. After the Defeat of the Democratic Party by Republican President Eisenhower 1950s, this nearly Destroyed the Democratic Party, the Democratic Party then used the successful model of the National Socialist German Worker's Party and recreated the Democratic Party, the U.S. Labor Unions that had been modeled after the NAZI Party a Political Labor Union Party flocked to the New Democratic Party. This is why this 2017 TV Series missed the Point, of Historical Facts, AND the 1990 Movie The Handmaid's Tale did NOT interject the Extreme Left's Politics into the Movie but did very well depicting Democrat's National Socialist German Worker's Party like Conditions as Evolved into the Totalitarian (Tyrannical)Form of Governance.Nice to see that most of you have been "Socially Engineered", to about the Level as depicted in the 2006 Movie "Idiocracy". Recently, I asked a now Teen (was not born until after the 9/11 2001 Attacks0, and a Young Adult (was a child during the 9/11 2001 Attacks) about the 9/11 2001 Attacks and got blank stares, they had not been taught about that yet, yet they were very vocal about how screwed up President G.W. Bush was (opinions from their "Teachers" and Parents that never bothered to Research the Events that lead up to the 9/11 2001 Attacks) while praising Democrat President Clinton (that Caused the 1993 Attack of the World Trade Center, Iraq War 1998 to , and the 9/11 2001 Attacks, 1998 Recession, the Mortgage Crisis causing the 2008 Great Recession). Then one asked "Was President Abraham Lincoln a Good President during the Vietnam War?", note this Democrat State is known for throwing Hundreds of $Millions at the Public Schools and this is what we get, Democrat Party U.S. Labor Union Owned Teachers and Professors with huge Pay Raises, while other 3rd World Nations spend less and get more Quality.How are those Democrat U.S. Labor Union Owned Teachers and Professors with Education Diplomas (Degrees) working out for you, no Degrees in History, Mathematics, Sciences, Arts, Languages, that they "Teach".Comparing The Handmaid's Tale 1990 Movie to this 2017 Democratic Party "Politically Correct" TV Series The Handmaid's Tale, I should have rated this nonsense less than a 4, like maybe a 2. So I did not make a comparative analysis, and looked only for Entertainment Value, so rating of 4 instead of 2.
The idea of a dystopian future with a society like the one presented in the show is terrifying and incredibly interesting and that's why I gave it a chance. However the story is so repetitive and slow-paced that I had to convince myself many times to keep watching it. The cinematography is stunning, but do I really need a whole minute of people walking or going up the stairs in slow motion or dropping stones on the ground? The protagonist fully represents the whole show: boring, repetitive, you can't decide whether to hate her or not. Just when you think "finally something's happening", that something fails miserably and you have to go through like 3 or 4 more episodes only to reach a point where everyone's relations with everyone are the same as before. I thought the plot and the characters make people love a story. How stupid of me. Turns out that throwing in an interracial family, oppressed women and some feminism also do the trick.


                
A piece of work like this, that combines good cinematography, and competent acting, with an impossible plot set up, and poor pacing and character development deserves a complex and detailed critique, so while I am not going to write a novel about the show, I wish to do something other than merely label it as paranoid SJW agitprop, as likely many have. Basically without giving the plot line away, the story is about the rich and powerful creating an autocracy that for some unknown reason is incredibly harsh on women, and not at all on low ranking men. What might perhaps be a critique of capitalism, or the structures of power, becomes distorted through the authors extreme ideological viewpoint, to a sort of peculiar militant Nazi-esque armish story. In this way, it seems to be written by someone who has a poor sense of history or human nature, in terms of autocratic power structures that have ever existed - or perhaps alternatively put, it is so narrowly focused on a singular viewpoint, the authors own viewpoint, that the writing cannot see anything beyond the protagonist and that point of view. The, honestly, absurd plot line is carried mostly through the dramatic, and subtle as a sledgehammer soundtracking, without which, most of the story would put one to sleep, because of its intensely slow pacing. The character development allows no real time to develop empathy, and the characters form cartooning and distorted shades of extreme black and white, good and evil. It has, despite its dark overtones, a sort of childish mentality, driving a completely lacking in nuance or insight narrative, based heavily in the intersectionality worldview. Like the black and white morality of a children's story. Without this proper character development, and combined with the hamfisted dramatism, far-fetched plot setting, black and white moralising, the story fails to have any real emotional gravity, or story draw outside of those with that particular narrow set of preconceptions. Even, if one didn't fall into the sort of paranoic perceptions of the author, this material still could make for a compelling, or even entertaining story, if the main character was made likable, the interactions realistic, the world more fleshed out, and the morality more nuanced. Indeed, it could make for an excellent allergory for the current plight of women in the middle east, which is a poignant discussion for modern culture. I still wonder, if in someways it still doesn't serve in this capacity, even if unintentionally.To sum, ignoring the premise and storyline, which doubtless others have covered, whilst the acting is competent, the production good, if lacking in real art, and the soundtracking effective, if overly relied upon to drum up any gravity, there are some significant elements of what could easily be described as b-grade work - premise, writing and plot lacking in any worldliness, or depth of understanding, nuance to make it relateable or interesting, slow moving plot, without the art, or human connection lying beneath it. I fear most people would watch this and yawn. Others would watch it, and think it immature, and propagandist, like a Christian film. And a small minority would watch it, and find something relateable in it. For the acting alone, I rate it a 3, rather than a 1.


                
Many things has been said about this.
I feel that this could have been a masterpiece.
Instead, I feel that the (monetary??) desicion to make 3 seasons instead of 1 intense season, transposed it to sloooow, at times boring series.
Poor silly decision


                
It is easy to write good things about this. An excellent lead, well written, slow but very calculated in line with the story. But - and i think this is why most reviews are polarised - you have to fundamentally buy into the proposition. Can you picture a world where every man is a mute machine gun holding guard, and women are either sterile or captive. For me however good the flashbacks are, this was one my wife enjoyed and I just couldnt get into.


                
This show is receiving a lot of rave reviews and I just don't get it. My only assumption is that it's cathartic for people who feel oppressed themselves? I'm 5 episodes into the 2nd season and it's pretty much been an exhibition of, "Let's see how many different ways we can make the point that these people are terrible." Typically in a plotline, you're provided a protagonist, an antagonist, an adversarial challenge, an arc and then a reward. You're given the protagonist, more than enough antagonists and then the show gets stuck waaaaay too long on the adversarial challenge. They just hit you over the head with it again and again and again......They choose good music, but none of it fits. The show is referred to as "A Hulu Original", yet it's based on a set of books published in 1985 where a movie was already made back in 1990 based on the books. Hardly original. Overall, it's just slow, dark and not enough reward. It would be like watching "Game of Thrones" without any of the sex, battles, dragons, white walkers, executions, magic or glutinous drinking. Basically you're left with a story with mental and physical torture and a mundane plotline.


                
Let me be brief about this. The one thing that annoyed me the most in the end, is that expression on Moss' face. Once I started noticeing that she constantely had the same blank or vacant expression in every shot of every episode, my observation rapidly evolved in some kind of irritation. What kind of emotion(s) does that stare intend to expres anyways?
Skipped the first series after only three episodes or so, I couldn't bare it no more. What a drag.


                
First off reviewing a movie 10 out of ten by anyone usually shows an un-honest review. Really? You see no room for improvement? Keep criticizing those that gave it less, you will never get that job as an Olympic judge! I have only made it through to a few episodes of season two. Like others before me the plot has slowed down to a crawl. My reason for being on IMDb was to hopefully see reviews that said it picks up again. The show was captivating the first season, toward the end of the season I thought the writers got lazy and thought lets work in some current political statements.
The human nature of a good series that is successful is, 'lets not end this', we are making a lot much money! In doing so they show that the bottom line is more important than finishing it with a quality ending. If they wrapped up the story in season one my rating would have been much higher. Don't think I have enough interest to ever watch it further.


                
First of all I have not read the book but if the book is anything like this series then that is messed up. It is a 1985 science fiction book passed off as a speculative fiction. A speculative fiction of exaggerated half-truths. In the 80s US and Canada have had friction with the middle east so it is biased in that sense. Granted in the middle east women are certainly oppressed in comparison to the west. Women wear burqas. However some women claim that they choose to wear burqas. The west pushes back saying that those women are brainwashed. Only recently there was this French politician who was banning Burqinas, a cross between a bikini and a burqa because it was oppressing the women. Come on man that is ridiculous because it is at least a step taken so that muslim women could go to the beach like everybody else. Fortunately people voiced their concerns in a comical way stating that the French guy just wanted to see more half-naked women. A muslim woman had an excellent reply to someone claiming that muslims are backward because the women do not wear less clothes. She said that Adam & Eve wore very short clothes then people started wearing clothes to cover their skin. So now are we progressing or regressing when we begin to wear less clothes. All I'm saying is that there is two sides to a story. Also Margaret claims that not only the east but the western history showed examples of this. Women were stoned if they had extra marital affairs in the olden days of christianity that much everyone seem to know. The scene in the first season finale the handmaidens were ordered to stone one handmaid for endangering her child though this woman was mentally unstable was obviously meant to rile you up but by this point I realized how stupid this drivel was. Earlier in the season we had this scene where the men in the show were terribly two dimensional. The cashier in a store was swiping our heroine's credit card. It was maxed out so she was handing him another card and all of a sudden though polite he was till then he started calling her and her non-lesbian friend sluts. The only reason I thought he would have suddenly bursted out with that insult is because he was angry that the credit card was maxed out. I get it I guess. Your card maxed out you slut. You know something sluts are known for. Back to the last episode Offred goes ballistic swearing at Serena Joy Waterford for being cruel. Her cruelty was to bring Offred to see her daughter but she kept her locked in a car at a distance. She threatens her that her daughter will be safe if Offred takes care of the baby she is pregnant with. It felt like an excuse to hate that character. Serena Joy Waterford is the barren wife of a high ranking officer who till this episode had more dimensions than the other characters and in this episode all those dimensions were instantaneously lost with this scene. The hump scenes are silly in how the handmaid rests her head on the barren wife while the husband screws the handmaid as they both pretend that the husband was humping his wife. It does not get any dumber than that. The only episode in the entire season that held any merit was the one with Offred's husband's story (who is black by the way because you know all white men are assholes). I'm Indian by the way so yay me. Outside Gilead we find out how he got away and joined the resistance. The penultimate episode of season one. The only reason I think this show may still have hope. Yes Donald Trump is one reason for the increase in the morphed version of feminism. This show draws parallel to Trump getting elected is what people who praise this show say. To which I say yes but only because the men hating non equal type feminism grew strong and this is the result. P.S. I hate Trump but you cannot blame everything on him. Oh wait he does not care about the environment so pollution could lead to women getting barren and therefore what else could people do but this.
Margaret Atwood's book The Handmaiden's Tale is an incredible story and a feminist feat. This show started out honest and brutally. I was so happy to see that the producers weren't sexually exploiting the actors and using the sexual aspect of the book to their own advantage. The show wqs refreshing because it wasn't like any other adult television shows that need to have explicit sex in t because producers feel like its just another way to make more money, rather than use it as a real way to tell a story.However, upon further watching, the show falls victim to the high demands of glamourized and explicit sex in the television industry. By the fourth episode, It went from being an honest show to somewhat of an erotica with pornographic-like sex scenes. It is pretty sad because although the nature of the book is sensual, its not graphic or explicit, its poetic. This show is proving to be just another adult TV show sexually exploiting its actors and milking the sex scenes it its book to gain more views. Its a real bummer because it had so much potential as to be just as poetic as the book.
An amusing story, catapulted at us from a feminists fevered nightmare that is very slow, and also, at times thoroughly amusing. 
Without spoiling the story it's about a bunch of reasonably spoiled women, who end up, via a range of poorly explained plot contrivances in a real patriarchy.
It's pretty bad, and painfully slow and over dramatic, so I recommend anyone who wants to watch this for the laughs, sit with their hand on the skip.


                
