The show is decent. Story is interesting, acting is pretty good, direction and cinematography are a bottleneck but still acceptable.A considerable amount of criticism against this show stems from right-leaning Christians or their apologists, defensive about the portrayal of the USA's favored religion--over 70% of the population is Christian, and basically 100% of our presidents have been also. But it's really only about the conservative Christians--as you'll recall, there was a priest that was executed. These same apologists for authoritarians of the Christian variety say this is implausible in the USA... not for lack of trying. This perception is really only thanks to the U.S. Constitution and the judiciary.No doubt, the reply is 'but Islam has burkas, rape marriages, and throws gays off rooftops.' But that isn't true in the USA. Now, if you want to go outside of the USA, let's play that game: In Nigeria, where Christians are the plurality, being gay can be punishable by death. There are several Christian majority countries where being gay is illegal today--by the way, the USA barely got its last anti-sodomy (i.e., gay sex in private) laws struck down in 2003 (Lawrence v Texas). In Jamaica, where there's a Christian majority comparable in size to the USA's, gays still get stoned to death to this day.Let's talk about the USA. The majority of Muslim women in the USA do not cover their hair. American Muslims were more supportive of gay marriage than Evangelical Christians--and that was before the Supreme Court struck down the bans enacted by right-wing Christians just 2 years ago. Today, still, in the USA, we have religious laws, of the Christian variety, banning blasphemy (PA teen convicted for posing with a statue), banning alcohol sales on Sunday, banning revealing clothing, forcing women to give birth, etc. That's today, in America. The last one (forced pregnancy/birth) is a doozy, because we don't even force corpses to give up organs to save lives--you need to opt-in while you're alive or the organs go to waste, because we have to respect the dead. But if you're a living breathing woman with a 9-5 job, barely getting by? Your body is property of the state, you have to give it up to save somebody else--carry them for 9 months, and get over the permanent affect on your body.'Christianity has reformed,' the right-wingers say, falsely taking credit for the liberal adherents of their faith and the impact of the courts. Sure, in the USA it's not so terrible, but it doesn't count as reform when it's the highest court dragging you kicking and screaming into modernity. And not a single day goes by where American Christians on the right don't work to turn the clock backward.Is this plausible in the USA? Absolutely. No question.If you want to learn more about how the USA's laws--never mind the acts of ordinary civilians--have treated women, and not that long ago, go search this on Google:"Timeline of Major Supreme Court Decisions on Women's Rights."


                
Two words: Christian ISIS. The novel the TV Series is based on might be written in 1985, but the contemporary events unfolding around us are -frighteningly- fitting pretty well in the shows reality.The similarities are so many (maybe intentional and parallel to the events happening in the last few years?) and strong that I can't help myself but name it this way.Public executions where participation is mandatory, public display of dead bodies of executed persons (gays, abortionists, priest who don't fit in the current version of Christianity etc), the presence of undercover spies called "eyes" everywhere making people worry that they might get reported, armed and masked militias in complete black camos patrolling the streets and the profession of "handmaids". Sounds like the depiction of life in Raqqa, but this is the fictional land of Gilead, formerly known as the United States of America, which has now become a theocratic military dictatorship.All in all, the first episode was very well paced and promising. I'm looking forward to see the struggle for survival of a "handmaiden" and the "new" world around her.
I do have to agree with others here and say that it is very slow. I know it's probably there to emphasize on the discomfort, fear, injustice, evil, etc, but trust me those things are felt no matter! Now despite the slowness the show was interesting - tough to watch but sometimes you need that. Like others have mentioned before, these types of mentalities already exist and happen in our world today. There are many places where women do not have rights, are treated as property, are forced to have sex, are brainwashed, etc. And some of that is probably happening in your city : sex trafficking. Also, do not be fooled by these characters using scripture and God as a crutch. What is taught in the Bible and who God is, IS NOT what this story portrays. This story shows men (and some women) taking bits and pieces of the Bible and twisting them to their advantage. They do not have an ounce of God in them. They are so caught up In thinking that they are "fixing" the world, that they don't see that they're making it worse. As June (offred) said, her country is already dead. All in all this show does bring up important issues, and shows a scary world - one that I hope will never happen! The acting is very strong! And I look forward to what the second season will bring, even though I know it will most likely be very slow again.


                
This is a very disturbing television series. I did not read the book, but had a general sense of the subject matter. I have found that over time there are somethings that I watch in the evening which seem to come into better focus upon waking. I consider myself to be broad minded and watch and read a broad spectrum of film and books. There are two things which make The Handmaid's Tale disturbing and difficult to watch. The first is the collective insanity that was prewar Germany up through the end of WWII and the revelation in the west of the atrocities of the Holocaust. The second is what has happened in the U.S. since the last Presidential election which saw Donald Trump win the Presidency in the Electoral College. We not only have the lessons of the past to show that what we see unfolding in The Handmaid's Tale is a possible outcome; we also are watching in real time, how the seeds of how such atrocities are planted. No, one should not sleep soundly after watching an episode of The Handmaid's Tale, nor should we stop watching. Forewarned is forearmed; it is we, the citizens of the great experiment in freedom that is the United States, who will determine the future course of our nation and never for a moment believe that a future as depicted in The Handmaid's Tale can't become a possibility. I have learned over time that if the human mind can imagine it, it can become a reality. Just look at the great body of speculative fiction (scifi) that has given birth to so much modern science and technology. The same can be said for social/political fiction, the best example perhaps being George Orwell's 1984. yes, this is a well crafted series in all its aspects. But let's not forget that Margaret Atwood wrote this as a cautionary tale and cautionary tales are written for a reason.As I write, I am trying to quantify the horrific aspects of how the author (a Canadian) of the source material depicts the abuse of various classes of women in this dystopian vision of America. Reduced to cattle (chattel?) comes to mind. But here's the the thing--the fictional world of The Handmaid's Tale is not really too far off from the way women, children, and African slaves of the 17th, 18th, 19th, and early 20th century America were actually treated. The world of the Handmaid's Tale is eerily close to the ethos of the early Puritans, only with ever present armed paramilitary thugs and the requisite Vader-like black SUVs. In some ways this tale is less about a future America, than a past one; one we would rather not contemplate (reference Jonathan Edwards). Women's suffrage, African American civil rights, and rights of children are the hallmarks of social change on the cusp between the America that was and the America we want--a nation sensitive to the rights of all people regardless of gender, age, and color, although there are signs that these abuses still occur. As for the Handmaid's Tale it is telling, from the look on the faces of the Commander, the wife, and the Handmaid during the "ceremony;" they know this is really screwed up, but hey, whatever it takes--ya gotta save humanity no matter how inhumane it's become. The last point I would like to make concerns our last Presidential election. A great many people, frustrated by whatever demons haunt their minds, voted for what they believed would be a better America, an America somehow more suited to their needs and liking. While I am aware that these souls are just exercising their right as Americans to cast their vote for measure or man, I asked myself just how far are some of these folks willing to go to have the change they envision. Many years ago I read about a study to determine how a select group of Americans would feel about our Constitution's Bill of Rights if the wording was changed, but the rights preserved. A majority of the test subjects were willing to throw out many of their Constitutional rights simply because the language had changed. (I have been unable to locate the original study.) One other example is the revelation that many Americans are willing to trade their Constitutional rights in exchange for the illusion of safety from terrorism, even though the United States has not been attacked or even under any real threat since 9/11. As with the many disparate reviews on IMDb of The Handmaiden's Tale, it's all in the individual's perception what is tragedy and what is comedy.


                
I like this show, and I am not dumb enough to believe it cannot happen or blind and self-deluded enough to make myself believe some of it isn't happening in the world today. I don't blabbity blah to convince myself that there aren't people in the world today that would relish a world such as the one depicted.I understand how and why everything in the show happens. That, as explained from the very beginning and then again in the latest episode, "The Ceremony" is a mix of making the wives amenable to concubines and because it is based on scripture. That there are people outside of Gilead fighting for the Handmaidens and those that oppose what is happening (The Resistance amongst others), and that not all governments are 'in' on what Gilead is doing. Lastly, having been a born-again Christian (a Pentecostal at that), I understand first-hand that you sometimes find the most hypocritical and odious people in churches and that SOME that most espouse God and God's LOVE out of their mouth's, hold the most hate toward their fellow humans (and animals) in their hearts.All that said, I will go back to the beginning and reiterate that I do like the show. I'm just loving it a little less than I did at the beginning. It has begun to swerve away from the territory and point I thought it was trying to make, into lalaland fiction, that being of the Commander acting the way he does with Offred. I will not specify what precisely, in order that I do not have to use a spoiler tag, but that coupled with Nick's involvement is devolving the show into a drugstore romance novel and I am liking it less and less. Nothing against Ms. Moss personally, but I just don't see it and it rings untrue.I understand too that filler is necessary and that they want to remain true to the book, but I hope that the main issues remain at the forefront and that it doesn't become just another show.


                
This is not a series for the action movie generation. There are no superheroes, no fast paced action scenes. Most disturbingly it s not an empowering series, it's a series about disempowerment, about complicity, about silence. This makes for disturbing viewing as the viewer is also passive, disempowered, and left to process disturbed affects. It evolves slowly, far too slowly from some, who prefer easy rapid solutions and happy resolutions, but that sense of slow unremitting oppression and suffocation is exactly what the show is written and filmed to convey. The show is paced so you feel trapped, feel like it's just taking too long, perhaps that's why there are comments here about how the pace could be 'improved' with a 3 episode series? This won't make the show popular with everyone as the polarizing reviews here reflect, but it's such a pleasing change from the usual vapid shallow television that is the staple milk from the cathode ray nipple. I accept that the message here isn't subtle, but really, how do you write a subtle show about disempoerment and abuse?


                
I watched the first season and was impressed not only by the acting which was worthy of every award going, but the way it stuck to the story. Given the time period when it was written it seemed in point today with the invasion of the religion of peace and its keen disrespect for women and gay people. To be honest is not hard to draw comparisons.Now I'm into season 2, none of which was penned by the original author, and by the second episode, we are already into a gay rights romp. 
The point about the unfairness and downright ugliness this new world visits upon gay people is made very clear in the first season. Along with all women are victims and all men are B'stards. The first season can be forgiven for all of this because at the time of writing in 1985, today's full on "in your face" enforced respect for gay people didn't exist so the story served to show how ugly humanity could become if pushed in the wrong direction. Now a whole episode has been devoted to gay rights I have to wonder what is next. 
Above and beyond all of that. Season 2 seems to excellently promote the same morbid atmosphere that season one had. Hopefully today's politics will stay out of the rest of it and it will be just as good. On a footnote. For gay people who feel its a good idea to wave welcome banners at a particular ideology this show offers insight into what you could be welcoming.


                
Originally introduced to Margaret Attwood's story though the 1990 film staring Natasha Richardson I was eager to check out the Hulu version. While this series is not disappointing it seems at times that some of the scenes are too long and drawn out, adding much of the backstory that you miss when adapting a book to film.In the end, the extra time adds to the story and helps to bring the viewer deeper into the world of Gilead. You can't help but to be drawn to the characters and sympathize with them though out the entire first season.The acting for the most part is subdued in keeping with the dystopian theme of the story.The 10 hours it takes to view this series is well worth the time, I spread it out over a couple of weeks as it was not really something to be binged as you need to let the previous episodes work though you before moving on to the next episode.
Wow. Is it ironic, or just pathetic, that even in 2017 a TV adaptation of a feminist novel still has to have a young and beautiful actress (Yvonne Strahovski, born 1982) play a character - "the Commander's Wife" - who, in the novel, has to be at least late 40's/early 50's. And the Commander, who was white-haired in the book, is played by Joseph Fiennes. I'm surprised Margaret Atwood didn't turn up on set with an uzi.


                
Miller! I am calling you out - hopefully you read this at some point.
I just finished season 2. Handmaid's Tale is phenomenal, but this was 2 seasons with no real progress in a very hopeless universe.
I swear by the eye and all that is holy, if something progressive and positive dont happen in the third season the show will diminish and suffer the same fate as the WD. The fans gave up! It was too hopeless with no progress. Please! Please! Dont let this happen to Handmaid's Tale.


                
As many others have written before I agree that season 2 is way too slow. And Im a person that use to LIKE slow shows, like Rectify for example. But in order to create that good kind of slowness there must be a subtle tension and an intense emotional structure all the time. I feel it sometimes in season 2 but 8/10 its just boring and a way to drag it out because the script doesnt allow it to go any faster. If the season 2 would have been 7 episodes instead of 13 I am sure that every episode had been way better. I don't really think the script is bad in any way and most of the things happening is good for the story, but all the waiting in between is frustrating. And also there are way too many flashbacks, especially those about June, Moira and Emily. I enjoyed the flashbacks about Serena because it makes her character more complex and it adds things that lets the audience see another side of her. While all the endless flashbacks about the others are not contributing in any way really. I don't care about Moira giving birth to a baby that she gave away, and I dont care about her girlfriend found dead. Not that I don't care, but it's not leading anywhere. The next episode it's done and it doesnt add to the story. I also felt that the sequences in the colonies where taking too much time. I liked them and I liked that you got the chance to experience them but it was simply too much of it. One of my favourite parts of season 2 was commander Lawrence that Emily ends up with. I really like that awkward scene when they sit down to drink wine together, and the way his glass is a tall narrow one that he almost caresses like a penis. It's a nice twist because it turns out that the man that seems to be the creepiest of them all is actually the one the helps Emily. I also think that perhaps he started the colonies so that he could use it as a cover somehow. However weird that might be, no one can have missed that in order to function in Gilead you have to make sacrifices. Like Fred sacrifices Serena's finger although we all know that deep down inside he adores her and is envious of her. It is often thought that a story's main character is the one that develops the most. So I would say that Serena is the real main character in this show.
A plague of pollution-driven female infertility leads American people to superstition. The subsequent revolution led by puritan religious fundamentalists gives birth to a theocratic dictatorship that tyrannises most of the territory of the current United States of America. Taking inspiration from the tale of Bilhah (Genesis 29:29), young women having been proved to be fertile are offered as "handmaids" to the leaders of the fanatic revolution, the "commanders", to serve as reproductive accessories. The show tells the story of one of such handmaids, June, rebaptised as Offred.Affected by a slow-paced tempo, the storyline lays largely upon the shoulders of the main character, who reveals to the spectator the very same thoughts and feelings that she needs to hide from her masters.This delicate exercise of ambiguity, absolute concealment in front of the other characters while subtly offering us a glimpse of truth with a simple glance, requires an extenuating display of concentration, discipline, talent and skill that very few chosen ones can attain. Unfortunately, Moss does not (yet?) belong among those selected few and thus fails to consistently sustain the required mixture of tension and complicity.


                
Tense, good acting, but not the power house tv show everyone seems to think it is. It may be trying to say something on behalf of the #metoo movement or the Trump haters, but the message I get is, let's see what America would look like with an appressive, sexist religion in power. Just like errrrrrr, that one we can't talk about anymore.


                
Great first season !
Season two is just torture. Both literally and figuratively.
The actress is good but her character begins to act completely unrealistically in a story like this one. From there - and the fact that the authors love to add over the top sadism in their story - it begins to be difficult to watch !


                
I felt from the get-go that the show (season 1) is exactly the kind of treatment the Book truly deserves. Episode 1 (Season 1) straight away set the bone-chilling tone and was unrelenting throughout the season 1, confidently sporting the heavy dark combat shoes of suspense, backdropped by orchestral dark ambient score and 2010s cable shows' popular gratuitous sepia filters invoking "grimness" (it was not nearly as intrusive as I make it sound, instead it fit well like Aunt Lydia's fascist coat - which would even make Hermann Göring blush). The overall atmosphere alludes to creepy war-time occupation claustrophobia and depicts this feeling splendidly well.Season 1 surprises: This one is controversial, at least for a staunch book adaptation purist like me, I praise the show creators for doing something that feels as something more than just a mere "TV adaptation of a book" so while the show feels a little less "personal" and is no longer focusing on one particular handmaid('s tale) as the Book is, we are instead treated with a more expanded universe of Gilead. The show successfully supplemented plenty of hot ideas to the table, not to mention brought some of the ideas from the Book up to date (Serena Joy is an ex-feminist now and God, I love the change). The show creators clearly knew what they were doing with the source material. Season 2 opened with a gratuitous torture porn sequence and it was obvious we were now in the edgy HBO wannabe land and that the show creators are only good at adapting existing material but not telling their own story without ripping off season 1. I will not bother with season 2 and beyond but #2.02 is a must-see episode, if nothing else. Now if the show creators in the end decide not to go for the post-war documentary twist the 1990 movie adaptation substituted it with an atrocious travesty I berated it for, it will be OK as long as there is no sappy idiotic trailer park ending again. ("Okay crew, for the last final scene we're gonna need a trailer park. Bob, I know you love Atwood's book but quit sulking now and go back to building the set!") I would like to believe that "masterpieces" or otherwise great works don't need accolades in the form of never-ending blocks of flattering text by overzealous fans and armchair film critics alike as these works pretty much speak for themselves (as do the opposites of masterpieces, of course) so I'll just stop here, with an unnecessary tedious 1984 reference that betrays my love of both Atwood's and Orwell's book that I see conceptually analogous in nature: If Winston Smith were a fertile woman, in Gilead, he would have been a handmaid and, most likely, renamed Ofobrien.* * *"My name is Offred. I ... had another name but it's forbidden now. So many things are forbidden now."
I don't really see where some of the bad reviews are coming from. It seems to be the general consensus among this show's naysayers that it's just "PC, SJW libtard propaganda", and they're labelling this amazing series as such because they're in denial that the world is as misogynistic as it really is, or because they themselves wish it were more-so. In all fairness, yes, this series tends to lean more to the side of women being oppressed without reflecting too much on how men are treated, especially gay men or men who want women to have more freedom. That being said, when watching The Handmaid's Tale, I think it's important to remember the time in which the novel was first published (1980's) and that it is purely fictional, but not really far from the harsh reality that women today are facing all over the world. In Uganda, lesbian women are subjected to corrective rape and even murder. In the Middle East, there have been cases of women being stoned to death for staying out late past curfew. And unfortunately, even in this overpopulated world we live in, even in countries like America and Canada where we like to think we have as much freedom as we want, there's still this huge societal expectation that all women should aspire to have a baby, even women who are asexual or who are childfree by choice.The Handmaid's Tale offers up a frightening, harsh new reality for a woman named Offred (originally June). Stripped of her daughter and presumably deceased husband, the career she loved and the belongings she once owned, she now literally is forced to conceive babies with affluent, important rich men with no pay and no choice in how, where or when this happens. Through flashbacks, we get to know that Offred is quite a cynical, sardonic yet bold and witty person who loved her husband and child deeply. We also get to see what led to the downfall of America and its liberty. It's a gritty show, sometimes even painful to watch, and yet it raises numerous questions about not only the way women are treated, but also why some people are so desperate to let it become this way again. The few "villains" are never just straight-up evil. They're very deep characters who you actually feel for in time, even Fred and Serena Joy, who were once just a loving evangelist couple warped into madness by Serena's own infertility.Unfortunately, The Handmaid's Tale can often seem all over the place and does get pretentious at times. The soundtrack choice is quite bizarre as well. I mean, I'm as big of a fan of Simple Minds' "Don't You (Forget About Me" as anybody, 80's music is awesome, but it really doesn't help set the mood of the particularly awkward prior scene where Offred plays Scrabble with the guy who is essentially her rapist! We also get a strange cover version of Blondie's "Heart of Glass" during a scene of protesters getting shot down by martial law. That being said, these incidences are few and far between, and doesn't change the fact that Offred's resourcefulness and determination to escape make for a powerful, eye-opening story of gender roles gone crazy and sexism at its most brutal and hellish.Meanwhile, we get a terrific set of secondary/supporting characters, both good and bad, to help keep the pace of this show. Moira, who moonlights as a prostitute in a brothel to avoid being sent to the mysterious toxic waste dumps of the country, is a caustic yet lovable lady who might just have the courage to escape to Canada. We also get Nick, Fred and Serena's enigmatic driver, whom Offred develops a close connection with. Janine, a young student, is gruesomely disfigured for misbehaving and soon becomes severely detached from reality by being forced to have babies with men she's never met. Aunt Lydia is quite interesting, at first a corrupt, sadistic nun-like woman but she later on does, once in a while, let a good-natured side slip out without meaning to. And of course, we also get Luke, Offred's husband who might not be dead after all.Overall I'd say that The Handmaid's Tale is probably one of the better shows on television today, right up there with 'Patriot' and 'The Sinner' in its innovation, wit and aesthetic style. Sadly the 2000's has been a dismal year for TV, what with everything falling to crude humour and lazy tropes, so it's nice to see a show out there that actually makes you think about the world around you and the things you take for granted every day, not necessarily as a woman, but as a human being.
As a Christian and constitutional conservative, I have to say that I enjoyed the show. The acting is good and the story is mostly plausible. The TV series, and the novel, show what can happen when religion is used by the state in order to control the people. That is precisely the kind of control, albeit not to this extreme, that our founding fathers were seeking to escape. That is not to say that one's personal beliefs will not affect their political ideals, but the state shall not be a respecter of religions. While this dystopian drama is like many of its peers that are so prevalent these days in books, movies and television (such as Jericho, Revolution, Agenda 21, Hunger Games, Divergent...), I would caution people from insinuating that this is somehow prophetic based on current political tides.This is actually the least realistic of all of the fictional dramas that I mentioned unless, of course, sharia law becomes prevalent throughout the United States, which was mentioned in a review of the movie from the 1990s.For those of you who watch a movie and believe everything that you see, there are not Christians out there advocating for such sexist views to believe that a woman is only as valuable as her ability to reproduce OR that sex outside of the covenant of marriage in any form is anything other than the sin of adultery OR that unruly females should be circumcised. If you meet somebody who claims any of these, they are not a Biblical Christian so don't be fooled.It is also misguided to believe that this is anything similar to the pro-life movement or companies that want to choose health care packages that don't include certain contraceptive options. Any comparison of these issues with the show's plot lines proves a deep misunderstanding of the issues.I believe that the state/religion that this story uses as the oppressors is what makes it less believable than say an enactment of sharia law, which currently, NOT futuristically, treats women as property who can be raped, mutilated, or killed for any offenses deemed not honorable, which includes homosexuality.I may or may not continue with the show past episode three, but those who do, need to separate the theatrical and dramatic aspects from the political ones lest you start to believe propaganda.
What a scary dangerously current movie considering current political situation in Poland with PiS and their way of seeing the world. Of course not only in PL. It scared sh*t out of me. The house of cards isn't political fiction too, so... Good acting, good music. and the 5th line to go.


                
The gap between the most and the least intelligent humans is not much smaller than between the least intelligent humans and the smartest animals. Intellectuals are always a minority. Intellectuals meant as a group of the smartest people globally and natively, not as people who work at offices. Meant as at most upper 20 percentiles, if not 5-15%. Intellectuals always need at least partial support from the less intelligent people to uphold a stable and humane society, not letting it be torn by savage external forces, or internal ones. The most educated, high IQ societies members, scientists etc. Support for right-wing 'values' like religion, intolerance, inhumanity is always very low in these groups. And wars, terror and repression happens mostly in the name of gods/religion, fatherland or misinterpreted honor.About these other reviews where people rate the show low and say it's not a reliable, plausible story or it can't happen in a Christian country. Guess what, it was real in the past and can be real again. And where I live, Poland, it is more and more similar with every day of current government rule. They've taken over the Constitutional Tribunal and are in progress of trying to take over the Supreme Court. They've taken control over the Prosecutor's Office and use them for political needs. They've expelled most of the skilled army officers and replaced them with their passive but loyal ones. They're creating 'territorial defense armies', which are supposed to consist of weakly trained but loyal citizens, mostly hooligans and religious fanatics and suck the budget of traditional army and weaken it. They limit the civil liberties, they remove and carry people out of demonstrations, as it was during the pre-'89 soviet occupation. They use the topics of terrorist attacks and refugee crisis to spread intolerance and hatred, in order to gain more power. The country which has gained popularity for its Nazi opposition and later for beginning the Soviet Union thaw now has to be taught by Germans what tolerance it. They're the third worst government of Europe, after Erdogan in Turkey and Putin in Russia. They model themselves on them, the difference being it's an authoritarian secular rule in Russia, Muslim in Turkey and Christian in Poland.In vitro has its limits and it's not approved by the Church, so the argument the story is obsolete because of it's existence is also missed.The mass infertility itself is obviously not very credible, if there won't be any biological or chemical mass destruction weapon used.Overall, coming back to the series rating, it has a great reflection inducing value, which I find it's best advantage. Although it's implementation seems to be quite boring, dragging on and I would expect Netflix or AMC to handle the series more effectively.
I absolutely love this show, I'm studying this for A level English! The show is quite faithful but does have a few changes. The pacing may seem better for a television show, so I do understand why they changed a few scenes around. Furthermore the settings and costumes are amazing, it creates such a large sensation of fear in the viewer. All the cast are great, perfectly fit the characters of the book. So much so that that it becomes hard to distinguish them from their book counterparts.Most new additions are very good and I think most will approve. It really creates a feeling of dread and worry for the future and has a great message behind it. I have very little problems with the show. Definitely give it a watch.


                
Beautiful scenes, great colours and great casting..If only June moved a little faster sometimes and stopped the annoying face twitches...


                
Good cast , world building is good , acting is really good , overall good show


                
I'm about halfway through the first season as of now, and as weirded out as I am about a society set in a future time, I'm also captivated. I can see where a 'Biblical' Spence can be brought into making a 'better future', yet completely weirded out that this is how that society could indoctrin what they would feel would be best. Ever since I started watching it I honestly can't stop watching, no matter what's happening, for the fact I hope I hope that the Handmaids rise up against this sick thinking people and bring back what once was.


                
Heard this was good and finally got to watch it and amazingly it more then lived up to the hype. Fantastic. Creepy, thought provoking, brutal, horrifying with excellent story (ok few things don't fully make sense), and acting all filmed in an eerie stylistic way that Hitchcock or Kubrick would be proud of. If U haven't seen this yet sit back and do so soon.


                
This review contains SPOILERS.Handmaid's Tale easily rates up there with Breaking Bad as some of the best TV ever made. The cinematography is so unique (notice how the white balance is "pink" in the "handmaid's world" and "blue-ish" in the "men's world," for example). The costumes, setting, overall vibe of the show is just fantastic, not to mention the weighty and serious socio-political issues the show expertly tackles. But I'm giving the show 8 stars for one major reason:June keeps getting pulled back to the Waterford house. The show's first season ends where the book ends, so the show runners are effectively making up the second season and beyond, and by the end of the second season, June (Offred) will have escaped and (presumably been) returned to the Waterford house no less than three times. Yes, she wants to get her older kid, Hannah, out of Gilead, but she would have such an easier time doing that through Canada and the Underground Railroad of anti-Gilead citizens in Gilead. But no. June has to run away, get dragged back to the Waterford's, run away, get dragged back, run away, get dragged back. I foresee next season June will run away and get dragged back at least two more times.I wish I could rate this show higher, but we need some finality of whether June decides to stay in Gilead or if she makes it out permanently.
