Judging by the praise this seems to be getting, you would think there is some great mystery to be understood here, but not only does it fail to deliver a cohesive plot but it can't even deliver on it's promise of a mystery. 
It is so bland and pretentious that I played some episodes at like 1.5x play rate.lol. The story want to be taken seriously but it's plot mechanic is painfully stupid and tedious.First the characters are like cardboard cut outs. The only character I liked and thought was human is Ulrich. He is like a cop/detective and is afraid for his sons life, because they found a kid whose eyes had been charcoaled by someone.
I'll reveal more in a spoiler section. And this other older cop character is ok as well. But the villains and their motives are just god awful. I don't mean evil which they are, or at least their methods are, but no I mean they are unintelligible!As for the plot, it's just a pain to sit through. I've thought about this a few times and I honestly don't think I was surprised even once! It's hard to explain but I think the utterly cliched nature of it all, ends up betraying the basics of the plot very quickly to the audience. And unlike with stranger things where you have a decent ending, to season 1, you don't get anything remotely like that here. No satisfying conclusion to the season, just another set up to mindlessly repeat the same story mechanic that it had already repeated a good dozen times by then. The basics of the plot is, *Start of Minor Spoilers* there is a time machine that looks like an electric chair(like wtf right?) that kills the traveler in the process of time traveling. And the people who built it, use children as it's guinea pig which makes for cheap scares/horrors. These kids go back in time and have no choice but to spend the rest of their lives there. Marrying and having kids and what not... And the story is about the mystery of what happened to them and the mystery of this machine and why it was built. Except it fails to deliver on all those fronts. *End of Minor Spoilers*. That basic plot mechanic is repeated over and over again for multiple characters, then the subsequent drama of all this is mildly explored, mixed in with Einstein being name dropped to sound smart.
 
The more I think of this series the worse the score gets. 
Originally I was thinking 4/10 but I honestly can't justify it.
I can forgive a bad plot for at least attempting to put together a plot, but here it's a big pile of nothing, mixed with cheap scares about murdered children and the drama that ensues. It's a 1/10 for me. You can safely skip this garbage and not feel like you missed out.lol. In fact you might feel having spared!
If you are really curious, I recommend reading through my spoiler section to find out what you "missed out" on(you didn't miss out on anything!). Or conversely, just look online for a complete story summary.*SPOILER SECTION* 
So there is a worm hole under all this! In fact it's this worm hole that allows this "time machine" to work. I put time machine in quotes because the characters that build this just magically happens to know, as to how you would try and tap into this wormhole. And the machine just straight up looks like an electric chair with small transformers attached to this eye cover/VR headset thingy. So utterly unconvincing as a time machine. The writer clearly wasn't thinking in terms of having an intelligible setting or story, but was just going for cheap scares.Now the worst thing is that this worm hole is something that you can actually walk through(crawl actually). So it makes this whole machine pointless. Remember this machine can't function independent of this wormhole, in fact it's built close to the location of the worm hole. Both the machine and the wormhole, sends people 33 years into the past or future. And to make things worse, there is yet another mysterious time machine, although it doesn't involve an electric chair set up. Just something that looks like a suitcase bomb.There are two villain characters, one male and the other female that seem the most interested in time travel, while the rest are victims of their manipulation. Each believe the other to be the evil one. It is not revealed as to why they want to time travel other than the base curiousity around the phenomena. You also have a pointless professor character that gives boring expositions on time travel, while adding nothing of value to the story. It would have been cool, if he had an active part in this, but he is just a passive participant and ends up building this other time machine for the female villain when she gives him blue prints. It's assumed that she designed it herself, although she can't build it herself for some reason...
And that's as far as that plot goes. You don't find anything more about either of these characters or their goals.As for the mystery of missing children. The people that made the electric chair time machine, are using children as their guinea pigs. And in the process of using it, they die in their present time line, but live in a past time. The machine ruptures their ear drums and melts their eye area of the face, for some inexplicable reason. But ok. So back in the past, in 1986, they just have to continue on with their lives and eventually marries have kids etc...The offspring have special consequences, since they wouldn't be born unless the kids that are to be their father is sent back in time, thus making their kidnappings a necessity bla bla bla. Do I have to go on?
This plot is then repeated for 3 other kids and each time we get to see the drama in both time lines. A character called Jonas who is also the first mysterious guy that the audience suspects is killing kids, is the offspring of one of those kids that went back in time. And he is actually trying to destroy the wormhole, hoping that it will fix everything. He is also a lackey to the female villain and is unknowingly set on a path to start the worm hole in the first place which he thinks will destroy it. And is given that second time machine thingy as a catalyst to create a black hole... Honestly it is as stupid as it sounds. You even get to see this cheesy black hole cgi effect. 
Meanwhile a younger Jonas who had previously discovered the truth about his father and had traveled through the natural wormhole, gets kidnapped to be used on that electric chair time machine thing. But the artificial black hole creates a portal right in front of him, which also opens up to a kid way back in the past (1953). The two touch the portal and Jonas is pulled sometime far into the future and the kid is pulled to the time line that young jonas was living. While in the far future, young Jonas is greeted by a young woman who is clearly meant to be a younger version of the female villain.
Thus setting up their connection. The story ends there baiting for a second season which I regret has been green lighted.lol. Does that make you feel like you missed out on something?
If I had checked a quick summary of the entire story, I would have saved 8 hours of my life. The series isn't just nonsensical pretentious garbage, it's also incredibly bland. Sometimes bad movies and series can be fun to watch, but this isn't even that. It takes it self very seriously but it doesn't have the intellect or the content to back that up.I hope this review helped!
BORINGThere are a tons of characters, too many to follow. I keep forgetting who is who and is related to who. And then the multiple timelines make everything even more confusing. Not that it matters because there are basically no interesting storylines to follow.Story is an exercise in boredom very little ever happens, just a lot of kitchen talks, rainy german forests, then again talking in iving room, kitchen, and the same tropes happining over and over again.Every single scene contains synth and suspenseful music, even when they make sandwiches or say the most irrelevant things, music score is absolutely annoying.I really tried hard to get to watch the entire season but I was extremely bored after 6 or 7 episodes and I found the Whole story completely pointless.


                
I just wish I could travel back 10 hours in my past to tell my younger self no to watch this show. Unfortunately my mother used the last of my cesium and could not use my travel machine :(
Btw: we get it nuclear energy is bad. Very very bad :p


                
As you start to watch one after the other episodes you think that you will take the revenge for LOST. you will see the war between good and evil not even insight on each character but on a whole city....but as always we must have another season so everything that the series builds for 9 episodes collapsed as a tower on the sand at the last 10 minutes!


                
I can't believe I just wasted an hour in the first episode of this slow, uninteresting, dull, cliché-loving show, almost crying for something interesting to happen.Yes, this show is dark (no pun intended) because IT'S A NIGHTMARE to watch. Oh, and the 'supernatural' thing... come on! Without that, this TV show might well be the noir typical thriller that abound. They added on to of that exhausted topic a sauce of 'intrigue' in the form of a supernatural twist that clearly didn't work.Save yourself the pain to watch this and avoid it any cost.


                
Does anybody remember the time when the Germans were on the barricades against nuclear energy, after the Tjernobyl power plant accident? That is the starting-point of this series. Having seen 3 episodes I can't really decide to go on or not and that's not a good sign. The time shifts are starting to annoy me. Hasn't tv bombed us with that 
 nonsense enough? Very not original.There is hardly a story, just massive droning music and faces with heavy expression. The Characters come back each time to a hole in the ground, in a forest, like in a b-movie like. Some say stop comparing with Stranger Things but that series was stuffed with stupidity like that too.


                
Everything is copy of a copy, we already know it. But when it comes to serving the food remaining from 50 years ago to the audience as if it were fresh out of the oven, and taking 50 minutes from their lives for that in every episode, it is far beyond being just a copy.And what's even worse, seeing no significant thing but (so called) strange time&space-related events and bootstrap paradox in 1 minute after 49 minutes of tension shows one thing: they were actually intended to shoot a Brazilian soap opera but then changed their mind.


                
Bogus physics that do not even require junior high credentials to completely reject drive a very narrow and unimaginative story which feel like watching the Little Flintstones, where every grown up character is exactly mimicked by a younger version of themselves, and the relationships are linear.. All the pseudo science is thrown in a bunch that probably no one on the team even feels like trying to make sense of. Twin Peaks, this is not even close. And rubik cube aside, it should not be mentioned in the same sentence as Stranger Things.


                
Slow-paced. Show is set in 3 different time frames. Very confusing keeping track of characters as they change ages every time the show switches back and forth between 1953; 1989, and 2019. I kept hoping it would all come together at the end, but I thought the ending was terrible and very unsatisfactory.


                
I am perfectly used to the fact, that in any series it takes time, and 2 or 3 episodes to get to know all the characters, their connections, conflicts, interactions.I would like to ask you opinion; whether it is only my problem, or anybody else having the same confusion.After the 7th episode I know less who is who than at the beginning of the show...I have to confess, that I always had troubles with German names, and I am watching it in original German with Hungarian subtitles (my mother language).I have been watching a lot of series, and yes, it happens, that I am confused with the characters. Probably more, than others.But in case of this show, I am lost completely.Anybody else? :)But there is one more much important thing.!!!SPOILER!!!Hurting/murdering animals and children is a strong taboo for me in every genre!
Even in horror movies children are never involved in such situtation like in this series. 
That is unforgivable for me, quitted watching...
Ok, considering the success of Stranger Things, why wouldn't some other show produced by Netflix try to go down its pass?
Well, as it turns out, when the writing and acting and directing is bad, it becomes a sub-average show.
The story revolves around a small city, near a nuclear plant. And mysterious thing happens! I mean, come on!! It is so slow, the characters are so underdeveloped, the dialogues is so immature, the music is so terrible that it makes the watching experience torturous. 
The story and logic behind it is full of holes, there are so many moments that all the problems can be solved but the writers come up with unbelievably dumb twists to extend the story. The show, takes itself and the logic behind peculiar events waaaay too seriously.
I couldn't believe that so many people rated it so high! These ratings show how shallow people's expectation from TV shows are! really sad.


                
This show is exactly a copycat for 12 Monkeys, The future is dead and people are a few left so the past can fix this.
What A Garbage I don't understand why people like this, if you really like time travel shows there are a plenty of masterpiece series for you like 12 Monkeys, Timeless, Travelers ....
A series should always conclude its plot in 1 season whereas the next season can take spin off with the previous conclusion. I hate series where the entire suspense carry forward to the next season. This series is pathetic. Very Boring. I completed Mind Hunters, Stranger Things, Sacred Games in 2-3 days where every inch was interesting. For this, I doze off in every episode as it was pathetically boring. PLEASE AVOID THIS. IT IS TOO BAD.


                
It's almost a masterpiece, but it had so many mistakes that it's too sad I have to give it this note :/ anyway, there are really good parts and many parts were unnecesary, sadly to extend the show more episodes, but it's ok, I hope they release 2nd season soon


                
