I mostly agree with the reviews on IMDB, but this I do not understand. The story is full of loose ends, it is so filled with clichés many of the scenes are totally absurd (as in "not logic") and unnatural (people would never react the way those characters do in so many situations during the series.
They have a new director in the power plant who knows nothing about what's happening inside??? Why would anyone elect such a person? That character finds all kinds of abnormalities in the first hours she starts working there, the formal director brings her to a place in a wheelchair through a forest (?) where she is asked to descend into a deep cavern with only a rope ... The lady wears her finest clothing and stiletto heels but sees no problem in descending 15 meters deep along a rope (apart from the fact that you have to be trained for that already). Who would ever do such a thing in such a situation? And so the whole series is full of totally absurd and very unbelievable situations (really one after the other) that often do not explain anything or make any sense in the story.
I experienced the "music" as extremely exciting, it is sharp, often inappropriate and very monotonous.I do like absurd, I love good tension, I love David Lynch, Cohen Brothers etc... This is really extremilly annoying poor stuff.You can discuss taste and preferences, but quality is something else.
This says more about the era we are living in today, where plagiarism and superficiality increasingly prevails over quality and true craftsmanship.


                
Mysterious devices without a solid explanationEnigmatic caves filled with radioactive barrelsFlashbacks and fastforwards dressed as time travelsPeople are more connected than they thinkA mysterious nuclear industryAt the end of the season, the bad aren't so bad and the good aren't so goodPretentious titles for the chaptersThe eternal dicotomy of god and scienceUnsolid explanations about metaphisics or quanticsThe sense that anything isn't being solved as should beMysterious characters that at the end doesn't have a reason to be so mysteriousMysterious deathsMystery musicA tremendous cliffhanger at the end of the seasonIf you don't know what this series is, you're sooo lost.
Mix "Donnie Darko", "Lost" and "Magnolia". Subtract depth, charm, mystery. Overdo annoying music/sounddesign: Voila! Enjoy!


                
I had high hopes for this but they eventually faded. Binged watched it over the last two days. It took a few episodes but finally I knew things weren't great when I started to laugh and talk to the TV about terrible dialogue and nonsensical happenings. The best one was when the dog left 1953 and showed up in 1986. I wonder who opened the door for it. How the hell did those barrels get into the cave when it appeared as if the only entrance was by dropping down a 20 meter rope. Must have been an escalator out of there because neither of those ladies seemed to have a way to climb back up. Details, details. Trying to keep the characters from different years straight was, well, trying and I felt like I was being lectured to in many instances. Pounded over the head with information that could have been gleaned from a more intelligent script. Won't be watching season 2. Life's too short.
I was full of enthusiasm for Dark at first and quite enjoyed the early episodes. I liked the characters and it is well acted. Unfortunately the longer it went on the more apparent it became that the time travel plot simply did not make sense. I binge watched to the end just to see if they would resolve all the contradictions and impossibilities, but these just multiplied the longer it went on. I was totally prepared to accept the premise of a time warp enabling movement back and forth in time, but could not bear the stupid way that it was done.
Started off great but dragged on at some point in the middle and then just spirals into nonsense and convoluted crap in the last episodes, specifically the last few seconds. Won't be hanging around for the second season. And I honestly don't get the similarities to Stranger Things everyone seems to be talking about, they're NOTHING alike and worlds apart in every thinkable sense.


                
Really disappointed. I enjoy almost every sci-fi, dark, mystery, thriller movie og series, but this was total waste of my time. After I saw the last episode of season 1, I just thought - what did I just watch? What is this? What's the point of everything that happened here? Why every single character so mysterious to us? And like good ol' telenovela... who is who, why did that happened and who is related to who now, and is "Pedro" now a mother, a father, a sister and an uncle to himself?This series has huge lack of depth. We don't get a chance to love or to hate a character, because everyone's so freakin' mysterious. Everything and everyone is so mellow, just - meh. You want something to happen finally, but nothing ever does. It's so empty and shallow. And that scary music in background... oh, come ooooon! Character yawns: (scary music playing in the background). Give me a break! I can't even write anymore about this stupid waste of time, I'm pissed off! Solid actors. I liked the camera and a color palette. But the story is horrible - so unfinished! Like someone deleted 30-40% of story here and there, just enough to make it boring.
This is where concept (dark) is taken to a ridiculous degree. You can barely see this movie. The director has saturated the blacks so all you can really make out in most of the indoor scenes are highlights. You spend most of your time peering into the picture to make out what is going on and then replaying to make sure you saw what you thought you might have seen. It's simply too much viewer effort just to prop up a director's conceit. The characters are not much, either. They're icy cold and not very interesting. There is so little genuine interaction between them that you lose interest very quickly. This series might interest horror/scifi folks but if you have a decent television, this is a waste of the money you invested in the latest technology. You simply cannot see it. What a waste.


                
Back to the Future meets Terminator while dipped in a vat of dark molasses.Usually shows start slow and often pick up the pace of storytelling. Therefore, I try to always get through a couple episodes before deciding to continue. In the case of Dark the opposite was true and my approach backfired. This was a show that "jammed" the content of 3 episodes into the final 7 episodes. With rare exception the characters were difficult to follow as they traversed various parts of the 66 year span. Except for a character with a prominent mole the casting choices made easily identifying the same people 33 or 66 years later or earlier harder than it needed to be. The big reveal in the final episode was rushed and the final moments of the show scream "We ran out of money so this is the end"I wanted to like it but was very disappointed.
I love the premise behind this series. At the first season's halfway mark, I feel the focus on soap opera level of drama between the citizens of Winden really takes away from the mystery and surrealism that makes the plot exciting. The tangential storylines between characters are very disorienting and confusing and largely superfluous. More concentrated focus on the mystery at the heart of the plot and I might have enjoyed this series a lot more.When I first read about this show, I immediately thought of the Swedish series "Jordskott", which has many narrative parallels. Honestly, watch this show. Jordkott is available to stream on Shudder. Compared to "Dark", this show stays far more on course for me. You've got the complexities of small-town drama, but it all circles back to the central plot points. Fantastical, surreal, scary, beautiful, suspenseful, way more poignant and relevant in its message. CHECK OUT "JORDSKOTT" IF YOU WANT NEXT LEVEL "DARK"! ...Plus, no crummy overdub.


                
I don't know why its not subtitled. The voice over is so distracting. Plus, the whole thing is just dangling in odd assumptions. I hated the one episode I made it through.


                
