Its obvious to see what the show is aiming for; in it's acting, in the family interactions, and in the plot. But it is So HEAVY HANDED. From the get-go we are bombarded with over loud, crass synth soundtrack. In every scene someone is over emoting, breaking down, running through the streets screaming. We are to believe that there is love and tenderness between characters, but none of this is shown; we are not made to feel it. And there are huge holes in the plot and in behavior patterns of the police. No police force in the smallest village is this inept and unprofessional. Certain plot twists are laughable, but since I haven't checked the spoiler box I will not name them.


                
I had high expectations on this one, since I've read that it's ideal for Twin Peaks and Stranger Things fans, but I hated it! As its name, it's totally dark. Dark photography, dark atmosphere, gloomy, catatonic! These are the feelings - not in a good way though! I'm wondering if there was even one smile in the whole series. All the characters are troubled and way too dark. Twin Peaks was a dark series, as well, but with really funny and interesting moments, so how could anyone compare those two? Boring as hell and pointless. Do not waste your time! Seriously!


                
I can only watched this 'til the stranger on episode 2 book a room. After that, tap back, and remove this show from my Netflix list. No, it's not that good. Don't you dare compare this show to stranger things. But if you can bear the exaggerated, unnecessary, cheap soundtrack that blasting out from your speaker almost everytime, go watch it. But you have been warned. By cheap, I don't mean the budget amount to produce this show. But the taste. There's a scene where a suspicious guy want to rent a room on at the local hotel. You will be forced to be suspicious about this guy. He wears a large hoodie, with dirty face, and that's not all. This guy also brought a creepy string quartet playing sounds that almost screaming for attention, "Hey! Look at this guy! He's suspicious! He's creepy and dirty!" Imagine that scene like this, a guy lying on a hospital bed because he has high cholesterol, taking out a block of cheese from his jackets hidden pocket and put the whole block in his mouth. While the famous soundtrack from Alfred Hitchcock psycho unnecessary playing amazingly loud in the background since he reached inside his hidden pocket. Amazing, isn't it? And before that, there's a conversation between 2 men. 1 guy says, "You know the difference between successful man and unsuccessful man?" Right after that sentence, a low dark string notes playing in the background. Almost Jaw-like famous 2 notes soundtrack. Seriously? Thank you for wasting more than 60 minutes of my time


                
It has taken me days but I cannot even get through episode one.It is dark, dreary and boring. The town is full of dark dreary people living dark dreary, boring lives. And this is supposed to interest me?I'm sorry, it needs some interest to hook a person. This has none.I tried but this is so dank and totally without content, I am just unable to stay with it.And, its dubbed.PS: Reviews are still not possible on IOS.


                
I think what drove me to binge-watch this was the hope something interesting would emerge from it, but it wasn't all that satisfying. The soap-opera relationship bits are very tedious. The acting, script and score are needlessly portentous. There are lots of "everything is everything" conversations which sound like they were written by an undergraduate who had just read far too much Herman Hesse. It's not like Stranger Things or Twin Peaks at all, and I agree with another reviewer who said it's most like Lost, in its frustrating, made-it-up-as-they-went-along supernatural shaggy-dog story modus operandi. And there are so many characters, and different versions of characters, none of which are particularly compelling or well-drawn. I tried to keep track, but ultimately I just didn't care enough about any of them. I still think the gold standard for time travel movies is Shane Carruth's 'Primer'. It does your head in, in ways Dark doesn't manage to even get close to, and with only a fraction of Dark's resources (but some MUCH better ideas). I think there are probably more interesting episodes of Dr. Who about this subject. I wanted to like it, and enjoyed parts of it, but after, what, a couple of hundred of years of literature, movies and TV on this subject we can surely expect something more thought-provoking than this middling fare.


                
SPOILERS FOR ALL OF THE FIRST SEASONWell it started off quite good with interesting characters, a lot of mysteries and some supernatural events but it began to stretch the plot and after a while it gets ridiculous.....It starts like sci fi but then they mention god, the antichrist ( at this part I cringed at the ridiculousness ) and they start saying philosophical nonsense all the time.... It gets repetitive and dull. After episode 6 almost every character no matter the timeline keeps repeating that we dont choose what we do everything is predetermined and nonsense like this. OK WE GET IT EVERYHING IS PREDETERMINED STOP REPEATING!!! So the basic problems are: repetition, this ridiculous stretching of the story and characters and maybe theoritically the science makes sense but the actions and motives of the characters don't. Because of these problems the result is that it has no ups and downs. It becomes flat. It kind of makes you want to sleep because nothing makes sense any more, there are too many characters, they all repeat the same thing and aparently there is nothing anyone can do to change it. And that's exactly what happens. Half of the characters trying to change things and the other half tries to fix it. But no one takes a breath and wonders what's happening and no one acts like a human being. I mean everyone wants to be a hero and a savior. YOU CANT ALL BE HEROES!!! Some people just want to live their freaking lives. The philosophical mumbo jumbo really bothered me and they reminded me of another big failure, west world. This show was filled with nonsense. I just think that many things weren't necessary they keep on adding stuff and characters dragging stories mixing timelines, come on......Less is more......and in the end you get a post apocalyptic future??? Ahha hhah ha hah....Anyway yeah you get the idea a big dissapointment for me because they really could do better and we get something that is close to the average indie style ( or whatever you call what is not mainstream in English ) philosophical sci fi mess....
Very, very confusing and a fair few things made absolutely no sense. Throw on top of that some terrible dubbed American voices and you've got this show. It's trying incredibly hard to be artsy and different but overall it just doesn't work. Viewing also caused my mum to become quite aggy, which is never good. I'd say avoid if you value your time. P.S there is nothing wrong with subtitles, dubbing is bad!


                
Too many similar characters to keep track of which makes it difficult to follow the story. Many of these characters appear in the past as current. Some of the acting really feels like acting and some scenes have no added value at all. These scenes keep on sitting in your head because you expect that later on they will get some meaning. It is an annoying show to watch.


                
I was expecting something interesting. Or at least special. After all superstition is at home in Germany: burning witches, racial superiority, communism, they have done it all. Still, the result is a bland combination of some other shows. The camera is good, but the creativity is next to none and the mirroring of scenes quickly becomes annoying. Probably is the fake that pops out of every corner: everything is new, yet quickly adjusted to seem old and deteriorated.


                
God, them folks are ugly. This show is actually difficult to watch, everyone in that village is depressed, mean, aggressive, or disagreeable. And just completely repulsive. It's like they were written and cast to be hated.


                
Kept on watching the first 3 episodes hoping for a change when everything just went very monotone. Right in the beginning I thought that it was going to be a good tv show when the disappointment started to come from the half of the first episode. 'Dark' is a very non-sense, having also included lots of cliché scenes. Most of the actors don't play very well. The storyline itself has a lot of scenes that reminded me of Stranger Things. It is awful, don't watch it!
