Dark has many elements of a TV series that would make for an enjoyable watch. An ominous town with strange events unfolding and a setting that is reminiscent of the likes of Twin Peaks or Stranger Things. The plot synopsis spells intrigue and the opening montage of the show is tastefully done with a foreboding purpose. Unfortunately, the show itself is not executed all that well.The story dabbles with the idea of time being a continuous loop which is a solid premise for a good story. Time as a concept for storytelling engages its audience intellectually and usually makes for some good plot twists. The problem with Dark is that the director has a lot of creative ambition tied with a lot of difficulty to substantiate it. There is too much going on with a lack of meaning behind it. If the intent was to create a dizzying storyline that jumps from one character to another gratuitously to tightly bundle the events unfolding for many of the show's cast, they succeeded. Yet this is Dark's biggest downfall; it wants to take you along for the ride and present to you everything that is going on with everybody without taking the time to develop its cast into meaningful, interesting characters. No one is particularly memorable or evoking of much emotion.The plot doesn't materialize into anything awe inspiring neither; it does present interesting if not farfetched ideas that could serve to partially redeem the narrative if the director manages to tie it all together in upcoming seasons. Some sequences will certainly make you brainstorm; yet these unfoldings hold little weight and are not as impactful as they were intended to be. As of the 1st season, Dark fails to come full circle unlike its concept of time does.


                
Good cinematography, that's all this show has going for it. Poor soundtrack selection, shallow and cliched plot. Becomes more disappointing as you watch more episodes.


                
'Dark' is described here as 'mistery', but it is in fact a 'horror' series. Apart from that, the soundtrack is overused. Through the whole episode there is some creepy music being played, even in the most simple dialoges. It's almost like the laughing track in those sitcoms, trying to force you to laugh even when there's no joke. After a while the music doesn't make you feel anything different anymore, because it's always there. The effect is lost.The pictures are quite dark, I must say it's even hard to see what's going on sometimes, but I didn't expect anything different from a series named 'Dark'.The storyline seems to be very interesting, but the 'scary' scenes and unecessary creepy music in every single scene makes it unwatchable for me.


                
Over the course of 4 episodes it never got worse but it didn't get any better either. Watch the pilot and if you like that I'm sure you'll like the rest. It has some interesting moments but it's mostly dull. If you like mysteries that take an entire season to let you in on what's going on I'm sure you'll like this.


                
Started watching this because of its rating. The disappointment started with Episode 1 and did not go away until the end of the last episode.
The series is full of stereotypes, while it seems to drawn in its own -unnecessary- complexity. The attempt to support the script with narrated -junk- philosophy fails big time and after a certain point gets annoying.
Another big failure is the musical score which is used as a mean to enforce to the viewer fear; instead, it gets annoying. 
One of the worst series i have watched. Not the worst, as Black Mirror is the worst by far.
Don't waste time on this.


                
Normally, I am not the one to fall for for Netflix titles. Now, mind you, I happen to have received a 1 year subscription and after a couple of weeks I realized I should maybe make some use of it. I've heard nothing but words of praise for Dark and well, it seemed just like my piece of cake! Boy, was I wrong.
First of all let me start by saying every character is absolutely insufferable. Maybe 1 or 2 were fun at some point but otherwise I'd never seen a more unlikable array of characters in a show in quite a while. All those teens are sad cliches, the Jonas guy is a beta, Ulrich could have been cool if his character wouldn't have been so reckless(he's a cop, for god's sake!!), his wife is annoyingly stiff middle-class German, the Noah guy is amazingly useless, and after a while there is so much name-dropping of 100 minor characters I started to lose my wits. Like really? Wasn't it easier to....leave them out? Just my humble opinion.
(Hannah was quite cool tho, love me a meddling lady. And old Egon is a delight.)
As for the plot, started off VERY strong- for the first 2 or 3 episodes, I wasn't disappointed! But then it evolved into such a tangled mess. Again, really? How many unnecessary subplots can one swallow? I ain't one for teen drama or pseudo-scientific ramblings or dramatic sci-fi reveals. Listen, had it been all about kidnappings&secret cults and maybe dirty small town secrets, damn, it would've been more than fine, I'd have nothing to complain. But the time travel took it to a new level of ridicule, as maybe it would've had some potential but it was all lost. E.g. the "main" character, Jonas, meets his future self, YET assuming time is a loop he still makes the same mistakes. And his future self comes from a post-apocalyptic world with...the most unimpressive *higher purpose* ever, to blow up the time portal instead of...y'know, some more beneficial stuff.Anyway, as wonderfully as this series started for me it ended tragically.
And NO, it ain't anything like Stranger Things.
Good cinematography, that's all this show has going for it. Poor soundtrack section, shallow and cliched plot. Disappointing.


                
Where do I start... Compelling cinematography, obviously a high-quality production. Unfortunately the authors spent a lot of time developing the story but neglected the logic of the storyline. Below is a list of just several glaringly obvious faults:1) Why does Magnus take his 12 year-old brother into the woods to steal drugs from a missing teenager? This doesn't make any sense, no one brings their 12-year old brother into the forest to pick up hundreds of dollars worth of drugs.2)When Ulrich is searching for his son in the cave he tries to break down a door that has a nuclear warning symbol on it. The door is locked. Who tries to break down a door that has a nuclear waste warning symbol on it? Would his son really have wandered in there?3) When the deaf girl vanishes in the forest and comes home, her sister hugs her and then immediately afterwards slaps her for using her lipstick. When your little sister is missing after several other children have been missing, you don't slap your deaf sister immediately after see seeing her because she used a little bit of your lipstick...4) Ulrich is convicted of rape and then becomes a police agent....5) Regina Tieldemann's acting is awful. Also the entire scene where she gets into a physical fight with Katharina is RIDICULOUS. Why does she belittle, mock and insult a mother who's child vanished...Incredibly disappointing.
