"Dark" is definitely not a TV show for everyone. Its' gloomy and twisted tone may confuse the average viewer, but it's a true beauty to lovers of strange and atmospheric horror. It is not the type of series that builds too much on jumpscares, terrifying things in the woods or gory deaths. It has some scenes including these - but the true horror of "Dark" is psychological and more complex. The cinematography and detailed composition of each shot is one of the best aspects of "Dark". The characters are interesting enough but are somewhat difficult to relate to. Props to the talented cast that makes these characters more emotionally relatable due to their amazing acting skills. Intended or not, "Dark" has a lot of parallels to Netflix' "Stranger Things" like the flickering lights, the disappearance of a young boy, the use of 80s nostalgia and the facility that has a lot of secrets from the town. It is a journey that has winks to "Stranger Things" and kind of wants a piece of the enormous success of it, but all in all is enjoyable if you're okay with the slow pacing and some psychological and scientific complexity.


                
"DARK" is one of the best thriller I ever watched.It has everything that a thriller movie or series can give you and keeps you edge of seat.its just so dumb that people are comparing it to "stranger things" but it's not. Because of the flickering lights , missing children and people in the same town with secrets you can't say that it's another stranger things.Dark is totally different there are no kids here who are investigating or talking about science and doesn't contain any supernatural things coming out of nowhere.It's a well written and directed Time traveling thriller.Fantastic cinematography every frame is beautiful.Great casting each and every actor did a great job portraying their characters struggling with dark side.DARK is best binge watching TV series it won't disappoint you.
Excellent series, sometimes confusing, best to watch all at once and you may have to rewatch a few.It is about time travel.I had a hard time keeping up with all of the characters...would have preferred LESS characters to try to keep up with, might have been less confusing, otherwise, very well done.It is originally done in German and instead if subtitles, it is overdubbed and many of the overdubbed voices sound alike, so that may be part of the he confusion, but still better than reading subtitles in something this intense.Very well acted. Edge of your seat, yet still slowly tensely drawn out and keeps you watching.
The similarities:
The electricity problems when something about to happen.
Both have a important cave and forest.
The scenes in the hotel in Dark and the Great Northern Hotel in Twin Peaks the Return have a very similar look.
The circular time idea. 
The both shows are in small towns where people think they know each other but they don't.
Es wird wieder passieren-It is happening again
Both have a nuclear cause.
Over the forest drone scenes.
And the last scene and sentences are the same: "Welches Jahr ist es?"And the Kyle Maclachlans "What year is this?"
Nothing is like twin peaks but this show is overall very good 8/10
The musics and color grading are also great btw.
I watched the entire 10 episode in a day which means I spent close to 10 hours of my time on this series on a weekend. What is Good About it? + The concept of time travel has been shown in an awesome way + The story is new and builds on and keeps you hooked on to it + The whole idea of time travel and various concepts around black hole presented in a way which is palatable to users + The characters playing their part appropriately What is Terrible? - Too many characters - You cannot sometimes co-relate how one is linked to anotherAll in all a very nice series to watch. Do I want another season of it ? Probably not. The three dimensions were confusing enough for my brain and I definitely need no more drama again


                
"Dark" is a little bit different. Set in the town of Winden, it starts with the disappearance of a local boy. We soon learn this isn't the first time this has happened. In fact, many of the events taking place in Winden (missing children, birds dropping dead out of the sky) have happened before. Perhaps it's the work of a serial killer, or a cover-up at the nuclear plant - and yet, as investigations get under way, something far stranger surfaces.There are plenty of nordic feels about this show: it's mournful and quietly disturbing. Expect slow-burn tension rather than jump scares, jerky camera work or excessive gore, as well as fairytale elements to the story, characters and setting. The pace is surprisingly slow, yet it's easily bingeable, in part because of the unexpected way the story unfolds.This isn't 'background TV': you'll need to pay attention, whether or not you watch in the original German (I suggest you do). Even then, there's a lot to make sense of and reconcile - but in a very rewarding sense.If you enjoy nordic noir - especially The Killing - or Les Revenants, this is likely to be the series for you. It's about grief and the impossible - and that's quite some combination.


                
I don't know why but I thought it was going to be something scary, a horror series. Maybe because of the poster and the title. But it wasn't horror, not at all. It's a mystery crime, but a real good one. I don't know any of the German actors, don't know if they are famous in their country, but they sure can act. I thought they were all very good and all of them added something different to the story. A story that you have to watch very closely, without any disturbance and without losing your attention. Because if you do you won't be able to follow the story anymore. It's all a bit complicated and weird but in a good way. Certainly one of the better shows in this genre that I saw this year. The soundtrack is just excellent. It really adds something to the dark ambiance. I don't know if there will be a second season, it looks like it, but I'm certainly a fan and will for sure watch the next season if there is one. Class show!


                
As everyone knows a while ago that circulates a new drug series are. They are of all kinds. This is one of the dangerous and addictive ones that you can not stop until you finish it. This German series has a bit of everything and about QUALITY. Not only a resemblance to the great Stranger Things, but something to return to the future, Kubrick and more. Great photography and atmosphere. The eighty present (not as much as ST). The music reflects the previous ones with unforgettable themes and the addition of other strangers, which will stay in your head instantly as is the theme of presentation. Also the musical setting is done impeccably accompanying each situation, leaving us glued to the screen. The filmmakers see that they know that browsing through time can confuse viewers, with the characters, so they divide the screen from time to time and show them with different aspects according to the year. The only thing I regret is not seeing it in its original language (I do not know if this is possible) which would add the missing ingredient to this little gem.


                
There are a few good German TV shows, like Add a friend, Tempel, Tomorrow I quit, to name but a few more recent ones, Dark - in my opinion - is not one of the perfectly well-made ones. It has a great starting point, good dialogues and purpose, but I agree with reviewers who point out how boring it is. It truly could use some more tempo and it is very hard to keep the many characters and their complex intertwinings apart. I also do not support the comparison to Stranger things. ST is completely different as far as story, tempo, characters, message etc. go. As far as some parallels go, you could also compare Dark to Back to the future part 1 (e.g. in episode 7). All that the misleading ST-comparisons do is that they evoke hateful comments about how sullen and sour = typically German the kids in Dark are as compared to the ST-kids - well, I suppose, judging from these statements, that it is normal for teenagers in California or Florida to cheer and celebrate, when your father dies and your brothers/neighborhood kids disappear, in this case it is a compliment that the German kids react "sullen and sour" in the face of profound human tragedies... And people who do not attribute Germans the capability of having humour do not know the German people at all, they just dose and apply it differently/more fittingly... And one word about subtitles: billions of people all over the world have been and will be watching meaningless Hollywood shows with subtitles for many decades, so boohoo, if now and then there is one show with meaning that asks from you to read a bit... Yes, the show does have originality, a message, meaning (and is not about Nazis or the FRG!), but it is not easy to watch, so eight out of ten stars. Everybody decide for themselves if they like it or not, but offending Germans of being sullen when they are mourning is just another hate speech against (present) people who haven't done anything wrong.
If it weren't for all the other good reviews I never would have given this show a chance, but after reading the reviews I thought I would give it a try as I trust my fellow IMDb reviewers :) 
Personally I love anything that has to do with time travel and while it does go back and forth between 1953, 1986 and 2019 they make it pretty easy to figure out which year it is and the fact that the characters look so close in relation to their different ages helps a ton, not to mention the few times the show will put each characters profile on the screen together so you know who is who. It also helps to go onto Wikipedia to get a good sense of the families lineage. 
Since I'm overly Americanized, I am not too familiar with German films but I have to say these actors are pretty good and I came to really love their characters......The only thing that keeps me from giving it a full 10 score is the fact that it is a German movie therefore Netflix adding the voice overs was really difficult for me. Again, if it didn't get such good scores I would never have been able to continue watching as I have a tendency to watch lips when people talk and you cannot do that in this film at all. It's terrible and sometimes the voice overs are too flat and not fully matching up with the characters reactions. My only comment is if they are going to add these films to the American line up, please do better at the voice over actors because it makes it super difficult to follow along!


                
Some people might get the impression after watching the first episode that it is similar to "Stranger Things". Yes, there are a few similarities but the two shows are different in many ways. Although if you liked Stranger things, you should probably like this too.
The show takes on one of the most interesting plot - travelling through time.
It keeps you engrossed almost throughout the show. You will get hooked to the show but the ending left me wanting for more. A few questions were left unanswered and hopefully they would cover that in Season 2(2019 probably).
It compares well to other TV shows in this genre and you should give it a try.


                
One of the best story i have ever watched.complex,thrilling,shocking.it makes you think like a book.


                
It's best serie about time travel, isn't my genre but i realy like .
Waiting to s2 :)


                
This is probably the most difficult, challenging, attention-demanding, confusing series I have ever watched; definitely not recommended to try at any time when you're feeling tired or sleepy. There are about 20 important characters to keep track of in 3 different time periods - even "Lost" was considerably easier on the viewer! The mind-bending / time-loop ideas & concepts have certainly been used before (regularly in "Doctor Who", for example), but the show does make them seem fairly fresh. The music is hypnotic, the directorial style is striking, every episode is very good on its own....and yet, I don't know if I would recommend the show to someone yet, at least until the second season is ready to be watched. The story has absolutely no sense of closure - it has the most promising but frustrating non-ending since maybe the "Terminator: Sarah Connor Chronicles" series. *** out of 4 for the first season.
You may have slept on Netflix's German-language production Dark, and that was a mistake. The trippy time-travel series received comparisons to Stranger Things when it premiered, but it's actually much deeper and more evocative of Twin Peaks. Weaving a twisty tale about four interconnected families in a small German town, the show is worth the effort of the mental gymnastics required to understand the wibbly-wobbly, timey-wimey nature of its storytelling.


                
Another mind blowing series from Netflix. Really blows your mind. Found a glimpse of movie predestination in it. The concept is similiar to predestination but it really amuses you. A good watch for lovers of time travel movies.


                
There's an English dubbed version out there but I fully recommend getting subtitles and watching the original German.


                
This series is full of mystery everytime you will curious to know what will happen where are the boys how they go to past any time travel or something is wrong with nucler power plant.
Everything is good but i think writter tries to strech the stroyline
Not having heard or read anything about this series before, I popped it on Netflix just for 'something to watch'. The first episode, although intriguing didn't really grasp me, I sat there and thought, 'oh look, another creepy crime drama'. It wasn't until a couple weeks later I thought i'd continue on to the second episode, and my goodness am I glad that I did. A new element is brought into the second episode and it changes the whole narrative through out the series. That was it. I was hooked. It has a very thorough and constructed storyline, dark and gritty picture and the music is stunning. Granted, you meet a lot of characters, so it does require your full attention but it's totally worth it. If you like Donnie Darko and Stranger Things, you'll love this! 
Can't wait for Season 2!


                
Dark, a German Netflix original serie's is about several families lives during strange events in their quiet town. While their lives slowly unravel, what they thought was once a safe and quiet town becomes enveloped in a sinister darkness that appears from the past.
When a child goes missing from the town of Winden for 13 days tension rises within the community. After Jonas returns to school from grieving his father's suicide, his friend Magnus suggests that they go after the missing student's drug stash. When they arrive near the cave where the drugs are thought to be stored a loud noise is heard from the cave and run. When Jonas trips, Mikkel disappears from his sight, and when Jonas and his friends regroup, they realize that Mikkel is missing.
Dark was directed by Barad bo Odar and Jantje Friese. Odar has worked on previous films such as Sleepless, Who am I - No System is Safe, and The Silence. Friese has collaborated with Odar on Who am I - No System is Safe for the screenplay, which topped the charts of German cinema when it came out. When Netflix contacted Odar and Friese to make a TV show for Who am I - No System is Safe Odar and Friese pitched the idea for Dark to Netflix, which later picked it up.
Dark does a great job with setting its tone in the beginning. The acting and directing is a breath of fresh air. The acting focuses on making the situations as mysterious as possible, while character interactions methodical and well thought out. The show also involves time travel. Viewers will see different important characters during three time periods of their lives and how the recurring events have an impact on them during the different points in their lives. One example of the effects of the time travel is when both Ulrich is in the present looking through the cave. He then hears Mikkel cry out from the past. We then get a scene where the two of them sit outside the cave crying because they cannot find each other. The camerawork during this scene is superb by putting the two shots of Mikkel and Ulrich side by side so that they are sitting across from one another. Similar to how they are seperated across time.
Dark is a great show to watch and has many good points to its story. I would highly recommend it to anyone who enjoys characters with depth, as well as a plot that is always unfurling new secrets so you put the mystery together alongside the characters in the show.
There's only so much mystery and twists and turns one can process in a single day, so I would recommend to watch this one episode at a time in different days...I really wish this goes into a second season, even though I'm afraid script writers will have their work cut out for them finding a coherent way to tie up all the loose ends they've thrown around in the first. After a very strong first season, disappointment in the second is a major risk...Very strong acting and well-paced development. Leads and clues are well-timed, revealing and understandable enough to allow the viewer to follow the plot, but cryptical enough to keep you guessing what's to come. (Thankfully not as cryptical as in a David Lynch movie, where you have to wait for someone to post a manual to understand what everything was about). Yes, sometimes it feels like there's just too many people and families and timelines in the plot, but that's what the series is all about.Having been a kid in Germany in the 1980s, scenes from that time (very well done by the way) evoke a strong nostalgia factor. The strongest to me, interestingly, was not so much in the clothing, the cars, the furniture or the haircuts. I guess the series was probably influenced by TV production series for adolescents from that time, featuring a mixture of fantasy, Sci-Fi and lots of pop scientific-philosophical mumbo-jumbo. The dialogue between the Stranger and the Watchmaker in episode 8 or 9 really is very characteristic in that respect. I wouldn't be surprised if production team were people my age, around 45 who grew up then...


                
Think, die some brain cells, and the play is over.


                
This Show is the first German-language Netflix original. The series is set in the small isolated German town of Winden in 2019 when Children start disappearing in the same place every 33 years bringing to light dark secrets double lives and dark past of four families living there revealing a mystery that spans three generations i don't want to say much because it'll spoil the surprises.The Show has a really good tone throughout the town is small everyone knows one another the skies are always overcast there is endless rain the characters are all interesting and complex everyone has a story to tell or a secret to hide.Great Cinematography with lots of interesting and unique shots it also has a great soundtrack too really setting the tone for scenes with deep foreboding electronic musical notes.this show is dubbed in English don't watch the dub do yourself a favor and watch it in the original German audio the cast is amazing. Great show will definitely be watching season 2 when it releases. 8 / 10


                
It's a good tv show. It's too bulky; so many characters and their subplots. The main story revolves about connection, time travel and paradoxes. But it focuses too much on connection which would have not been a bad thing if not for unnecessary scenes.So many questions were left unanswered. Why is there doors in the caves if it is a worm hole? Who is Noah? (Bartosz? Maybe) if this is true then how did Bartosz became Noah? Where did he come from? How did Claudia went from being the boss of a power plant to the mastermind of the plot? How does the machine of Noah works? It is said to be needing lives to work. And why just boys? How did mads' body get to 2019? How does the worm hole work exactly? Do you need to be in the caves or as in mikkel's case vanish in the forest itself? If so why wasn't there any other cases? Where is the first boy missing (red hair) ? What happened to his body?Instead of answering these questions, the show prefers lengthening itself through useless scenes. The complexity of the show is beautiful nonetheless. You're forced to watch it at one go, else you'll lose yourself trying to remember all the characters at once. The show doesn't let you breathe in the characters and doesn't colour them. You understand their concept but you don't get a grasp of them; feel them.It had great potential. I hope it'll do better for season 2. I didn't understand the hype though. Even though it's a good show, so many were "mind fcked" by it. "So many plot twist". The plot twist are more or less predictable. I enjoyed it though.
You need a lot of patience to watch this show. Lot of characters ,confusion with a very slow paced storyline . Took me 4-5 episodes to follow the actual story. The entire season could have been cut short to 5 episodes. When Micheal died Mikkel was 11 yrs .how come Micheal and Mikkel lived in the same time for almost 11 yrs? May be I will get the answer in season 2. Interesting plot but not very well executed.
