The show can be rather slow and can often feel like it's going to take the approach of lost leaving questions unanswered, but it does all lead somewhere and it's an intriguing time travel thriller/mystery with some amazing performances. The show drags at times but the script and the actors more than make up for it. One word of caution though. Do not watch the English dub. It's terrible. It feels like amateur, emotionless actors reading a script for the first time. If you're not watching the original German dub then you're doing yourself a massive disservice. Was really surprised to see critics giving it such low scores and comparing it to Stranger Things. I don't see any connection or reason to compare it to Stranger Things. The closest I can come up with is that is reminds me of the eerie feeling of Donnie Darko. It's totally a high end series which can compete with some other Netflix shows.The pace and jumps between story arcs is excellent. I was hooked from the beginning to end. 9/10
I can't agree with the reviewer before me. They are not trying to copy Stranger Things, and I don't want to go into 'copying' at all - because Stranger Things has parallels to a few games, movies and books that have been popular before it was even in the making.'Dark' is slow paced in the beginning, but it keeps you on the edge of your seat. It is tense, the cinematography and acting is great. There is so much more depth to it than the mentioned Stranger Things. It's not bloated with special effects and didn't have a Hollywood budget. This is how TV should be. It has got a Donnie Darko feeling to it.I guess the majority of people complaining about the pace would also complain about Blade Runner 2049 or Interstellar...so please, just stick to Marvel movies. :)


                
It's easy to recognize the parallels between "Stranger Things" and "Dark". Sure there are some: the disappearance of a little boy, 80's influences, dark soundtracks. But in many ways it does the opposite of what "Stranger Things" does. It doesn't work with likable characters. Nostalgia is not something you will find here. It's just a deep dark show, which has much to offer to people who love psychological horror, without the gory parts. This show is not for everyone. I think the best comparison to make is with "Twin Peaks". A show that leaves you behind every episode with a big what-the-f*ck feeling. The constant eerie feeling, as if someone is constantly playing with your thoughts. My god the creators do everything so right. It has been a long time since I have seen something so original, and executed so well.I'm pretty sure this show will live up, and will be right there between the greatest classics.


                
So.. where to begin?It's a lot to keep track on, i'll start off with that, but it's a very well written show, the characters, the actors, man - they must have picked out each of these actors to play different ages very carefully, they all have a huge resemblance in looks and that makes the show even better.It's not so much scary as dark, takes you on a path where you get kind of mind blown or mind "fucked" as we call it, you keep track on so much, especially time - which I think all of us at some point in our life's have questioned.If you loved shows like Stranger Things or IT, then you would love this.
Overall it's an amazing show, highly recommend.


                
At some point this TV series reminds me "Predestination" (2014) - but there are more layers of twist and confussion. Really worth watching.


                
An isolated town dominated visually and economically by the local nuclear reactor. Mysterious caves that hold strange secrets. A set of characters that have intertwined and emotionally charged relationships which stretch backward (and maybe forward?) in time. Crank up the heavy electronic score, keep the lights low with leaden skies and endless rain, and get ready for some dialog that would never work in spoken English but sounds just great in German. (If only "Interstellar" had been in German!)But, seriously, some great entertainment value in this series. Decent production values and, unless you are already watching lots of German TV, some fresh faces!


                
I've seen the first trailer of Dark around 9 months ago and my initial response was "Hey this looks like German Stranger Thigns". My initial response of the first episode was "Hey this still looks like German Stranger Things". Why? It has the same elements the ST has. A small town, people with problems, some kids that go to woods and the chain of weird events start. A government run facility that's plotting something. Even the setting of the village reminded me so much of ST. I still liked it solely because of the performances of every actor. They sold their roles. Of course I shouldn't forgot the cinematography, set design and the colors used in the movie. After a couple of episodes later my response changed and it totally shifted its direction in my head. Surely it was strange but it wasn't Stranger Things anymore. The characters weren't "hollywood"ized like in Stranger Things. Bear in mind that I really like ST a lot. I'm not saying that this is better than ST, but you shouldn't judge the series just because it has similar elements to another series. Stranger Things is one of the least original TV shows I've ever seen, I still liked it. I didn't compare it to the series that came before it. If you start this series expecting the cheesiness, fun, horror, sci-fi you will be disappointed. This one lives up to it's name. It's really dark.Although this series have some supernatural aspects, it's main selling point is the characters and the outstanding drama that's created among them. The kids, the adults, the present and the past, lies and deception, hopes and desperation are the series' meat. And the whole thing was given in such an atmosphere that I actually believed in the existence of those characters, of those "people". The series could've been a masterpiece, but there are some aspects of it that pull the series back. The beginning and the end. The beginning isn't anything new. It's mostly what you have seen in other series. And the series ended abruptly, leaving a lot of questions in my head. Nevertheless, this is a fantastic experience, but not an experience for everyone. I can imagine people getting bored of it. The series' build up is quite slow, but I can live with that, I wasn't expecting another Stranger Things from it.
In the small, peaceful German town of Winden, a boy has disappeared. 33 years earlier a boy went missing from the town and was never found. Could the two disappearances be connected?Superb. Has been billed as a German Stranger Things but it is certainly quite different from Stranger Things. The initial scenario - kids disappearing is the only similarity with Stranger Things. After that the plots diverge significantly, with the reasons for the disappearances being quite different between the two series.Very clever and original plot, involving some very well thought-out, complex ideas. Very intriguing, with a great build up, filled with mystery and discovery.So well told that, even though it is complex and sci fi-like, it seems very plausible. Despite its complexity, it all fits together very well too - no obvious plot holes, or science holes.However, the complexity is also a negative, to an extent. I found some links between people and events hard to follow and had to keep trying to figure out which person was related to which person and who someone was in the scheme of things. Makes it difficult to concentrate on the story when you're so busy trying to figure out who the latest character is and how they fit into the story's arc.This is a necessary evil though - it is the novelty and complexity that makes the series.


                
Season one introduces a sh*t-ton of characters, the events which occurs in their hometown and how they are related to to each other.I watched the entirety of the season with subtitles and from the get go I found myself taking notes just to keep up.Characters: This is the probably the most complex part of the story. There a 4 generations of characters living in 3 different time periods in the same town. All characters introduce I believe are essential to main plot. Each generation is related to the next via family decent. The parents and children of each generation are introduced and their relations with each other are explored. There are also characters which do not share any relation with another generation but are present in multiple time periods.The most important characters to the plot are Jonas(16 yrs old), Mikkell (11yrs old), Ulric (49 yrs old) and Noah (early 40s). Scenes with these characters are important in understanding the plot.The Plot:The story spans several days from November 4 to 12th for the years 1953 ,1986 and 2019. At the beginning of the story Mikkel, Ulric's son'goes missing after a night out with his older brother and sister and their friends Jonas and Bartosz near a cave in the forest. We then follow Ulric (who is a police) on a quest to find is missing son. Its through the investigation that we are slowly introduced some cast of characters.The next time we see Mikkell, he is exiting the cave in 1986. He slowly but surely realizes he is trapped 33 years in the past. There we meet '86 Ulric and his generation as well as Ulric's parents generation. In addition we meet old Egon, the chief police for that time, who finds Mikkell wondering. Characters of 2019 backstory are expanded upon and more of"what and how" is revealed.By going through his deceased father belonging and with the help of a mysterious stranger Jonas investigate the mysterious cave to better understand his father's suicide letter. He takes the right path in the cave and ends up in 1986 same date. He confirms the content of the letter and his mind is f*****d by time. He then goes back to 2019 via the caves to ponder things.A week after the 4th a body of a young boy(Not Mikkel) is found in forest. Ulric believes Helge, a senile man, as the main suspect of his sons disappearance. He follows Helge on a night through the cave, takes a wrong turn and end up in 1933. As with his son before he slowly realizes when he is. We are introduce to characters of '53, again parents and children. Ulric comes to conclusion that if he kills child Helge he can prevent his son's disappearance. His attempt end in failure and hes caught and locked up by young Egon for kidnapping. During the above 2 incidents the mysterious person goes to 1986 to have discussion with a author of "A journey through time"(a book featured heavily in the story) and creator of the time machine. They discuss physics of time travel and the meta-physics of it all.In the final episode an off-med Jonas decides to rescue Mikkel from the past irregardless of its dire consequence. However, he gets captured by Noah and '86 Helge and is locked away in a room seen in previous episodes. The same day the mysterious guy attempts to destroy the time portal in the cave. This results in Helge of '33 being saved and Jonas jumping 66 years into the future (year 2052).The show is about time travel and has quite a few time paradoxes. I would say the time travel is of a similar nature to that in the movie Predestination. Setting: 2019 : Its exactly what you would believe 2 years from would be like in a small rural town in Germany.1986: The town is same structurally, the obvious differences are the technology and dress code is of 1986.1953: Many structural differences. A lot of Buildings weren't built yet including the Nuclear Factory which is an important settings in 1986 and 2019.2052: Too many spoilers already.Music score/soundtrack. I would say its similar to Stranger things but much more darker. The 1986 has a lot of '80s music. Mostly German and some English. The music fits the story and tone perfectly.Once you know the characters and their relations, the complex plot becomes easier to unravel. The first season left a lot of unanswered questions, mostly about the fate of the characters. The acting done by the 30+ actors/actresses is amazing. Each scene is shot masterfully and soundtracks elevates it higher. The series is without a doubt the best Netflix has to offer since House of Cards
The similarities with Stranger things are there but these series have much more in common with Steins;Gate.The characters and their stories are very intertwined and you will have a lot of questions about who is who and why and how. The pacing is fast enough and the acting is on a very good level but I don't recommend watching it dubbed in English. The song choice is very fitting and blends well with the atmosphere, but the ambient music can be a little over the top and does warn you before something unexpected happens sometimes. Overall it was quite fun to watch.Also these German people form Winden just don't care if it rains or not.


                
Dark is a mature and rich production in all ways. Comparison to "Stranger Things" is an unnecessary one, since both handle the supernatural genre very different. Everything in "Dark", is definetively not suitable for everybody. Full of symbolism and mythology, Dark treats time as a theme, in a way few had had the courage to do it. The cast is professional, every single one of the actors represents their character in an unique an applausable way. It's hard to recognize that quality on a series since there's always someone you think doesn't fit in the picture. That won't happen with this series. Pay attention to the details, since the plot is quite simple, but it's crushed in millions of pieces the viewer must reorganize to understand what's going on. Isn't that the purpose of a film or series? To make you question something, to get surprised, to wish for more...? Dark left me with only one unpleasant feeling, and is that I have to wait a whole year to feed my urst for answers.100% recommended.
I am really enjoying this one ...and already finished 7 episodes in a single day ...just like stranger things...


                
My Rating : 9/10'Dark' is Awesome. I look forward to the next season.It's carefully told so as to invite the viewer to it's use of 'timeline' as it jumps from one to another making it a truly amazing experience.I am in love with the execution and storytelling of 'Dark'. If you want a slow-burning TV series you can sink your teeth into, 'Dark' should satisfy that craving. Highly, highly recommended.


                
Dark is at first hand thought to be the German version of Stranger Things. But following the first episode it flips that statement upside down (pun intended).
Dark thankfully doesn't hold your hand during viewing, it for the most part entrusts it's viewers to pay attention and understand. It respects it's viewers and doesn't treat them like teenagers lacking brain cells. Dark has an eerie atmosphere and a vibrant soundtrack that contributes to the eerie touch of the show. The cinematography is beautiful and the acting is superb. The way this show is set up is quite genius, it's a uniquely crafted show that will require you too pay attention to every little detail in the dialogue and visuals. DO NOT watch this show dubbed as English, Netflix defaults the show to English in most countries leading you to have to manually change the audio to German and enable English subtitles. Watching it in German is worth it and enhances the experience tenfold. Even though the premise of this show isn't exactly original the idea and story the unfolds and entirely original and amazing. Dark has very little influence from Stranger Things and IT that many people are referring it to for some reason. I'd say you could relate it more to movies such as Predestination and Déjà Vu, and TV shows such as 12 Monkeys and Lost. This show can be experienced as quite slow, there isn't as much Hollywood action that goes into other shows such as Stranger Things in this one. Is slow but provocative and suspenseful, it's a drama/thriller with an amazing supernatural twist. I also have to give props to the show for not explaining alternate dimensions and wormholes/black holes using the conventional Hollywood method used in Interstellar, Stranger Things and Event Horizon. The story that unfolds in this show is amazing, and will surprise almost every episode. I encourage that you watch this show alone actually, I can't imagine watching it with someone else in the room, because if you or the other person start talking you will have to pause the show. Because you can't talk and read the English subtitles at the same time. Plus watching it alone in a quiet environment really makes it an amazing experience. This show isn't for everyone, it isn't for the low IQ viewers and won't tolerate those who can't handle a show with barely any humor. Anyhow, Dark is an amazing and enthralling experience and has me hyped for it's second season.


                
When I first saw this trailer, I thought it looked spooky, but there wasn't enough shared. I set it aside. It wasn't until a fellow IG posted their thoughts that I thought it was time to give it a go. I'm glad I did; I quickly became enraptured! FIRST: If you watch this on device, know that you will have to listen to the original language (which is cool) and read subtitles. Should you use Airplay or watch straight from Netflix on telly, then you get English dub, no subtitles. Okay, that's out of the way. So this show's intro is fab! I love the song (Goodbye with Soap & Skin Apparat, The Devil's Walk). I had to buy it- it's what I do. Then there's the actual show. How do I review without giving away what it's all about...? It's totally conundrum and the story line is dark, brooding totally worth the watch. It's not easy to follow, but ONLY because it's supposed to be. Once you realize what's going on, it's totally understandable why; that's also why it's so good! In order for you to comprehend the story lines, you must become muddled first. The make-believe town of Winden, Germany suffers occurrences that affect just about everyone in it. There's no paranormal activity going on, but that's all I'm going to share.Filmed near Berlin, Germany, Dark has been compared to Stranger Things. Yes, a child goes missing, but a child is not the focus of this series. Don't look to Dark as if its another Stranger Things show, because it is NOT the same. Nowhere near, but it should become another global hit! Check it out.


                
The making was one of the best...good timing of music...perfectly story telling...The weather was great like as it's story and name...
Ovarall its a good methodical and well decorated masterpiece....


                
Thrilling,suspensive, chilling horror,splendid background score


                
Dark is a Netflix German TV show that talks about a mysterious disappearance of two young boys, with a supernatural powers in town.Man oh man this is by far the best series I've watched this year I mean I was just blown away by the writing of this TV show. The story may seems simple, normal and heard of before but believe me it's not ! I first thought that it's only a mystery/Crime series but it's not like that.The story is easily one of the best stories I've ever seen in a TV show, The events were very surprising yes they were slow but that's not a problem at least for me, like I said the series is German yes you can change the audio to English but that's just stupid in my opinion so it's in German and the show itself is really confusing in a good way of course but you really have to concentrate on every scene and it was harder to read with subtitles with every time they speak. So you really have to clear up your mind to have a better understanding of the great story.Stranger Things !Yes Stranger Things, you can really see how Dark was a little bit inspired by Stranger Things and I really liked that because ST is simply one of my favourite TV shows ever.The CinematographyI really just loved every scene of the series, The scenes were really well shot you can really see that the the DP worked very hard to get those shots.The SoundtrackMaybe the best score I've heard from a TV show this year just a hair above Stranger Things, I get that some people have problems with films or series using music in every or almost every scene but not for me I love when they do that, I mean music can really move you in some way and the really beautiful shots with the great music made me a very happy guy.PerformancesAs for the acting wise I really don't recall any bad performance by any character or actor, I mean all the performances were spot on, really the actors are genuinely very good.And for some weird reason I found the TV show very beautiful maybe I'm an odd person, but in some scenes with the GREAT music it just felt so good and very emotional.There's also things that are left unexplained or at least first I thought that they were I didn't get what happened but now I'm sure that they were just left there unexplained or maybe not that but they want the audience to think by themselves.Overall: Dark is the best TV show I've seen this year period.


                
In short: Based in the town of Winden, Germany (a real town, but fictional in this case...more on that in a minute), a child goes missing, then another, then another. A dead boy suddenly appears, partially buried in the forest, but not one of the missing. Birds are falling from the sky, almost at random, dead before they hit the ground. Electrical disturbances, strange sightings, sheep falling dead in their pasture with blown-out eardrums...all of this seems familiar. Deja-vu perhaps, or caused by the nuclear power plant? Maybe something supernatural? Many are convinced the plant is responsible.The first few episodes of Netflix 's original series from Germany begin to build the characters, a little bit about each as the story moves along. The narrative will become clear soon enough. To build something great, it takes time. Give this series two episodes to build the suspense, it will be well worth it.Some people compare "Dark" to "Stranger Things." I wouldn't go too far with that opinion. Part of the story happens in 1986, but also in two other time periods. Comparing the two shows would do neither justice. If you need to compare, they are both great. That's it.Unlike "Stranger Things'" Hawkins, Indiana, Winden is a real town. However, according to series director Baran bo Odar and writer Jantje Friese, "Dark's" Winden is a mashup of the small German towns that they grew up in around the time of the Chernobyl nuclear disaster.TWO things you'll LIKE about Dark: 1) This is a complex show with a lot going on, pay attention because the characters are intricate, full of emotion, and every little thing they do affects everything and everyone else around them; 2) It's binge-worthy and you can probably watch the whole first season over a weekend (10 episodes, roughly 50-minutes each).TWO things you'll DISLIKE: 1) The English dubbing is horrible. Watch the original German version with subtitles if you can. If you don't care about poor English dubbing (voices that really don't suit the actor or character, and poor inflection), then by all means watch it. With the subtitled version, you may need to watch it twice to catch the things you missed (visually) while reading the subtitles. 2) If you're not used to foreign made productions, "Dark" may seem a little "off", if not unorthodox, and thus of no interest to you. (However, this is the exact reason why many enjoy foreign made movies and TV shows. It's different.)It's twisted. It's creepy. It's scary. It's awesome. It's genius. It's haunting. It's mind-blowing. It's DARK.


                
If Netflix ever were a Football Club, they would easily annihilate every single one of their opponents and would owe that all to their ridiculously good scouting network. The gems they unearth and produce around the globe is truly awe inspiring. It was only logical that I followed up Bright with Dark. Dark , for me, is the best ever mystery series to deal with time warp and the paranormal/supernatural. It obviously has to be if you end up binge-watching a series till 6 in the morning. Yet, the Season conclusion left me with more questions than answers (I hate it when the makers do that). We would have probably paused a hundred times in between all that to discuss and digest what we had just seen. Blink and you miss something significant.The series begins with the Einstein quote 'The distinction between past, present and future is only a stubbornly persistent illusion' and from then its all an illusion. The story surrounds the disappearance of young kids (too many of them these days - The Five , Broadchurch, Stranger Things. et all ) from a German town Winden and a young father commits suicide leaving his son Jonas Kahnwald with no answers. Ulrich Nielsen, the cop father of the young boy Mikel who goes missing, Charlotte Doppler the police chief & Hannah Kahnwald, the wife of the 'young father' form the crux of the story which spans over 3 periods - 2019, 1986 and 1953. This is pretty much all that I could give in summary without going into any of the spoilers and this is where i leave it.Everything from the direction, cinematography, locations, BGM, story and characters are all top notch. The makers Baran bo Odar, and Jantje Friese takes you along on a ride that you wish never ended and at the same time gave you at least some of the answers to the million questions that formed in your head while watching the series. To summarize, it's a masterpiece from Germany and if you can look beyond the obvious flaws of a some of the dialogues that were lost in translation, while dubbing and the ridiculously irritating open-ended season conclusion, you are in for a thrilling experience.
I am again and again surprised that our german filmmakers manage to produce something good every now and then. This is one of those occasions.
I watched all episodes in one day / one sitting because i got hooked from episode 1. I dont want to write more because you should not know much before watching this show. I will now go and search for fantheories and explanations, that should be enough to water your mouth.


                
Dark is an increasingly paced series that builds up great tension during its first season. The flaws in the otherwise precisely sophisticated story - the not solved pieces of the puzzle - are outdone by its artful dark picture as well as the outstanding sound design that contributes to the mysterious feeling of the series.
I hate when people really say that "It's better than Stranger Things" blah, blah, blah. I really hate when they compare a 2 good shows even tho the concept is almost the same. If they are the same concept, Why this one is good too? Doesn't make any sense to me.About the show;
If you watched the Stranger Things you will be familiar with the aura of the show and there are some scenes that are predictable ( at least for me, I noticed it. I don't know if you guys will. ), There is no comedy here obviously, but there is some lines that I find hilarious. These 2 shows are nowhere to be compared, because both are good even tho almost the same concept.My review;
This show is good but it had some flaws, I didn't rate it perfect 10 because I was expecting something at the end which I got disappointed, but I guess history repeats itself, right? I'm guessing there will be another season, but I kinda hate it that it just repeated that for me it wasted my time watching it because I was expecting at least something will change at the end. This show could've ended in this 1st season but I guess they wanted to extend the story which is cool for me, You will be confused on few episodes, but you will be mind blown after revealing something. I am gladly to review this show because it is good, I know I sound contradicting on what I said but I didn't say anything bad about the show, I was just expecting something because it could've ended the whole plot on this season and I wasn't expecting any more of it. For me it was enough already. I recommend this show. I'll spoil you a little bit that there is no good ending or bad ending. This one has less action scenes, more drama but intense. 1-3 CGI scenes, if you want to know. This one got me questioned what if time travel exist? Don't you wanna change your past to fix the present? or it will just end worse because actions have consequences? You'll have to see for yourself.


                
And out of the triple stages of darkness came light...so was it the chicken or the egg that came first??? Such thoughts are but a few of the many mysteries explored in this German sci-fi series. High fives, fist pumps, jumping jacks, somersaults, curtsey, chest-bumps or whatever the similar goes to NETFLIX for taking up this masterful piece of film-work and storytelling by creators, B' bo Odar & Friese. This is one of the most brilliant, mind-bending, thought provoking shows of all time. Germany has truly raised the bar with this series. Thankfully, the intelligence and steadfast attention to detail, realism and intricate writing of the creators, including primary writers: Schalk, MO Seng and Behnke, this series shines with the likes of other sci-fi bogglers such as, S. Carruth's, "PRIMER" of 2004. Also the overlooked genius of the Spierig twins film, "Predestination" in 2014, least I mention the fascinating primetime US series, "LOST", which ran six seasons on ABC. Yet, I am compelled to say, in my humble opinion, "DARK" ironically might just outshine them all. It is fair to say that the evolvement of time travel based film should be more extravagant. And while "DARK" has only filmed its first season, the creators appear to be winning for ambitious endeavor. Thus, while I do not know of all the nominees for the "Golden Kamera", I say let "Dark" take home the honors. The "Grimme Preis" is said to be more of a prestigious award but what the hell, who has matched this writing in German TV. As we say in one of the esoteric schools of thought, I've studies, "do the knowledge"! Dark displays a great deal of light while using a shaded lens, mixed with gray days and steady rain, giving it more of an illusion and mystique. Again, brilliance. It is not heavy on cliff hanger, as some might think, the thread is the continuum of "Ariadne", nudging you to want to know truth, but not necessarily the answer. I cannot say enough about a story that has no beginning, no ending. I can only say that my mind will run wild with thought in waiting for a story to continue out of the past, into the future, which will then be the past, masked as the present. The power of three...and can anyone decipher why in the hell is this show called, "DARK". Is it because (1) we are all asleep, as in the dark age or (2) it is a reference to the black hole, through which one never returns or (3) is it a reference to the fourth dimension??? GO NETFLIX!!!


                
Such a great serie, with such an interesting and intricate plot, that isn't very common. I watched the first episode by a coincidence in belief that it was something else and got totally stuck directly. There is absolutely something with the german way of making series and movies that is special and this is not and exception. Really great and if you like a little fantasy that doesn't take over in your series this is really the perfect one, sad that one has to wait so long for the next season. It was absolutely the best Netflix series that I have seen and expect nothing less from the next season.


                
