I would have eventually gotten around to watching this film, but my curiosity was piqued when I saw that it had miraculously jumped to Number #17 on the 2007 version of AFI's Top 100 Movies of all time list. It didn't make the cut at all for the original compilation in 1997, so even before seeing the picture, I had to wonder what might have affected movie critics in the intervening decade to reach this conclusion. I usually line up with the majority in most cases, but I have to admit, I don't quite get it with this picture. I found it entertaining enough on occasion, but I never got the sense that it was one of the great comedy classics of all time the way it's heralded on the DVD sleeve. I don't think the Civil War lends itself much to comedy, so right there my expectations were greatly reduced. Keaton's somber demeanor and generally stone faced disposition don't help. On the flip side, I wouldn't have expected slapstick to move the story along either, so at least I wasn't disappointed in that regard.What I DID enjoy were some rather offbeat moments that showed genuine creativity. When Johnnie Gray (Keaton) dejectedly considered his rejection by the Confederate Army, and pondered his situation while sitting on the train's connecting rod, the resulting visual was pure genius. The up and down motion lent a truly surreal juxtaposition to Johnnie's thoughtful reverie, and was one of the highlights of the picture for me.The other significant scene that gave me pause was when The Texas collapsed on the burning Rock River Bridge. For starters, I found it unbelievable that a wooden bridge could possibly be constructed strong enough to support a locomotive. Then I came to learn that the scene was the most expensive ever made for a silent film, and I have to give Keaton credit for going out on that kind of a limb - unbelievable.Oh yes, and I can't forget the sequence where Keaton's marksmanship is dead on when he makes contact with the rail tie blocking the train tracks, flipping it out of the way with a well timed throw of his own. Could that have possibly been done in one take? In a pre-CGI world, it's difficult to imagine how stunts like these could have been performed, particularly by an actor who had no recourse but to do his own. For that, Keaton deserves accolades.In between all this clever film making however, I just wasn't inspired. The central plot element doesn't hold up for me - if Johnnie Gray was rejected as a volunteer, why wasn't he simply told the reason why. One could argue that then, you wouldn't have a picture, but for me it left the story on a shaky footing. If Johnnie was more valuable as a train engineer than a soldier, the picture might have taken a different approach, but the rest of the elements could have remained the same and he still would have come out a hero. Maybe I'm second guessing a master, but that's what I come away with.Conclusion - if this movie didn't make AFI's Top 100 Film List in 1997, I don't understand what might have occurred in the intervening years to suddenly have film critics vault it into the Top 20. At the same time, Chaplin's "City Lights", in my estimation a superior silent film, fell OFF the list, while "The Gold Rush" moved up a few notches. I may not be a professional, but I know what I like, and this one just didn't do it for me.
To watch "The General" is to be both awed and amused at what takes place. The consensus view is correct: This is an amazing movie.You know what's more amazing? Despite what most critics say, Buster Keaton made funnier, better films than this.Keaton, a lifelong railroad buff, is engineer Johnny Gray, captain of "The General," a locomotive which carries passengers and freight across the American South. When the Civil War breaks out, he tries to enlist and thus please his girl Annabelle Lee (Marion Mack), but the authorities deem him more useful running trains. When Union spies seize the General with an idea of using it to burn bridges and disrupt the Confederate supply line, it's up to Gray to save the day.New York Times reviewer Mordaunt Hall reviewed "The General" back in 1926 and expressed disappointment. "This is by no means so good as Mr. Keaton's previous efforts," he wrote. People cite Hall's review as a classic example of "what-do-critics-know" but the more I read, the more I agreed with him. "The fun is not exactly plentiful," he wrote, noting Keaton here was too much the acrobat, too little the clown.When I watched "The General," I felt disappointment, too. Like Hall's, it wasn't total; it's exciting and inventive and boasts some of the finest screen compositions I've ever seen. The technical expertise on display is astounding. It's just that the overall experience left me a bit flat.First, you have what Roger Ebert liked to call "the idiot plot." Gray tries to enlist and is rejected by the army because he's too valuable as a train engineer. Annabelle apparently never learns this, for she rejects him as a coward. "I don't want you to speak to me again until you're in uniform," she huffs.Either he's an idiot for not explaining the truth of the matter, or she's an idiot for preferring her lover be cannon fodder than a real asset to their cause. Anyway, Buster does manage to make this play later on: When he finally speaks to her, he is in uniform, an enemy uniform.The other main issue involves what Lincoln called "the slows." A lot of the story is literally trainwatching. Buster does some brave, amazing stuntwork and throws in some clever gags (later joined by Mack, who's no Sibil Seely but still quite game), but it's basically a lot of watching trains go by. The craft here is in the precision of the camera-work and the split-second timing, not so much the comedy. In fact, except for Buster himself, everyone plays it completely straight, probably because this is real history being presented. Compared to other Keaton comedies, it feels a bit strait-jacketed by that."The General" is still a solid thrill comedy with some amusing one- liners ("If you lose this war, don't blame me," Johnny yells after being rejected) and brilliant sight gags, like the fussy Annabelle's rejection of unattractive firewood while Buster struggles to stoke the engine.To me, that's enough for "The General" to be another good reason for loving Buster Keaton. I just can't understand it being the preeminent reason. Maybe critics can't really love a comedy for just making you laugh and laugh. I'm just glad Keaton made other movies at least as brilliant as "The General," and funnier, too.


                
Buster Keaton 's performance in "The General" was purely enjoyable. The story takes place during the civil war on centers on Johnnie Gray (Keaton) a train operator in the South. Johnnie is not accepted for service in the confederate army because of his value on the railroad, and suffers the shame of being home while the other men are fighting a war. When his beloved engine is hijacked by Union soldiers the unpredictable story goes into overdrive. Johnnie's adventure includes train chases, rescuing the love of his life, a daring escape, and a climactic battle. This film has a distinct action/adventure aspect, but at its core it is a brilliant comedy/drama. Keaton's performance is superb. He has the ability to effortlessly change your mood, and the mood of the film with his facial expressions and physical comedy. Keaton's character seems to make endless mistakes that work for the best, and good decisions in dangerous situations. It is easy to imagine Keaton as a major influence for a future comedians, and I personally felt like I was watching the Mel Brooks of a previous generation. "The General" was a fun film to watch with a true star Buster Keaton turning in a timeless heartfelt performance.
When watching The General (1926), the similarities between Buster Keaton and Charlie Chaplin are almost unmistakable. The story was original and humorous and the performance by Buster Keaton was pleasing. What I didn't like was the fact that the protagonist still was pursuing the girl who was so quick to leave him when she thought he wasn't brave, and then ends up staying with her at the end. He is too good for her. I thought the stunt where the bridge gives out and the train falls was very well done and must have cost a fortune. There were scenes where I found myself laughing out loud, and scenes where I was bored. So unfortunately the film doesn't do a great job at keeping the viewer glued to the screen, but overall it was enjoyable.
I feel the The General is a great silent film because even though the story line is relatively complicated the way in which each character played their part and the way it was filmed made it easy to follow. I am fairly new to the silent film experience and when I saw that this movie was partially a comedy I was expecting something more along the lines of Charlie Chaplin, however I was pleasantly surprised at Buster Keatons more subtle comedic style. I felt that the film was well shot shot considering the technology of the day. I was actually shocked during the scene where the Rock River Bridge collapsed under The Texas. Knowing full well it was not special effects I couldn't believe the producers would spare the expense of destroying a locomotive and an entire bridge. This movie is sure to be one of my favorite silent films.
Johnnie Gray, a train engineer, tries to enlist in the Confederate Army to impress his girlfriend. Unfortunately, he is rejected because his role as engineer is deemed more important. Lucky for Gray, he is given the opportunity to prove himself when a band of Union soldiers in disguise hijack a train.At the time of this film's release, it was a flop and considered to be not very funny. Since then, it has gone on to be declared one of the greatest films of all time. Funny how that works. I would tend to agree that it isn't really very funny, but it is a great film for a variety of reasons.Buster Keaton was an amazing actor and director. He was willing to put himself in dangerous situations for a laugh -- he was his own stuntman, right there when the train falls in the water, really sitting on the side of a moving train and on the front of it... he could have been killed. And this was captured on film flawlessly.Personally, I enjoyed his "Sherlock Jr" better. I thought the tricks were better and the action funnier. It had a faster pace, too, that kept me hooked enough to watch it a few times. "The General" was not boring, but as a silent film it could have done more to grab the audience and I'm not sure that it did.


                
In this film, I really appreciated the technique and the attention to detail that was applied. For example, in the beginning when the main character, Johnnie Gray is in the home of his love, Annabelle Lee, the camera cuts to her father, who upon hearing a sound opens his door at the same instance someone opens the front door. The camera shows this from Johnnie Gray's perspective and creates a mirror image as the two men move identically. Another example is when Johnnie Gray and Annabelle end up lost in the woods after their escape from the Union household where they find themselves face to face with a bear and then Annabelle suddenly steps into a bear trap. Having the bear appear helps the audience make the connection between how the character managed to stepped into a trap. Also in this scene, I appreciated how the following inter-title expressed sarcasm regarding their night spent in the woods.All together, I found the movie to be very quirky and likable while not necessarily a "laugh out loud" sort of film, it does exemplify the attention to detail needed to create a successful full length feature.
This was my first Buster Keaton film and my second silent film. As the first silent film I viewed, I came into this movie with much skepticism. I am a person that needs dialogue in a movie, I need color, and I need effects in order to really enjoy a movie. However, I was too distracted by the plot and slapstick to notice a lack of what would usually entertain me. Because there is no dialogue in silent films, the actors must work extra hard at their craft, and Buster Keaton's deadpan comedic acting is a sure thing to make any skeptic silent film viewer laugh. Despite the time period and lack of effects, I was very impressed with the lighting, especially in the nighttime scene. Keaton and Mack were clearly seen and there were no confusion as to what was going on. Just as the lighting impressed me, so did the fact that I did not notice the lack of dialogue. The background music helped to tell the story, following the actions of the trains and actors. The music helped to show just what the characters were thinking. Truly an American Classic.


                
Silent movies did it the hard way, lacking the drama of sound and dialogue, woeing the viewer with raw motion picture and physical acting.
Buster Keaton was one of the giants of the silent era, never changing its facial expression nevertheless how script circumstances tended to affect him. His story about the Union's spy being chased up and down the railroad will have all the classic trademarks of an era, including the romance behind it all. However, what will stand out will be the impeccable action sequences with some really advanced special effects.
''The General" will be one of the most dynamic and production advanced flicks of its era, so you should watch it, if you like silent movies.
I have seen very few silent pictures, however was quite impressed by the amount of action packed into this film. If not paying close attention to the scenes, a lot can be lost. Anyone who loves trains, as I do, will thoroughly enjoy all the antics on the locomotive. It is a very entertaining film however it seemed a bit too long.


                
A silent epic which described the civil war of America in a funny and romantic way. "The General "is the masterpiece of Buster Keaton which released in 1927. With his brilliant stunts Buster could make a leap in silent film industry, he was the pioneer of action films by this lovely epic "the General". The film told the story of a locomotive engineer who wasn't enlist in army because he was more valuable as an engineer. That's why his love didn't speak to him. She wanted him as a soldier. so he walked away, but distance and his brave played a big role to get him back in uniform to his girlfriend. A very funny, brilliant film for Buster Keoton. The tricks that Buster used in his chases with the enemy were very smart and funny, I enjoyed this hour watching the film. That's was my second silent film to watch my Buster Keoton. I really adore this actor.


                
Keaton considered this his best movie, but it was a financial and critical disappointment at the time. While its reputation has increased considerably, I find myself in agreement with the original reviewers. It's a well-made big-budget movie, but it's not Keaton's funniest by far.The movie deftly combines action and comedy, and there are some suspenseful moments amidst the slapstick. Keaton's physical skill is remarkable, although at times this made his gags more impressive than funny.The movie is pretty solid, but it lags towards the end as it gets into big war scenes that sometimes overwhelm the drama. It also made the movie less sympathetic; I can cheer for the little engineer more easily than I can cheer the Confederate army.Anyway, a good movie, but not nearly my favorite Keaton.


                
Enjoyed "The General" and it was a quick 70 minutes. Buster Keaton, of course, is from another era, when motion pictures were more visual (before sound). They relied on sight gags and optical wizardry and "The General" succeeds in spades.Haven't really seen much of Buster Keaton but his stunt work was impressive, even if his deadpan brand of humor is an acquired taste. The film is very good but I would stop short of calling it one of the all-time greats, as the TCM host claimed. But the story moved at a good pace and was interesting and absorbing. Can't ask for more than that, can you?


                
To be completely honest I could probably count the number of black and white films that I've watched on one hand. An extra thumb if I'm being generous. When I sat down to watch "The General" I was skeptical. A Civil War movie about a Southern railroad engineer has never been on my top list of movie plots. After giving it a sit down in front of the little big screen (my living room TV with a roku box and netflix) i was thoroughly blown away. The film, made in 1926, takes place during the start of the Civil War which had ended just sixty one years prior. When it debuted it was not received well by movie goers and critics. However, in retrospect, Keaton managed to show the human side of the Confederate cause through the story of the protagonist Johnnie Gray and his train "The General". Portraying a Southerner fighting for the Confederacy may have been off putting for movie goers from the 1920's, but was a brave choice none the less.


                
The General is a great silent comedy. I would recommend this to anyone weather you enjoy silent films or have never seen one, this would be a great one to watch. There are some racial issues that you have to kind of ignore but the story is pretty exciting. Buster Keaton has some great physical comedy in this film. A lot of hilarious clumsiness and also some impressive stunts involving multiple trains. The comedy is very cartoonish with plans backfiring and a lot of happy accidents. Buster Keaton is one of the best actors of his time and he certainly proves that in the film. Again this is a great film to watch as your first silent Film or for anybody.
I have just finished watching the General. Although it is a silent film, there are many ques from the background music that demonstrate the moods that the characters can't say for themselves. It's introductory music is light with an accordion sound being the most predominant. This instrument plays well into the beginning scene and appropriately represents the bustle of life during the mid 1800s (Civil War period...just before) In the second scene of this film the protagonist Johnnie Gray learns of shots fired upon Ft. Sumter and with the strong encouragement of his girlfriend, is on his way to enlist. However, Johnnie is turned down and told he is more valuable to the South as an engineer. During this scene the music is still mostly accordion, but is slow and drawn out to represent the disappointment Johnnie feels for being unfit to serve the South. Another interesting piece of music is during the fourth scene; while Northern generals exit the train they are accompanied by a sample of quickly paced string instruments to advertise the stealth of their actions. As the music quickens the train is stolen and their plot is underway. Aside from the appropriate music accompaniments, the cinematography and the way the story was written is quite clever. There is a certain sense of sarcasm and wit put into the writing of each scene and general direction of the film. It can certainly be seen through the facial expressions and manor isms of the actors. As for the way each scene was shot and edited, I was surprised that the transition between scenes (although there aren't many) are not choppy like I had expected but rather fluid and smooth. I enjoy the contrast between the smooth changes in scenes paired with the busy/excited acting. Due to this enthusiastic style of acting, it seems as though The General has a stylized approach. I rate this silent film from 1927 a 7 out of 10. It was fairly enjoyable!


                
Buster Keaton's "The General" is regarded as one of the greatest films of the silent era. In it, Keaton plays Johnnie Gray, a Confederate engineer whose beloved locomotive is stolen by Union spies. To make matters worse, his sweetheart Annabelle is also on board. Thus, Johnnie sets out to single-handedly rescue his two loves, even if it means going behind enemy lines.The threadbare storyline basically exists as an excuse to get Keaton to explore the possibilities inherent in a train chase. After all, it's Keaton's physical comedy & stunts that give the film its reputation, not the story. That being said, I was less than impressed by Keaton's acting. There were some bits that I found amusing but little that I found particularly memorable.Having been initially released without an accompanying score there are numerous options in that department on home video. I watched the film with a score by the Alloy Orchestra. I'd say that it did the trick but it also made me wonder if there are any better scores out there. From a visual standpoint, though, the film is well done and actually exceeded my expectations.Ultimately, however, I guess that "The General" just wasn't to my taste. Being new to silent films, I approached it with an open mind but I was left somewhat disappointed. I wouldn't say that it's a bad movie but I wouldn't praise it in accordance with its reputation, either.


                
This movie was funny at times but to give it such a high rating is questionable. I would give it a 6.5.  It was boring and predictable for the most part. Compared to Chaplin's movies like "Modern Times" it just doesn't compare. Maybe because he doesn't look like somebody from the South whereas Chaplin could always pass for the tramp. A stretch for a 7. -gg


                
"The General" is a silent comedy film in which we have an engineer who is trying really hard to get back his beloved who has been taken by Union spies. This drives him straight to the enemy lines from which he wants to get away and return to his allies. In this journey or adventure many things happen and he finds out many information about enemy that he wants to tell to his allies.I liked this movie because even though is's a silent movie it gives you to feel many emotions and makes you understand many things about love and the fight for it. Also I liked very much the interpretation of Buster Keaton who played as Johnnie Gray and he was simply outstanding and hilarious in many moments of the movie. Another great interpretation made by Marion Mack who played as Annabelle Lee.Finally I believe that "The General" wants to show us from another perspective the meaning of war and the fight for something important. This something is different from one person to another ant this is the beauty of each personality, that differs and every person is unique.


                
"The General" is one of only a handful of silent movies I have seen; the majority of which being Charlie Chaplin films. When I heard that "The General" was a comedy and a very good one at that, I expected it to be similar to the Chaplin films I had seen. However, what makes "The General" a great movie is the action/adventure aspect combined with funny situational comedy, opposed to the slapstick, physical comedy which Chaplin executes flawlessly. I found Keaton's slapstick in "The General" to be forced and redundant. Keaton's same sad-sack, dead-pan expression, after every physical gag, is the worst part of the film. The action and excitement of this film mixed in with situational comedy is what truly makes "The General" a very enjoyable movie.


                
This was the first Buster Keaton film I had seen and was impressed by the different style of comedy he presents compared to other silent films I have seen. Buster Keaton brings athleticism, drama, romance, and suspense to the table with this film. I was pleasantly surprised with how Buster Keaton uses so much acrobatic moves during the movie. There was a point in the film when Keaton is part of a train chase. He has to run back and forth on top of the train to see where the bad guys are and to grab wood to keep the train moving. I thought this movie was interesting because it had so many genres of movies all in one. As the audience, you can tell when the movie was switching genres, especially to suspense; I felt there was a certain song that they used during each scene so you could tell. This did not have as much silly humor in it although it did have it's subtle comedic moments and it would be one I would recommend to someone else because it has a little bit of everything.
The General is a silent comedy which deals mostly with themes of determination, pride, and the motivation of love.I found the cinematography to be fluid and direct, with no shot lingering too long or too short. The train-chase scenes are particularly well cut, with nary a continuity error to be found. Michael Bays of the world, take note. The film chugs along at a steady pace much like The General itself, never spending too long on any one part.The film has wonderful period authenticity. Even in black and white, you can tell time went into crafting the wartime atmosphere.As with The Unknown, I found the stock score to be intrusive. I took my headphones off after twenty minutes and found the film to be much more enjoyable. The film stands on its visual merits alone and does not require musical accompaniment. Which is a compliment to the engaging screen presence of Keaton.Keaton plays perfectly the role of good-hearted goof, pioneering a screen persona that many comic actors have adapted since. He is not so much laugh-out-loud funny as he is a great vaudevillian performer in general. He is a physical wonder on screen, especially considering he didn't use a stunt double.The film is flamboyant and stylized, relying heavily on Looney Toons-style sight gags, with most of the plot devices acting simply as setups for Keaton to perform another slapstick routine, which, thankfully, he does wonderfully.Overall, I found The General to be a very tight production, with each shot carefully composed so that the viewer gets the maximum impact of whatever Keaton is doing at the moment.
I read this as metaphor for the changing state of cinema.It came out the same year as the first major talkie, which certainly scared the bejesus out of Keaton.The railroad to the Civil War era is as the cinema to the early 20th century -- a frighteningly ubiquitous, revolutionary technology whose power was not fully grasped (think atomic technology to the mid-20th century). The real war here is between the silent stars and the synchronized sound revolution. The track is the linear stream of history and Keaton's train is pursued by its more youthful, vigorous counterpart. How does he fight its advance? sight gags, the way he's made his living. He chose to represent the south because even then he knew his was a dying art form, one that was eclipsed almost instantaneously. This film obviously had a huge budget, so studios still invested heavily in silent film, but Keaton knew what was coming.The score here is of interest too. It's not the kind of music you associate with comedy, certainly not what Chaplin used. Then I realized: Keaton is absolute deadpan, so in that light the music makes perfect sense -- it's deadpan too, just a dramatic observer of comic events, like Keaton himself, an observer of his own gags.Visually, it's remarkable, the motion of the camera, the balanced framing, the wonderful examination of nature fighting technology.There's something about Keaton too. He has that kinetic tension that allows a still face and form to enthrall, like Clint, Benicio, Brando. Really incredible to watch.
the camera techniques and special effects are brilliant for their time. the plot is very good and really well thought through, unlike for example chaplin's movies that are just about the laughs. at times, though, even if it's only 1h15mins, it still gets a tad boring at certain points. the user rating here at imdb seems to be too high, but 'the general' is certainly a very interesting movie, and buster keaton is, no matter what the critics say, the thinking man's own comedian.


                
