1862, Georgia, USA. The American Civil War is in its second year and Johnnie Gray is barred from enlisting. He is a train engineer and the Confederate Army feel he is more valuable to the Southern cause in his current role than in the army. This frustrates Johnnie and has estranged him from his sweetheart Annabelle, who views him as a coward. Then his beloved engine, The General, is stolen by Union spies and is heading for Union lines. Moreover, Annabelle is on board. Johnnie sets off after the two loves of his life.Great comedy from the silent era, directed and starring one of the greatest comedy directors and actors of that era, Buster Keaton. This is a rollicking adventure complete with wonderfully thought-out and performed physical comedy and other sight gags. Some very clever use of the plot to generate the comedy.The plot itself isn't overly profound, but crams in a lot of action and adventure, plus some romance.Very entertaining.


                
THE GENERAL When one watches for the first time the General great things happen: laughter, relief, a never-ending smile<U+0085>and that old sniff of old good cinema. I must admit not many films out there give the pleasure this one has. It is like everything just falls right into place. Overall the movie is a perfect account of all the things that make comedy great. Simplicity, good and twisted plot, a sense of the unexpected becoming more and more real<U+0085>Do you feel me, don't you? It has been attributed to Chalie Chaplin the following sentence: "to make a comedy film you only need three things: a park, a woman and a police officer". We can safely say The General stands up to it. Well, there is no park in The General, although the landscape is used wisely, but there's a woman. As for the police officer<U+0085>well, not exactly. What we do have in the film are soldiers. I'm afraid of telling you the plot of the story because I don't want to spoil anything. I reckon it'd be better if you find it out for yourselves. Well, let's just say that Buster Keaton plays the main character, an engineer whose beloved locomotive has been stolen by Union spies. From that point on, he does everything in his power to get it back. There's nothing more for me to say but<U+0085>Enjoy yourselves!!


                
Buster Keaton always amazes me. He was truly one of the most hilarious deadpan screen clowns of early cinema. And The General, even clocking in at around three hours, is surprisingly watchable based on his physical performance alone.Granted, I still admit that I prefer the silent clowns in shorts, because it can be a bit exhausting to watch them in an entire feature, especially since they are often strings of vignettes thrown together and my modern brain prefers to edit out everything that's unnecessary, but some of the joy in these films is found in those very moments. There are multiple points in the General, a story about a Southern engineer that has to rescue his beloved from the clutches of the North in the Civil War, where Keaton's character, Johnnie Gray, has to stop his train, jump out, and remove something from the tracks, which in itself can be quite boring, but the way that Keaton injects physical comedy into those moments keeps me entertained.And it's a marvel how so many realistic, yet comedic stunts that Keaton could come up with. It's nothing fantastic like some of his other films, but it's still funny. And I think the strongest point of his comedy is his completely stonefaced response to all adversity--but he lets you see just a little his plight in his eyes and it's just enough to know that he is frightened, but that the rest of him doesn't react similarly creates such an amusing dissociation that it goes from bizarre to funny. Whether he's pratfalling due to surprise or erroneously succeeding at something he's unskilled in and being shocked by it, that response of his is winning.But the General does show its age a little. It exists in a time when people were still getting quite used to movies and so there is a lot of space that doesn't get edited out to help people get a better sense of the context. I wouldn't dare cut those moments out of this film, even if I could re-edit it, because the space always had something going on, but at the same time, this film, if made today, would be cut to one-and-a-half, or two hours and pack in the comedy more tightly. The plot and story are simple, but exist more than to just help the comedy move along--except at the end when the first story was accomplished. Then we move into a second extraneous, but still amusing, story regarding a battle between the North and the South that could've been excised and still having a decent, though simple, story.I didn't really love the score that the DVD company attached to it, which is a number of classical pieces end on end. I think a new commissioned soundtrack would've better matched the piece, but I guess we get what we get. And on the plus side, you can always mute the movie and play whatever on top of it.Is it perfect? No. But despite the age it shows, it still holds up as an enjoyable work from one of cinema's greatest physical comedians. If you want to spend three hours with a silent clown, this is not a bad way to go. 8/10.


                
Buster Keaton is "Johnnie Gray", a southerner who wants to fight for the cause but gets rejected because he could be of more use as an engineer than as a soldier. Unfortunately, he's not told why he was turned down and his gal just assumes that he's a coward. Not so, because when a Yankee scallywag steals his beloved steam engine (the titular "The General"), Johnnie heads north to recover the engine and through a series of misadventures, becomes a hero of the Confederacy and rescues Annabelle Lee. Glorious sight gags abound as "Old Stone Face" deals with errant cannon, loose sword blades, uncooperative firewood, inexplicable soakings and a less-than-helpful rescuee, not to mention an entire army of blue-bellies. Great fun from another era and a wonderful example of the silent genre.
When you explore the world of silent movies you not only expect only music playing but also a world where physicality makes up for dialogue. The General of 1926 is one of those where its lead actor Buster Keaton seems to communicate with us the viewer via stunts, by also using his stone wall facial expressions but also utilises his surroundings to bring us laughs, but also just a sense of awe in how he does these things. In a day when doing production on a big scale was difficult, The General succeeds in bringing us massive crashes, great little things here and there for Keaton to use to get us to smile and of course a fantastic use of slow moving trains(who knew trains going 10mph could be so fun).I went into watching the movie with high expectations; after all it seems everybody who see's this comes off with a sense of them seeing something amazing. The film for me was maybe not perfect in fact quite a bit from it but I did find the movie to be a great one and coming to that conclusion took me quite a little while. I finished it thinking "You know it was good but nothing like what people say about it", but then it came to me the day after seeing this that this is more than good, it is very good and a movie that I really liked. The reason that came to me was Keaton who to me now is the master of doing your own stunts and succeeding, Buster Keaton gets all my praise and he actually makes this rather dull at times plot a hundred times better. So what does that plot have to offer? ,well not an awful lot to be fair although it does give you a few thrills coupled with laughs here and there but never gut busting in my opinion. The story is set in the American civil war of the 19th century, we see Buster Keaton as a train engineer turned down by the Confederacy because he is just too important in what he is doing (but no one bothers to tell him that). Keaton's character of Johnnie Gray has trouble though, Union spies are coming and they plan to steal a train and intend to burn all the bridges back towards their lines. The story of course has much more to that but it really is the kind of movie you just have to watch yourself to see what happens because well for a film like this, a lot happens. Buster Keaton alongside Clyde Bruckman directs this and does a great job yet again, not only is Keaton a fine actor but at directing and even partly the writing too he is just one fine silent movie creator. I think his skills come out most with Bruckman also when he is doing the of course famous stunts he did himself, it is not only the biggest I enjoyed the most though such as the him sitting on the train wheels as they move, just fantastic. When Keaton runs around the train he is fantastic but at times he runs from the end of the carriages to the front and jumps and grabs onto things and just propels himself into the right place, how he never broke his entire body I will never know but the added speed of the movies of the day makes this even more beautiful to see. If you're coming to silent movies as a new viewer or if you consider yourself a connoisseur of the era then both can enjoy this, is it Keaton's best work? , well some will say yes and me myself actually say no for now. What really shows how good Keaton can be is the fact that this movie is considered one of the best silent movies ever and yet could maybe be outdone by some of his other work. That previous point proves to me not only is Keaton one of the finest actors and maybe even directors of the silent's, but also that he could travel forward in time and fit right in with the movies of today.


                
It was an early Saturday afternoon, and I was searching about for a light-hearted comedic adventure film to keep me amused until dinner was ready. My eyes suddenly fell upon 'The General,' starring the inimitable Buster Keaton, and released in 1927. I had never seen it before, but <U+0096> having greatly enjoyed the absolutely hilarious 'Sherlock Jr.' of three years earlier <U+0096> I was more than willing to give it a shot. On its initial release, 'The General' was a mammoth box office flop, by and large disparaged by the critics, though time has been kind to the film. Today, it is rightly considered a comedy masterpiece, and is often the first stepping-stone for newcomers to discover the treasure-trove of silent comedic classics released by "The Great Stone Face."Johnny Gray is Keaton's usual glum-faced character, a young man with courage, bravery and a thirst to prove himself, but ultimately without the means to do so. First in line to join the American Civil War to fight the Union, Johnny is turned away at the enlisting office due to his importance as a railway engineer, and he suffers the shame of not being able to fight with his fellow countrymen. Aside from his engine, The General <U+0096> a type 4-4-0 steam locomotive <U+0096> Johnny has but one love, Annabelle Lee (Marion Mack). However, when she is wrongly told that Johnny never even stood in line to enlist, she believes him to be a coward, and refuses to be with him until he is in uniform.One year on, Johnny finally stumbles upon a means to prove himself, when Union Army spies (headed by prolific silent film actor Glen Cavender) hijack his beloved General, and Annabelle finds herself a prisoner at the mercy of a group of cunning and unpredictable soldiers. Determined to recover what he loves, Johnny single-handedly gives chase, acquiring another locomotive, The Texas, to assist in the cross-country chase, which is based on true events. Facing setbacks at every turn in the railway, Johnny must use every inch of intellect he possesses in order to outwit his adversaries, rescue his loved ones (both the General and Annabelle) and save the day for the Confederacy.Technically, 'The General' is a cinematic marvel. A considerable portion of the movie was filmed on an actual moving train (you'll find no miniature plastic models here), and the actors <U+0096> especially Buster Keaton <U+0096> do a remarkable job of completing their performances with the additional burden of wind, motion and the potentially fatal consequences of a single misstep. As in all his films, Keaton's dedication to the medium is instantly apparent, with his character completing a wide assortment of hair-raising stunts, including jumping from the engine to a tender to a boxcar, sitting on the cow-catcher of the slow moving train while holding a railroad tie, and running along the roof. The final climactic crash of the locomotive, in which a bridge crumbles as the Texas attempts to cross it, was the single most ambitious and expensive scene of the silent era.The laughs come thick and fast, with Johnny persevering forwards despite any number of obstacles that may come his way. The film does slow down a bit during its centre portion, namely because there is temporarily not a train in sight, but, once Johnny manages to reclaim his General, things get exciting again. The second half of the film is a complete reversal of the first, with Johnny now at the helm of the locomotive being chased. Some absurdly-dangerous stunt work, and some high-speed railway thrills, makes this ride a highly entertaining one.'The General' is currently sitting in the public domain. This is a double-edged sword. On the one hand, it allows practically anybody to access a copy of the film, whether it be on DVD or the internet, increasing public awareness of Keaton's films and perhaps even inspiring an interest in the silent classics that are too often neglected. On the other hand, being in the public demand means that any distributor can digitize a poor-quality print and sell it as 'The General' to make a few quick dollars. The version I uncovered was decent enough, but the soundtrack was a rather random assortment of classical music, which was passable but not ideal. Needless to say, if I were to ever encounter a high-quality print of the film, I would have absolutely no hesitation in purchasing it.
My Rating : 8/10Buster Keaton's love of history, engineering and operatic displays of action are put to their finest use in his masterwork, The General. However unwelcoming the concept of an incredibly accurate historical movie about the civil war may seem, or a title which refers to an army rank, rest assured that The General is imbued throughout with a wonderful sense of fun, as with all Keaton. The pervasive irony running through The General is the fact that little Buster is helping fight the civil war just by happenstance - all he really wants to do is save his girlfriend. The appeal of The General may lie in its ability to take you back to what it would have been like in frontier America, its remarkable visual beauty (incredible cinematography), or possibly Keaton's trademark operatic stunts, the climax of this movie which is one of his most impressive (the famous bridge scene was the most expensive shot in all of silent cinema).But the thing which makes this and all Keaton films a joy to watch is the irrepressible charm and appeal of his onscreen persona. You just can't help liking little Buster, and rooting for him in all the troubles he happens to fall into. 5 stars from me - one of the all time greats.


                
Greetings from Lithuania.It's not possible to not to admire the craftsmanship of "The General" (1926). The movie was made back in 1926, but you the scope, settings, directing are amazing. While this isn't the most involving movie i have ever seen, i liked it for what it was. Overall, "The General" is a superbly made movie. There were scenes were i was thinking "now how in a world did they did this back in 1926".


                
I liked this a lot more on the second viewing, the first on DVD. It wasn't that the print was so much better as I just appreciated Buster Keaton's humor and physical prowess more today than I did back when I first saw this film. That, and I can never get enough trains on film!Keaton plays "Johnny Gray," a railroad engineer who signs up for the Confederate army when the Civil War breaks out. However, they reject because the South felt he could be far more valuable to their cause if he remained in his occupation than as a soldier. However, because his girlfriend wants him to sign up, and her brothers all did, she thinks he's a coward because he's not fighting for his kinfolk (obviously not knowing why they turned him down). So, things look bleak for our hero. (Note: true love never seems to be shown in these Keaton films. Buster always has to prove himself to these fickle women, who demand either heroes or tons of money from their men.)Anyway, Buster is chased down the tracks by the Northern army train for much of the film. He tries to hold them off and keep his own little train running....and rescue his girlfriend who was accidentally abducted by the enemy and is being held hostage in one of the cars. It's not as chaotic as I am making it sound, but it's fast-moving and entertaining film for most of the 75 minutes. To be honest, I can't see where it's a "masterpiece," as so many label it, but it's a good film. Maybe I still don't fully appreciate it. Now that I have it on DVD, I will be sure to watch it more times.


                
Silent films have never peaked my interest, and although I have never actually laid my eyes on something that would be considered a silent film, the preconceived notion of heavily made up men, running around in a black and white world, displaying their emotions melodramatically, was more than enough to deter me from ever wanting too. However, after finally forcing my eyes open for a measly hour and a quarter, I can now say that I have sat through a classic silent film, and it has changed my life.
For some reason, in my ignorance, I had chopped up all early silent films to be the cavemen equivalent of a now-booming 41.7-billion-dollar industry (2018) and boy was I wrong! The spectacle alone was extraordinary to witness, even if it was not in HD 4K High-Definition Color vision. The amount of money necessary to create Buster Keaton's world of locomotion and action was equivalent to a blockbuster film present day. Keaton's creation of what now most people would consider PG comedy, much like Mr. Bean or Pink Panther, is limited only by Keaton's imagination. The use of mortars, montages of chases, full scale steam locomotive crashes, as well as, an assortment of physical straight-faced comedy that appeals to all ages, blew my mind in a way that I could not believe possible in the early years of filmmaking. Modern camera angles are prevalent and widely used, characters are relatable and although larger than life, seems to possess the same amount of emotional honesty that contributes to the film extradentary, and the overall grand scale of the films can only be explained by its reenactment of a civil war battle.
Although the plot is not the best and by no standards does it compete with modern day action/adventure films like Fast and Furious. Buster Keaton's ability to bring to life a character that tickles the audiences' funny bones, while at the same time conceive of thousands of camera angles and shots that match most professional filmmakers present day, as well as, stunts and action sequences that appeal on a grazioso scale, make this film a definite must-watch now and for its own time period, makes it, understandable, one of the greatest films of all time.


                
The GeneralKeaton's cunning vision of pulling off the most simplistic task with a whip, is basically a time travelling machine that warps you back to your childhood memories where you are gullible for any animation possible. With installing as many gags as possible, the detailed version of his tale constructs the structure itself on screen. And Keaton doesn't mind taking his time, he digs deep and clears out all our doubts, he himself is an audience, a maker and a performer; it is clearly visible. In initial stages, if the ignition of the plot is a bit narrow-minded and at times a bit chalky, all your complaints are lopped off very quickly as the ideologies grows wider and the methodology efficient.On terms of antics, it thrives upon the thrills of the chase or more accurately the irony of the sincerity in this chase. There are very few actors who are as fluent in a physical sequence as Keaton is. From falling down right on the spot to leaping from any moving vehicle or from climbing any possible structure to fumbling calculatively on screen, his vocab doesn't need any language.Unlike the Sherlock Jr., it may not have the emotionally charged material to feed upon, but its satire on patriotism denses up the case as much as possible. Split into two acts, where one is leading towards the so-called trouble and one escaping from it, both of these acts contains long chase scenes that are brimmed with head scratching hilarious gags, and to offer that amount of material with such easiness is a sign of brilliance. A pacifict world as such despite of the theme, is a home run on terms of both irony and the hope it breathes. The General deserves a promotion to lead us in a better future.


                
Tragic, subtle, funny, over the top, ambitious, smart, clever, thrilling - in short, THE GENERAL is going for so many different things but manages to keep focus throughout. It is a delight to watch and with it's impressive set pieces and scale certainly very much ahead of it's time.


                
The General (1926): Dir: Buster Keaton / Cast: Buster Keaton, Marion Mack, Glen Cavender, Jim Farley, Frederick Vroom: High profile silent film about one's personal perspective. Buster Keaton plays locomotive engineer Johnnie Gray who desires to join the Confederate army alongside his fiancé's father and brother but he is refused when he becomes too important to his job. His fiancé, Annabelle is misinformed and claims that she will not marry him until he is in uniform. A year passes and her father is wounded. She travels to see him but the enemy takes over the locomotive and takes her hostage. Gray gives chase and many hysterical physical sight jokes occur. Keaton is a brilliant physical comic, as seen in his clever Sherlock Jr. He meets all obstacles on the track while also trying to prevent the enemy from conquest any further. Keaton performs stunts that are far beyond normal and prevails to huge payoff. Unfortunately he is carrying the film by himself because other characters are a bore. Marion Mack as Annabelle is the standard damsel whose personality is shallow given her reasons for splitting with him in the first place. The villains are just targets for prat falls and never emerge as frightening or interesting. That aside, Keaton creates a film with action, including massive chase scenes and explosive production values that were led into a future that had forgotten how it all began. Score: 8 ½ / 10
I have watched a few Chaplin films but up until The General I hadn't been exposed to the genius that also was Buster Keaton. He used a similar style to Charlie Chaplin in that he uses slapstick humor but at the same time brings a great deal of heart to the films as well. The General takes a little bit to get going but when it finally does it's quite the entertaining flick.Keaton, although not as silly as Chaplin does employ a similar style of humor. Many flops and accidental trips occur throughout the film and for it being almost a 100 year old film I still found it funny. But a silent film cant be great without an equally entertaining score. And unlike Chaplin's films you don't have to read as many scene explanations. Most of the story is told by the absurd but equally hilarious action on screen. Film at that time was made purely to entertain and this film does just that. Keaton treats us with one of the most fun scenes of all time with the iconic train scene. Every time Keaton fell down or did something outright stupid was just as funny as the last.The subject matter doesn't really matter with this one. Even with it being a meaningful movie about the civil war, it almost pokes fun at the whole situation just as Dr. Strangelove did. And in the end you flat out cheer when Keaton's character gets the recognition that he deserves. Although I will always lean more towards Chaplin's films, The General entertains with the best of them and is one of the all-time classics.+Iconic train chase, pure entertainment +Keaton is full of laughs +Even with it being nearly 100 years old +Short and to the point..-..Just a bit of a slow start 8.8/10


                
"If you lose this war don't blame me."After not quite understanding all the hype with Buster Keaton in Sherlock Jr. I finally got to see it in his masterpiece, The General. This film really worked for me and the action engaged me in a way that I didn't feel worked all that well in his previous movie. I was only able to appreciate the technical aspects of Sherlock Jr. but didn't really care much for the story or the characters, but in The General I was hooked with Keaton's character and the action sequences really drew me into the story. There were some spectacular chases that were thrilling to watch and I was in disbelief that this film was directed nearly 90 years ago because it was beautifully shot and the effects looked believable. There was one scene where a train collapsed on a burning bridge that was gorgeously shot. Keaton not only had a talent for comedy, but he proved to be an action star as well. The General meshes these two genres together in an enriching manner allowing the audience to be laughing one moment and feeling thrilled the next. Based on true events that took place during the American Civil War, the screenplay was written by Clyde Bruckman and Buster Keaton. We are first introduced to the main protagonist, Johnny Gray (Buster Keaton) as a Southern railroad engineer. There are two things that he loves in life: his train engine (The General) and Annabelle Lee (Marion Mack). When the Civil War breaks out, Annabelle's father and brother enlist as soldiers for the Confederate army, so Johnny also feels he should do the same. The officials consider he is more useful as an engineer so they don't allow him to enlist. Annabelle believes Johnny is a coward and is lying to her about not being allowed to enlist so she breaks up with him. Johnny continues working as an engineer, but when Union spies steal his beloved train and kidnap Annabelle, who happened to be riding The General that day, he does what is in his power to catch up with the spies and save the two things he loves the most in life. The film thus becomes a thrilling cat and mouse chase across the Southern railroads. Buster Keaton proved his unique talents in The General through his comedic performance and physical ability by doing all the stunts on his own. There are several great action scenes in this film and Keaton does some acrobatic stunts proving he deserves to be considered as an action star as well. I had a great time with this film and was completely entertained throughout its 105 minute runtime. It's one of the best films that have combined action with comedy from the silent era, and very few contemporary films do it as well as Keaton did way back in 1926. I'm on board with Keaton acknowledging this is his best film and really can't understand how it was a flop when it came out because The General was genius film making. Now justice has been made and it is considered amongst the best films of the silent era. If you haven't had the chance to see this film, you should because it is a thrill.


                
It's 1861. Johnnie Gray (Buster Keaton) is a train engineer. He loves his train "The General" and Annabelle Lee. They won't let him fight in the Civil War because he's needed as an engineer. People tell Annabelle that he's a coward, and she won't speak to her until he's in uniform. A year later, Union spies have captured The General and kidnapped Annabelle intend on recking havoc on the South. Johnnie comes to the rescue.There are some hilarious impossible stunts that Keaton gets into. This is Buster Keaton in his prime. The story is a good melodramatic yarn. There is a lot of amazing train stunt work. The scale of the production is certainly grand. It's not really constant laughs but it is a joy to watch.


                
A roller-coaster ride of laughter that was a critical & commercial failure during its time of release but is now counted amongst the greatest films ever made, The General is Buster Keaton's magnum opus & even though I'll put at least three Charlie Chaplin films ahead of it as well as Keaton's own Sherlock Jr, there is no denying that this silent classic is one of the most influential works of its era.Set during the American Civil War, The General tells the story of a train engineer who loves his fiancé as much as he loves his locomotive. When the war breaks out, he tries to enlist but is rejected because of his value as an engineer although he's not told this reason. But when the Union spies steal his locomotive & kidnap his fiancé, he travels into the enemy territory to rescue them both.Co-directed, co-produced co-written & co-edited by Buster Keaton, the film presents the silent star at the top of his game and is inventive, creative & very entertaining throughout its runtime. Keaton does a magnificent job in both front & behind the camera, and some of the moments are absolutely jaw-dropping & are sure to make many wonder how he was able to execute it so well.Keaton is also very well supported by the rest of the cast, humour is present in plenty & Keaton's deadpan expressions make it all the more hilarious but there were also moments in the middle where the story felt a bit static. Camera-work is expertly done, editing makes many scenes stand out, music seamlessly integrates with the unfolding events & its technical craftsmanship is in a league of its own.On an overall scale, The General is Buster Keaton's most accomplished work, both as an actor & filmmaker, and even though I like Sherlock Jr. a tad more, I admire it all the more for what it does with its script & how it does it. An incredibly amusing, highly entertaining & immensely satisfying laughter-ride with its heart at the right place, this classic about love, locomotives & laughs comes highly recommended.


                
The age old debate of whether you are a Charlie Chaplin or Buster Keaton fan, is still a popular discussion among movie fans, critics and students. For me I choose Keaton. No doubt Chaplin is funny, I just choose Keaton because in addition to his humor he is also doing amazingly, dangerous stunts. Growing up on Jackie Chan movies I've always found live stunts exciting and the stunts in The General are very compatible to today. These stunts add such suspense to the movie that you almost forget that it's a silent film, putting this film right up there with today's Hollywood blockbusters. Given the time period compared to today's safety and medical advancements, it's purely amazing that similar stunts were even considered in 1926 and thus I give it an 8 out of 10.


                
I am a huge film buff, and I have great appreciation for silent films and I am always open to watching one at least once. But at the same time, I, like many people, prefer talkies to silent films and I tend to not be as entertained in terms of content. But this is one of the few exceptions. This and some of Charlie Chaplin's work are part of a small list of silent movies that I love re-watching. Let's look at the content of it: You have a periodically correct setting of the Civil War, complete with costumes, guns, resources, and trains. No expense has been spared in terms of visual entertainment, because during the 78 minute version I have, an epic chase scene between two trains unfolds, cannons are fired with cannonballs that seemingly explode on impact, and a burning bridge collapses as a train rides over it. The General is on par with many modern-day action and adventure movies in terms of eye candy that it offers. The story is solid too. You have Johnny Gray, an engineer who is denied the privilege to enlist in the Confederacy. When his train is stolen by the Union, he goes by himself to get it back and also save the girl he loves. He finds out about a surprise attack that the Union is planning, and now the pressure is on to warn his town of this attack. It's shot beautifully, not just as a silent movie but a movie in general, with many moving shots. I can think of only one other black and white movie with this much action and work put into it, and that would be Sullivan's Travels. There probably are others, but I don't think you'll find any other silent film with this much work put in.
This movie is probably the most famous movie of Buster Keaton, i had never seen a movie with him. I'm not fond of silent movies, it bothers me most of the times. But this movie succeeded to keep me captivated and i enjoyed it. There is a lot of suspense in this movie and you ask a lot of questions during the viewing of this film like "how does he will do to save his wife?" or "is it possible to do that?". The last ten minutes with the army was a bit boring but i liked the soundtrack. Buster Keaton is a amazing actor, director and stunt performer in this film.This movie is a must see.
This delightful Buster Keaton comedy is probably his best known film.In "The General," Keaton plays Johnnie Gray, engineer on the train that gives the film its name. Johnnie, as one of the title cards explains, has two loves: his train and his girl. When the Civil War comes to Marietta, GA, Johnnie does everything he can to be first in line to enlist. But when he's refused by the recruiters (they think he's more valuable to the Confederacy as a train engineer than as a soldier, but don't tell him that), he falls into disgrace with his true love and her family. Then his beloved train is stolen by a bunch of Yankees, and he's off to rescue her, rescuing his other love in the process and redeeming himself in the eyes of her and her father.What impresses most about "The General" now is the sheer size and scope of the film. 80% of the movie takes place on a moving train, and we're talking a real-life moving train here, not a model or set. The stunts Keaton plans for himself are life threatening, and it's thrilling to watch him pull them off with effortless and acrobatic aplomb.Grade: A


                
You have seen many exciting and funny scenes involving trains. There have been sword fights on roofs, box cars chopped up to provide wood for fuel as the train consumes itself, locomotives smashing into one another, leaps from bridges upon speeding trains, trains pursuing trains at high speed, men springing from open doors into the landscape, hijacked trains, hobos flung under the wheels, runaway trains with terrified convicts aboard, and wooden bridges collapsing under locomotives and sending both artifacts into the indifferent waters below.But this one seems to pull every trick out of the Handbook For Train Movies. And Buster Keaton is the central figure in all of it. He's the manager of the Confederate train called The General. The General is hijacked during the Civil War by Yankees intent on wreaking havoc behind enemy lines. His girl is taken hostage.Keaton pursues the Yankees and -- I got a little confused here because I was out of the room for a while -- somehow gets The General back, along with his girl friend, while the Yanks now seem to be chasing him in two other trains.There is a big battle at the end. Keaton is accidentally instrumental in the Confederate victory and is summarily promoted from civilian railroader to Lieutenant in the Army of the Confederate States of America.The movie is funny -- at times, very funny -- melodramatic, and exciting.In historical fact, the North had probably the most skilled railroad engineer in the country, as well as a standard gauge, a modern system of tracks and rolling stock; the South throughout the war was hampered by local whimsy regarding the distance between rails and the amount spent on upgrading a railroad system designed as much for unhurriedly shipping cash products like cotton as for zipping soldiers from point to point.None of those problems are evident here as the big-wheeled, bulging-smokestacked, cow-catcher locomotives haul their cars around curves and up and down mountains and over rivers. Many of the outdoor scenes were filmed in Oregon and there are some highly scenic vistas. Keaton is his energetic and stony-faced self.The beginning -- the set up -- is a little slow but, man, does it pick up the tempo towards the end. One of Keaton's best.
This film is very unique in a lot of ways.Buster Keaton's particular style tends to contain a playfulness involving machinery and nature, and this film is not only no exception, it's more like the actualization of his oevre into an almost final, complete form.The key thing here is the trains. Keaton loves trains, and indeed this film has more trains than you can shake a stick at... not that you can really shake a stick at a train and expect something to happen, but you get the point. Anyways, not only does it have a lot of trains, it has a lot more trains than I think any other film (it definitely has more trains than any other film I've seen, that is). Furthermore, while I have seen other films involving train chases, I've very seldomly seen films involving trains chasing trains... and even the ones I have don't have as many.For that matter, this film seems almost Hollywoodesque in its train-chases and explosions. Lots of chases, lots of explosions, sounds like Ye Olde Hollywood Fare to me!, only it's like, way before that became typical Hollywood use and it's all tied together specifically by the great Keaton himself.Some people express a little dissatisfaction by the fact that Keaton takes the side of the South. I don't know particularly why he did that, but what strikes me about this film is how it also takes little pokes of parody at the great Birth of a Nation. Furthermore, his relationship with the girl in this case seems like a pretty good deconstruction of the ol' Southern Belle, and that's pretty funny too.I like this film slightly less than other of Keaton's films because it's epic. Actually, this makes this film technically at or above the level of Keaton's other films because of the sheer scale of it. I just like it less because it's slightly less Keaton, and he doesn't have nearly as much space to do what he possibly could. However, touches of his real hard-hitting humor still come through, like when he is sitting on the piston and the train starts to leave while he stares forlornly into space... I'm sure we can all recognize the feeling of just having to let ourselves be carried away by the world when it seems there's no hope for love.Thus, I give this film a 10 out of 10 rating for technical superiority, but 8 out of 10 reflects my personal ranking of it in comparison of other films of his I like. If you like this and haven't seen Sherlock Jr. yet, please see that one as it's my personal favorite.--PolarisDiB
This movie garnered decided mixed reviews when it was released, and when one studies it in the context of Keaton's previous films, it is apparent why: this is a comedy only as a secondary consideration. As its primary consideration, the film tells a classic story from the American Civil War, gently sprinkling the gags throughout the telling, without letting them overcome a very serious plot. While not Keaton's greatest COMEDY (this reviewer would suggest several of Buster's short subjects for that distinction), it is undoubtedly his greatest PRODUCTION, with the values of cinematography, storytelling, acting and comedy balanced in near-perfect harmony for a truly memorable film, and one that the worldwide movie-making industry would be deeply impoverished by its loss, should it be forgotten.In summary: if you want to laugh out loud, a better Keaton film would be 'One Week', or 'The Boat', but if you want to see the height of artistic movie-making that can only be achieved when the star has complete control, you could not find a better comedy.I recently (Jan of 2005) watched this on TCM, and they had it set to a very dramatic music score. I was amazed to find that the movie works just as well as a drama; even the big slapstick laugh sequences in it take on a suspenseful tone when set to different music. I think this, as well as anything, illustrates why initial reactions to the film were mixed: it really does straddle the line between comedy and drama.


                
The general was a funny and entertaining movie that did not require dialogue to convey its message. Buster Keaton was brilliant in his role as Johnnie and his actions were truly funny. Also, Marion Mack was superb as Annabelle Lee and her relationship with Buster Keaton in the film felt genuine. Buster Keaton was a monumental figure in the history of American Cinema and movies like The General only back up that claim. this and other films prove how well of a film maker Keaton was. The making of this movie took an extensive amount of time including the most expensive stunt in history at the time but it did not go to waste with the good story and mood this film conveys to the viewer.


                
