I have watched this movie several times and it is just getting better and better all the time. Why? Because this movie actually has a message built-in, this isn't a violent story, like "Saving Private Ryan" - also a good movie with a message - but it is still not a slow story.When I last saw it, I realised that there was something in the movie that I had never understood, this isn't a movie about war, torture or how it was to be a prisoner of war; this is a movie about madness and pride. The pride shows both in Saiko and Colonel Nicholson, they are so full of it that it is almost impossible for them to come to a civil-conclusion with the problems they have with each other. The madness is shown in Colonel Nicholson and Holden's character - here they are, two prisoners of war and they don't want to help each other out, instead they try to reach separate goals, and they are both willing to die for it.After you have watched this movie one is amazed by the performances made by Alec Guinness and William Holden and I must say that this is therefore one of the best War/Drama movies ever made My vote? 9 out of 10 naturally.


                
In the luxurious jungle of Thailand , British prisoners (Alec Guinnes, James Donald , Percy Herbert , among others) of WWII captured in the fall of Singapur are taken by Japanese wards for building a railway bridge on the trail since Bangcock until Rangún . With extraordinary appearance when the prisoners arrive in the POW war camp whistle the title song,the Colonel Bogey March . Central plot is the troublesome relationship between the obstinate Colonel Nicholson (Alec Guinnes) and a cruel ruler , Colonel Saito (Sessue Hayakawa) and parallel efforts by escaped convict (William Holden) , officer (Jack Hawkins) and soldier (Geoffrey Horne) to destroy it.This excellent film , winner of numerous Oscars was magnificently directed by David Lean . However , first was slated Alexander Korda , but he withdrew due he deemed wrong the main roles . Also was originally considered Howard Hawks , but he abandoned , especially concern was the all male lead characters and because his previous film, Land of the pharaohs, failed at the Box office . Gary Grant was firstly hired , but declined due to other offers and was substituted by William Holden . Carl Foreman and Michael Wilson were uncredited , but were blacklisted as suspect communists and only appears credited Pierre Boulle who won Academy Award for best adapted script , though he didn't know English language . In 1984 when the movie was restored , they retrospectively won the prize , but sadly they had dead, however their names were justly added to writing credits . The famous march whistle by prisoners , is original from 1916 titled ¨Bollocks and the same for you¨ by Mayor Ricketts , a chief of musical band and the actual words were obscene , later being re-titled Colonel Bogey March . Deservedly won the Oscar for best musical score by Malcolm Arnold . The authentic bridge was built by prisoners in two months and constructed for film was four months with help elephants and by hundred workers and length 425 feet long and 50 foot above the water , in Ceylon location . But was demolished in a matter of seconds , as it is splendidly reflected in the movie.


                
Rightly BRIDGE ON THE RIVER KWAI is considered a classic of cinema , it`s well made , well directed and most of all well acted by the cast , but this doesn`t stop a major problem with the script from nearly wrecking the whole film and it`s this : The imperial Japanese committed the worst crimes against humanity in the whole 20th century . Of course they weren`t alone Hitler , Stalin , Mao , Pol Pot et al murdered millions upon millions of innocents and for that their can be no excuse , they have the blood of countless people on their hands , but these unreasonable murders were committed for the reason of utopian idealogy . Imperial Japanese barbarity had little if any idealogy behind it . Defeated armies and civilian prisoners were treated as cowardly " Untermenschen " to be treated with the utmost inhuman contempt and without mercy . As many as ten million Chinese died at the hands of the Japanese and millions of more Asians died across Asia during the Nipponese occupation . And it`s this rewriting of history in order to bring about a dramatic story that comes close to destroying the film . Nicholson stands up to his captors and refuses to be broken by them . Very dramatic ( Helped no end by Sir Alec`s performance . Perhaps the greatest actor of all time ) but in reality Nicholson would have been tied to a stake and left to starve to death . In fact Nicholson wouldn`t have had to show any defiance it was very common for Japanese guards to use prisoners for live bayonet practice just for the sheer hell of it . I take it because it was made  during the cold war that Hollywood tried to rehabilitate both Germany and Japan by showing them in a less cruel light , but whatever the reason it is rather annoying to see prisoners holding concert parties in a Japanese POW camp . So treat this film as a drama not as a history lesson . For the record the real bridge was bombed by the American airforce
Yeah great movie, but WHY I ask WHY was it so long? Please! 155 minutes is too long. The first hour could have been cut by 20 minutes and then we may have had the greatest war movie ever. As it stands it is battling to make the top five. If your wondering "Saving Private Ryan" wouldn't make my top 100 war movies.Still great job, 7.5 out of 10.


                
I heard a film critic once say that there really aren't "war movies"; there are only "anti-war" movies. I'm still not sure what I think of that claim, but having seen - The Bridge on the River Kwai- enough times in the past several years, I think I'm persuaded that it's at least half right. -Kwai-, I believe, is both a "war" and "anti-war" movie, and, in my view, it succeeds admirably at both.There is almost no element of -Kwai- that is not praise-worthy. David Lean's direction is tight and evocative. The cinematography is great (even though the color seems increasingly drained in film versions that I have seen). The acting is top-notch. I honestly believe that this is Alec Guiness's best performance, and Sessue Hayakawa is also highly sympathetic and believable. William Holden and Jack Hawkins round out the cast nicely.The musical score is also right on. Simply put, -Kwai- is an excellently constructed film made by people who obviously cared a great deal about it. As a result, the viewer comes to care a great deal about it as well.Clearly -Kwai- is an anti-war film. There is no glorification here. War is brutal, period. It's brutality is not captured here in terms of gory carnage or senseless battles. Instead, the psychological dimension of brutality comes across clearly. Yet, -Kwai- also shows the resilience of the human spirit as well as its complexity. One is left wondering if participation in World War II not only psychologically brutalized the characters played by Guiness, Hayakawa, and Holden but also if it simultaneously uplifted them. The paradox is striking to me each time I view this film. War can act both as a positive and negative catalyst, and it can do both of these things at the same instant.So, is -The Bridge on the River Kwai- a war movie or an anti-war movie? I think Lean clearly preferred the latter, but the subject matter and his approach to it may have landed somewhere in between.Regardless, -Kwai- is a fantastic film experience and is not to be missed. It is, simply put, my very favorite film--bar none.


                
"We can teach these barbarians a lesson in Western methods and efficiency that will put them to shame! We'll show them what the British soldier is capable of doing!" - Colonel Nicholson "The Bridge on the River Kwai" stars Alec Guinness as Colonel Nicholson, a British officer who has been captured by the Japanese Army and placed in a prison camp somewhere in western Thailand. The Japanese camp commander, Colonel Saito, orders Nicholson and his men to build a bridge across the river Kwai (in order for a rail-link connecting Bangkok and Burma to be completed) but Nicholson refuses.What follows is a battle of wills. The Japanese camp commander seeks to break Nicholson, turning him into a slave labourer. Nicholson, however, remains steadfast in his pride and dignity. A caricature of stiff-upper-lipped Brits, he's proud of the Empire, proud of British engineering, dutiful, cultured, and a stickler for rules, regulations and the Geneva Convention. If he is to be made a slave, then by God, he will do it with dignity! He will do it on his own terms! "The Bridge on the River Kwai" was, of course, directed by David Lean, that master of location photography and beautiful compositions. In our CGI age, its refreshing to see a director who went to such extreme lengths to find great scenery. Lean, from this point onwards, would paint on an increasingly grand canvas.Though "Bridge" works on an archetypal level, there are some nagging problems. Following WW2, the British and Americans suddenly needed to portray the Japanese as "our allies". After years of portraying them as screaming savages, Japan was now our new "friend" in the "war against communism". They were needed as a bulwark to prevent the Russians from moving further southward and so efforts were made to paint them in a more "friendly" manner. As a result, all Asians in "Bridge" are portrayed in a ridiculously cartoonish light. They are all teary base commanders, resourceful peasants or big breasted sexy women who fall head over heels for American boys. The film's titular bridge itself eventually becomes a hokey symbol for uneasy cultures working together to bridge their differences because, "someday, after this war, what we build here might help somebody." Compare this to "Hei Tai Yang 731", a Chinese film which documented the atrocities that the Japense army regiment of Camp 731 carried out on innocent Chinese and Russian families. Of course that film is merely propaganda from another perspective, but in its extremities it nevertheless highlights how absurd "Bridge's" portrayals of camp life are; Lean's prison camps are far too homey.Strange too is Nicholson's comment that he "refuses to work like a coolie". "Coolie" is a derogatory slang term used to describe Asian and Indian slaves or indentured workers. Today the term is still used in some Caribbean islands to describe West Indians brought over during the slave trade. The irony that Nicholson is condemning the Japanese for using the very same practises used by the British Empire is completely lost on Lean. Nicholson isn't a hero for "retaining his humanity" and "refusing to work like a coolie", he's a hypocrite.But still, the film works on a primal level. Why does everyone love a good prison break movie ("Cool Hand Luke", "Shawshank", "Papillon", "Birdman of Alcatraz", "One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest", "The Great Escape" etc")? Probably because they're all thinly disguised existential tales centring on captured heroes who must break free, emancipating themselves from some phantom Order. Having escaped the constrictions of this immoral system, they achieve a kind of Nietzschean freedom or spiritual transcendence. It's all quite silly, but hits people on an archetypal, almost primal level.What's unique about "The Bridge Over The River Kwai" is that there is no "literal" freedom. Nicholson and his men don't escape the constrictions of the camp, rather, they change the camp to adhere to their own standards, their own "British" way of life.At the end of "Bridge", Nicholson and Saito stand on their bridge, and Nicholson remarks "isn't this beautiful?" Saito nods, the duo sharing their only moment of agreement, though Lean subtly implies that Saito is really referring to the rising sun in the distance. One man sees beauty in British engineering, pride, duty, strength and solidarity, whilst the other quite literally sees beauty in the "rising sun" of the Japanese Empire. With the bridge blowing up at the end of the film and Saito eventually dying, the film ends on what Lean has insisted is an "anti-war note", suggesting that it is the "madness of war" that keeps cultures apart. For Brit audiences, though, the film tends to fan the passions of patriotism.8/10 – An attempt to rewrite history, yes, but the film is nevertheless iconic, its characters have gravity and Lean in many ways invented huge chunks of cinematic grammar. We take his influence for granted now, but there are numerous little shots, compositions and trends in this film that Lean is responsible for starting. Worth two viewings.
The defining piece among David Lean's magna opera, THE BRIDHE ON THE RIVER KWAI ushers in Lean's artistically ripe years with his epic-scale storytelling coming about in the most picturesque locations among our mundane world. In the heart of its hearts, TBONRK is an anti-war infotainment, as it is book-ended by British Major Clipton's "it's madness!" exclamation after its breakneck finale, madness is constituent of war, no one can say otherwise, but as in any superlative narrative-leaning cinematic conception, Lean cannily adopts an ambiguous route in lieu of stating the obvious (one must also lure those ticket-buyers who are steeped in nationalism, patriotism and heroism into the auditorium) and lets the rousing spirit prevail among those allied WWII POWs in Burma, under the high-handed command of Japanese Colonel Saito (an Oscar- nominated Hayakawa, giving a forcibly layered presence against the role's discriminated condition), to build a bridge over the River Kwai that will connect Bangkok and Rangoon. The meat of the film's first half is a duel of will between British Lieutenant Colonel Nicholson (Guinness, walks away with his Oscar with august poise and solemn diction) and Saito, and who is the winner? The answer is as plain as the nose on anyone's face. Nicholson's obduracy ostensibly stems from his admired patriotism, to safeguard the last remnant of dignity against the ghastly adversity, but there is just a fine line between patriotism and jingoism, he will not bat an eye if he dies for his alleged good cause, naturally, it entails that no other lives can alter his mind, and shall we really extol such hidebound doctrine? This is where the film daringly touches a raw nerve in Nicholson's final triumph, why is he hailed by his fellow prisoners? He has done nothing for them from a pragmatic angle, what he achieves only fulfills his ego, an ego Lean beguilingly links with British's own colonial pride, to build a sturdy bridge in a foreign country and have his name inscribed in the plaque, disregarding its utilitarian consequences which will further extend the warfare and compound the affliction. On the other hand, we have the American Navy Commander Shears (an omnipotently, effortlessly charismatic Holden), who miraculously escapes from the prison camp alive, and swears that nothing can haul him back to that living hell. But, "there is always something unexpected", that is the tag-line of the picture, in the exchange between him and the British Major Warden (Jack Hawkins, spiking a dosage of empathy into his martinet blood), Shears is literally coerced into "volunteer" the mission to blow up the bridge because of his inconvenient "imposter" identity, yes, he is not a commander but a common soldier taking the uniform to secure better treatment in captivity (a very understandable action, surely is below Nicholson's hallowed principles). What happens in the second half actually shows that Shears' "insider" distinction makes no import in their mission or whatsoever, the army might just as well command any soldier as willing as the Canadian Lieutenant Joyce (Horne, a tenderfoot but swell swimmer), there is cruel irony seeping underneath the shock troops' daredevil heroism. As a rule, the mockery shouldn't be too offensive (it is not a vehement agitprop), Shears' penchant for hedonism and pragmatism alternates with Nicholson slippery to self-indulging delusion is the constantly battling tenors thrusting this film to the crunch, as Nicholson's "what have I done?" epiphany dished up with a ghost of vague contrition and followed by a chancy act of detonation, all we want to ask in the aftermath, is it really worth it?Apart from several peccadilloes, for instance, the technical incapacity of the Japanese party comes far too convenient (as it is not the case in reality) and the unpleasantness of war prisoners' state- of-play is categorically diluted, TBONRK is a sensational journey, peopled with vivid characters (its nearly male-exclusive cast, saving for some female exploitation footnotes, is all in full mettle), sublime landscape (including a striking worm's-eye view shot with collective wing-taking avifauna in the wake of gunshots) and well-imposed suspense, not to mention the food-for-thought deliberation it triggers in hindsight, one must see it to experience it!


                
Bridge over the River Kwai (1957)A superbly well crafted World War II movie about British POWs working on a bridge in the Thai jungle for their Japanese captors.That may sound like a summary, but along those lines it's simply a really well made (and fictional) movie. What makes it rise above (much as "Lawrence of Arabia" by the same director does) is the psychology, and the aggrandizing pro-British agenda. It's all feel-good stuff (if you're not Japanese, at least). And smart, sharply filmed, and increasingly complicated.There are some welcome contrasts quite intentionally worked out at the start, including a common one in these film—the different military culture of the British (in Asia still very much of the British Empire mindset) and the Americans (represented by William Holden). The Japanese are really only present in the form of the prison commander, who is a combination of cruel and pathetic. You eventually feel sympathy for the fellow in a way, as the Brits show an unlikely but well-hones superiority in engineering and in morality.There is some true basis to the movie but there were so many liberties taken with the truth that there is no need to dig into that (except for some sense of what the war was really like in SE Asia before 1945). So you really can't watch it for a glimpse of prison life in a Japanese camp. Instead think of it as a larger tale of dignity and perseverance. Alec Guinness (as the leading British officer) is wonderful.The eventual climax is filled with irony and difficulty (and tragedy), but I can't go into that and the meanings here. Let it be said that you need to stick it out if the three hours starts to seem long. It has both a resolution to the plot and to the ethical issues that turn up.Powerful stuff. In the big picture this will seem "by the book," an epic that is excellent but takes few chances. But it's so well made you need to appreciate it for what it is.


                
Few movies tell the story of war in such an unbiased way, only to show its dehumanizing effects. About midway through Bridge on the River Kwai, the viewer no longer is too interested in who will "win" the conflict (how do you do that anyway?—But that's for another conversation), but rather about the lengths these men have gone away from their beings. We see people who were driven to the brink of what one can survive, and not all of them did. A true test of the boundaries of the human spirit, Bridge on the River Kwai, directed by David Lean, took home Oscar's top prize in 1957.Brash, yet civil Colonel Nicholson (Alec Guinness) commander of a group of British soldiers captured as POW's by the Japanese military in the midst of WWII has a single vision in mind. Armed with the promise of the Geneva Convention, Nicolson is determined to lead his men with honor. Determined to conduct himself and his men with the honor betrothed to those that don the British uniform, Nicolson endures more than anyone thought he could survive to gain the respect of his captors. The Japanese eventually realize that Nicholson is a force to be reckoned with, and as much as they may wish to kill him, their hands are figuratively tied. Gaining respect, Nicholson eventually becomes an integral part of the Japanese plan to build a bridge over the river Kwai veiled as a useful wartime measure that actually only serves as a monument to Japanese commanding officer Colonel Saito (Sessue Hayakawa). Although his men don't want to do the work that glorifies the Japanese, Nicholson ensures them that completion of the bridge will actually serve as a testament to the will and honorability of the British. Construction goes on, with the help of the British, all the while allies have hatched a plan to burn the bridge down, led by escaped American prisoner Shears (William Holden). The two plots work together to form one cohesive story of men afflicted with battle and the concessions that some won't even allow themselves to make in a time of war.This film shows Alec Guinness at his best, a raw look at a man in the heart of battle that refuses to leave his morals behind. He excels as a man leading his men with the dignity each deserves as a human being. William Holden is also a standout in this picture. Holden plays the role of the disillusioned prisoner who has given up hope with ease, coming off both believable and lovable. The cinematography of this film was a thing of beauty. In scenes with hundreds of men marching, the audience is graced with seeing the vast landscape that is so grand it appears to completely encompass the men. There were also incredible shots through binoculars that show, in part, the directorial genius of David Lean. The acting and technical elements came together to create a strong film that explores the depth of the human spirit.It is sometimes difficult to watch a movie with no clear hero. Everyone comes off a little crazy in this film; which perhaps, may explain why the final lines in this film were "the madness, the madness". I don't want a cookie-cutter movie by any means, but I also don't want to travel half way through an almost three-hour film rooting for someone, only to realize he's a bit off his rocker. I suppose, however, that is what happens when you have a movie like Bridge on the River Kwai, with such heavy themes as honor, strength, and valor. Technically, I understand why this film took home Oscar's top prize; the acting and writing allows one to understand this as well. I would recommend this film to anyone who enjoys war films, of course, even though this one is quite different from the standard. Also, I would recommend Bridge on the River Kwai to anyone who needs reassurance that the human spirit can overcome even the darkest of evils.


                
Certainly 'The Bridge on the River Kwai' has a gorgeous and epic sweep. If viewers simply want an entertaining evening, just cue it up and enjoy. For that matter, if you want encouragement, The AFI 100 once placed 'The Bridge' as the 13th best film ever and it has garnered more 4 of 4 and 5 of 5 star reviews than can be counted.However, The AFI now places the Film 37th and perhaps it is past due for re-vision. Although larger problems develop more slowly, it is a bad sign when there are not one, but two, obvious editing problems before the end of the credits! We are right behind the mounted machine gun on a train. The view is of the at least 2 carloads of wood for fuel and the engine. But now we see the same view with no fuel cars, OR EVEN THE ENGINE. Where did they go? In the same scene, the train now stops as the rail ends amidst about 15 workers. But now the dramatic score kicks in and there suddenly are several dozen workers on the rail line. In a low-budget film, this could be overlooked. But this is a major production that won an Oscar....for best direction AND editing! Moving on to the more serious issues, we are told that the British Commander (Alec Guinness) has been ordered to surrender, along with over 100 men and about a dozen officers. No explanation is offered for this. Really? He was just 'ordered to surrender'? According to historical estimates, over 100,000 men died building this railroad. For that matter, although there are ample references to men dying in this prison camp, all the men who have already been imprisoned there, even those in the infirmary, look well-fed, some even in 'beef-cake' condition. Again, this sort of over-sight would be fine for a 2nd rate 'action-genre' flick. It's Bill Holden-he's tanned, buff, and sweaty. Enough said? The central problem with 'The Bridge on the River Kwai' has at least been occasionally mentioned. Guinness' Commander not only helps the Japanese build a crucial bridge in their supply line, he goes to great lengths to make sure the bridge will hold and be finished on time. This to prove superior British logistics and character. Along the way, he is warned of the possibly treasonous nature of his collaboration, and yet he continues on without a doubt. Nothing is made of this...he just comes across as 'funny that way'. However, as far as I know, it has not been pointed out that all of his men and his officers would therefore have had to join him in this inexplicable lapse. This despite what appears to be a very democratic officers meeting and over two months time to reflect on the matter. Treason?...well...no problem! What a credulous bunch of guys. And more to the point, what a credulous bunch of reviewers have failed to notice this. Clearly the original 1957 release of 'The Bridge on the River Kwai' struck a cord. To portray an American, (British in the book), played by William Holden, as cynically detached from the war effort and yet ultimately humane was not new. Several Bogart films prepared audiences for this. But to sum it all up as 'Madness', this before Catch-22 and Mash, was ahead of it's time. This progressive spirit, some great cinematography, and a rousing combination of star-power and studio support make for an entertaining evening. But as a 'Closely Watched Film', it is almost as much train-wreck as classic.


                
I'll start off by saying that I'm an Irish-English-German-French descendant American. That David Lean was an excellent director shows very well here.Sessue Hayakawa actually had my sympathy. He could have just let Guiness die in the hole and forced labor under the threat of death. Instead, he liberates him and the English man is victorious and the Japaneses cries by himself. By the way, I didn't see much Japanese or even much Asians in an area that's supposed to be Asis. Hayakawa even gets stabbed by death to show a young English recruit to prove courage.Guiness played the stiff upper lip Englishman who pridefully supervises the buildin of the bridge for the Japanese. It turns out to be his downfall as Willian Holden and Jack Hawkins come to destroy it.Holden is definitely the most likable of the group but then I did start by saying I'm an American. Odd scene where the white guys get muddied up by the yellow girls as if the whites were gods.But the dialogue is thoughtful and brings up interesting issues. Made prior to James Bond, the training camps of the British must have been influential for those films.The palaces where the English plan their strategies are something to behold. In fact, all locations used for this film are quite outstanding.And it nary a boring moment in the film. It moves fairly quickly and the showdown one of best I've seen in war films.Willian Holden managed to star in many important films of the 1950's and this is definitely one of his best.
Bridge on the River Kwai, is a very Intriguing movie centering around a man who refuses to compromise his principles regardless of the situation surrounding him, and the conflict that is caused when his principles become contrary to one another. I enjoyed this movie very much, but would like to have seen Alec Guinness receive a little more of the screen time. The music is also very memorable. I'm sure there are many people who are familiar with the "Colonel Bogey March" who have never even seen the film! The last line of the film sums it up nicely, not just in reference to the main characters but the situation and war in general. 8 out of ten.


                
Critics' failure to comprehend this film was due to postmodernism. The film is not about its individuals; it is an allegory about 3 groups, U.S. amateurs, exemplified by William Holden as Shears; the British Empire represented by Alec Guinness as Colonel Nicholson; and the Japanese Empire represented by Sessue Hayakawa as Colonel Saito. The titular bridge is the center of the symbolism. Shears wishes he were not at war at all--the bridge has no meaning to him; Nicholson in building the bridge performs an "Elephant Walk" ignoring of the situation; and Saito wants to build the bridge to show the British the Japanese are as good imperial dynasts as they are, and fails miserably. The film by my lights is long, but logically plotted. Characters are not developed, as in most males' films; but the central characters are given values, actions, reactions, speeches, purposes. The epic can be summed up in three sentences; "A reluctant US warrior escapes from a Japanese prison camp just as newly-captured Brits led by a colonel arrive. He is forced to return, to blow up a bridge which the Brit, after refusing to allow involuntary work by officers on the bridge, has lovingly built, even recruiting his sick, wounded and dying men to show what British efficiency can do. The Japanese commandant was ready to kill himself if he failed to meet the bridge's deadline, so he reluctantly helps finish the bridge--which the U.S. soldiers and his team are sent to blow up, with the Brit's equally-reluctant eleventh-hour aid." The central battle in the film is one of wills. Nicholson refuses to ignore the Geneva Convention and have his officers work on the bridge; he is thrown into "The Oven", a tin-box baking in the sun. Once released, he becomes the charismatic leader of his men. And wanting to show the superiority of British methods over Japanese, he and his team choose a new location and agree to finish the bridge on time. Saito accepts though this almost kills him to do so. And the efforts succeeds. There is a fine railway bridge, which Nicholson hopes future users will appreciate--he puts up a plaque saying British soldiers built it; but it's to be used by the enemy in WWII to send troop and ammunition trains through to kill British and American soldiers! So when a demolition team led by a commandeered Shears arrives and Nicholson discovers their goal, he suddenly realizes what he is--a totalitarian aiding an even more barbarous empire than his own, no better than they; so even shot and dying, he cries, "What have I done" and detonates explosives planted by the team whose other members have been killed. The final judgment on the entire bridge-building project--symbol of a "bridge" from the imperial past to a human future--is spoken by the camp's doctor, James Donald, who calls the entire affair, "Madness, madness." (Postmodernism--the ignoring of reality to construct a plausible or enforced alternative--the Japanese ordering Saito to be able to build a railroad using reluctant conscripts on a swift timetable was insane; the Colonel's agreeing to construct it after having opposed the concept of officers working on the project at gunpoint is insane; forcing a realist like Shears to die at gunpoint to have to prevent its building which he knew was a wrong project for either of the empires' representatives is insane. As the US soldier, William Holden is quite good. Alec Guinness as Colonel Nicholson and Sessue Haykawa as Saito are both award caliber, as is James Donald, the lone British realist, a doctor whose men are urged from hospital to labor at completing a bridge whose name should have been "treason to humans' values". Others in the large cast include Heather Sears, Percy Herbert, Jack Hawkins, Andre Morell, Geoffrey Horne, Peter Williams and many others. David Lean directed very artfully from a script by Carl Foreman and Michael Wilson, developed from Pierre Boulle's French-language novel. Jack Hildyard's cinematography, Malcom Arnold's music (except for "The Colonel Bogey" March) used in several places, art direction by Donald M. Ashton all are first-rate. If as some note this is bad history,no one has problems following its points of view; given its modest and ironic source, author Boulle's distrust of human civilization in totalitarian hands (he also wrote "Planet of the Apes"), the most admirable feature of the film is how much was made out of a sketchy narrative basis


                
Disguised in the garb of a boy's-own adventure film, "The Bridge On The River Kwai" succeeds in being one of the most cleverly subversive films ever to capture mainstream success. As adapted for the screen by two then-blacklisted writers, Michael G. Wilson and Carl Foreman, "Kwai" sends up Western notions of heroism and race identity and dares to question not only the needfulness of war but the very value of winning it when weighed against the cost of one peacelover's life.It's a simplistic, perhaps off-putting message, but a unique one for an action-adventure film from the 1950s. As presented by director David Lean and four terrific lead actors, William Holden, Jack Hawkins, Sessue Hayakawa, and Alec Guinness, the film is not one you want to pass by.The focal point, especially in the movie's first half, is Guinness's Col. Nicholson, who leads his ragged troops to a Japanese prison camp after being ordered to surrender in Singapore. Camp commandant Saito (Hayakawa) wants to break the morale of his charges through forced labor, turning them into either productive slaves or else cheap corpses. Nicholson of course wants his troops to be neither. So intent on keeping order he won't even allow his men to discuss escape, he rigidly follows a by-the-book code that winds up getting him shut up in a tin shack.Nicholson may be admirable, but as Saito says, he is too proud. At one point, when told he is beyond the markers of civilization, Nicholson breezily replies: "Then we have the opportunity to introduce it." Later on, he talks up the idea of building a bridge for his captors. "We can teach these barbarians a lesson in Western methods of efficiency that will put them to shame." Saito's no barbarian, though, just another soldier trying to do his job by a code even more stringent than Nicholson's.Pride is not a bad thing when it helps keep your men alive, and this Nicholson manages to do. But that same pride becomes all-consuming, to the point where he allows himself to forget his duties to his country and bends himself to a task designed to help his enemy win the war.Another British soldier, completing a triangle with Nicholson and Saito, is Hawkins' Maj. Warden, a commando of almost casual heroism as he totes a sleeve full of plastic explosives around his neck. Seeking to blow up the bridge Nicholson is so intent on building, Warden presses into service an American (Holden) who only wants to go home and chase women. As Holden's character says, Warden would prefer to "die by the rules when the only important thing is to live like a human being." Yet Warden isn't only willing to risk his life, but the American's, too.The movie's philosophy of disengaged pacifism and the "madness" of war gives it much of its strength, though for my money it goes on too long making the same points. The subplot with Holden feels tacked on and detracts too much from Nicholson and the rightful center of the story. Saito slinks to the background too quickly after his face-off with Nicholson, hardly mattering by the end despite the fact he is a critical player throughout the first half.The point of Saito's character seems to be that he becomes disillusioned as Nicholson helps him accomplish his mission, his sense of honor offended by the prisoners' help it is his duty to accept. Here's another example of the limitations of a warrior's code, especially as we witness Saito's preparations for hari-kari and his admission he really wanted to be an artist."Kwai" may be one of the most visually perfect films ever made, every scene framed and set with a jeweler's care and taking full advantage of a lush Far Eastern landscape. Add to that the unusually complex storyline, and Lean's first epic proves a very good one, a classic to many. If it isn't everyone's cup of tea, well, neither is war.


                
A struggle for morale, camaraderie and general human compassion in the dregs of a harsh, tropical POW camp during World War II. The cruel conditions and flagrant disregard for prisoners' rights cause conflict between the guards and a new troupe of British captives, but the pride and determination of leadership in the face of such adversity gradually earns the men a measure of due respect. Alec Guinness won an Oscar for his portrayal of said leader, a determined military man who takes no quarter despite terrible punishment and still harbors the notion of brotherhood with his captors.Therein lies the moral conflict, as Guinness and his men develop a strained kinship with the Japanese officers while an escaped American works in secrecy to undermine the entire operation. Tricky waters to navigate, since we feel a mix of enthusiasm and reluctance for both perspectives. Everyone has a distinct, relatable motivation - even the seemingly-merciless captors - which makes this something much more than your usual yay-rah, blow 'em up wartime picture. An astonishingly even-handed take on a racially charged historical conflict that was still very fresh in national hearts and minds at the time of its release.


                
The Bridge on the River Kwai opens in a Japanese prisoner-of-war camp in Burma in 1943, where a battle of wills rages between camp commander Colonel Saito (Sessue Hayakawa) and newly arrived British colonel Nicholson (Alec Guinness). Saito insists that Nicholson order his men to build a bridge over the river Kwai, which will be used to transport Japanese munitions. Nicholson refuses, despite all the various "persuasive" devices at Saito's disposal. Finally, Nicholson agrees, not so much to cooperate with his captor as to provide a morale-boosting project for the military engineers under his command. The colonel will prove that, by building a better bridge than Saito's men could build, the British soldier is a superior being even when under the thumb of the enemy. As the bridge goes up, Nicholson becomes obsessed with completing it to perfection, eventually losing sight of the fact that it will benefit the Japanese. Meanwhile, American POW Shears (William Holden), having escaped from the camp, agrees to save himself from a court martial by leading a group of British soldiers back to the camp to destroy Nicholson's bridge. Upon his return, Shears realizes that Nicholson's mania to complete his project has driven him mad. Filmed in Ceylon, Bridge on the River Kwai won seven Academy Awards, including Best Picture, Best Director for the legendary British filmmaker David Lean, and Best Actor for Guinness. It also won Best Screenplay for Pierre Boulle, the author of the novel on which the film was based, even though the actual writers were blacklisted writers Carl Foreman and Michael Wilson, who were given their Oscars under the table.


                
A lot could be said about this movie, but I feel that its brutal reality cannot be adequately put to words. You should experience it for yourself. Still, if one has to summarize it, the best way to do it is to quote Major Clipton's last line.8/10


                
The Bridge On The River KwaiThe Bridge On The River Kwai is a character driven war drama about a men with principles standing against the antagonist's camp as a protest with a never yielding spirit. The self-righteousness and morale conflicts is crafted with such nuance in here that the viewers never even questions it for once. And which then, breeds this portal of inner politics and torture and plethora of tactics like such, to convince and win over them in this mind game. The head to head arguments and political debates brewed among a pragmatic and brilliantly weaved conversations are electrifying to encounter on screen. Being aware of the innocence that these characters and brave tale is brimmed with, the makers easily draws out emotions from the audience that can easily melt you down. It is rich on technical aspects like background score, cinematography, editing and stunning camera work. Holden's practical and subtle portrayal is actually more than plausible but since the range offered to it, isn't as wide as Guinness's character that not only is given much more range and space but is also impressive as he flaunts it with such panache. The adaptation is smart and gripping despite of ticking for almost there hours, it contains a potentially jagged script. Lean's execution is always, layered and thought provoking where he takes its time eschewing the characters appropriately. The subjective procedure in here isn't crowded but competent and even busy that keeps the audience tangled in its chaotic and political war. Harrowing and mesmerizing images that shows both the aspects of the nature, inner politics in a camp and Guiness at the heart of it that fuels this war drama are the high points of the feature. The Bridge On The River Kwai is a calculative allegory that symphonizes higher concept through one's most simplistic nature.


                
There are many Second World War films that will definitely stand the tests of time and be looked at as - almost - 'historical' representations of the events that transpired. I'm not entirely sure that 'The Bridge on the River Kwai' will be one of those, as it's far too 'niche' to maintain its popularity, but that doesn't mean that it's a bad film. For a start, if you're looking for huge 'Saving Private Ryan' style battles involving the heroic Allies blasting their way through legions of German troops, you'll be very disappointed here. With the exception of a couple of brief shoot-outs and the odd knife to the back, there's little in the way of action here.It's about an unfortunate bunch of British (mainly) prisoners of war who are incarcerated in a Japanese POW camp. There, they're forced to help build a bridge (over the river Kwai, believe it or not!) in order to aid the Japanese war effort. You may think that a WWII film based around a POW camp would mean that our plucky Brits would spend their time and efforts devising new and ingenious ways to tunnel their way out of there. Not here. The camp doesn't even have any fences due to it being on an island, therefore there's nowhere really to escape if they tried. Instead, the story predominantly focuses on two character - one is the Japanese warden who runs the facility and the other is the British officer 'in charge' of the captive prisoners (there's also a sub-plot regarding how the rest of the Allied war effort perceives the camp and what they're doing about it, but that's secondary to the one-on-one between the two leads in my opinion).Now, I wouldn't go as far as saying you'd be able to 'identify' with the Japanese guard, but you will definitely get to know him and his motivations and, dare I say it, his character even develops as the film progresses. However, the most interesting character is his British opposite, played by none other than (the original) Obi-wan Kenobi himself, Sir Alec Guinness. He's a man in charge of both keeping his soldiers' morale up, but also the 'good name' of the British army/Empire. He'll go to almost any lengths to ensure that neither are brought down in reputation in any way. And, his choices lead to some interesting outcomes which I won't go into in great details here.So, if you're looking for an outright war film, you won't really find it here. Instead, you'll get (quite a long) character study about stubborn madness, maybe even a little 'Stockholm Syndrome' and - what I perceived as - a variation on the 'Captain Ahab and his whale' type story. Alternatively, if you're just looking to see what old Ben Kenobi looked like without a lightsabre, you'll find that here, too.


                
I caught this movie over the Christmas period and am very glad that I did - it's actually very good and I'd firmly recommend it. "The Bridge on the River Kwai" has a nice and simple plot - British POWs, caught in Japan in WWII are forced to build a bridge (over the Kwai river) while one escaped member brings back information about the plans of the bridge. The film doesn't rush itself to tell its story clocking in - as it does - at 161 minutes. It instead takes a nice, leisurely but never boring pace.The acting here is excellent. It's quite unsurprising to see that Alec Guinness earned himself an Oscar for his portrayal of Colonel Nicholson. It's a show of great writing and acting that this character - who initially seems overly stubborn grows in the viewer's eyes to become a man whom we have an enormous amount of respect. The dynamic relationship with his captor Saito (Sessue Hayawka - who received an Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actor) is brilliant and both characters have a dimension sorely lacking in many movies. The rest of the cast - including the contingent sent to destroy the bridge - similarly are fleshed out ably by a terrific script adapted from Pierre Boulle's book.David Lean directed "Lawrence of Arabia" and his ability to do epics can be seen firmly in this earlier work. The eponymous bridge is beautifully framed throughout the movie and - it being a real bridge - we're always convinced of the sheer size of the task involved, which is highly important since the movie revolves around the various character's reactions to the bridge (and the natural metaphors that arise from a bridge). Everything looks beautiful and crisp - from the jungle to the camp to the whole Kwai river and naturally Lean easily deserved the Oscar for Best Director for his work here.The film throughout moved fluidly along right up to the sharp, hard hitting ending. There is a great tale in this movie and - for once - something to think about. Everything about the production is polished and it's no wonder it got itself Best Picture at the Oscar ceremony. Firmly one to recommend I'd pitch it at - for myself - a well above average 8.5/10


                
I can freely admit that I don't watch many movies that weren't made in the past thirty years, mainly because I usually find them to be far too slow. This film proved to be an exception.  While I did find it to take some time before it really got going, there were more than enough great moments to keep me watching with enthusiasm throughout.  Everything about this film is first-rate, and there is no question that it deserved the armload of Oscars that it won over four decades ago.  Now, I'm not going to say that it's one of the greatest films that I've ever seen, but I did feel that it was a very good film, and considering how I usually regard films made from this era, that is VERY high praise.


                
"The Bridge on the River Kwai" is well over half a century old. Both visuals and sound have been thoroughly restored, so that current electronic prints are quite nice.It's a "war film" ...and it's also an "anti-war film" It's about individual characters more than the larger conflict. In both these regards it seems to me most similar to "Apocalypse Now" ...except ending with "Madness, Madness" rather than "The Horror, The Horror".It's a ripping good yarn. Even though many individual moments and scenes seem "hokey" these days, somehow they all add up to something that will hold your attention for hours.Although it's not an "epic", and although it's shot on standard 35mm film, there are already suggestions here of what we'd see in "Lawrence of Arabia". Even half a decade earlier, here David Lean showed that he was enamored of shooting on location, shooting huge vistas, and shooting in a very wide format.I think one of the reasons the film still speaks to us is its considerable ambiguity. Did Nicholson fall accidentally on the plunger, or did he do it intentionally in a last cry of remorse? Did Saito intend the knife for a possible but unlikely ritual suicide, a certain ritual suicide, or to kill Nicholson once he'd fully served his purpose? Did Warden throw his weapon in a temporary fit of frustration, or as the first sign of a permanent decision to have nothing more to do with war? Did the women express revulsion at the deaths of men they were fond of, or at the realization of just how violent war was? ...and many more.The film was adapted from a book, except with the ambiguity ramped up, a character added, and different subplots emphasized. The book in turn was _loosely_ based on some real events the French author had no first hand involvement in (and may have even wanted to portray the British in a poor light).There are many things that one may accept in the moment, but that after a bit of reflection can't possibly be real: Temporary reassignment of a soldier to the army of a different country - A British medic running his own hospital with no supervision, having his own building, and making his own independent decisions about who could work and who could not - The Japanese not having sufficient engineering talent to design and build a permanent bridge - Prisoners often allowed to whistle a tune that was very derogatory to the Axis - Inmates in a Japanese prison camp appearing in good health, with good uniforms, and at normal weight - Inmates in a Japanese prison camp arranging their own entertainment ceremonies - Nicholson staying alive in an unventilated corrugated steel box in full sun in that torrid climate for many days - The Japanese commandant giving in to the British prisoner officer without any advance agreement on getting something in return - The very first detent between jailers and prisoners being in a lengthy joint meeting around a conference table, and with the prisoners controlling the agenda - A soldier with serious doubts about killing being selected as part of an elite commando unit - A sailor suddenly knowing how to handle a gun and how to be a commando - and more.In fact there are so many such departures from reality I can't imagine how anyone could possibly think this film is in any way trying to pass itself off as portraying historical events. To me, it's very obviously more of an imagined morality play than a portrayal of actual events. Nevertheless there have been public questions about its historical accuracy right from the beginning. Despite its adaptation from a book, which was in turn loosely inspired by some poorly reported events, some of the characters in the film could be identified with real individuals. And some of those people were still alive. And some of them complained noisily.
David Lean directed this superb, Academy Award winning(best picture and director) film set in a Japanese WWII POW camp for British(and one American) soldiers. Alec Guiness(Academy Award winner for best actor) stars as Col. Nicholson, who is subjected to harsh treatment(the sweat box) by Col. Saito in defiance of his authority, and for the respect he and his men are entitled to. Saito gives in, and Nicholson then proceeds with the original plan to build a railway bridge in the jungle to help the Japanese with their resupplying efforts. William Holden plays the American among them who escapes to freedom, but is persuaded to return with a Major Warden(played by Jack Hawkins) on a mission to destroy the bridge that Nicholson is now determined to complete! Fine war film and character study about personal vs. patriotic motives in war, and how they can both collide and collude... Memorable ending and final quote says it all.


                
I thoroughly enjoy this film,though I find it to be a rather odd story.Looking at it realistically,I find it hard to believe that a British commander,or any other commander,would give in to the will of the enemy under any circumstances,but I realize that even films based on true events can never be told 100% accurately,so I have no problem seeing as a great fictionalized account of true events.All the performances were excellent,particularly those of Alec Guiness and Bill Holden.If you are looking for a different type of war story,you have a winner in this one,but I would advise not reading up on how things really happened on The River Kwaiuntil after viewing it.It may make the film a disappointment to you.


                
I am by far not a connoisseur when it comes to war movies. It's not even my favorite genre. But recently I've been catching up with a lot of classics my father likes so much. I had seen THE BRIDGE ON THE RIVER KWAI before as a little kid, and now revisited it through a bit more experienced eyes. A lot of great reviews are written here on these pages, and maybe this film really comes close to being 10/10 material. But since I haven't really watched that much old war classics, I'm not going to attempt to write an in-depth review and just provide some random impressions in this user-comment instead.How many times have you seen deleted scenes on a DVD where the director explains it was cut out "for pacing issues, really"? Well, I'm convinced half of the time they're actually trying to say "the producers were afraid audiences might find our movie boring if we left too much in it". A lot of these deleted scenes "cut out to improve the pacing" could have easily been left in the film. But last week, I felt quite differently while watching THE BRIDGE ON THE RIVER KWAI. The first hour of the movie actually felt too long (mind you, not too slow, but more like certain scenes went on too long and the plot didn't really progress like it should have). We're talking a movie here that runs about 160 minutes and I'm 100% sure if this film would have been made today, they would have cut out more than half an hour of footage from that first half. And not only because films have changed so much over the years and everything has to go fast. At first, the stretched out first half of THE BRIDGE ON THE RIVER KWAI. felt like a flaw, but the movie's second half made me reconsider this. The plot shifts focus, and concentrates on an escaped Prisoner Of War, who fled from the camp and becomes part of a team sent back in to go and blow up the bridge. Suddenly, during the part of his recovery at a military hospital, the screenplay injects quite a bit of humor (the conversation between Warden and his superior officers about him not receiving parachute-training was a wonderful highlight) and from then on, when their mission starts, the film gets much more exciting. It made me appreciate the first hour more for the establishing reasons it was used for, and also because - to my surprise - the shifting in tone and pace worked wonders. There's so much you could go into if you're looking to praise this film. Needless to mention what a fine performance Alec Guinness and other cast members gave, so I'll just point out how impressed I was when I saw the movie's climax. They way the script builds up to it, is one thing. Taking the time to lay out a strategy and incorporating the notion that this whole mission might even go terribly wrong at one point, successfully increases tension during those final scenes. But the fact that the filmmakers completely destroyed a real bridge and a real train...? No use of miniatures or other special effects. Now which movies made today would actually have the courage to show us something like that? Simply none. Those days are over.The only thing I would have preferred, is having seen the first half of the film injected with a slightly more grim mood, because frankly, that cheerful (and very famous) whistle-tune of the prisoners and some of the fanfare-esquire parts of the musical score got on my nerves a bit. I'll just blame that on the fact that this foremost still is a Hollywood movie. And that's just the way anyone will have to take this film, regardless it was based on (and altered) real facts of war. From a historical point of view, the film might be insufficiently accurate, but it really feels like one of the greatest and most entertaining war-movies ever made.


                
