David Lean's "The Bridge on the River Kwai" like Jean Renoir's "Grand Illusion" is an anti-heroic war film, set in a prisoner of war camp environment... But there, the point of resemblance came to an end... "The Bridge on the River Kwai" is an adventure film in which the nature of World War II is explored... And if in "Grand Illusion" the characters were described by a great artist who treasures their common humanity, in "The Bridge on the River Kwai" they are forced to carry out their destinies by an officer who cannot bear to see his bridge blown up...Escape is almost impossible from the Japanese camp located near the Kwai River in Burma... The prisoners are badly treated by cruel guards... The camp commander is a rigid psychopath... Conditions are hard to bear... Psychological state of the war British prisoners in constant alteration...Into the presumptuous situation comes Colonel Nicholson (Alec Guinness in a fascinating performance), a strict, serene, dedicated British Officer, deeply concerned for the welfare of his men...Nicholson is under severe pressure from the stubborn Japanese Colonel Saito (Sessue Hayakawa) for insisting on his attachment to the Geneva convention and refusing to allow his officers to be used on the construction of the strategic bridge...Nichilson survives the oppressive punishment imposed on him, but his obsession has risen to near-madness... He agrees to help the Japanese build their bridge, and in his determination to find victory in defeat, he ignores that the bridge, which he insists must be a 'proper bridge,' will serve the Japanese objectives against the British troops...In addition to the powerful rules of a prison camp picture, captors against captives and an interesting moral respect to a military code, a third element, in the story, is introduced: a small commando team led by Major Warden (Jack Hawkins) and an American sailor (William Holden) whose mission is to destroy the strategic bridge..The film leads swiftly to a suspenseful climax: a Japanese train and a Commando force directed to a same goal, the Brige of the River Kwai...Each character, in the motion picture, has a valid reason for what he is doing, and each elaborates a relationship to the bridge revealed to be obsession and insane..."The Bridge on the River Kwai" hits with 'war' in a compelling logic of events, the indulgence of self-destruction.With a great visual beauty and terrific whistling tune March, "The Bridge on the River Kwai" is a great dramatic entertainment of the wills of men...
First off, what is so amazing about this film is that, for the time that it was made, how modern it looks. David Lean certainly had the eye of any modern director and managed to direct a visual masterpiece at a time when many films were still being shot in black and white.   William Holden gives one of his finest performances as a cynic of warfare , citing for us the insanity and absurdity that the combatants often convey. And he hates the war, but he cannot avoid been thrown back into it again and again. We wish he could stay on the beach with his nurse lover, but he is a man destined for a tragic doom for his country, whether he wants to or not.   Alec Guiness also delivers a fine performance as a bold general whose own pride is, at the same time, his most noble quality as well as his greatest fault. He is uncompromising, yet when the Japanese submit to his demands, he begins overseeing the construction of the bridge with great esteem. Eventually, for him, the bridge becomes a manifestation of his belief of the superiority of the British Army, which he follows like a religion. And in putting all his pride into this bridge, he loses sight of even the British's own true agenda. Truly, his sense of overwhelming honor is, at the same time, his downfall in a descent to a loss of morality, and a sense of good and evil.    And yes, by the end of this film, we learn a great lesson of the horrors of war. Not only does it take the lives of many good men, but the utter failure and despair that accompany it make it an unbearable existence. And this message has only recently been re-evaluated with the also-brilliant masterpiece "Saving Private Ryan." But, keep in mind that it took forty years to regain the power that this film inspired so long ago.


                
The Bridge on the River Kwai – David Lean's first epic, a genre he would later be associated with more than any other. Previously having made his mark as a director of deep and often psychological dramas, Lean's easy transition into bigger pictures reflects the change that was taking place in the genre itself, moving from the grandiose spectacle of De Mille et al, towards the "intimate" epic of the late 50s and early 60s.We are also here seeing the development of the war, or rather, the anti-war picture. Prior to this most anti-war or anti-military pictures were small-scale dramas, whereas all the big war films were rousing flag wavers. Bridge on the River Kwai ticks both boxes, and is all the more effective for it. It is an anti-war film which prevents itself from becoming static or preachy, and an action film with a humanist edge.The problem presented to David Lean, aside from the fact that he had never done anything on this scale before, is that Michael Wilson and Carl Foreman's multi-layered screenplay contains many different strands, with stories told from multiple points of view. Lean fortunately had dealt with such fragmentary narratives before – 1952's The Sound Barrier for example – and here he actually uses the trappings of the epic to keep the narrative focused. This was the first time he had used the cinemascope aspect ratio, but rather than employing it purely to show off the stunning landscapes (although he does do a fair bit of that too, and why not?) he also uses the width of the screen to cram varying elements into the frame. For example, in the scene where Nicholson (Alec Guinness) surveys the railway construction with his fellow officers, the figure of Saito (Sessue Hayakawa) can be seen on a hill in the background. This reminds us of his presence, and subtly keeps his story arc going.Lean's use of colour is also remarkable. Of course, when your film is set in a PoW camp in the middle of a jungle, you have a fairly limited colour palette anyway, but Lean's crafty choice of camera angle and positioning is calculated to show off different tones at different times. In the opening moments, highly reminiscent of The African Queen (which, like Kwai, was produced by Sam Spiegel) he begins with the greens of the jungle – a fairly cold colour. As we descend through the trees, Lean gradually turns up the heat with those dusty yellows and browns. For the middle section of the film, he cools things off again with more lush greens and even some vibrant shades, before returning to the stark hot tones for the tense finale. Again, this is all very subtle director's work, but these touches do create little shifts in mood and influence the way we view each scene.Lean's handling of the larger canvas was however not yet quite up to best showing off his actors upon it. That's a shame with such a good cast, although Alec Guinness in one of his earliest non-comedic roles shone through enough to garner an Oscar. William Holden was also deserving of at least a nomination, but didn't get one. To my mind though the best performance of the picture was that of Sessue Hayakawa. Hayakawa was an incredibly powerful silent film actor – check him out in De Mille's The Cheat (1915) – and it's great to see him at the top of his game again here.Bombarded with awards, Bridge on the River Kwai is typical Oscar-winning fare, particularly for the conflicted political climate of the 1950s. It can be read as a damning critique of war, but also enjoyed as a gripping action film. This broad appeal, the depth of the screenplay and Lean's assured direction made it a hit in its day and allowed its popularity to endure in the generations since.


                
This may be the best war movie -- if that's what it is -- that was ever put together. I don't think it would be made today. It was expensive and there were no women in it to speak of, and any committee member with an MBA reading the script would wonder why there wasn't more action. Further, the movie hasn't got any magnificent computerized graphics going for it. And we hardly see any blood. And nobody's head gets blown apart. And there's not a foul word in it.David Lean has pulled off a neat stunt, making a superb film with a good script, great performances, effective location shooting, a subtext that provokes thought, a marvelously believable set of characterizations -- and no gimmicks.It begins traditionally enough, with red mud and brilliant green foliage, and an authentic prisoner of war camp into which Nicholson's captured battalion marches proudly. The first real hint we get of the film's originality is when the men are marching in place to Colonel Bogey's march and we get one or two shots of feet stomping up and down on the wet gravel. One pair of feet wears only half shoes. The toes are pointing out of the right shoe. On the left shoe, the upper has separated from the sole, and it flaps up and down as the foot inside it drives into the earth. Not only is the shot THERE but it's lingered over, just long enough.William Holden is running through the bushes, trying to escape from the camp, disturbing flocks of bird that chirp madly at him. One of his Japanese pursuers shoots him and he tumbles into a turbulent river. In any Hollywood movie, the drop would be done by a stunt man in the usual manner -- head over heels, arms flailing, off the cliff. Not here. Holden falls feet first, hands and palms held out at his sides, as if expecting to land on a trampoline. He simply doesn't FALL like a professional.The film is loaded with grace notes like this. It's difficult to imagine a director willing to take the time to fine tune his film like this today because both the people making films and the viewers themselves are impatient to get on with the story and reach the next scene that has sex, blood, or comedy in it. I wonder if it's coincidental that people now categorize themselves as fans of one or another basketball team instead of a baseball team. Watching a baseball game calls for patience while the batter digs his cleated shoes into the dirt around the plate. Basketball is all momentum and no patience is required.I won't go on about the movie except to say that it's masterly in almost every respect. But I guess I will mention one more thing of the sort that impressed me, dealing with characterization. Throughout the movie, we've been told and shown that Nicholson cares for nothing so much as the bridge itself. He began by thinking of it as a way to keep up the men's morale and a reason for keeping discipline, but it has come to have functional autonomy, eclipsing everything else in importance. Note the way Guiness's eyes light up in the day-for-night scene when he's told that similar bridges built of English elms have lasted for three hundred years. "Three hundred years!", he marvels.Likewise, the supporting character of Joyce, on the commandos, is shown as being uncertain of whether he could use his knife in hand to hand combat or not. When an armed Japanese soldier appears at arm's length, Joyce freezes and Jack Hawkins dashes in to kill the man. These two traits -- Nicholson's obsession with the bridge and Joyce's inability to use a knife -- are set up so that the final (and only) confrontation between Nicholson and Joyce can take place the way it does. Nicholson screams, "Blow up the BRIDGE?", grabs Joyce's legs and pulls him down to the sand, preventing Joyce from reaching the detonator. Commandoes be damned, nobody is going to destroy his bridge. Hawkins and Holden shout from the opposite bank of the river, urging Joyce to "kill him!" But Joyce can't kill him without using a knife, which we know he will be unable to do.It's a perfect payoff for what we've learned about the two men.Did Nicholson deliberately throw himself on the detonator as he was dying or did he fall on it by accident? Who cares. If he did it deliberately it would be a heroic act since he finally "came to his senses." But an accident would be more in keeping with the ironic tone of the rest of the film. At the end, everyone and everything of importance is dead except Clipton the humanitarian doctor who tells us unnecessarily that this is "madness" -- and those floating vultures with their Olympian view of these goings-on.It's a gripping movie from beginning to end, a magnificent job by everyone involved.
While this film is loaded with historical inaccuracies it nonetheless remains a great motion picture.  Many fine performances and the dual story line make it the picture that it is.  However don't view it for historic purposes.  The true story of the bridge and railway built by POW's is more brutal and horrifying than what is presented here.  The History Channel has an excellent presentation about the actual story.   By all means watch this film but don't pass up learning the real story.


                
The story is well laden with excitement, thrill and adventure. The characterization of different roles is uniquely perfect. The intrinsic conflicts, valor and stoic fortitude displayed by Col. Nicholson played by Alec Guinness is indeed commendable. Needless to mention is the daredevil nature of the commando action steered by a British Major to blow the bridge, laboriously built by another British Colonel is a striking coincidence. However, tragedy awaited Shears (William Holden) the US Navy Officer who had earlier miraculously escaped from the POW camp run by an intransigent Col. Saitu.Above all is the magnificent direction of Sir David Lean, who has captured marvelous locations for filming the army offices and bungalows situated at uniquely picturesque spots. It requires a keen eye to identify the meticulous details of the sets, like the revolving pedestal fan and wartime furniture, when Major Warden convinces Shears to join the death defying plot. The screenplay is a feast for the eyes. The dialogues and script goes hand in hand with the majestic flow of thrill in this commando mission movie.A must see for all war movie buffs.


                
Well, we can all read the 8.4 rating. This is a very well liked movie, and for good reasons I imagine. I cannot pretend to speak for all of these positive ratings, but I will say that it deserves better than a 5.0 rating from your reviewer. I first saw the film as an 11 year old. All I remembered then was the whistling. Seeing it again on video many years after was quite an experience for me. This is the ultimate anti-war film, bar none. It is beautifully done, but it can be painful to watch. The film offers defining moments for both Guiness and Holden that would follow them for some time afterwards. If only all of David Lean's films had been this wonderful.


                
I saw this film as a kid and wasn't particularly impressed. Considering just how long it had been, I decided to give it another chance. And, fortunately, I was rewarded by finding the film far better than I remembered.The movie is apparently based on real-life characters, though exactly how close to the real ones I am real uncertain. And this brings me to a problem with the film. Sessue Hayakawa played an incredibly reasonable Japanese prison commandant. Apparently the real Colonel he played was indeed an atypical man--most Japanese officers in a similar situation would have most likely just killed Alec Guinness and the other officers who refused his orders. I could, begrudgingly, accept this. But, when this tough Japanese soldier is seen CRYING in his hut, this just seemed ridiculous and almost impossible to believe.Okay, now apart from that, the movie was great. William Holden was essentially the same character he played in Stalag 17--almost like a close in fact of the same opportunistic "hero". I liked this as a counter-point to the usual tough-guy hero in movies.As for Guinness, he plays an excellent, but very odd British officer who is a great example of an Obsessive-Compulsive nut! He is so bent on maintaining self-control and a "stiff upper lip" that he completely loses sight of the war and the fact that the Japanese are the enemy! He and Holden both are amazing psychological portraits.Other than the acting, the cinematography and music were excellent. A very odd and atypical war film that is worth your time.


                
A quite well shot, well-acted depiction of extremities under war, and how war affects different people. It manages to portray the setting and the times unforgettably well, aided by some good music. Hayakawa is excellent, giving off a commanding performance as the Japanese general in charge. Despite its merits, the film still does have a number of vices. At times it is difficult to understand what is happening, and the film appears to be deficient in terms of providing the audience with background information. Also, the film is awfully overlong and none of the supporting characters (except for Hayakawa) are well developed. This is nonetheless a film that can be liked for its virtues insomuch as they over-weigh the film's vices <U+0096> but they do not override the negative aspects of the film. In addition, one may note that it is historically inaccurate <U+0096> another minor flaw of the film. Nevertheless, it was considered the best film of the year by both the British and American film academies, and it is a good quality film.


                
British officer goes daft in a sweat box, builds a bridge, and finally falls down on the job.A masterpiece, but a difficult movie. The point of the movie is the tangled nature of duty, ethics and morality, but it always seemed to me that they get even more tangled up than the movie intended. Just what is good and evil, at the end? I'm darned if I know. The movie seems to indicate self-discoveries by both the British and Japanese commanding officers, and yet the end of the movie makes a hollow mockery of those discoveries, and pretty much everything else beyond killing and destruction. Even the final destruction of the bridge is mere accident. It's just about the bleakest picture painted by any movie.I always found the soundtrack a bit overblown, to tell the truth, and a little distracting. Especially during the hike of the demo team to the bridge. The obligatory love interest is tacked-on and never feels like anything more than the obligatory love interest.Otherwise, the movie is engrossing, the performances are riveting, the scenes are awe-inspiring, and the ending is shattering. If, as I said before, difficult. At 161 minutes, this is a very long movie, and I am very rarely willing to grant that any movie should be longer than about 100 minutes. In this case, every one of those 161 minutes are worthwhile. (OK maybe a few minutes could have been trimmed from the hike, and the lovey-dovey stuff.) It's a shame we'll never see the likes of Guinness again. (I say that not because a Guinness could never be born again, but because I can't believe we'll ever see movies that can provide these kinds of roles again.) His performance when he emerges from the sweat box and marches to the commanding Japanese officer's hut is alone enough to put him into the highest rank of acting. Sessue Hayakawa was also brilliant but overshadowed. Holden was good but frankly he looked a bit hackneyed when considered against the rest of the cast. To be fair, he was given the pontificating speeches, and it's hard not to look hackneyed when you're pontificating.
Wow this is still a powerful work. The Bridge on the River Kwai is David Lean's WW2 epic made several years before his masterpiece Lawrence of Arabia. It's not on that level of perfection, but it's still a damned great movie. They don't make films like this anymore. I remember being shown this film in a movie appreciation segment by a teacher in elementary school. I then would watch it every chance I got as I grew older. Alec Guinness and William Holden give what may be their best performances. Younger people raised on fast-paced CGI hyper-edited ADHD movies would probably complain that this is boring. Their loss, and dead wrong. THIS is how films should be made. Take your time with location work and character development. There is one particular shot in the jungle where the commandos are hunting a stray Japanese solder. They startle hundreds of bats from sleep, and the bats fill the sky. The shadows of the bats flicker on the jungle below, making the search even more difficult due to the eye being drawn all around to the shadows flickering on the leaves. Brilliant scene. If you haven't seen this movie, you owe it to yourself to watch it. "Madness."


                
Nobody could craft an epic film better than David Lean, as I learned earlier this year when I watched the magnificent 'Lawrence of Arabia' for the first time. Though he had achieved earlier success with such films as 'Brief Encounter (1945)' and 'Great Expectations (1946),' 'The Bridge on the River Kwai' was the first of Lean's multi-million dollar wide-screen spectaculars, for which he is now most fondly remembered. Shot on location in the jungles of Ceylon (now Sri Lanka), the film concerns the building of a railway bridge by Allied prisoners-of-war during World War Two. As it becomes less and less likely that the bridge will be constructed before the deadline, conflict escalates between the proud British leader, Col. Nicholson (Alec Guinness) and hot-tempered Col. Saito (Sessue Hayakawa). The film proved very successful at the 1958 Oscars, taking home seven awards (including Best Picture) from eight nominations.Whilst William Holden's cynical, hard-edged American was likely considered the main star attraction, the film's most memorable character <U+0096> and, indeed, one of the greatest in cinema history <U+0096> is Alec Guiness' Col. Nicholson. The embodiment of British courage and dedication, Nicholson finds himself in a battle of wills with the ruthless Col. Saito, who, despite representing the enemy, nonetheless exhibits many of the same qualities: egotistical pride, obstinacy and unwillingness to compromise. For Col. Nicholson, the construction of the railway bridge becomes something of an obsession, its completion symbolic of "Western methods and efficiency that will put {the Japanese} to shame" and the culmination of his 28 years in the military. When he uncovers the plot to destroy the bridge, Nicholson betrays his fellow countrymen to the Japanese, his narcissistic pride in the landmark prompting him to neglect his sworn duty to Britain.I'd like to take some time to consider the film's climax, undoubtedly one of the most awe-inspiring cinema spectacles of all time. I had initially anticipated that, after the intricate task of planting the explosives overnight, the detonation of the bridge would be a rather straightforward task. However, David Lean weaves so much action and suspense into the finale that the closing credits left me reeling. As the distant rumble of a train announces its impending arrival, Col. Nicholson notices that the reduction in river-level has exposed the wires connecting the explosives to the detonator. Not yet comprehending the situation, he summons Col. Saito and they both descend to the riverside to investigate. Once his fears are confirmed, Nicholson <U+0096> to his subsequent dismay <U+0096> attempts to thwart his army's attempt to destroy the enemy bridge, and both Lt. Joyce (Geoffrey Horne) and Cmdr. Shears (William Holden) are fatally shot.Interestingly, there have been suggestions that Maj. Warden (Jack Hawkins) fired the lethal shots at his own comrades, abandoning the mission objective in an attempt to prevent their live capture by the merciless Japanese. Whilst this isn't explicitly shown in the film itself, it reportedly corresponds with Pierre Boulle's original novel (in which, notably, the bridge is not destroyed) and would certainly explain why, afterwards, Warden tries to rationalise his actions: "I had to do it. I had to do it. They might have been captured alive. It was the only thing to do." Alternatively, Warden didn't shoot them, but is attempting to justify his use of the mortars, which basically obliterated any slim remaining chances on their survival. Meanwhile, Nicholson, struck by shrapnel from a mortar attack, crumbles hopelessly onto the detonator (either intentionally or inadvertently) just as the train begins to cross the river. The actual collapse of the $250,000 bridge, a shot which owes a lot to Buster Keaton and 'The General (1927)', is an amazing spectacle, and Maj. Clipton (James Donald) sums up the entire climax - and war in general - with his horrified exclamation of "Madness! Madness!"
Unputdownable is a slang term to describe a book that you can't stop reading, it's so good. You've got chores, deadlines, bedtime, but your hands can't stop flipping the page and you don't know why other than you're reading a great book. This is the movie equivalent. I can't really explain why I like this movie; every few years I re-watch it just to make sure my esteem is correct, and it always is. I don't even go for old movies usually, but The Bridge on the River Kwai just gets me, like a joke I can't stop laughing to. Alec Guinness and his British manners in a battle of wills against the brusque Japanese commander? Love it. The bizarre obsession with building the bridge? Love it. The jungle heat, the river? Love it, love it. The ending? Triple love it. It's unpausable!


                
A compelling work engulfed with human nature embellished by a grand design, it's a monumental testament to the condition of war and nationalism. The still frame shots of a cascade of bats darkening the Indian sky, disturbed by the brutality of soldiers. And that's how you feel when it all ends. Lean captures that unabashed pride that inhabits every countrymen, and, in a close up shot on the brilliant Alex Guiness, he captures that horrific gaze, the kind a soldier possesses before uttering "What have I done?". Tragic, suspenseful, and altogether beautifully done, Bridge On The River Kwai feels essential, significant in every way.


                
Movie Review: "The Bridge On The River Kwai" (1957)This splendid novel-adaptation going-out from author Pierre Boulle (1912-1994), royally-received to be directed by exceptional film-maker David Lean (1908-1991), threading every single shot to the scene to sequence to the finished movie, putting a fictious as dramatized "World-War-II" South-East Asian conflict brought onto an Burma-Siam-Railway enterprise thread to fail by issuing the title-given bridge into an adventure story of British soldiers, led by enduring the utmost single-cell, a breeding hot-box-torture of the imaginable with regard to motion-history-making character of Colonel Nicholson, portrayed by Alec Guinness (1914-2000) to the famous scene of marching to prison under the "Colonel Bogey March" accompanied by a run-down, bootstrapped platoon of leather-shoe broken, nevertheless morally-stabil soldiers of the Royal British Army into a painstaking-design detailing prisoner-of-war (POW) encampment ruled by an ordeal-wishing, hard-to-get-by as constant-overlooking Japanese Colonel Saito, portrayed by Academy-Award-nominated, but then failing to present legendary producer Sam Spiegel (1901-1985) with a "clean sweep" of 8 Academy-Award nominations to 8 wibns at the Oscars in its 30th edition on March 26th 1958 due to arguably overacted scenes of defeat by actor Sessue Hayakawa (1889-1973), when lucky-punch ease-spreading Hollywood actor William Holden (1918-1981) hardened in movie-future-perfect-action-cinema promising trainings by suspense-debriefs delivering actor Jack Hawkins (1910-1973) as Major Warden, earns all favors of an awestruck smash-hit-supporting international audiences in holiday season of 1957/1958, paving a the way for a new kind of "deus ex machine" enduring secret agent ingnited in the year 1962 by Albert R. Broccoli (1909-1996) and Harry Saltzman (1915-1994) by the code name of "007".© 2018 Felix Alexander Dausend
(Cinemajesty Entertainments LLC)


                
Whatever liberties the filmmakers took with the actual incident, it seems they were also inspired by a desire to critique - and not pay tribute to - Renoir's classic prison-camp drama. The elements of Grand Illusion are all here: two tradition-bound officers gradually forming a bond of mutual respect; a somewhat earthier group of prisoners bent on escape; one of the officers (SPOILER) ultimately sacrificing himself for the cause he put on a uniform to serve; and the close-up view of the pecking order and odd arrangements between the prisoners and their guards.There's even a cabaret performed by the prisoners, some of them in drag, much like the one staged in Grand Illusion. (In Bridge, of course, the prisoners cap it by singing God Save the King rather than La Marseillaise, of course.) But what Lean and his screenwriters do with the material is quite different. The bridge itself is a giant folly, and whether it's the prisoners or their captors who are the biggest fools is debatable. Different characters on several occasions refer to the Japanese and British commanders - either one or both - as insane. Guinness's sacrifice at the end is accidental, almost farcical; Hayakawa, the Japanese commander, is clearly prepared to kill himself if anything goes wrong. No one comes off well. Even Jack Hawkins, the commando leader, (SPOILER) leaves the scene in disgrace at the end, having shot two of his men for fear they would be captured and talk.The last words we hear, from the medical officer who all along has been a sort of moral center of the story, are "Madness! Madness!" It's unclear, deliberately so, whether he's referring to something specific, or the whole episode: the bridge, the commando raid, the war itself. An unbelievably bleak ending for a '50s WWII pic, only rivaled by Robert Aldrich's Attack! What Lean has done is drain the romanticism and hopefulness out of Renoir's story, and the gallantry out the prisoner-of-war genre that was already quite familiar by the time Bridge came out. The reason it works is that the filmmakers pitch their story so perfectly. None of the characters is ever condescended to, even Guinness's officer, who is clearly quite brave and wins a victory over his captors early on. If there's madness here, we have to detect it in the general situation as it develops, not in anything specific the characters do.This was the beginning of Lean's career directing blockbusters; over the years, he became the Great White Explorer of the film world, each of his films a bit more romantically overwrought than the last. But that process hadn't started yet when he made Bridge. As to the cast, the only clinker is Holden, clearly injected to appeal to American audiences but given little more to do than utter cynical zingers and show off his bare chest. Guinness is perfect, always keeping his character just the right side of Col. Blimp parody. Hayakawa does the same, matching him note for note.Bridge was a huge hit, and it makes sense. It's one of those films that subverts a genre while delivering all the emotional and visceral thrills people love in such stories. The back-and-forth transitions between the POW work camp and the preparation and execution of the commando operation are beautiful, building exquisite tension. The let-down - the "What was it all for?" moment - only kicks in right at the end, as it should. "A first-rate job" indeed.
Okay, my summary is aimed at some of the, quite frankly) ridiculous poor reviews of this movie and in particular the reasons given as to why they have rated this movie so poorly, some of them are quite simply, anti British, one idiot even has a go at it's historical inaccuracies, this by a reviewer from America which has produced more historically inaccurate WW2 films than I can shake a stick at. Oh and the reviewer who said it was the worst film they had ever seen (there is always one) they must have seen a grand total of two in their lifetime, this and Raging Bull and tbh, this is better than Raging Bull in my opinion, some will agree with my view others won't, that's life, but, few will agree with that particular reviewer that this is the worst film ever.This is a marvellous movie that won it's Oscars justifiably, Alec Guinness is unsurpassable as Nicholson, William Holden is pretty darn good as Shears and Sessue Hayakawa is excellent, if at time illegible as Saito. Not enough credit is given to James Donald as Clipton, who is almost the only voice of sanity among the main protagonists and there is a fabulous supporting cast of British character actors to boot. My only quibble, and David Lean's too, was the Producer and studio's insistence of having a love interest put in for Shear's character, it was unnecessary and I'm sure if there had been a way to edit it out for VHS/DVD release then Lean may well have done it as it is a pointless distraction. But, at the time a film without a female in it was practically unthinkable, thank god times have changed.One of the finest War movies, heck no, movies ever made. David Lean rarely put a foot wrong in any of his movies (Ryan's Daughter possibly, but, still a great, but, not fantastic film)


                
This is not your typical movie. The Bridge On the River Kwai is in that exclusive class of movies which makes you think.Throughout the movie, you are left wondering who to root for. Without spoiling too much, even at the very end, it is hard to decide who was right and who was wrong. It makes for a very different movie experience.The only negative this movie has is its length. This movie is VERY long, but with such a great story, it is much more bearable. Other than that, there is nothing else bad to say about this movie.All in all, this movie is a must see. Between the great acting and interesting story, there is something here for everyone.
In Japanese prisoner of war camp in Burma a camp a newly arrived group of British prisoners are told that they are to construct a bridge over the River Kwai. Their CO, Lt Col Nicholson, informs the camp commandant, Colonel Saito, that as per the Geneva Convention he and his officers will not work. Saito orders the officers placed in a punishment cell while Nicholson is put in an iron 'hot box'. While they are being punished the man work on the bridge but progress is very slow. There is also an escape attempt by American prisoner Commander Shears and two British prisoners; the latter are shot and killed and it looks as though Shears is dead too after being shot at and falling into the river. As the progress of the bridge falls further and further behind schedule Saito talks to Nicholson; the latter tells him that his men would do a better job if led by their own officers<U+0085> soon he has effectively taken over the project; moving the bridge to a better location, coming up with a better design and the moral of the men is improving<U+0085> but in the process is he guilty of helping the enemy.Shears survives the fall into the river, and with the help of local villagers recovers and is eventually rescued and taken to a hospital in Ceylon. Here he is recruited, somewhat against his will, by Major Warden who is planning to lead a small group into the jungle to destroy the bridge.This film is rightly considered a classic; its cast doing a great job telling an interesting story. Alec Guinness is on top form as Col Nicholson as he gradually changes from an officer who bravely stands up to his captors to somebody who could be considered to be aiding the enemy; his motives are the moral and wellbeing of his men but as completion of the bridge nears he is clearly proud of the work they have done. William Holden impresses as Shears, a character who provides some of the films few lighter moments. Jack Hawkins is also on good form as Major Warden.This can be considered a film of two halves; the first concerning what is going on in the camp with Nicolson risking all to stand up to the Japanese and the second which largely follows the planning and execution of the raid against the bridge with occasional returns to the camp where we see Nicholson accidentally slipping into collaboration. There are of course some problems; most notably the character of Nicholson; it is unlikely that a senior British officer would have behaved the way he did<U+0085> the officer he is loosely based on certainly didn't. This isn't an action packed film but it is certainly tense and never boring. What action there is, is impressive. Overall I'd definitely recommend this classic film<U+0085> I'd also recommend reading a little about the actual events which inspired this work of fiction.
This film is very lightly based on a true story of British prisoners of war who served in the construction of Indo-Chinese railways during World War II. Of course, the film (as well as, perhaps, the book on which it's based) takes a lot of creative liberties and isn't entirely stick to historical truth, which is normally bad but, in this case, is mitigated by the quality of the film itself. In fact, the film seeks to use this incident to portray the madness of war honor: on one hand, we have a Japanese officer who will have to commit suicide if he doesn't complete the bridge in required deadline; on the other side, a daring English colonel who literally wants to take all by the book and demands the military status of the prisoners respected by his captors. Both collide at first but then end up joining forces, in a way that we don't even realize what side the English are because their pride demands that the bridge be ready on time and be very good! Alec Guinness is the most notable actor, with a truly exceptional role and performance, but William Holden and Sessue Hayakawa also deserve applause for the way they stand. There are other actors who have been great but I highlight these by the psychological game of their characters. There is a lot of psychology in this movie and its merit of this trio. Cinematography is also good, with warm light and colors giving us the true feel of the infernal heat of rainforest. Another point I want to highlight is the costumes, especially prisoners. An army of rags. A final word to Colonel Bogey March who, with the film, became one of the most famous military marches in the world.


                
IMDb Top 250: 83 I found myself in the possession of three films after Christmas this year: The Bridge on the River Kwai, Lawrence of Arabia, and Doctor Zhivago. These are all David Lean films, and so I decided to start my David Lean unit with the first of those films, the 7- Oscar winning "Bridge on the River Kwai". And oh my, what a start it was.'Kwai' is a World War II film made 12 years after the war concluded. The film centers around the titular Bridge, and how British POWs build it under the leadership of Colonel Nicholson, and how a small group of Allied commandos try to destroy it. It's a grand idea for a plot, about the conflict of ideas and lack of communication.The film is loosely broken into three acts. The first act follows Nicholson's standoff with the Japanese commanding officer in the POW camp about the rules of war, and the subsequent building of the bridge under two different leaderships. The second act is about a small group of Allies who venture into the jungle to destroy the bridge, and their encounters in the wild. The final act concludes the story of the two camps in a magnificent way.An interesting angle of the film is that despite being a war film, there is little violence, and no swearing. All of the action that does happen is necessary, something that has influenced even modern films like 'Drive'. Both plots could have inserted extra action but didn't, and this restraint makes good movies into great movies. The Bridge on the River Kwai is about the people of war as much as their actions.A product of this decision is that the first act could be considered slow. There is lots of standing, lots of talking, and lots of stubbornness. But by the end a viewer realizes how necessary it is. In 'The Good, the Bad & the Ugly', there is an extended sequence where the bad guy forces Clint Eastwood to walk through the desert, and for a while, very little happens. This scene could've been over quicker, but that would have defeated the point that Clint breaks down. That is an idea from 'Kwai'. A month goes by as the leaders verbally, and silently, duke it out with their ideals. The slow first act is necessary to emotionally invest in the scenario, and the film just gets better from there.My summary of the film is 'a beautiful bridge'. The first half of this statement is beautiful, and it perfectly describes the visual aspect of the film. The cinematography is sublime. Sweeping jungle vistas, fauna, rushing rivers and more make simply seeing 'Kwai' a treat. I was lucky enough to get it on Blu Ray, and for an old film it looks fantastic. The bats in a certain river scene are absolutely breathtaking. You can simulate a lot in Hollywood, but this is an outstanding example of shooting on location in the jungles of what is now Sri Lanka.But there's more than just looking at the film, the substance is even greater, starting with the actors. They are excellent. Alec Guinness, in his award winning performance, is the British general who we are so conflicted about. His decisions are both completely correct and absolutely wrong. He is an idealist, valuing discipline and honour above his duty as an Allied leader. His decisions beg to ask the question, "What would you do?" Nicholson is a layered character performed perfectly.Colonel Saito is the commander of the Japanese at the camp, and is the primary... antagonist. His stance is portrayed ruthlessly and effectively. He and Nicholson butt heads, but are two sides of the same coin. They have an excellent dynamic, and their relationship is worth studying for its complexity.Away from the clash of leaders is Shears, an American played by William Holden. In this film where ego reigns supreme, Shears is the realistic, reasonable, and wiseass one. He's the character who says, "What's the matter with all of you guys?" He's is well played and has the best line in the film: "You..." The casting is just excellent overall.The second part of my summary is 'bridge'. Despite the obvious reason, 'Kwai' is a bridge between the old era of film and the new. Scenes with lots of talking, like the discussion about escape, are old fashioned, very 50's. But others, like the trek through the jungle and the ending, are far ahead of their time. The stealthy hunt for the Japanese soldier and the whole visual aspect of that scene is certainly influential on another war epic, Apocalypse Now. In general, The Bridge on the River Kwai is ahead of its time.As I've said, the film gets better and better, culminating in the extraordinary ending. It is one of the best scenes in film and leaves much to discuss. A common statement from the Warden, the explosives-happy commando is to expect the unexpected. The event that makes the last scene unexpected is so obviously a factor but so easily overlooked, you'll gasp. Words to describe the climatic scene include explosive, awesome, shaking, and epic. And then you'll think. What did Warden mean? What did Shears mean? What did Nicholson mean? Did he do what he did on purpose? You can have a great discussion about those actions. And then to end it all, the realistic doctor saying "Madness! Madness!" And then zooming out, to admire the jungle... an amazing shot.'Kwai' is a thinking film. You can wonder how you would do in that situation. The film also touches on the waste of war, honour and pride, and also the role of the young in battle. It's stupendous, a landmark film. 9.4/10


                
At its core, The Bridge on the River Kwai is a film about creation and destruction. It alternates between two story lines that start and end in the same place.One revolves around the efforts of British POW's to build a bridge in the middle of a Thai jungle. Despite their hardships and poor living conditions, these men work diligently on a bridge they hope will stand as a monument to British ingenuity and resourcefulness for generations to come. Essentially, it's their way of inflicting defeat on the enemy, even while in the confines of a POW camp. This subplot represents creation.Meanwhile, a British Special Forces team is assembled with one simple task: to destroy the bridge the POW's are creating. Led by an ex-POW who had escaped the camp, the team manages to plant demolitions and explode the bridge as a train with high priority Japanese targets passes on it. These men are the harbingers of destruction.What we're ultimately left with, then, are two inherently opposed forces that come head to head in the film. Traditionally, people associate creation with good and destruction with bad. It becomes less clear in a situation like this. Does the long-term vision of the POW's justify temporarily aiding the Japanese war effort? I don't believe so, and in that regard blowing up the bridge was the right thing to do.So what Bridge on the River Kwai accomplishes is turning traditional preconceptions about destruction upside down. By taking out the bridge and the train on it, the Japanese will be that much closer to surrendering and the war will be that much closer to ending. This will save countless lives and prevent further destruction, so ironically the bridge is blown up in the name of preservation. It's a compelling and fascinating study of the greater good, and that only left me with one lingering question—is preservation not itself a form of creation?9/10
David Lean began the strongest stretch of his career with this fantastic anti-war film based on a novel about a group of British POW soldiers commissioned to build a bridge for the Japanese army. Trouble arises, however, when the leader of the British, Colonel Nicholson played remarkably by Alec Guiness, refuses to work the way of the Japanese. Meanwhile, a team of British commandos is put together to go and blow up the bridge that is to be erected.Simply put, this is a masterful film that is terrifically well-made and builds great tension despite seeing it multiple times. The acting is very good all around, especially from Guiness and William Holden as the heroic yet cynical Shears. The cinematography is gorgeous as the scene is set in the jungle of Southeast Asia, and Lean directs at such a solid pace that the story never lags despite the film being two and a half hours long. Lean was a master at building a scene for a climax, and he does it very well here as we watch both sides of this story unfold and wonder what could possibly happen. All elements point to an award-winning, classic war film that will last for decades. And that is exactly what The Bridge on the River Kwai has become and will be.


                
As with most war films utilizing a POW camp as the primary setting made prior to say, the 1970's, 'The Bridge on the River Kwai' leaves most viewers to speculate that conditions were in all likelihood many times more brutal than portrayed on the screen. Surely the Japanese had more devious methods of torture than simply having officers stand all day in the hot sun, or placing their commander in solitary confinement, as miserable as either of those situations may have been. And it is doubtful the Japanese commandant would have been talked out of shooting several prisoners simply because it is pointed out to him there might be an inquiry into the matter. Those matters aside, 'The Bridge on the River Kwai' is very compelling and believable, the story of a large group of British soldiers led by Colonel Nicholson (Alec Guinness), and one American, Commander Shears (William Holden), being held in a desolate Japanese prison camp in southern Burma during WW2. At the center of the story is a battle of wills between Nicholson and the Japanese camp commander Saito (Sessue Hayakawa). Nicholson's defiance is genuine, but it is done in that peculiarly quirky British fashion which seems, especially in the film's latter sections, exaggerated to an almost unfathomable degree. When Nicholson finally agrees to build the bridge across the Kwai River that Saito wants built, he not only tackles the project with enthusiasm, he determines to build a better bridge than the Japanese themselves would have built. He doesn't regard what he's doing as traitorous; rather, he sees it as a way to keep his men busy and the bridge itself as a monument to their hard work while in captivity. One very interesting sidebar in the film is the contrast between Nicholson and Shears, and by implication, the British and American approach to war and life in captivity. Nicholson lives by certain codes and traditions and would rather die than violate them, even if they come to seem inexplicable in their practical results. Shears, on the other hand, is crafty and resourceful and doesn't give a damn about rules or regulations. He routinely bribes the guards to get out of performing physical labor. To him, the ends justify the means every time. He regards Nicholson and the other British officers as fools, and they regard him as a crazy American, gone slightly off his rocker from being a prisoner so long. Guinness gives one of his finest performances and deservedly won an Oscar (as did the movie itself, and the director, David Lean). The miserable conditions of the camp, and particularly the 'box' where Nicholson spends his solitary confinement, are very realistically presented; the unrelenting jungle heat is palpable. The characterizations are such that we are in sympathy with Colonel Nicholson, though we suspect he isn't completely rational, just as we come to dislike the character of Shears, even as we realize he is doing the right thing in blowing up the bridge. 'The Bridge on the River Kwai' is rightly regarded as a classic; I would say it is one of the ten best war movies ever made.
You can enjoy "Bridge on the River Kwai" with the sound off. Every image is magnificently composed, although fans of current thrillers that create atmosphere through darkness, claustrophobia and quick-cut editing will take some time getting used to Lean's technique of building tension with long, brilliantly lit tracking shots. (Their patience will be rewarded: there is a mesmerizing sequence toward the end of a character's perspective that is all the more remarkable for being two tiny figures in a landscape.) There are some overly cinematic, artsy touches, like the incessant panning shots of screeching vampire bats during a Japanese ambush, that would be annoying if they didn't look so cool. And bridges are the most hackneyed analogy in screen (and perhaps all) history, but this time, well, it just works.But when you do pump up the volume, prepare to marvel at Alec Guinness' fantastically complicated performance as a rigid, proper British colonel engaged in a battle of wills with the sadistic Japanese officer played by the gifted (and now forgotten) Sessue Hayakawa. Trapped in an unfenced, open-air prison camp that feels as confined as Alcatraz thanks to Lean's capacity for manipulating light, movement and sound, Guinness offers Col. Nicholson as a character of Shakespearean complexity: is this man mad? Suicidal? How can he be so unaware of his collaboration with the enemy -- or is he? (I couldn't figure it out until the very end.) His insistence on forcing his opponent, Col. Haito, to follow the Geneva conventions seems a bit quaint nowadays, but no matter, the real issue is pride -- Guinness' stiff-backed but wobbly-legged walk across the prison camp to Col. Haito's headquarters is more articulate than most monologues. (You also wonder how a classically trained stage actor like Guinness made it look so convincing. Robert DeNiro probably would have had the key grip break his calves.) But unfortunately, "Kwai" loses some momentum and focus when it leaves the prison camp and follows cynical, ne'er-do-well ladies' man William Holden around Southeast Asia. Holden's character is, as always, an anti-hero and would be interesting to watch in pretty much any other movie. However, compared to Guinness' ferocious stoicism, Hayakawa's nuanced savagery and the primal battle for supremacy in the prison camp, poor Bill's journey from selfish survivor to noble hero feels a little corny. His character is necessary to make the point that both American improvisation and audacity and British discipline and duty were necessary to win WWII, and even then at great cost. But you can't help but wish that Humphrey Bogart were a couple of decades younger and, well, still alive to make this film -- his presence could have elevated "Kwai" to one of the three or four best films ever made. As is, it's a mere masterpiece.


                
