I would love to know. I want to see that show. The one I watched, and I watched 2 whole seasons, is appallingly bad. I can't even understand how or why I made it through 2 seasons. Each episode only got more ridiculous. It's a daytime soap disguised as a hard-hitting drama. A federal agent shoots her witness then frames Katey Sagal even though Sagal just shot someone else with a completely different gun? Who's buying this? The leader of the Mayans has to be the DUMBEST dude in the history of mankind! Every time he shows up on screen he's getting burned by SAMCRO. The writing is purely guttural and shows no thought process whatsoever. The acting is laughable. It...it just defies explanation how this show is so popular. What I witnessed is a complete disaster. Someone PLEASE tell me where the good one is!!!
I started watching a year ago. I really gave this show a chance, after really annoying, bad written episodes in season 1, but season 2 made it even worse. This is by far on of the worst shows in the last 5 years and I still don't get it how anyone can rate it above a 5 or 6. There are so many logical mistakes, bad acting, "a-team like" shootings from professional killers and bad casting choices. When you reach season 3 and get to Ireland, you won't stop laughing. Sure, some shots made in Ireland are not that cheap but Ireland looks like California - with a blue coloring and every house needs a shamrock painted on a wall.stop wasting lifetime with sons of anarchy.
I loved this show, and have given it five stars up to now. However when Kurt Sutter sank to a level of such sadistic inhuman depravity as to graphically rape himself on screen, well, that went a little too far. This scene was so overwhelmingly disgusting and viciously brutal it will forever be burned into my memory banks. Remember you can't "unsee" something. You see, it was then that I realized what this show is really about: Kurt Sutter's graphically sick, self-indulgent, self-absorbed, twisted vision of human life. Really, that is his true intention, and overall the only value this show has to offer. Is it interesting and engaging at times? Yes. Is it full of awesome acting and, I'll admit, plenty of good writing? Yes. But that doesn't excuse the rotten core of this vile excuse for creativity. Breaking Bad had similar scenes, though not quite as disturbing. Kurt Sutter wishes he could be Vince Gilligan and fails miserably, in the most awful and egregious way. While Breaking Bad was cosmic in its character study (for which the violence was in the service of), Sutter's Suns is the exact opposite: he uses his characters as a backdrop for the vehicle of his own sick, personal projections. At least Quentin Tarantino had artistic vision. What an utter waste of celluloid.
When compared to other shows involving crime/criminal gangs SOA is by far the worst. The show involves many murders, including murders of police and government agent. More then half the time the members of the SOA don't hide bodies or any evidence yet they rarely get arrested. When they do get arrested they always mange to get out of trouble in the most crazy, unreal ways. Not only are the members of the SOA immune from the law but also bullets/fatal injury. In almost every shoot out with any other gangs the SOA are always the winner and usually unharmed. Whether its neo-Nazis, street gangs, Mexican drug cartels, the IRA, rival biker clubs, or drug kingpins the SOA are always on top. When members are shot the always have a doctor ready to fix them up. Members rarely die. The wives and girlfriends of members are also very violent and immune to the cops and injury. Some of the police also help the club get away with many crimes. The show also gets very annoying when you have to hear "Jesus Christ" and "Christ" 30 times in every episode. Like the writers couldn't think of another word for every time something bad is shared with other members. I do not recommend this show to any one looking for a serious show about biker gangs/crime. But it is defiantly a great show to share some laughs at the ridiculous fight scenes and police escapes with a couple friends.


                
I put up with a few of these SOA shows to see what people were bragging about since I'm a long time, high miles Harley rider. I was getting to know the characters and they were tolerable, but I realized the shows were constantly filled with strife, violence, lies, hatred, ughhhhh, Gimme a break, how can anyone continually watch this crap??? Not to mention that there are no clubs I know that are this bad-boy stupid.And then came the show with the transvestite... worst show I can ever remember seeing on TV. Who is writing this garbage??? No more for me, I can't believe Harley advertises with this manure. The low budget 90's Renegade TV series show with Lorenzo Lamas was a better biker fantasy show than this.Seems I gotta write some more (10 lines). Well folks, good luck with your lame, aggravating fantasy viewing, this should fill your void.Yeah, and every show starts out with the same warning in the exaggerated horror voice, "Viewer Discretion Advised", but they forget to tell the real reason... Mind numbing stupidity, unless your a mental zombie. Sorry for the harsh words, but that transvestite episode was out of line in association with bikers, even fantasy bikers.


                
Well someone somewhere thought 'hey what if we put the Sopranos on bikes and gave them loads of tattoos' and the other Idiot in the room said 'great Idea, have some money!' I have to confess I have only watched the first episode but on the 'strength' of what I have seen I will not be watching any more. The Sopranos drew you in and after a few series I realised that they were all evil people with no redeeming features but I did watch all of them. Ten minutes in to this and you realise they are ALL vile, corrupt, hypocritical murderous psychopaths and that's just the women! I think you are supposed to empathise with the son but he brutally beats some guy to a pulp over something I have no doubt he would condone if the guy had been wearing his colours.The 'bad' guys seem to be distinguished only by the fact that they are even uglier than the SOA! Its just a series about a bunch of lowlife scum, why we need to see or 'explore'this incredibly seedy,sleazy and worthless aspect of modern life is beyond me.This series cheapens us all.I knew how this episode would end about half way through and it was so clichéd I burst out laughing.Pathetic.


                
There must be so many more delusional pervos out there than I suspected. Onanistic Male Fantasy Scenarios, meet Bad Writing, and it's friend Worse Acting. If you like this, you're the kind of person who mistakenly thinks motorcycles and leather jackets are cool. Have fun at your oppressive day job.Since I need ten lines of text to post this, my husband and I actually counted the turdy male fantasies in this show...the number is high. This is what I call a lowest common denominator show, if you like it, congrats you are the lowest common denominator. I bet you just looove Jackass. Maybe you only have sons. Maybe your girlfriend has a tramp stamp and you think it's sexy. Oh yeah, way to fail at an American accent.


                
I guess folks that love network TV and can't or haven't ever watched an HBO or AMC series rank this show pretty high because maybe it's all they have for comparison. That being said, this show is rotten. The acting may be the worst of any show I've ever seen that is rated above an 8.5 on IMDb with this number of ratings. The plot is pretty silly all around. Maybe it picks up in the third season, but I couldn't make it that far. Who would...If you want real drama series that is amazing, watch the Wire, Sopranos, Breaking Bad or hell, even Prison Break. This show is a hot mess.


                
While the actors show there talent, the characters are mind-numbing, first off the show itself is not worth watching on commercial television and at times the commercials have better content and are more interesting then the SOA show itself, but still the commercials drive me away from the show, SOA is not worth waiting through the commercials.I happened upon a set of SOA DVDs for loan so I could sit down without the insidious commercials pestering me while I watch the show and not kill my interest with unrelenting harassment to spend my money.What I found was, most of the members of SOA are a bunch of cut throat snitches, I lost my interest but I kept watching anyway and found 5 hours into the show was a bunch of predictable plots one right after the other.I was thinking I have done nothing but wasted time that I could have spent watching something with plots on the evolutionary scale higher then Wile e Coyote.I'm pleased the DVDs were just a loan; to spend money on the repetitive plots would be the same as tossing cash in the garbage can. Time wasted I will never get back.


                
This does contain a serious spoiler because this show should be spoilt. So I finally watched an episode. Never had any interest before but since this seems to be the final season ?? I thought that the opening episode will give me an insight. It did, and what is more disturbing it gave me an insight as to how low the viewing public that seems to support this garbage must be. What in the name of human decency are these people doing? Well nothing obviously because decent behaviour is not on this shows agenda. One could make all sorts of statements about the boring plot line but who cares. What one does need to mention is that this stuff should never have been allowed to go to air. It is a disgrace and like violent videos does nothing but gratify cruel and demeaning behaviour. Are the US public really this apathetic to what is shown on their TV's or is the freedom of speech gone ballistically mad? To cut to the end scene where we have the protagonist (in this case a totally pathetic thug) doing a torture on a guy in a most disturbingly ugly way. Now I am not a squeamish person but I can see how this would be just not on for any juvenile but I know thousands of juveniles watch this and in some way find it appealing and that is just what the producers of this show are wishing for. The entire time his enterage of thugs are watching as if they were at a screening of a bake and cake show and this is where I must say that the actors who are doing this seem to be very professional because I can imagine that they were none to pleased with this script. If they were not then there we also have a serious problem.This sort of violence is just not wanted by cultured people but then what can you say is cultured about a vast percentage of the US civilians. Sad society reaping the reward for unfettered violence and a gun culture gone mad. Back in the real world for a second, I have to add that as a tax paying citizen I am disgusted that I have some of my money going towards incarcerating these type of gang thugs. Exterminate them!
Inconsistent, full of cliché, cock-and-bull, ... A movie for low IQ people. Really don t know if those five stars raters are mentally sane ! A "skinny" scenario full of inaccuracies about a motorcycle gang struggles to emerge law. The main actor seems rather an idiot led by a decrepit mother who killed his father and then his wife. If all the bad guys would resemble Jax Teller then America is the country where the police profession must be very boring. The most spectacular character is a priapic, Tig Trager, others are a colorful bunch of idiots easily fooled and blinded by instinct rather than ruled by reason. I wonder if the real villains from America were thought to protest against this series which seriously affect their image.


                
I've (unfortunately) watched this for several series' now, because my best friend loves it and has to watch it on my set.At first, I just tried to figure out the dynamics, who's who, etc.Then, when I got that all out of the way, I felt like I'd been hit - hard - by 'stupid.' I've never seen any bunch of people as idiotic as these losers.This series's made with such disgust, cynicism and smugness towards the viewer. They are saying to the viewer; 'we don't know what we're doing, but, we'll 'decorate' it with a cast that's way too big, sappy music - oh, yeah; we got Katey Sagal - and enough testosterone you'll think we're sincere.Bupkes.While I love Katey Sagal, 'acting' is not talking in a low, husky whisper (which she does, as her 'character. More about this mom from hell in a mo').Right off the bat, 99% of these people's problems could be solved by waking up, and realising one thing: Jax, your mother is a trouble-making nightmare. If I hear 'Jax' (Charlie Hunnam, with one of the most irritating 'American English' accents) talk (endlessly!) about his 'love, loyalty,' etc, to the 'klub' (misspelling intentional. He sounds like he's gonna hock a loogie every time he starts saying it), I'm gonna puke.And the amazing thing is - in this 'Charming' world, there's apparently no one (real) to do anything about all the murder, drug dealing, gun selling, etc, other than an occasional person - who comes and...pffft...goes.There was some guy (I can't remember what position he was - he was in an early season) - seemed to be like a DA, or whatnot (everyone'ss irrelevant) and he was really flaky. Then, he was just..gone.Then they had (recently) some a-hole - 'Toric' who was a psycho 'ex-cop,' who seemed to have more juice than a real law enforcement from any department (even though he was a 'cop - from a different town,' he seemed to be able to do whatever he wanted to do in Charming's jail system, police force, etc.Now, we've CCH Pounder, who I've always liked.She'll be gone before anything happens.It seems that the driving force of this (way-too-large cast and plots) series is: bring a new, unrelated character in to 'stir things up. It makes zero difference if their back-story's non-existent - we'll make it up - if necessary - as we go.'And all the while, Ms. Sagal's annoying 'whisper,' and Hunnam's faux American English.Each episode ends with the most grating 'empotional' way (which seems to be nothing more than a tie-in with the production company's music-pushing arm; play some unknown , terrible sappy 'real'-sounding (meaning unplugged) song, and show a montage of all the cast - sitting - looking...forlorn - like they're in 'deep, profound' thought.' Riiiiggggghhhhhtttt.That this show has 'loyal fans,' says one thing to me: it's an 'LCD'-type series (lowest common denominator' i.e., stupid), and whoever the creator is (yes, I know it's Ms. Sagal's hubby. I don't - wanna - remember his name) musta done 'something' to get this past pilot.Before you go away, and say, 'oh, he (me) is probably some stuck-up whatever,' let me say this: I DO like well-written series - I loved Breaking Bad. I watched it from it's first episode's airing.But - the big difference is Breaking Bad was brilliantly written and acted.This....One other thing: I work in the entertainment business, so, I'm (quite) familiar with both sides - in front of and behind the camera.Yes, I'm a little jaded with the business, and think it's gotten (even more) dumbed-down in the past decade or so.When I'm in a screening room, people usually tell me to 'shut up' (politely? Sometimes not), because I'm saying dialogue before they do on-screen, or, I'm saying what's gonna happen, and someone will invariably say I'm doing this because I read the script.Sometimes.But, most of the time, it's because it's stuff like this - so 'by-the-numbers' that a brain's not required.


                
I might just watch it all again to find out a)The total number of deaths; b)How many times people call each other "bro", "momma" or "homes" c) How many times the phrase "We need to get the Intell" is used. The show is extremely clichéd and predictable. At best it is a cross between the A-Team and The Cannonball Run. Except for Jimmy Smits the acting was poor. Direction and continuity, well let us just say below par. The story-line was a little bit on the naive side. all credit to the actors and the crew for sticking with the synopsis for so many seasons.I watch all shows and movies from start to finish. There can be no comment if you do not complete the task.


                
Sons of Anarchy was really great at the beginning, some of the scenes were corny and cliché, but all-around it was a great action series with a bit of character drama.Why did I rate this show a 1? Simple, season 5 ruined the show!Spoiler alert!They turned Tara into an ultra-strong manipulative b***h that is constantly going from helping the club to ruining it and turned Jax into a p***y whipped b***h that believes everything Tara says. To make things even worse in season 6 they added political correctness to the now disastrous show by adding transvestites, turning one of the bikers gay, annihilating a start up white supremacist gang for a minor infraction while doing hardly anything to other groups who killed some of their members and giving them all even cornier sappy feelings about what they do.I have not yet finished season 6, a few episodes to go, but i'm hoping someone has the brains to try salvaging this series by brutally killing off Tara and even the whipped Jax.
If you like to see some kind of justice in a show you watch, don't watch this one. When someone bothers the club, the club kills them. When the police start bothering the club, the club kill the police. If they are threatened to go to jail, they rat and get out of jail. If a rival gang bothers them, they kill the rival gang. They can do all that because they have a magical spell that makes enemy bullets avoid them and their bikes. In 6 seasons the SOA (more like SOB by now) have killed about 100 people. They have lost one guy too. I watch every episode hoping at least one of them gets shot and dies, but I'm always left disappointed.


                
First couple of seasons were OK, nothing spectacular but OK. Unbelievable story lines, outrageous bad acting (especially the pompous, egotistically pouty whispering pussy Jax). Started getting ridiculous so I quit watching. Saw it on the lineup this season so I thought I'd catch an episode to see if it was any better. I couldn't get through the first minute of the tranny and ass rape scene that unfolded... REALLY? It was already bad enough but they felt they had to up their game and turn it into a fagfest. Truly the worst "show" ever. Really beginning to wonder if I need to drop FX from my favorites if this is the garbage they pump out.


                
I get it: Real MC are not like SOA. I accept that in order to run a show, the creator has to dramatize it. But to the very least, the story has to be plausible. So many things in this show are so beyond belief that it's impossible to take it serious.Even worse, the characters in this melodrama are utterly disgusting. They are, for lack of a better description, a bunch of white trash criminals. The innocent get killed. The weak get bullied. And there is this girl with an MD - medical doctor - willing to join the motor gang to do all the disgusting things with them. Give me a break.


                
First off, I can't believe how this show could ever get a positive review. Kurt Sutter you must really love your wife, because you wrote this show for her, she get's away with everything in this very unrealistic show. Second no real MC (not the lawyer and doctors MC) would do stupid mistakes and decisions like these no way in hell, maybe you should have done more research on real MC's like H.A. how they operate and run their club's. In the it was a complete waste of time watching this show, Kurt Sutter please give me my time back. After watching Breaking Bad this one's not going to make it for me. I was hoping to find something real and intelligent about the series, total disappointed and I can't enjoy watching the entire series, unbelievable story lines, outrageous bad acting. Started getting so ridiculous I quit watching. Saw it on the lineup this season so I thought I'd catch an episode to see if it was any better. I couldn't get through the first 10 minutes of the tranny and ass rape scene that unfolded... REALLY? very low.
I recommend the first 2 seasons. After that, it all went down hill after that. This show has a few satisfying moments, but in all it's not consistent. The first 2 seasons had lots of realism, but Kurt Sutter and his writers threw that out of the window a long time ago. Now its just car chases and seeing how much they can shove Gemma in your face. It used to be about bad ass bikers, and would successfully even out the FAMILY issues and BIKER GANG issues. But now, it's just about the family issues and Gemma. In all, it's not worth your time, I watch it every week only because I've been with it for so long. The show is nothing compared to shows like Breaking Bad or Justified. It is its own series, but that's not always a good thing...Season 1-8/10 Season 2-8.5/10 Season 3-5/10 Season 4-8/10 Season 5-6/10 Season 6-5/10


                
I find this show to be hyper-edited; that is, how quickly each shot is cut, so that a conversation is characterized by rapid cuts, each actor saying but a single line before the camera switches to the next actor. Other scenes with fewer such edits have a mildly shaking camera, particularly during tense situations.The show is highly produced, and the writing immaculate; it is indeed a finely crafted show. Action comes quick, and characters have powerful things to say. The viewer is assaulted by powerful words, aggressively delivered, and intense evolving drama each scene.To this the editing suits the fast-paced delivery, the frenetic camera-work matching the dizzying story lines and blistering action. It is meticulously crafted, muscular drama.


                
I am SO disappointed over the final chase scene that it left a sour taste in my mouth over the whole series. It's not hard to tell they gave a bunch of high school dropouts $157.00 and told them to go wild. All this so they could get an early start on a drunken after party. It's so bad it's hard to know where to begin.How about this? Since when is Interstate 580 a two lane back country road with a double yellow line? And can somebody explain to me how "Interstate 580" goes from two lanes to four and back to two in what seems to be a totally random, although somewhat alternating, pattern?Why was the chase scene filmed at about 20 MPH? Who were they chasing? OJ? If it was supposed to be slow motion why did they go to the trouble of speeding up the flashing lights?What happened to Jax? Did the semi stop in time? With all the blood and gore and violence for SEVEN years why wimp out on the final shot? I expected the grand finale to be a GRAND FINALE! Not some green screen cop out to save a few bucks. I wanted an aerial shot of the bug hitting the windshield!There was a lot more stupid stuff in that final minute or so but this is what sticks in my mind and I'm too damn disgusted to watch it again.


                
Have you ever seen a real motorcycle gang? Well this group of pretty boy actors are about the complete opposite of the real deal. It's ironic that some of the plot revolves around them laundering money through a porno, when the acting is as bad as an porno with to much script .everything feels so set up and staged it feels like I'm watching a theater play
Personally, I stopped after Season 4:Episode 10. If Jax Teller grew up in that life, and read his fathers novel on his opinion on where the club should go wouldn't he be able to tell who is putting hits out on his fiance and the mother of his children even if they are in his own crew? Especially because JT even realized Clay and Gemma were getting close? Actually I am not surprised because no one except the former sheriff and Gemma knew that Pilley was killed by Clay(why no one said anything I have NO CLUE), Opie Winston should of went to the cabin regardless of what Clay said because that is your father, WTF?! Then Gemma knew Clay took the money out of their safe at home THE SAME DAY A VAN OF 3-4 MEN TRIED TO ABDUCT TARA ON HER WAY TO OREGON, and she did not say anything to anyone even though deep down she had a hunch that Clay had JT and knew CLAY KILLED PINNEY?! It is not fun to watch when a viewer watches the step dad of a step son put a hit out on the step sons wife with two children, then when Abel went missing you claimed you were going to do everything to get your grandson back? What kind of Grandfather is Clay if he is emptying his safe at his house to abduct and eventually kill Tara(the mother of his grandchildren LOL?)
If you are simple minded, coarse and gullible, and also like racial slurs and constant juvenile level filthy language, then Sons of Anarchy is for you. Lot's of P words and constant Jesus Christ cuss words. It was like listening to middle schoolers trying to impress each other. It was beyond over the top. The story line is so weak, only a simple minded individual would find it good. I can't think of another way to describe it other than very cheesy.


                
