Two stars for some of the actors, who are gamely doing a good job with very thin material, and the musical scoring, which is outstanding (CDs of the show are highly recommended). Otherwise, this is a fantasy of an office worker, who thinks being a biker means being able to commit crimes with impunity and living a porn-fantasy life of sleeping with every hot woman, including strippers and porn actresses, and zero consequences. Needless to say, real criminals who act this way end up in jail, and quickly. It is the conceit of this series that the "Sons of Anarchy" motorcycle club, in a tiny rural California town in the Inland Empire, can openly be a criminal gang and not be shut down ASAP by the FBI. (Yes, an FBI agent appears briefly in Season 1, but gets the crap beaten out of her and is eventually murdered, with no repercussions.) The local police are in collusion.I was in Daytona Beach last month, and all the biker stores featured logo items from this show, so it clearly has a following. However, I see it as just cartoonish nonsense. For a show about BIKERS, there is astonishingly little actual motorcycle riding. The "club" exists to run guns, not Harleys. They appear to have no money, yet run elaborate military-style black ops crime sprees (or revenge sprees) and never get caught. At the end of Season 3, they actually go to Ireland, on the silliest plot thread imaginable -- Protganist Jax Teller (played by beach-boy pretty Charlie Hunnam, with a very unconvincing American accent he can't hang onto) has had his baby son (Abel, like "Cain & Abel", duh) kidnapped -- to IRELAND -- and they all go there, apparently WITH their motorcycles (but no PASSPORTS), to get the baby back....words can't describe how silly and unconvincing this is.For starters, outside of a placement shot of some Irish countryside, this is clearly not shot on location and is obviously still in California. The difficulty of someone getting on a plane with a baby they have no papers or passport for, and then getting into a foreign country, are never explained. (Hint: it would be incredibly difficult, and of course they are making themselves incredibly conspicuous; not too bright for a criminal gang!). Also we are to believe there is a "branch" of the Sons of Anarchy in IRELAND. (Is there a branch in the Gaza Strip, too? Fallujah? Kabal? Bosnia?)All through the series, the acronym SAMCRO is used for Sons of Anarchy Motorcycle Club Redwood Original. I had to look this up. It is NEVER explained; like many here, I thought it was a PERSON (Sam Crowe). This is how it is pronounced, which makes no sense.Katey Sagal is basically reprising her Married with Children role of "Peg Bundy", only with streaked hair and brooding attitude. I keep waiting for her to break into comedy. Early on in the first episodes, her character Gemma is dealing with menopause and I thought there might be some serious introspection going on, but no. Ron Perlman looks great, but is too gentle and nice to be leading a vicious gang of thugs. Charlie Hunnam is too pretty and British to be convincing, and like I said, his accent isn't nailed down. Also: would a vicious motorcycle thug actually run around in white sneakers and clean white t-shirts all the time? REALLY?Maggie Siff is particularly poor as a DOCTOR, a physician (!!!) who is in love with Jax, and helps him in his crimes, including escape from police and outright murder & assault. Apparently she cares very little for the medical license she worked 10 years or more to get! I can't even say enough how ridiculous this idea is -- maybe it could have worked if she was a NURSE or dental hygienist, but I simply can't buy the idea of a doctor getting jiggy with a criminal thug motorcycle gang member. Not to mention why she'd be willing to relocate to a tiny poor rural hospital and stymie her career in that way either. Siff is a weak actress as well, looking slackjawed and dull-witted as she does unbelievable stuff like make love with Hunnam's character NEXT TO A CORPSE.I'm only at the end of Season 3 and it's only gotten more ridiculous episode by episode. I've seen more convincing science fiction with flying saucers and jellyfish aliens. Two thumbs down.
This show was promising in the first season, but it quickly showed it's crap colors. As others have said, it's nothing but a soap opera peppered with absolutely asinine scenarios. In this fantasy land, cops don't exist, at least not in the capacity in which they do in the real world. And in this fantasy land, everyone, and I mean EVERYONE, is a hyper-dramatic drama queen. Each scene starts with a silent moment where some dumb biker sits there with a contemplative look on their face. The dumb biker is usually surrounded by other dumb people mulling over the dumb biker's latest dramatic dilemma. Like these people have nothing better to do with their lives than sit there and feed the dumb biker's sappy ego.The show is complete crap. The only reason I'm giving it 2 stars is because a few episodes of the first season showed promise. That quickly faded.


                
Wow, season 3 has been totally disappointing. I thought one and two were fairly good although there were many plot holes in the road the SAMCRO were on but season 3 is just horribly written. I predict this is the end of this show. It sadly doesn't have the creativity that shows like the Sopranos and the Wire have given us. Too bad, thought it had some potential. The writers seem to be grasping and straws and have over complicated the issues that face the MC. Not to mention giving them far to easy a way out of every situation, "oh I know, let's just have them suddenly have access to a jumbo jet that doesn't go through any border inspection". Pretty sad writing. They have also had a 101 chances to kill the Mayans, their arch rivals but for some reason they never have the balls to pull the trigger when the chance is there. They also seem to have terrible aim when their target is an actual person. Weird. Ahhhh well, was fun well it lasted.


                
OK, after watching Breaking Bad this one's not going to make it for me. I was hoping to find something exciting and intelligent about the series. Perhaps there's some type of historical reality about the biker life that so many of you love. However, watching a group of psychopathic machismo white men pretend that there "aint" no consequences to completely stupid and and out of control behaviors makes no sense to me. Narcissistic and other personality disordered females with a drug baby with no ethical narrative? Holy f***. These guys operating in a little BFE town would never survive even with some some police corruption. Dozens of dead bikers in a small California town after a gang war would bring the entire nation down on them. It's completely unrealistic. I'm disappointed and was hoping to enjoy watching the entire series on Netflix and FX. Any reframe that would help me to find some value in the series is welcome. And... why is not Ron Perlman at the top of the cast list? And... I love Katy Sagal's work. She's true to her character in spite of the lack of direction of this production.


                
I can't believe how this show could ever get a positive review... I haven't watched gay porn, but I'm sure that there's more male hugging going on in this show than in gay porn (not saying that's a bad thing, if you're in to it of course, not trying to offend anyone). The story is predictable, characters are the same. You can see everything coming from a mile away. I've not just watched a few episodes, I managed to keep going for the first 2 seasons..since I wanted to give the show a honest chance... And I'm sorry, but this show is just awful. So called ballin bikers.. Terrible! I can't understand how this garbage has so many seasons while other good shows have been canceled after just one.


                
I feel compelled to write these comments as the stratospheric high reviews are misleading. The format and premise are promising- a modern day biker gang struggle with relationships, illegal gunrunning, competing gangs and how to walk around in a leather jacket without looking like a total idiot most of the time. Sadly, this is just a poorly written soap opera - the acting is variable and occasionally comical, the main characters are wholly unconvincing as tough MC club members (I have some knowledge of such things) and the male relationships are as homoerotic as those in Top Gun - which, lets be honest, set the benchmark in such matters. The worst aspects of this overblown nonsense is the predictability of the plots, and the by-numbers skirmishes where the whole MC crew appear to be bullet- proof and legendary combat specialists, rather than overweight drunken louts with mummy issues. Look, it has a degree of watch-ability and may pass some time on a Sunday afternoon if there's nothing else on, but the ridiculous scores of 8 plus puts this drivel in Breaking Bad territory, and I'm not having that.


                
This TV show wasn't that great to begin with. Although, as a comedy it was entertaining. The idea that some broad can run an MC, from the shadows, is ludicrous. This just doesn't happen. This is making itself evident, by the way she (or the writers) is screwing things up with her BS.So, she gets 'turned out'.....like that never happens in the outlaw world. This has gone from a comedy, to a chick flick soap opera. I'd like to see more on the porn company the 'club' got into. Come on.....how about some babes! How about some action! Currently it is quite pathetic. There are tons of chick shows on TV. this could be better than that. Maybe men (real ones) should write for this show. Get rid of that girlie boy 'Jax' too. If this don't improve....I'm out of here.
I have seen so many rave reviews, my friends seem to think its awesome putting it in the same conversation as Breaking Bad. I tried one other time to watch a single show and recently watched season 1 to episode 6 and it just sucks to me. So many things just seem so far fetched. It plays out like a bad movie of the week back in the 80s. The gang reminds me of a grown up losers club from "it" I mean a biker gang that rides around .. everyone's wearing a helmet "safety first" all the bikes must have been purchased at the same time and they got a deal .. how else can they all be identical. The cuts they wear look like grranimals with their titles and names so perfect. Its just so cheesy I'm not even getting into characters or story lines(except Katy Segal I did like her and she made her part likable and somewhat believable). Nothing shocking no surprises and from the reviews I have read that agree it only gets worse. If you haven't seen or know nothing of a real biker gang .. this ain't it. I personally am moving on from this as it just isn't worth one more second of my time. Want a seriously awesome show out of the gate .. Ozark. Great acting, story telling and characters.(my opinion)


                
Sons of Anarchy, an unfailingly coarse yet brashly effective series that burrows into the workings of the titular outlaw motorcycle club, it seems to be bloody, disturbing and maniacally addictive. Gritty and occasionally violent, Sons was created by Kurt Sutter, an executive producer on "The Shield." As "The Shield" prepares to bow out, Sons should capably fill the smart, testosterone-fueled void. I do think it has real potential to become a solid dramatic addition to the FX slate, as The Shield enters its final season. This show will make you THINK and I know some of you may not want to think or take on deep cultural or moral issues but every once and awhile your brain needs some stimulus and so does your soul most importantly. This show sneaks in Philosophy and makes you like it. Sons of Anarchy will force you to laugh, to cry, to love and to be free.
I hate you, me and everyone remotely connected with this series. I'm ashamed of myself for watching, but it gets two stars for the soap opera like addictive qualities. Not unlike Charlies Angels filming scenes around a single walk, there are entire scenes filmed around a motorcycle ride or worse, a meaningful look from the ever brooding Jacks (Charlie Hunnam) and Tara (Maggie Siff). Add in screaming infants, country music and as close to pornography as they could get and there you have it. Creator Kurt Sutter has said that the series is loosely based on Hamlet; while it's easy to see the characters and plot aspects lifted from Hamlet it digresses into the most base series of torture scenes and cheap sex that you can imagine. If you have a mute button and only need something for background entertainment, go ahead and watch.


                
I gave this show ample opportunity to impress. Unfortunately I look back and strongly regret giving it time. The acting was ok, the characters were awful. Very undeserving of the praise it has received. After watching Stranger Things and Ozark, maybe the bar had been raised. I wad looking for the feeling of finishing the season and just thinking WOW!! I was disappointed in this occasion. Don't waste your time on this rubbish


                
