If I had to consolidate into one word all of the unpleasant emotions I've undergone in my painfully slow journey through five seasons of this cartoonish series, the term "frustration" would fit the bill perfectly. If you plan on diving into this show expecting the universe in which this story takes place to even remotely resemble our own, you too will feel this frustration. I am actually thoroughly appalled to see such high praise for this show, and it troubles me to think that this might somehow be The Best Thing On Television Right Now. The show centers on the follies of a gun running motorcycle gang in a fictional California town, ostensibly ran by a young blonde man named Jax who appears as though he was ripped, pixel for pixel, right out of an Abercrombie and Finch magazine ad. His mother, stepfather, and girlfriend get much focus as well, and a handful of other gang members get minor attention in an attempt to give the ensemble a little substance. However, each and every one of these characters are completely unlikable. They're nasty, manipulative, murderous, sexist criminals. This group of alcoholic racists (the non-allowance of blacks in the group actually becomes a plot-line) runs guns (and later, drugs) and seems to pull in huge profits in the process, and yet still live relatively meager lives in modest homes. There is never an explanation as to where these funds go, and there is only a half-attempt to explain why the gang even carries out this type of shady business in the first place.Now, stories centering on anti-heroes CAN be enjoyable. Nabokov's Lolita, American Psycho, Dexter come to mind. However, this show feels as though it actually endorses the actions of our biker friends, and I felt as though I, as the viewer, was expected to give myself a high-five every time the Sons of Anarchy (the name of the gang) killed an innocent bystander or screwed someone over. The main pull for this show is simply watching to see if these thugs ever actually get what's coming to them. (Spoiler Alert: they don't. Not in the first five seasons, anyway). This brings me to my main peeve: the characters outside the inner circle.Rest assured, any character in this show that is not a member or affiliate of the Sons of Anarchy is going to be a cartoonish, one- dimensional, unintelligent tool that always seems to be just one step behind our lovely Sons. Authority figure, public official, rival gang member, it doesn't matter. For example (spoiler here), one character sets a scenario in motion in which Jax's best friend is beaten to death right in front of him. Then, this same character instructs Jax to turn over ANOTHER member of his gang to be murdered, and then leaves himself completely open for a strike from Jax as he carries out the task of killing the second member. This character is supposed to be a super- intelligent, insanely powerful person in the story, and watching him and other characters do insanely stupid things that allow Jax and crew to constantly get the scoop on them is absolutely cringe-worthy. Furthermore, none of the gang members, save for one named Opie, ever have to experience the consequences of their lifestyle.As I mentioned before, I don't mind rooting for the bad guys from time to time, but this show makes it impossible. The characters are invincible, and therefore completely unrelatable. The story lines are easily predictable (hint: Sons always win. Always). The acting is pretty good, particularly from Katey Sagal, but it's hard to revive the believability of such poorly written characters. Watch Mad Men or Breaking Bad if you actually want a story in which the characters are human beings. Watch this if you like motorcycles and brawls and gunfights, because that's about as deep as this show is willing to go.
This show has officially jumped the shark...The club members are near bullet/bomb/fist proof and even when held at gunpoint, manage to get the jump on their attacker with skill that would make James Bond look like Forrest Gump. This includes their women, who have escaped being held at gunpoint early every other episode. (Honestly, when a gun is trained on a Son or an old lady of a Son, count on them pulling a Jason Bourne and snatching the gun). They engage in bare knuckle brawling, are shot, and survive bomb blasts with nary a scratch.Without vulnerability, the characters have no risk, and without risk they go from humans to superheroes. The emerging theme of escaping "the life" of violence becomes a parody. For anyone who has seen the real effects of violence and crime, this show presents a surreal and cartoonish farce. There is no motivation for their actions when every tight spot or fix can be resolved by using violence and military style black ops which most Navy SEAL teams couldn't accomplish, let alone a biker club. For example, the club is able to run amok in a local hospital and kill and interrogate a patient multiple times using a "decoy" tactic to lure away the bumbling sheriff guarding the room. The same tactic is used to infiltrate a rival club's drug operation. At no time are their plodding enemies every able to successfully resist or touch the Sons. A drive-bye hits only bystanders, an IRA bomb blast leads to a few day hospital stay, and even a rifle round to the shoulder is but a paper-cut. Meanwhile, the Sons are granted bail after storming a church meeting with weapons drawn, overpower North Irish border guards who have carbines trained on the prone Club members, and escape a team of IRA hit men armed with sub-machine guns. In the real world, such ham fisted operations would have brought a world of heat on the club and they would be in bright orange jumpsuits not, their black leather cuts. Oh, but then again, they'd just bust out of prison...
Okay so after hearing from many sources that Sons of Anarchy is a great TV show i decided to give it a shot. I found the pilot episode rather boring and so decided to give the show a fair chance and watched another 8 episodes. The problem with this show is that they are trying to mix a soap and a gangster drama like sopranos. Now even i critiqued that sopranos could have done with more action but sons of anarchy takes it to a whole new level.The show so far has lacked a proper long term story-line. Its almost like watching a CSI Miami episode where there is a new story every episode with a very minimal attention to the overall story. Like in one of the episodes Jax, one of the main characters is in a vehicle transporting a dead body with some of his gangster buddies. A cop who has his sights set on their gang decides to pull them over and so to deal with the issue Jax pulls over and just as the police officer exits his car, another vehicle filled with Jax's friends rear ends the cop. As the cop turns around to look at the situation Jax exits his car and slashes the cops tires with a knife. Now the cop shoots at their tires as they drive off and thats where this entire dilemma ends.... cops don't even show up to arrest the crew... the show makes it really clear the cop knows each and every gang member. Why don't the cops do anything... Well two episodes later Jax goes into the police station to tell the same police officer that there is an FBI agent in the city harassing his girl, instead of the cop remembering their confrontation he is all like "omg no way,i knew something was up!" and swears to deal with the situation. Now i was like what the.., it gets even better Jax later calls the same police officer on his phone number( why does he have his cellphone number?! i thought they were supposed to hate each other) and says the FBI agent hasn't left. The cop tells Jax that he is going to go talk to the FBI agent and that he is at the barber shop, Jax goes to the barber shop and beats agent really badly. Now Jax's alibi is that he was getting a haircut and the agent attacked him, now I'm thinking well how did you beat the cop to the scene, how did you have the time to have the entire fight and then claim you were getting a haircut?.. the cop told you the location!! There are so many plot holes that this show can be painful to watch. Like the club president gets called in for questioning and he is smoking a Cuban cigar with the police chief(who is allied with the gang),okay fine you have the police chief in your pocket but like how are you discussing illegal activities with the police chief, in his office while his door is open?! like in one of the scenes the cop who is set out to arrest the club walks by and gives the president the "I'm on to you" look as he sees him smoking the Cuban with the chief. Now to make things even worse the president convinces the police chief to arrest the opposing gang leaders so he can discuss business and beef with them in the police holding cell.This show is a soap and that's all it is.. Even the battles are dumb, like in one of the biggest battles the Latino gang is completely surrounded and is being shot at by automatic weapons and shotguns, you see a few people get shot but then in the end they all drive off and not a single person on either side dies... How do people love this show? and to think i heard from a few sources that this show is better than Breaking Bad and Sopranos. Oh yeah and the FBI agent, Jax kills him in the girls house with a shot to the head and then has sex with the girl next to his dead body...
I got roped into watching the first few episodes of this clichéd pablum and won't be coming back for more. James Bond meets the Dukes of Hazard meets Duke Nukem to fulfill every adolescent white trash fantasy imaginable. The show in a nutshell: unlikeable, one-dimensional characters traipse about a small town assaulting people, bedding hot ladies and getting wrapped up in soap opera nonsense. Also, there are bitchin' motorcycles.The objectification of women in this show makes Entourage look like The Vagina Monologues. A beautiful female agrees to sleep with a creepy stalker in exchange for a few hours of passion with our hero. The girlfriends of the dudes whose asses he whups, the checkout girl at the local grocery, the schoolgirls walking down the street, his ex-wife, his doctor: if there's a remotely attractive woman in frame, one can be sure she's enamored with our mulletted protagonist, Jax. It's later explained that beautiful women are apparently willing to serve in club harems for years in exchange for a slim chance at becoming some specific thug's "old lady". Be still, my beating heart.In addition to the blatant alpha male wish fulfillment, the show is terribly unrealistic in other ways as well. Despite being a bunch of misogynistic, drunken idiots; gang members are quite capable of running a complex business; hacking into FBI computers; executing (casualty-free) precision military operations; and outwitting "the man" at every turn. Law enforcement ranges from corrupt to ineffectual but for damn sure won't do anything important in this series. Considering that the idyllic small town of Charming, California is more violent and lawless than Ciudad Juarez, one has to wonder why everyday citizens hold gangsters in such high regard. The message here seems to be that policemen making any attempt to do their jobs are just annoying buzz-kills getting in the way of everyone's fun. The audience is meant to identify with the rowdy bikers because, despite being ruthless criminals, all but the obvious bad guys have hearts of gold. And besides, Jax is secretly conflicted about the moral implications of his chosen profession. Perhaps by Season Five he'll have morphed the gang into a hippie commune -- just like daddy wanted.The acting is passable and production value is decent. If the show could ditch the corny comic relief and introduce some subtlety or complexity or realism, it might be worth watching. As it stands, Sons of Anarchy is little more than Blaxploitation for poor white people. 3 stars.


                
So I recently started watching this show based on the reviews here. I couldn't be more disappointed. While occasionally this show has some bright spots the rest of it is so contrived and full of horrible acting that it just falls completely flat.The main gang is a bunch of completely despicable set of human beings except for perhaps one guy but he is so back and forth between complete asshatery and an attempt to do whats right that it makes a mockery of the whole thing. The whole show seems to be one pathetically boring attempt to justify showing bikers fighting or blowing things up over and over with little or no purpose other than they are blowing stuff up or fighting.I started watching this after going through the first three seasons of Justified this crock was recommended based on that show and the two couldn't be any different if they were designed to be. Justified was witty and fun while this thing is bogged down in simplistic motivations and violence for the sake of violence.After 8 episodes of this dreck I am giving up maybe it gets better later on but I am not willing to sit through the pain it would take to get there. I have no idea how this show won any awards. Nor can I figure out how it gets the ratings it does here.I wanted to like this show but I just cant find anything redeeming in it whatsoever.


                
High IMDb ratings had led me to watch masterpieces such as The Wire, Dexter, The Shield, Breaking Bad, Six Feet Under, Treme, and Game of Thrones. With an 8.7 rating, I was confident that Sons of Anarchy would be another IMDb slam-dunk.Boy was I wrong.Sons of Anarchy isn't so much a drama as it is a soap opera with a generous dose of violence. The typical show begins with a montage of characters going through their morning routines, as oldies music plays in the background. Soon enough, someone gets a phone call, emits a distressed "Jesus Christ!", and our favorite band of criminals hops on their bikes to go solve the problem. This is shortly followed by a series of unbelievable explosions and senseless violence. By the end of the episode, teary promises have been made, and the episode concludes with more oldies music. Rinse, lather, and repeat. The story lines are bland and construed; the characters are weak and cheesy. Character development? Forget about it. Characters play the same roles, over and over again. They never learn, and they never evolve. More than anything, they are just boring. They fail to grip the viewer, and instead becoming something of an annoyance.Not only are the episodes repetitive, but they are also riddled with plot holes. In the small town of Charming, California, the Sons of Anarchy somehow manage to explode bombs in broad daylight and murder hundreds of people, all without hardly a member going to jail. That's right, the small Charming police force only seems to be around when a plot hole needs to be filled, and when federal agents are finally involved, they bungle their work in the most unbelievable of ways. Let's put it this way, in the real world any gang remotely as brutal and careless as Sons of Anarchy was operating in small town in California, the FBI would be on them within the week. At some point it no longer is entertaining to watch the Sons of Anarchy engage in risky business because you quickly learn that with only a handful of exceptions, they are indestructible. They can blow up what they want, kill who they want, all while drunk and/or high, and not only that; they'll do it regularly and escape under the most incredulous conditions. Somehow this band of paroled alcoholics make the Navy SEALS look like a bunch of inexperienced rookies.On the bright side, the production is good, and some of the music can be catchy. But these positives are heavily outweighed by the negatives. All in all, Sons of Anarchy is a sub par show. If you want a quality show along similar lines, go pick up a season of The Shield.


                
The first season is okay, after that it goes downhill. The storyline is exactly the same for at least 5 seasons (I stopped at season 5, something I have never done with a series).It seems to me the writers only wrote 1 season and it just keeps repeating itself. They have tried to raise the gore level/shock effect to compensate for the weak story.It's a commercial storyline at its worst. To bad for the actors who do a pretty good job in acting (I'd give 7 stars for the actors but then -4 stars for the storyline). There just isn't any honor in acting a story-less series.
With a weekly death toll usually reaching 3 figures and at least a couple of gratuitous head mushing incidents an episode this relies heavily on a shock factor to try and raise this above the level of what it actually is, a soap opera. As far as soap goes it's pretty awful, lacking plot and character depth. From the middle aged transvestites, the compulsive masturbating to the racist Nazii's this thing images no effort to disguise the fact that it is a freak show. I watch in the hope of seeing long serving characters die a horrible death as there is not one likable character in the whole show. The small town of Charming is a joke, Walton Goggins in a dress with huge fun bags just about sums this show up.
I binge-watched the first couple of seasons. What really made me love it was actually how un-apologetically awful the characters could be. It was so refreshing to not have that "they might be bikers but they're really good persons inside, I swear" take on them for once. No attempt to make us forgive or diminish the horrible things they do and no turning them into victims. Of course, they have their own set of principles, values and code of honour - you can feel drawn to their quests because you can follow the logic even if it's not one you want to endorse. I loved the characters for that even if there is no denying that they would be horrible real-life persons. the third season is when I started going from disappointment to disappointment.1. The main plot line of the season is really drawn out unnecessarily in a bit too much angst and when it FINALLY comes to it's resolution, we fall right back in a plot line that is so similar it made me literally roll my eyes.2. Jax (the main character) started to get on my nerves. Instead of having significant character development, the writers have him constantly wallowing in man pain but recurrently doing mistakes - like killing the wrong person or trusting the wrong person (sometimes resulting in horrible consequences for someone who didn't deserve it) but never modifying his behaviour accordingly.3. The portrayal of women. I know many of you will dismiss that point but not only is it gross, but it speaks of poor writing. No but I know the world of gangs is sexist and redneck, but you can portray sexism without being sexist. You are deemed to hate all of the women on this show. There is only two feminine archetype in it, really. The first: Gemma. The mom is a Machiavellian Lady Macbeth type: Controlling, manipulative in the worse ways and castrating. Plot- wise, she is actually more of an antagonist than an ally and she would even be a good one if they didn't burden her with being the only feminine character with any sort of power. The second type is embodied by absolutely all the other women we have met up until the end of season 3. They are bland, vapid and to varying degrees, "whores" (as an archetype). The women are not characters but plot devices and tools for "furthering the man pain". I mean Tara: lets talk about a poorly written character.I admit that a 3 is still too harsh, but I really feel the need the compensate how over-rated this show is.


                
Honestly I expected more from this show. Started watching it late, not finished all seasons yet, but it's not as great as more people use to say. It's more a big family drama than anything else. First season was worst, second I liked, next are just boring. Never ending lies and secrets of Gemma, brutal murders of Clay and Jax who is always wondering and always have a doubt about everything. Every episode shows how they plot against each other, kissing and embracing each other and a little shooting between bands. There is always a chick with broken nose and too much drama. Not enough good sex scenes, not enough about the other members of the club relationships and life, not enough rock music or good shots of any of them, their bikes or whatever. It's so banal and the same. They work in auto service, it supposed to show some cars and bikes, talk about it, not even a word about that. It's always the same - lies, shooting, kisses. It begins to pall after a few episodes watched. And about Jack, I really liked this man more with long hair despite he rarely washed it. Can't even comment his dressing style, he have a nice body and wearing hobo clothes all the time. Just this show is a big disappointment for me as a fan of rough playing, rock music and fast driving, bikes and classic cars at all. They could do much more.I can't believe how this movie can downplay all the good human sences and emotions, and turn them to something so banal and lower. I really hate I lost my time watching this movie, really. I never actually enjoyed it, none of it.
'Sons of Anarchy' is a TV show about a motorcycle gang conducting both legal and illegal activity in a town called 'Charming'. This show has a following and is regarded as one of the best series of the decade. However, it's pretty much a big miss from the first to final season.1. To start, every single character (of the main cast) is so God damn shallow. They constantly go back and forth between wanting to follow good morals, but then immediately fall back into doing stupid sh#t. Jax (Charlie Hunnam) and Tara (Maggie Sif) take the cake on this since they both are such complete idiots more than anyone else. You'd assume Tara has a brain for being a doctor, but no, she's just the typical low- level chick that chases after bad-boys, constant d*ck and the 'motorcycle thug-life'.2. Charlie Hunnam is such a bad actor that he constantly struggles to grasp a North American accent in every episode. He's the worst of the group considering he's the star of the series. There is nothing redeemable about Jax, who it seems can't stop himself from humping anything that moves. The law of physics dictates that every action has a reaction. Hence every bad thing which happens to these characters, is a product of their own ridiculous and juvenile actions. 3. I could care less about Katy Sagal (Gemma) who's as arrogant as can be. Ron Perlman (Clay) is the only actor that has some decent weight and dimensions to him. The story is the only hook of the series that keeps you interested, but that's about it. I keep using the word 'shallow', cause I can't find any other word that's non-vulgar to describe these characters. Their the bad-guy, plain and simple, and I personally can't root for the antagonists for six years, sorry.Kurt Sutter (I'm sure) had some good intentions and ideas when creating this show, but unfortunately it never fully realized itself. The writing is amateur at best, with so may crindging moments just by the garbage-bin of dialogue coming out of the mouths of these stupid characters. Like my summary for the review, the 'Sons of Anarchy' can ride off a f#cking cliff.


                
I finally succumbed to the hype and have been watching this series. Where do I start. The scripts are unbelievable; the acting mostly ordinary but sometimes atrocious; the Irish accents laughable and the music covers of classics by Katey Segal unbearably bad. How it rates alongside of real classics like The Sopranos and Breaking Bad mystifies me, but I guess that there is no accounting for taste (or the lack of it).


                
Full of clichés, bravado and posturing. Almost totally predictable. We know the bad guys will lose, in almost every confrontation, every fight, and of course, in the end.In every gun fight bullets almost always seem to miss our heroes, and the "bad" guys almost always exist for the sole purpose of being beaten to a pulp by the main characters. Even when the bad guys are two to one, and holding guns against our heroes, we know they are seconds from being overpowered and beaten.Season 3 was a let down too, as we continue to watch the bad guys committing monumental errors of judgement. An FBI agent that has staked her whole career and life into capturing a famous terrorist, to the point of murdering her colleague and cutting deals with gang members. Yet, after 12 whole episodes and once finally in possession of the terrorist, she decides to stay alone, without protection inside known gangland territory, and get ambushed and killed. In anything vaguely resembling reality, a known terrorist arrest would involve a detachment of an army unit for everyone's protection.The main characters are similarly badly scripted, with sociopathic and schizophrenic behaviour, including a loyal gang member whose wife and mother of two young kids is murdered by the gang leaders, yet he remains loyal in the gang.I can't write more the whole thing is so terrible and now I am watching how the bad guys will get beaten too, it's just a matter of seconds... Hmm by the time I wrote this, the bad guys, the Russians, in full control of the situation, just sit there and become punch bags for our heroes to shine once again. Why even bother showing it since we know how it's going to end...
I can only suppose the high rating for this rather odd soap opera is due to folks not having the real-life experience to know how laughable it is. The first few episodes give a peek as to why bike clubs exist - because folks like to ride bikes. However, we're soon off into the melodrama where the bikes and riding are just forms of transportation. The club may as well be taking Ubers as riding from about the end of S1 to the final rushed and rather nasty conclusion. Some items got so bad that the show sunk into laughable. Let me give you one example. A major figure in the club falls in love with, wait for it, a surgical transsexual. The club's reaction: support him in his rather unconventional love. In real life, he'd be stomped, stripped of his colors and tossed into a ditch. I want to hold one exception to my rather dismal view of this show and that's Katey Sagal who is a bright light every second of her screen time. I only wish the writers could have worked in an excuse for her to sing in every episode. Owell. Folks: this is NOT an accurate picture of a club. The bikes match, are new and the get-ups seem like tailored for Holloween costumes. The supposed leader is some sort of metrosexual who doesn't even have the testosterone to grow a beard. Instead, he has some 30% beard which looks like lichen on his face. There are a few good character actors supporting Sagal. I'm happy that we have a bike show, but unhappy that it's not really a bike show.


                
Who the hell hired that fat dumpy prospect that merely nods his head and offers nothing to the show. Obviously, he has a relative that is affiliated with the show or is owed something by the producers. This is an example of Hollywood nepotism that leaves the audience asking questions that will never be answered. Sometimes, comprimises are made to finish a project, we understand that. But don't make things more confusing because you're lazy. Long live SamCro. Always read the manual. 8 glasses of water a day isn't bad if it contains beer. Measure twice, cut once.I'm out.


                
Seriously bad acting and corny scripting! I really wanted to like this show, but the fight scenes and shoot outs are laughable. The dialogue is corny, and the constant brooding, sauntering, and threatening is threatening. Ugh! Kaley Sagal is the only actor delivering any believability. Hunnam is cute, but a one trick pony. And Perlman just comes off as an old fart trying to be cool.


                
Probably one of the most disappointing Shakespearean opportunities to evince itself on the small screen. Such promise and hope from the original scenes of character building moment of episode one. Unfortunately the production turns into samo-samo, American dull cinema. Needs serious examination amongst the brains of the producers.The best actor is Katey Sagal as the Gertrude character from Hamlet. She's a strong leader, but unfortunately, that's it. Charlie Hunnam, the Geordie, somehow finds a physical demeanour of a 12 year old walking tough on the streets. A little too overacted, and the American accent is too tried. Ron Perlman is the unfortunate leader who withstands the business of dealing with the immature acting and storytelling.


                
This is the most ridiculous and unrealistic series I have ever seen.
I don't understand how I got through almost 2.5 season.The instructor is living up to his name. In Danish Sutter means sucking/sucks. Kim sure does suck ...


                
