I hate it when a series starts out fresh and interesting and then bends into the boring predictable "formula" drama series. We used to have guys we loved and guys we hate, now I don't see the difference; who's the good guys and who's the bad guys? You really need characters you root for, and others you can't wait to see them beaten out of their victory. I can't tell the difference from or the other this season, there isn't one character I care about anymore. SAMCROW used to care about the town and many residents knew that and were happy they were there, not anymore, old alliances seem to have vanished due to the open violence, killings, and beatings. Sorry Kurt, you had it going good; then all the flip flops, hate her-love her, love him now he's doing what the last bad guy did, or worse-he's dead. Your good guys are bad guys or don't stand a chance. Your good guys are hard to tell from the bad guys. Everyone I used to like is dead or is easily stepping into the bad guy's shoes very well, so they are not good guys anymore. I loved that you originally based your story line on King Lear but that whole story is long gone. You have successfully killed off great characters and a great story line that was original and kept you in front of the TV on Tuesday nights. I'm sorry, when I miss it now I don't even record it, I'm not rooting for anyone now. It was so good and I loved it. Now it is just convoluted. Sad good-bye.
...isn't easy. But this one is certainly written by well payed pro's and... you simply have to be incredibly stupid to buy it.The protagonist -who I guess is supposed to be the show's hero- is totally played by his mom, his wife and his stepfather (and more). To "protect him" (probably uttered a 100 times by Gemma) from certain hurtful truths. It makes him look half brain dead. He shouldn't notice that everyone is lying to him? And the lies also causes dozens of deaths, but that doesn't seem to bother the liars. All to "protect" this and that. Bottomless plot holes are covered with "let's keep it a secret to protect" whatever. And then there's the ongoing slaughter of... I don't know how many people. Preferrably by the use of heavy artillery and nuclear warheads. In broad daylight. And they never really get caught.Also it almost hurts to see twenty+ gangsters firing away at each other with assault rifles and hitting nothing but air. From 15 feet away.Last, but not least, is the inconsequences. The characters, and especially Gemma, tends to change views from episode to episode. Maybe it's supposed to look like she has a very clever hidden agenda, but I doubt it. It bums me out anyhow.No, the script isn't good. But the show's still watchable. It looks good, and some of the scenes are really well made and well written.Pardon my terrible English, I'm from Sweden.EDIT: I'm sorry but I really have to add a couple of things: 1 The acting is really good 2 The characters are truly lovable 3 The directing is top notch 4 The music i well chosen. Especially "Los Tiempos van Cambiando" (cover of Dylan's "Times are a changing").I mean: I actually did enjoy the show. The bad script just made me overly negative to the whole thing. But my rating (4/10) still stands. A great TV-series should be well written as well. Not just well produced.


                
I find Sons of Anarchy is watchable, but the story line is just ridiculous and the characters are stereotypes. There is happening too much too fast and everything is worked out too easily. Storyline is jumping around as often as in daily soaps. Sons of Anarchy's storyline is far, far away from reality to give it a good rating. I mean when 20 people are involved in a shooting with machine guns, shotguns and pistols within 50 feet range you expect some dead or at least wounded people, but not that everyone is fine.You notice quickly that SoA is all about stupid violence. I think it has potential, but right now it is just boring and I feel kinda stupid to have watched all 3 series so far.. For me it's not more than a 4/10


                
The acting was pretty good, and the storyline too... for a fictional biker story that is. I've known bikers for many years throughout N. America and I've come to find that in SOA the series is based on pro-Samcro throughout the episodes. Whatever happens in any situation, the average result of that situation is to the advantage of Samcro, which doesn't really happen in life.Bikers are usually uneducated, roudy, drunkards, and very visible. Surprisingly, in SOA these bikers take on Russian organized crime (Organized, something bikers aren't good in), white supremacist groups (also organized and well funded), and many more rivals which don't really happen in real life unless that biker gang actually filled with action-packed superheroes.Overall, good attempt in showing the life of bikers, but unfortunately it fails to reach the standards of Sopranos, Boardwalk Empire, and Breaking Bad. Maybe a lesson is needed and extensive research needed on the life of bikers from different point of views and not just one.


                
OK, If you have not watched this show, you are not missing anything. I still don't get why this series have a high score(8.xx my ass). I think people who write reviews above 6 are not putting any attention to whats going on in the screen. To be short in my review I must say that this series is like watching a Chuck Norris films but without him, the acting is bad, really, every episode you see a situation in which you expect everybody die , but no, the SOA are like Chuck Norris, they don't have a rival whatsoever. They go dress in black from here to there and no one knows who they hell they are, the police is a joke. Every time they arrest some member of this clan suddenly they go free somehow. I laugh my ass out when they go killing everyone without any retaliation from anyone.If you expect something realistic with this one you are going to be disappointed. This series is a weak effort to show something nasty to people, but unlike Breaking Bad, you don't see any real character or something, there is no starring role in this one, which is really lame, everyone is a protagonist and suddenly everyone is a f...ing philosopher and knows how to deal with almost every problem. Are we talking of a bikers gang? I don't see any white trash or redneck in this series, instead a group of vigilantes watching over everyone.
OK, to me this is entertainment only. Yes, show contains some sprinkling of what documentaries and those who have live it, tell us what biker lifestyle is like. But in the end, really? Do gun-runners load and unload barrels of guns and examine them in plain sight? Do they wear their colours on hi-jacks, break- ins, and bombings? Do club presidents, vps, and secretaries do their own dirty work (including special-forces style attack on a house) while a prospect (only one) merely tags along? I'm thinking either not at all or at best, not very often.I only made it half way through the first season and am leaving it at that.Glad others enjoy it but not my cup-o.
Nobody is getting smarter... character development next to 0Everybody gets away with what they do...Team members hardly die.You feel that the intelligence of the characters is limited by the creators of the series.However
+ It is fun to watch but sometimes you just think... wtf
+ Some character are very likeable
+ Good cliffhangerBut in total it is not enough... It is more like watching a car accident... not pleasent but you can not stop watching.
I do not understand what all the hype is/was about. Poor acting. Weak stories. Very poor technical aspects (gun handling, law enforcement/ medical procedure / MO, terminology, etc.) Would not have been that expensive to throw some retired cop and/or nurse/EMT on payroll as consultants. Show had so much potential. Thought Breaking Bad and other top shows set the bar higher. Feel a 4 is being generous.


                
