There is no doubt that the actors and the sets are great. But this is all I can say in favor of this movie.The movie does not know what to focus on. There are the scenes in the bunker, which are fine, but get boring with time, and there are the scenes in the streets of Berlin. You get to see the suffering of the civilian population and the "ordinary soldiers", but most remain without a face. One who has a face is a military doctor who could have gone but decides to stay in Berlin and help the wounded soldiers. Others are a group of youngsters, some boys and a girl, trying to fight the Soviet tanks.There have been complaints about this movie that it shows Hitler as a human being. I have no problems with that - after all, he was human. I have problems with the rest of the characters. Except Goebbels, who is rather nasty, Goebbels' wife, who is such a fanatic Nazi that she murders her own children so that they don't have to grow up in a world without Nazism, and Eva Braun, who is rather foolish, all the other people in the bunker are very nice and reasonable, trying to convince Hitler to leave Berlin and trying to make him see reason and reality (i.e. the reality that the war could not be won any more.) They try to persuade him to save the civilian population (also called the German people) and the soldiers outside. Hitler refuses to do that, saying the people had not deserved anything better, because it had been too weak.The same holds for the people outside. They are suffering soldiers and civilians, and some heroic men who hold out and try to help the suffering. One of them is the doctor I mentioned above. Yet he is a member of the SS - not of the Wehrmacht. Still he is shown as a good guy who has no flaws. There are two scenes of people being killed as deserters or collaborators, but they last only a few seconds, and these few people who fought against the Third Reich are left without a face and a story.So in spite of the movie's claims just to show what "really" happened and not interpret history, it has a message: Hitler (and perhaps Goebbels) were crazy, all the rest were nice people and Hitler's victims.


                
There is one point I think, which is very important in this movie. The filmmakers worked very meticulous and show every cruelty of the last days in the bunker. But the only scenes they don't show are the death of Hitler and of Goebbels, they don't even show the corpses... That seems to be a glorification of Hitler and that should not be the intention of the movie...So when you want to watch a good movie about this time then choose "Die Brücke" from Bernhard Wicki. There is a nice article from Wim Wenders available in which he talks about this problem (but it's only in German)
There were so many historical inaccuracies in this film I had to laugh to myself a few times. You would think at least the Germans could have gotten it right. One of the first glaring inaccuracies was the scene in which Hitler is in the garden of the Chancellery decorating Hitler Youth Boys with the Iron Coss. This event actually happened and was filmed by newsreel cameramen as portrayed in the film. However the even took place in the week before March 22, 1945, and not the day after Hitlers birthday. These are widely regarded as the last films made of Hitler. Strike 1! the HJ boy portrayed receiving the Iron Cross, was not actually from Berlin,and at that time the Russians were no where near Berlin. Strike 2! HJ Leader Artur Axmann was the HJ official at the sight, not some low ranking HJ official. Strike 3! So maybe I was expecting too much, but when I go to see a historic dramatization I at least hope they will stick to the facts. They do not. If you want to see a film based closer to reality see Anthony Hopkins award winning performance in The Bunker. If you know nothing of the truth of this story, hey it's a good little war film. If you are going expecting to see history as we know it come alive, you can forget it.Also the uniforms were among the worst I have ever seen in this kind of dramatization. The Bunker at least used an acknowledged expert, Brian L Davis, as a uniform consultant. These were the cheapest knock offs ever. Furthermore Hopkin's Hitler was far more convincing.


                
Maybe this will start a new trend for showing histories villains in a new light. Watch out next year for Pol Pot the musical. He had a funny side as well. Unfortunately the film misses a great opportunity to say something original, and is a one trick story, filmed from the perspective of Hitler's bunker. And at nearly 3 hours they have gone for trying to show painstaking detail at the expense of intelligent film making and judicious editing.This film fails to deliver on many fronts, and ends up as a simple curiosity. Go rent the Mel Brookes The Producers and see Hitler in a different light.


                
If you want an entertaining German movie, I suggest you try "Der Schulmaedchenreport 4". So much better in every way...Actually, Germans are not known for making good movies, and this little Bunker-Tage bio of Hitler is an indication why. The acting is mostly unimpressive, and Hitler comes off as a comic character. Of course, this is always a problem with portraying Hitler; he was so outrageous/absurd/unreal in every way that it's almost impossible to play him without the performance looking like a broad parody of him.Hence, whenever Hitler (Ganz) shouts - and he shouts and bitches like a wild dog a dozen times at least - I was more inclined to giggle than to get into the drama of the moment. There's plenty of saliva flying out of Ganz's mouth, and if this movie were shown in 3D I would have feared that some might land into my face. Not a pleasant thought! Even Charlie Chaplin's spoof has more of the real person than Ganz's totally animated, overly grumpy Hitler.Okay, the film isn't that bad. The subject-matter is too interesting to be botched even by a German film-crew, but the close-to 150-minute length is a bit of a problem, too. Frankly, to me the highlight of the movie was the ending, and I'm not trying to be funny. The outro, which reveals what happened to each of the main characters is interesting, but I guess that info one could get in the books or the internet anyway.You can count yourself lucky if you don't speak German, because if you read the subtitles then the acting and the dialogue don't seem as imperfect as they really are. (This is the case with Bergman films, too.) If you see it in German then you realize just how hard some of these actors try but simply can't get their act together.Besides, you just know that the Germans could never resist injecting a note of humanity into the main Nazi characters. (A little bias, perhaps...?) I found it laughable how some of these top Nazi psychopaths/sociopaths were portrayed. Another problem is that I could not really feel for any of the German "civilians"/volunteers dying as they defended Berlin. Why? Because considering how many millions of deaths were caused by Germany in WW II - of which the concentration camps represented the worst - I really didn't care that much...If you are unhappy with this dull Hitler flick, which you must be, just google "Vjetropev Hitler Spoofs" and this will lead you to my video clips with the vastly improved movie. Have fun.For a truly (unintentionally) funny German movie, try "Der Schnibbler". I hear it's Edwoodesque.
I'm not that keen on the film there were sparks of promising moments but disappeared with suicide the only character that I did feel sorry for was the poor secretary being put through something that was probably an un-decided future working for a psychotic Jew hater. The narrative obviously had a subliminal message we are sorry for Hitler he weren't that bad. I just do not understand the great fascination and sympathy for a man that should have no respect for what he stands for which is rather hellish, I feel that they are trying to show that he isn't that bad but a normal human doing what any normal human is thinking and doing unfortunately for the Germans, Italians and Austrians I will not be fooled by pure trickery. But a common think that seems to be in the most recent of war films of foreign soldiers is suicide take for granted The Letters From Iwo Jima although that is a lot better and looks better. I was also anticipating something as good as Das Boot. But I did like a lot of the shots that made you feel quite moving and gripping like that young boy. What made this movie memorable to me were the scenes in which we could see the cruelty and sickening determination of some German officers and soldiers to fulfill their Führer's orders even when it was clear he had committed suicide. What I also liked was Bruno Ganz performance. I feel that it is just a flattering portrait of a evil regime and the devil himself. It shows quite a dark and profoundly horrifying ordeal of a death of there Fúrher and would go to any lengths to save there believes even dying with them. Probably the most eye opening and memorable scene is of when the mother killed her children showing that she feels that nothing is worth living if the Nazi's fall. And shows a kind of domino effect with one falling all the others do as well. It also showed that they were so dependant on him. . It shows that Hitler is visibally shrinking and shaking as he contemplates the third riech and almost alternating from despair and madness. Plus Charlie Chaplin and Woody Allen are Jewish so I side with them two


                
