I dont like this. I dont like this. I dont like this.
Having traveled from the Netherlands to Germany to see this movie, you might understand I was quite curious about this German production.Well, in the beginning, the movie is fairly exciting, it gives a very accurate picture of life inside the Berlin bunker. Hitler as a person is depicted realistically and is interesting to watch. But, after a while, things become boring. Everyone who has some interest in Second World War history knows what happened, and it is indeed shown in detail. No minor detail of the happenings is left out. Although this is ideal for purists and Nazi fetishists, for the play itself, which must be considered drama rather than documentary, it makes the movie a very long sit, leaving the viewer only to wish the movie goes to an end. Another point of criticism is the fact that of the main players, no biography is given somehow during the play. Younger people,like me do not exactly know what names like Speer, Göbbels and Goering were responsible for in the third Reich.


                
Last year's "Hitler's Secretary" documented the life of Traudl Junge, the last woman to transcribe the virulent dictator's dictation. Did anyone out there order a straightforward narrative account of Hitler's final days in the bunker? Following in the goosesteps of Richard Baseheart, Alec Guinness, Sidney Miller and countless others is Bruno Ganz, Wim Wenders' fallen angel, trying hard to add a little extra sieg to the heil, stretch to the salute and spittle to the tirades. Ganz makes a great Fuhrer. The obligatory tousling that falling lock of famous hair and siphon-bursts of anger are brilliantly mimicked. He even adds a new mannerism to the character - the left hand behind the back spastically squeezing an imaginary ball.In an attempt to add a touch of documentary realism, the first voice we hear belongs to the real Ms. Junge, Hitler's farewell stenographer. Apprehension set in early on during Traudl's (Alexandra Maria Lara) interview. Hitler confides, "I make so many mistakes when I dictate." Not that I was expecting a Mel Brooks musical number, but some type of subtle suggestion that the authors understood the irony in the dialog would have added a tinge of personality to this otherwise conventional directorial debut.Much has been said of the movie's alleged attempts to humanize Hitler. He's nice to his dog and Traudl. He was good enough to marry Eva Braun just prior to their mutual suicides. Still, that doesn't make him sympathetic or any less capable of committing atrocities. More like a lame attempt by a publicist to frantically stir up word of mouth over a film that asks viewers to spend the better part of their day in a bunker with the Maharishi of mass murder, his architects of doom and their families.Even though the film is limited to only one screaming mother, it still can't help but plead guilty to stirring up the kind of messy sentiment too often associated with the genre. When all else fails, toss in a child and feebly juxtapose their clean slates with the Nazi atrocities. In this case there are kids both in and out of the bunker. An eight-year-old "civilian" who takes down two tanks before receiving a personal commendation from Shickelgruber must eventually learn the errors of his ways. Next to a bucket of amputated body parts in the O.R., the most difficult scene to watch has Mother Goebbles feeding cyanide to her sleeping offspring. The former is off-putting due to its sudden, graphic appearance. The latter is even more repulsive due to its meticulous, downright loving (in the sense that the filmmakers knew the power of the scene and milked it for all the schmaltz its worth) pictorialization. Is this one of the humanizing elements people are bent out of shape over? It isn't long before death can't be mentioned without being butted against a scene featuring children. The Goebble's Family Singers perform a song for Aunt Eva and Uncle Hitler just prior to an in-depth discussion of various forms of death. A suicide is dutifully followed up with a symbolic baby's doll flying out a window.The vast majority of the running time plays out in the bunker and once we lose Der Fuhrer it all becomes tiresome. The loose ends come together and once again, Ms. Traudl (this time with an image to accompany the voice) is brought into play, Obviously tacked on to add a bookend (and documentary credence) it cannot help but evoke unwelcome memories of "Schindler's List," the film spawned it.
Went to see Down Fall because I heard Bruno Ganz was worth seeing. He was worth seeing. But after the sixth or seventh of his scenes I found his role and his portrayal of Hitler uninteresting. The movie was not worth watching; though I suppose if you wanted a synopsis of what went on in the bunker the story covers a lot of ground. I left the theater after the sound of the shot. We are led to believe that Hitler has shot himself. Main gripes: Too long, Cheap looking locations, Too many characters (OK so there were a lot of people who wanted Hitler to surrender, to leave, to try and lessen the horror of Berlin's citizens) I couldn't see the purpose of recounting each one, This looked liked what it was; a made for TV movie. We get a glimpse of one viewpoint. The newly wed Eva Braun tries to suggest that maybe Hitler was of two distinct persona. The man versus the leader of the National Socialists. But that or any sort of real explanation for the different moods Ganz portrays are not developed.


                
