This movie was produced in a period when we did not have such concepts like 9/11. The only thing I liked in the movie is that the terrorist group is multinational by which no nationality or ethnic background is aimed at directly. But you know other than that.. what could I see in the movie? Action action stupid unrealistic action.Hollywood action roles where the hero's shirt is ripped off in the first reel so you can see how much time he has been spending at the gym to impress our rusty eyes!! A NWPD cop who finishes off 7-8 terrorists in a single-minded way? And he has no support from LYPD police department and dumb FBI officials? This is a usual,preposterous Rambo action.Hollywood has always done this. It's been about twenty years since the movie was made and I wonder whether America has ever seen such fictional heroes, for example why such a hero did not save the Twin Towers by himself? I can only laugh. Finishing off the terrorists who are intellectually developed,who work with clockwork precision by the efforts of one simple cop? You think the rest!!!


                
6 out of 10Die Hard's plot has pretty much been the springboard for the action movies we see nowadays.  Basically, a group of terrorists hold lots of civiliant hostage so they can steal some money.  The premise has been done over and over and more elaborately than Die Hard, which uses the simplicity to its advantage.  It's one cop vs. a dozen terrorists, nothing particularly hard on the noggin about that.  While the action scenes are well executed, the movie is constantly shot in darkly lit areas, making some of the shootouts and fistfights harder to make out.  But most damning of all is the fact that, off the top of my head, I cannot recall a big-studio action film that featured as many annoying supporting characters as the number in this movie.  There are the by-the-book FBI agents, the idiotic police captain (who, when hearing of a body being thrown at a building, actually suggests it may have been a guy who committed suicide), the drug-addled businessman who's out to save his own skin, and the cutthroat, no-mercy reporter who tries exploiting the story even at the risk of the hostages' lives.  It's hard to concentrate on the action when all I can think of is how each of these characters' is going to get his comeuppance.  It's also pretty insulting to see each of these people act stupid only to drive the plot forward.


                
DH(1) had quite some Hollywood stuff in it, you know, things that simply don't happen but... DH2 is not only overly full of it (McClane has more bullets in his handgun then the bandits in several submachine guns; the bandits can shoot at him for ½ an hr without even scratching him and he kills at least two with a single shot... the usual Hollywood crap, right?)where it gets much more annoying is when it comes to the planes and air traffic... holding patterns are not some sort of heap where passengers can wave to other planes - the planes are following each other. crashing a plane by giving it a lower altitude of the airport / runway then what it really is; modern planes have a ground proximity warning system (GPWS for short) which... warn the pilots when the plane is getting too close to the ground, no matter what the tower tells there altitude is.make yourself a favour, don't wast your time on this... 2 all the others are more realistic in their... craziness. except for the Hollywood standard stuff, of course...
I know that this is Alan Rickmans first acting role as a villain and became popular as Professor Snape. However, I just never got interested in the story nor looking at Bruce Willis trying to save the world and rescue his wife. It really does sound rather boring considering that's all he ever does is action movies and nothing else like. I respect him as an actor but he wouldn't be on my favorite list to be perfectly honest with you! I honestly thought Rickmans performance was absolutely brilliant! Seriously, actors like him are just lovable right from the start! I'm so sad he died recently because he is such a great actor with a great dark British voice! He was the only one that really stood out in the movie but most of them kinda sucked to be honest! Especially Bonnie Bedelia as the wife playing in this, would not stop whining about being released by Bruce Willis. I would consider this movie to be overrated so that's why I'm giving this a 1/10 rating!
This is like so clichéd! Mission impossible is getting ripped off by this film, wow that is stealing! And it steals from like EVERY TERRORIST MOVIE EVER. This film should fly into the 911 towers for all i care, i mean it's really bad. the main character looks like donald duck with his face squashed in and i wish he died like REALLY HARD so I wouldn't ever have to see that ugly guy again. you should go watch the grown ups 2 its way betterand even if the film was good the cover art is so bad that i give it 1/10, and meen who design that stuff even a six year old like me could design it better! and the director must have been really dumb and immature to make such a bad film, i could do better two. just give me a camera OK and I film good die hard film and everyone loves it BUT THIS IS TERRBLE!!
This is not a good movie!! I remember when the trailer for this hit tv before it came out & the first thing I thought, First Blood!! John J. Rambo took on a small town police department & weekend warriors all by himself in First Blood. He did nothing wrong, just wanted something to eat!! Die Hard, a single man takes on terrorist in LA!!! Copycat!!! One last thing that this action/thriller is not, A CHRISTMAS MOVIE!!!
