i found this like many pixar movies....One or more lovable protagonists have existed for some time in a stable but fundamentally flawed routine, which is shaken up by the introduction of a foreign entity, usually another character, around whom attitudes are initially hostile. Attempts to deal with this character eventually lead to the protagonist(s) discovering a new, unfamiliar world, and in doing so discover the nature of the fundamental flaw in their routine. Villains are usually introduced or only become truly villainous from around the mid-point or quite late into the film. Along the way the heroes enlist the help of various lesser characters with clearly definable quirks and at one point reluctantly enter a high-speed chase. The villain is generally finally defeated with surprising ease, and everything concludes in an emotionally manipulative ending in which routine is restored with the fundamental flaw excised.this has been done to death Pixar please find a different formula


                
It is undeniable that Pixar make pretty pictures. The animation is amazing but this story is mellifluous mindless drivel and spectacularly boring.The vote results have again confirmed for me that the majority of IMDb users have no appreciation of film culture or history. I have no issues with mindless entertainment but giving this forgettable summer fare a score of over 9 and having it rank higher than "The Godfather" and just about every other true cinematic masterpiece ever produced is a reminder of how the American general public are pathetically devoid of film culture. I remember when IMDb was at least a good barometer of the cinematic value of American films now it is just a good resource to get quick access to showtimes.


                
You know, this movie had a chance to be avant-garde till half way then it got to be annoying.what was the point of having live action then later show the humans in that ship as cartoony people? why would a robot whose sole purpose is to clean junk have a faculty for feeling love? Why? if the future of robotics is like wall-e then i see toasters falling in love. Doing something they're not designed to do. Wall-E should have just cleaned junk, that's it.That's what he was designed to do. Wall-E is an acronym for "Waste Allocation Load Lifter, Earth Class"It was a bit avant-garde because of the whole idea, the story, the look, but it fell flat because of little things that defied logic.now i hear that this movie is one of the greatest sci-fi movies of all time. Ridiculous. This movie had very little entertainment value. i wasn't entertained.When it was halfway, i just wished it could end. i kept asking myself, when will this movie ever end? but it kept going, annoying the living daylight out of me.


                
Pixar's skill at creating amazing visuals is undeniable. This movie is another showcase of their talent in that field. However, after sitting in the theater for the first hour, (Which felt like at least a week), I couldn't decide if I would rather have the movie end immediately or have something actually happen in the movie. Neither wish came to fruition. The movie dragged out for what seemed an eternity, with nothing happening. It became clear during the second half of the movie that this was really a "Save the Planet" commercial, and I'm all for it, but couldn't they have made it entertaining? Or perhaps made a good movie and then just passed out "Save the Earth" pamphlets at the end. I was painfully aware throughout the entire movie that neither my son or I had even chuckled during this film. Watching garbage fall on a little robot, or seeing him roll down a hill of trash just isn't that funny. Especially the tenth or eleventh time. Wall.e reminds me of "2001: A Space Odyssey", critically acclaimed, but absolutely unwatchable. In all fairness, I've never actually made it to the end of "2001: A Space Odyssey", and I wish that I had walked out on Wall.e as well. If you have to take your kids to this movie, make sure that they are not expecting any kind of action, and bring a book to read.
Storytelling matters. This movie sets up a great tale (the first half hour is good), then seriously fails to deliver. The animation and the story get very, very boring once the movie leaves earth.The large sections with no dialogue were a nice change of pace. But when the dialogue did come, a lot of it was WALL-E and EVE whining each others names over and over...and over...and over...as a way to move the plot along, I almost went out of my mind. EVE was especially annoying to listen to.The endless shots of robots holding hands, robots figuring out how to hold hands, robots yearning to hold hands and robots thinking about the next time they could think about holding hands were EXCRUCIATING. Some people think this is a movie about the perils of gluttony and mega-corporations. I think it might be a movie about how it's nice to hold hands.And I've got to say, having WALL*E find the green, healthy plant seedling growing inside a closed abandoned refrigerator is just stupid. Because you know, there's, like, no light in there. And don't give me "suspension of disbelief." That's for when a hard-to-believe plot point actually serves to advance the story. He has an entire abandoned city in which to find a single plant growing, 700 years in the future, and they have him find it inside an old dark refrigerator. There was no reason for it.I'm puzzled by the raves saying this is Pixar's best film. Pixar's best-looking? Probably. Pixar's best? Not by a long shot.
Well, before you see the movie you hear that it's an animation from Pixar, has a rating of 8.9 and is among top 20 movies of all times. It makes your expectation very high... But the movie is not that good. Here are my reasons: 1- When the movie tries to be good, but you don't enjoy 90 percent of it, is it really good? 2- I wish they spent a little bit more time for drawing the people in the spaceship. Their drawing looks really amateur comparing to Wall-e. 3- It's nice that the movie has an "ethical advice" or something like that. But I don't go to cinema for JUST an advice. 4- I was bored when for the first hour of the film nobody talked.


                
Anyone claiming this is the best movie ever made is obviously family because after enduring perpetual, never ending dialog, "W A L L E..." "E V E...", it continued to haunt us afterwards in realizing this movie was a zero. Please don't ever compare this pap to "Toy Story" world's better on so many levels. This one tries to sell the audience on an ideal...by shoving it not only in your face, but then down your throat.Good movies, even if it is these becoming-too-tiresome cartoons with "star" voice overs...NEVER have to resort to that failed ploy.)(Hint: It doesn't at all matter that the voice-overs are known stars! Save some money and pick extras to do it and most likely will do it much more passionately, funnier and better!)


                
I don't get why this is one of the highest rated movies on IMDb. When I watched it, it wasn't that entertaining. A cute robot in the future cleans trash on planet Earth, while humans float around in space, eating junk food and growing fat. The robot discovers a mysterious thing that is called a plant, which gives hope to the people that live in space and come back to the earth at the end, meaning there is the hope and possibility of living on a green planet again. I just don't get it. There was a female robot that met Walle, the robot, at some point, and there may have been a hint of romance, but it wasn't good enough to remember. It wasn't entertaining for a six-year- old I knew.
I am a middle aged women who went with my grown son to see Wall-E because I had heard it was a masterpiece. True,the animation was amazing as in other Pixar films. However..it has been a very long time since I have been so bored that I kept looking at my watch. Depressing,slow paced,little plot development ...I couldn't wait till it was over! The theater was filled with kids being a " Two Toonie Tuesday" ($4.00) in Toronto..but you could not hear a sound from them, no laughing..giggling..yelling...just kids having FUN...like you would expect.NOTHING but silence! Where is the enjoyment in this movie?? Truthfully I felt the same way...why make a kids movie showing such depressing themes..it could easily have been "Soylent Green" from 1973..which was an exciting,fast paced action filled adult movie with the theme being future food shortages..but to have this theme in a children's movie..was extremely disappointing. I cannot understand everyone giving it top stars..other than the great animation!! You will be disappointed & bored..especially your kids!!!! Don't waste your money..wait for it on DVD.
Love Pixar, but,,,,,, 1. Story line was long, looong, looooooooooong. 2. Beginning was boooooring, depressing, and really set me up for wishing I had a pillow. 3. Beginning was the only part with challenging animation. 4. Middle was a vastly negative testimonial on technology replacing human fitness. 5. Middle and ending had decent but low detail animation, worse than Saturday morning cartoon stuff. 6. Ending was appropriately negative slam on humans spoiling environment. 7. Overall the movie was 15/16ths boring and depressing with about 3 minutes of hope at the end. 8. The writer disguised this negativism behind a cutsie crush between a couple of robots. This humanizing rotors was kinda weird, seeing 7/8ths of the movie was a vastly negative testimonial on technology replacing human activity and thought.


                
Pixar has turned out some fine animation films, including such charming offerings as "Finding Nemo" and "Ratatouille." This boy-robot meets girl-robot film is one of the company's worst. It is a bleak, boring story of a robot left behind to cleanup the Earth after it has been abandoned by humans. The title character is supposed to be cute and endearing, but the film is simply too uninteresting for one to care. The dialog-free first third of the film drags. When the action moves to the spaceship holding the humans it becomes mildly amusing, thanks to the antics of the captain, but it's not enough to save this from being a dud.


                
After I saw the score on IMDb and heard the reactions from my colleagues my expectations were very high. Unfortunately my wife and I almost fell asleep. Graphics are superb (1 point extra for that) but the romance between the robots did not touch us. And that what the movie is all about. With romance I prefer to see real characters and not an animation. There were also lots parts in the movie without any meaning, nice for people who like special graphics but senseless for the movie. You love this movie or it's nothing, I don't think there really is something in between. And be aware that there's almost no discussion in the movie.


                
After so many of my friends have watched the movie and seemed to take a liking to it I thought I should give it a try. Much to my dismay as it turned out. The movie was quite silly to be frank: it plays in the distant future where apparently all humans are extremely dumb (borderline retarded as it seems) and morbidly obese due to their sedentary lifestyle and dietary choices. The main protagonists are two robots: Wall-E (who acts like an annoying prepubescent child throughout the entire movie) and EVE (who is an extremely advanced robot that shouldn't even exist in the first place since the intellect of the depicted humans isn't sufficient enough to conceive such technology). Just because the robots are cute that doesn't make the movie great. I can see how AUTO is an homage to HAL 9000 but that's about the only positive thing about the movie. In my humble opinion this is probably one of the worst Pixar movies I've seen so far. The story was simply not compelling enough.


                
I think Pixar has made some magical movies over the years, but this was not one of them! I just can't sit through an entire movie where they hardly speak this isn't the 1920's with Charlie Chaplin!! I actually walked out on this movie and I appreicate the originality that it had and how they tried to do something a little different, which is the only reason I gave it three stars. But the whole point of going to the movies is to be entertained and I've had more fun watching sitting in a white room staring at the wall. I'm just flat out puzzled as to how anyone over the age of 10 found this entertaining and how it's rating is so high! So I think that Pixar didn't do its usual magic with this one and I give it three stars only because it did have some originality to it!


                
It was REALLY bad (notice how *REALLY* is in capital letters), I went with my mom & my moms friend, my moms friend is a little older than her, my mom is 49-years-old, I am a teenager, and I went to see this, and I knew it'd be amazing, because it's from Pixar, the makers of some of my favorite movies, and after last years AMAZING "Ratatouille" (in my top 10 favorite movies of ALL TIME), I knew this would be even BETTER. Boy, was I wrong. It was HORRIBLE, there were some funny parts, but I was never aware that there was like, 15 MINUTES OF DIALOG IN THE WHOLE MOVIE, all WALL-E says is "EVEEEE", and all Eve says is "WAAALLL-EEE", thats basically all the dialog in the WHOLE ENTIRE MOVIE. Trying sitting through that, because my mom couldn't, she SLEPT through it!!! What a joke, but the visuals were amazing, but I need dialog, unless it'll just be a snore-fest, which is was.


                
WALL-E was a very good movie for kids to see. For me though I did not enjoy it at all. This is a movie you have to like pixar and animation movies. I am not a big fan of animated movies but I watch some and like them. Like Kung Fu Panda for instance that was very good. This on the other hand was pointless and boring. For kids they would definitely like this movie. I thought it made no sense between the whole outer space and then earth stuff. They kept going from place to place. In ways yes it was cute and WALL-E was pretty fun to watch. The movie had a little love story for the animation movies. Kids might understand it. The movie it's self did have good messages and themes. Overall though the movie fails to entertain. There are better animation movies out there.


                
I was expecting with great hope the last Pixar animation movie.A total flop, and quoting other comments, I have just to admit nobody is perfect...Pixar studios did plenty of top notch animations...for me, one the seldom studios using CGI in the best way possible,with excellent scenarios, creativity, sensitivity and humor...Usually, at least... !I'll just remind you some :Ratatouille, Your Friend the Rat, For the birds, Geri's Game for instance, all of them, just state of art animation works...But WALL<U+0095>E just seem to lack all that Pixar spirit...Well, for about the 15 start minutes, just nothing happened...Then the future "companion" is taken out from the midst...and presented as the Messiah ! Redemption !After the laughable insect and the green plant a while ago... Next : the representative humans, I guess were made to pleasea large overweight real human worldwide audience.The epitome of everything : yes, of course ! It will make millions of people thinking, oh yes !Seems relatively normal to have 1/3 of isbody weight that is only fat, coming from McDo and Cokes...in this world.First because they/we/you are alive (I don't deny that nor denythe right to be overweight... everyone chooses !),thinking, working, driving, loving, having a family...Second because more and more we see fat people includedin any types of movies... very attractive...And now, Pixar the Greatest put some in a 8,4/10 stars voters average movie rate (september 2008).WALL<U+0095>E, the one that many as I did were imploring to come out on screen...took just my eyes out of my face, so bad is was, for me... (and half not so surprisingly, for my kids too!)The clip resumed the movie the best possible way. That is the truth.But apart what you see in the clip, funny, attractive...the rest is really a definitive lack of time !Even on a cold foggy day, better go out for a walk in searchof fun and mystery... because in this Pixar, you won't find that(hard to believe, INCREDIBLE, were they high ?!)Let's say it is only a defeat... a kind of Waterloo (for the French !)a 9.11 (for the Americans) and a real flop for only a few of us !but we'll expect other victorious funny movies... from Pixar, please !The interesting point of the movie is may be that showing the possible fact that men continuing to create tons of rubbish materials, will be once overpowered by them.Guess this comment won't please to a lot of people... Who's that (auto-censored) guy criticizing this marvelous film...They are as many holes in my comment, as many are in this movie... laugh !So sorry, it's just my opinion...2/10, for the CGI, OK, that I admit... the rest is 1 for the effort


                
In what can only be described as an almost complete waste of time, except for the expert artistry using CGI, the premise of Wall-E, a garbage robot who falls in love with another robot, stereotypes the future generations as bloated sloth slobs, with little or no ambition, other than to emaciate in a laying down position. The script centers on the voyage of spaceship,700 years removed from Earth as a way of protecting its' exodus , Wall-E hitchhikes a ride on, as his beloved Eve is snatched away. Pretty much meaningless drivel, if you consider the moral of the story is that man is his greatest enemy , and he doesn't have enough sense of that of a robot and a cockroach. I am particularly offended by Pixars under-handed approach to indoctrinate our children with propaganda, and crap. So much for positive values. We should be more like robots and cockroaches. Thank you Pixar for showing us your true colors. Not since Monster vs. Aliens has a film disguised as "Childrens" entertainment , become so blatantly clear as to its' true secularist message. Screw them. I do not recommend Wall-E, or any other film Pixar makes until I see confirmation of their reversal of position. Film gets a 2. Pure GARBAGE, and WASTE of time , about WASTE.
