Let me start by saying that not only am I a big fan of "adult" cartoons but I am also a long time fan of H.Jon Benjamin.I loved Home Movies, Assy McGee, Dr. Katz, ATHF.Heck I even liked Jon Benjamin Has a Van and of course I love Bob's Burgers.So after saying all that, I'm sure you don't understand how I can't like this show.I get it, it doesn't make any sense to not like this.But I don't.Not only do I not like it, I don't even understand it.Archer is some James Bond type character who works for his mom, I think.I have seen dozens of episodes and I have no clue who the characters are or what they are doing.The only thing that is close to funny is having Christian Slater in the show.It's amazing that this is the H.Jon Benjamin show that has lasted the longest.I give it 4 thumbs down.


                
Season 5 is simply awful, it's not a "reboot" as FX PR flaks are projecting it, but the reanimation of a corpse over and over. There are very few laughs now(that's being kind), the plot totally hackneyed, and the characters dull and pointless. The only interesting part of this season is to see which episode is going to be a bigger train wreck than its predecessor. Southbound and Down is actually so bad I might not be able to watch another episode again. In a few years, Season 5 will be studied in Film Schools to chronicle one of the biggest failures in Television History, and the perils of what can happen when you no longer care about your audience and just mail it in week after week for a pay check. How many elements and subplots of bad 70's & 80's TV shows can be regurgitated in one season? Anyone associated with this season needs to take a long look in the mirror and really think about what it means to be creative, original and entertaining, because Season 5 lowers the bar to a level that would make Soviet Propaganda Films Starring Joe Stalin more entertaining.


                
Seasons 1-4 are absolute gold, but I have never seen such an absolute turn around in the span of One SeaSon (or even 1-2 episodes)!!!!! Actually it's like Adam Reed was flying the most amazing jet ever constructed and said 'You know I should fly this Directly into Mount St. Helens while it's erupting. Sorry, a more apt description is that Adam Reed is the three main antagonists in Raiders of the Lost Ark and he opened the ark, which contained season 5, and melted every bodies faces of (Shearly because he was bored with the direction of the series!!!!!). Malory Archer has no reason being there at all. Archer is a shell of his former self. Cyril adds absolutely nothing of value. Gillette and Krieger are basically nonexistent. Cheryl and Pam (Two completely ancillary characters) are now main characters that you just want to shoot in the face with the most powerful gun you can get your hands on. The witty banter and hilarious pop culture references have been completely thrown together like a series of meaningless family guy trash jokes. There is only so much more I can fit into this so I'll say this as one of my last points. There is absolutely not point to any of the episodes. There is no beginning, middle, or end really just a bunch of randomly thrown together horse crap(Southbound and Down is the perfect example Of what I'm talking about). I mean why in the world do you completely change up the formula for an amazing cartoon at not even the height of it's popularity!? O yea it was literally Adam Reed (the writer) being bored and not giving a crap about his audience.
