If you're new to the idea of sex, and you think anal sex and bondage are outré and forbidden things things for consenting adults to partake in, and find every smutty thought and risqué phrase a reason to giggle, you might enjoy this. If, on the other hand, you've outgrown your adolescence and explored your sexuality, this show is pitifully free of any humour whatsoever.Other reviewers make hay over the alleged intellectual content of the show. At best, there's a sprinkling of post-modernism, the usual self-awareness and irony, but those knowing winks get old fast. Pop culture references are just weak attempts at flattering the breadth of knowledge of the viewer. If you find recalling a particular phrase or situation an intellectual effort, you might find it intellectually stimulating. But apart from challenging people to remember something, there's no intellectual content here.Deeply tedious to watch.


                
Pick a random episode of Archer. Listen to the characters speak. Now look for a pause longer than 2 seconds. You probably won't find one. The cascade of overlapping, artificial and rarely funny phrases gets really annoying after a while and for me personally it's exhausting. Archer is the type of "workplace comedy" that we've seen too many times, only adapted to different settings (lol, spies), so don't look for anything terribly original either. If you're looking for something in a spy/adventure environment, but done well, watch the Venture Brothers - a funny and original show... Archer is just annoying.The characters don't have any depth to them and all the major plot points come in when someone sleeps with someone else (lol, sex). For now at least, who knows, maybe the show will change. But after season 1, I'm out.


                
I saw the first 4 episodes of season 7 yesterday and I was severely underwhelmed. Just to double check my perception I looked at the first 4 of the past two seasons and I remember loving them. By comparison season 7 is dull and lacks the side plots of the supporting characters. Also there was no reason to give Lana a long weave. She looks different. And the outfits of the other character have been tweaked. Why? Did they know the scripts were boring and they were hoping to distract us? Probably. I really do hope it gets better as it is a great loss to have this show end like this. If this site keeps reformatting my reviews and asking for ten lines with no paragraph breaks then I will stop reviewing.
I really enjoyed this show when it first appeared. Smart writing, very funny and engaging. But then something happened. The show really found its audience and became a huge hit. And of course what did they do with all that popularity? They sold out. Eventually the amount of commercials in each half hour episode reached 13 minutes. I know. I timed it. So thanks for ruining a show I really liked. I think it was 2012 when I tuned out permanently. I guess most people would not notice or care. The show became unwatchable for me. It's why I sold my television 5 years ago and haven't missed it for one minute.


                
This season gets a 3 simply because I can't deny that the show is entertaining. However, there is an exorbitant amount of disrespect towards transgender people (especially in season 8.) S08E07 in particular really crossed the line for me. Archer has occasionally been less than palatable when it comes to treatment of minorities. The last straw for me was this episode, where negative generalizations about trans people that are already prevalent in our society were being thrown around left and right (ex. equating transgender people with drag queens, depicting being trans as sexually and socially undesirable/unacceptable, perpetuating the idea that trans women aren't "real women.") All of this packed into one episode, produced in 2017.' Transgender people get enough negative representation, and continuing to use them as a punchline and dehumanizing them is the opposite of positive change. This dialogue goes beyond satire/social commentary; it is flat out disrespectful and regressive.


                
