When Archer first aired it was my favourite TV show, it was slick and the humor just hit the spot but the writers have managed to destroy this once great show. When they changed from secret agents to drug dealers I persisted even though it was pretty poor simply because I liked the characters and it still had the odd chuckle but each season since has become less and less funny until we reach Dreamland, this is where it has become so bad I haven't been able to finish an episode yet. It's bland, unfunny and just plain boring. The show has been renewed for more seasons still and I can only fear at how bad it will become. I originally rated Archer an 8, since season 5 its slowly decreased until I can't give it any more than a terrible 1. To coin an Archer phrase 'eat a d1ck, writers!'.
I love Archer. I have re-watched it countless times, and have enjoyed every moment of it, with one exception. Season eight horrible. I literally made an IMDb account to let people know about this. It's such a disgrace to an amazing show. I would give this a perfect ten, but I have to take away something for season 8. Watch all of it but season 8. Stay away.
I like this show, it's one of my favorites from last season and I'm looking forward to Season 2. As far as animated shows go, it's pretty much the only one I watch regularly. Family Guy is OK, I'm bored with the Simpsons, can't stand South Park, and really haven't watched that much animation since I was kid watching Space Ghost and the Herculoids. (Loved those rhinos that shot the pellets!) The guy who does the voice of Sterling is perfect. The adult-themed comedy is basic, sophomoric, but that's what makes it funny. I guess if you're not intellectually challenged as some people assert then this show may not be for you. So, don't watch it. I'd rather miss a Mensa society meeting than miss an episode of Archer. It's a lot more fun, and a lot less pretentious.


                
I have loved nearly every minute of every episode of Archer, right from the start, but season 8? No - just no. It would be tragic if this were the last season or the one by which the show as a whole was judged, but somebody has been taking the bad drugs at Archer Central. It's a bit of a travesty, let's be frank. My advice? Watch the first seven seasons and pretend the current one never happened - kind of like the plot.


                
This series is average to OK. I wanted to watch this because I love Judy Greer, but very disappointed. Definitely a dick and ass joke comedy. The writing is poor and the stories are weak! I should of know that this would be that good because it's on Fox. The Archer just yells all the time! Which, pretty much means the actor is overacting all the time on purpose. That's bad grammar, but I don't care. Seriously, who the hell is watching this garbage and giving it 8 or a 9 rating? I'm pretty sure that this shows main audience is just a bunch of 13 to 14 year old teenagers who don't have access to movie channels. Overrated!!!!!


                
I'm really disappointed in Season 7. There's very little storyline to each episode. But if you love Archer being a d*ck, as he only can do, then you will get plenty of that, and not much else. Pam and Dr Krieger have been reduced to one-liners, which is a shame, because at some point, Pam was the most quotable character on TV. I get a feeling that the writers know less about where to take this once excellent show than the characters themselves know where to take the sputtering Figgis Agency.It's like Boondocks Season 4 all over again. I'll be surprised if there's ever a Season 8. Darn shame!


                
On paper, the premise "James Bond meets Arrested Development" sounds a bit obscure, doesn't it? Having said that, this show proves it has its own unique sense of humour with its bizarre and borderline insane characters.From the self-obsessed Sterling Archer, to the headstrong Lana, to the desperate and pathetic Cyril, to the gormless and insane Cheryl, and so on, these characters have easily definable traits that make them stand out.The series follows our eccentric and inept characters running a spy agency, led by Archer's cold and corrupt mother, Malory. Under her command, our team must carry out espionage missions, albeit disastrously, which adds to the chaotic comedy.The humour is borderline dark, vulgar and filled with innuendoes. Numerous running jokes and obscure references take up most of the series. The animation is very well done and has improved with every successive season. The writing is done well too with people finishing each others sentences and the most random lines being a setup to a joke.Overall, it's a crazy series but it has laughs guaranteed.
This has some of the absurdist, insane feel of 'Sealab' or 'Venture Brothers', but also grounds it in richer characters.By nature this kind of wild, raunchy, ribald, gross, un-PC, very clever joke a second romp is going to be a hit or miss affair, but the batting average in 'Archer' is surprisingly high, and a lot of the wordplay is really sharp. The show grows each season, getting ever funnier, and having the characters and situations branch out in some great unexpected ways. From what started out in season 1 feeling like it would be a one joke idea that would quickly wear out, this somehow found a way to transcend and use the audience familiarity with the characters not to just repeat the same jokes, but to walk a great tightrope of giving what is expected, but then finding a way to just push it one step further. Another big plus here is the voice acting. The whole cast is terrific, as are the many guest stars that show up. The fun they all seem to be having doing the show is infectious, and they manage to give their characters a surprising amount of range. Special credit has to be given to H. Jon Benjamin, along with the writers, for making the egotistical idiot of a lead not only very funny, but somehow also likable enough that he never wears out his welcome. If you like animated insanity, this is very much worth checking out to see if it's for you, and hanging in past some of the slightly weaker early episodes where the show was just finding its way.


                
please makers of the show pay head as well:carol/cheyrl became the most annoying character gradually. literally EVERY episode without fail- from season 3-on getting worse and worse- she is shrieking and yelling about something absolutely moronic could be from the dangerous substance abuse. the shrieking is killing me. so hard to watch this idiot be the loudest person.what was sexy/funny (that she was a little timid but sexy freak in the opening season) now became this this annoying shrieking idiotic nightmare.the rest of the show is really funny, but this seriously must stop. a great character has now become ruined.this all becomes especially obvious when binge watching everything (amazon prime gives one access first 5 seasons)thank you.i bought the 6th season because you can really see the amount of hard work that goes into making this great show. i am a fan of this animation, the looks of the characters is amazing. so much better than disgusting for example bobs burger or beavis and butthead freaky looking animation. the characters here are so nice. the voices are great. everything. (obviously not to actually be so rude and reckless in real life. its funny because its a fake show)an animated show means anything is possible- so many funny crazy situations...looking forward.thanks.


                
I wont say it's much more then many many klishes but it is very funny and not horrible if you wih to watch it with a beer ones in a while...altrogh it's a cartoon it's not for kids so...


                
The original "Archer" pilot is one of the funniest pilots that I have ever seen. What I expected to be just a lame James Bond parody was far funnier, smarter, and more interested in its characters than I could have guessed from the way the show was promoted. From the first episode, I became hooked on the show. I have watched every season, often re-watching the best episodes over again multiple times. It's one of the rare shows that seems to get better with each season.Like the best cartoons for adults, "Archer" thrives on being both crude and smart at the same time. The language and jokes are almost always vulgar, but the episode plots are often way more intelligent than a cartoon probably deserves. The surprising amount of plot twists that occur in a variety of episodes are often quite unpredictable, and make the show more interesting. "Archer" is first and foremost a comedy, though most episodes are filled with enough cool espionage missions and action sequences that even when an episode isn't laugh-out-loud funny, it is never boring to watch. The show isn't afraid to get bloody during its action scenes, which occasionally feels tonally off, though it's never any more graphic than anything seen on some episodes of "South Park".While the animation certainly looks better than the animation on "South Park" or other adult cartoons, the animation isn't anything mind-blowing. But even when some episodes seem like they could look better, it hardly matters since the show is almost always highly entertaining since the voice cast is probably the best ensemble on television. H Jon Benjamin has a very unique voice, one that is both hilarious and absolutely perfect for deadpan delivery. Aisha Tyler is great as Lana, the character who is often the only person using common sense. She has fantastic comic timing, but also very convincing on the rare occasions when she has to have sincere moments. The supporting cast is also fantastic. Judy Greer and Amber Nash are howlingly funny as Cheryl and Pam respectively, two characters that have the potential to be super annoying but end up seeming more endearing than they should.In addition to the main voice cast, "Archer" gets tremendous value out of it guest stars. My favorite episode has Archer meeting his idol, Burt Reynolds. Like the best guest stars, Reynolds is completely in on the joke. Recent great guest stars have included Christian Slater, Kenny Loggins (as himself), and Gary Cole. Sometimes the actors' voices are immediately recognizable, and sometimes they are less obvious (Ron Perlman's reoccuring character comes to mind). There may come a time where the guest stars start to feel gimmicky, though that hasn't happened yet."Archer" is a show that seems that it can go on for years. After six seasons, the series has yet to grow tiresome. The stories are well written, the laughs are consistent, and the show seems to always find a new way to reinvent itself. Alongside "Mike Tyson Mysteries", "Archer" is the most entertaining and hilarious adult cartoon on television. 8/10
After Archer Vice, I was worried the season was going to jump the shark. Instead, it has been more consistently funny than the last few years. And the final episode, that took off on Fantastic Voyage from the early 70's, featured the funniest line the show has delivered in several years.Slater (angry at Archer and shaking his fist) - "Do you know what this is?"Archer (without missing a beat) - "Your best girl?"Several current shows make you laugh aloud as much as Archer, but no show does it more.
Looking at the closing credits, you can clearly see how much group effort went into this hilarious TV series. The animation quality for this adult cartoon is top-notch, with sharp, stunning realism and detail in every scene....my Plasma flat-screen TV often has a tough time assembling every screen refresh fast enough.Season 5 took a diversion, as the the ISIS moniker was fast becoming one of ill-repute, worldwide. Adam Reed did the "right thing" and cleared the show's organizational theme into one not associated with the dreaded terrorist murder organization.The entire Voice-Over cast is superb, with rapid-fire sarcasm delivered non-stop. This series will humor even the sickest of minds, trust me. If this is the future of Georgia-based film...I cannot get enough of it!


                
