When you watch "The Sixth Sense" for the second or third time, its clues and secrets are in plain sight and you feel at once foolish and delighted at the movie's ingenuity. When you watch "The Usual Suspects" again, the clues are not laid out before your eyes; they are withheld until the very end. The final twist is not a re-evaluation of everything that has gone before, even though it may feel like it; it's the revelation that most of what came before was made-up. "The Usual Suspects" cheats.Convinced I was mistaken about this most popular of modern-noir detective thrillers, I revisited it and concentrated on the character I knew bore the most watching. What I found was unabashed narrative manipulation. This is a slick, involving movie that sucks the viewer in with menace and intrigue, but in the end we find that most of its content has been totally made up. Instead of going back over things to track down the clues to what we know at the end, we have to throw up our hands and admire Keyser Soze's ingenuity while accepting that we will never know the real story.I was on board for most of my second viewing because it seemed at first like the only things that Verbal Kint was truly making up were his little asides<U+0096><U+0096>the barbershop quartet in Skokie, Illinois; picking beans in Guatemala, etc.<U+0096><U+0096>but no, it turns out the pivotal characters Redfoot and Kobayashi were also, apparently, invented. Or maybe he just made up false names for them, since we do see the Kobayashi character at the movie's end. The point is that we don't know. We can't tell who's real and who's not, and since everyone plays a pivotal role in the alleged plot, we can't tell what actually happened and what didn't. This is not exciting storytelling; this is trickery, and a waste of two hours. If I'm going to rack my brain trying to figure out a movie while it's unfolding, I at least want to be able to kick myself that I didn't figure it out earlier, since the clues were all there.Gabriel Byrne (who plays Dean Keaton, the guy who detective Kujan thinks is Keyser Soze) was convinced while shooting the movie that he was Keyser Soze. Why? Because the movie we see is a story invented by the real Keyser Soze precisely to make detective Kujan think Keaton is Soze. This is the penultimate conclusion that we are given just before the real revelation, and, according to everything we have seen, it makes perfect sense. Based on the story we have been shown, Byrne's is the only logical conclusion. To find out that we were all duped by Keyser Soze<U+0096><U+0096>detective Kujan and Gabriel Byrne and all of us in the audience too<U+0096><U+0096> opens up a small meta-cinematic can of worms, but mostly it's just frustrating. The filmmakers have tricked us into emotionally committing to a story that wasn't there in the first place.This is of course what we do in every movie we've ever been to, but rarely does a film itself expose us for the dupes we are when we go to see it. Maybe as far as the real world is concerned, the real menace of Keyser Soze is that he won't even let us enjoy a movie on its own terms. He pulls the rug out from under us for his own benefit, and somehow we are all beguiled into thinking that's a cool feat, when really it just means we've all been suckered.
Bryan Singer's work on the X-Men movies is fine but I found The Usual Suspects to be one of the most boring movies ever made. It looks like a glossy TV drama, the acting is nothing to get worked up about and the musical score seems out of place. You probably won't care about any of the plot twists.


                
Featuring a convoluted plot that wanders all over the place, I have to admit that in spite of its high rating here, "The Usual Suspects" just didn't take hold of me. As a matter of fact, within about the first 10 minutes I was already finding my mind wandering. I don't mind complicated plot lines when they add to a coherent story, but this story simply wasn't that coherent. Five shady characters meet one night in a police lineup and concoct some sort of criminal scheme. There are then so many twists and turns and so many different angles introduced that I found I simply didn't have the energy to keep up with it all.Now, most of the cast (most importantly Kevin Spacey as Kint and Gabriel Byrne as Keaton) did a decent enough job on this. They took it seriously; they were believable in their roles. I just honestly felt that those who came up with the story were trying too hard to keep the viewers off balance, with no idea what was coming next, and to do that they came up with a plot that really just didn't flow all that well.As far as I could see, the greatest strength of the movie came in the last 10 minutes, when the ongoing mystery about the truth about Keyser Soze was finally revealed. (Yes - it does get revealed eventually.) I was glad of this, because it was the one point of an overly-complicated plot that kept me interested. Was this guy real, or was he in fact a piece of fiction? I was glad to see that resolved - and, no, I didn't see the ultimate resolution coming. So, credit for that ending, but the movie as a whole just didn't strike home with me. (4/10)


                
SPOILER WARNING!! DO NOT READ IF YOU DON'T WANT TO GET SPOILED!!!=====Okay, now if I understand this movie correctly, just about everything that Normal said was a lie and that whole narrative I spent almost 2 hours watching is a fabrication. Fine. Whatever. So why should I care? Or "if anything can happen, who cares what happens?" This is like a movie in which the hero wakes up and you find it was all a dream. True, this is an artfully done fabrication, but in the end what is compelling about the story?
Though not new, the idea is fascinating. The idea of a less than average guy, that does not appear to have any particular quality but who instead is the mind behind the whole story. Story in which he seems to be just a walk on part. This said, I find the plot (the story Verbal makes up) though not bad, to be pretty ordinary, and as a viewer I am barely entertained by it throughout 2 hours. And an ending, no matter how surprising, won't change that (leave alone that surprise might not be the sole quality one expect from a movie, except for those who consider the Twilight Zone episodes to be masterpieces). Characters don't have any depth, since everything is sacrificed on the attempt to conceal the ending (consider for instance the scene in which Kobayashy gives the 5 men their personal files: we are shown everyone's reaction, except Kint's). Unlike many great thrillers, a second view of The Usual Suspects is pointless, unless you want to speculate endlessly on trifles, as if they really matter. Because there is no way a verbal (or Verbal) reconstruction of the events can contain as many details as we see on the movie, details which are told us by Bryan Singer, and not by 'Verbal' Kint. This discrepancy doesn't alter the experience of watching the movie, nor it turns it into a rip-off (if there's a place where I don't mind being "cheated" that's the cinema) but it makes any attempt to reorganize the facts in a coherent way to be a futile task.The "old fascinating idea" I mentioned above is not exploited at all. In fact Verbal is not even a cripple. He has a Limo waiting for him around the corner. What a disappointment!
Here's what I saw: Actors reading terribly forced lines is a lifeless way (even Kevin Spacey! For shame!). Then there was a whole bunch of smoking, and some shooting, and a bunch of guys (obviously) pretending they're Godfather. I sat there for an hour waiting for the movie to get better, and it just didn't. Then I stopped caring.Sure, there were a few plot twists, but if you don't care about the movie, they just seem like sillyness. In fact, the whole thing comes off amateurish, which is weird given who's involved. In the end, there is probably more excitement in watching a grandmother knit socks than this failed movie.


                
This could also count for other films of the Usual Suspects-Tarantino Copy generation. This is a sh*t film. To avoid being automatically disregarded, I won't compare it to Citizen Kane. So how about: in comparison to City Lights, The Passion of Joan of Arc, Vertigo, The Wrong Man, All About Eve, Vivre Sa Vie... damnit, even Pulp Fiction! this film is no masterpiece, and is pap entertainment the value of the Big Lebowski or Forrest Gump. Every now and then you have to reassure yourself of true artistic endeavour, with a good stare at Vermeer's Head of a Girl, a listen to Beethoven's 9th, Kind of Blue, or Beatles for Sale, or a good intense session of silent film studying. Even watching cinema as far ahead as Raging Bull. What tragically detracts from the art are films like the usual suspects, and even worse, the confusion between them and true masterpieces.


                
Whether one is writing a book or a movie, one must play fair by the reader. A competent author or director creates suspense by cleverly emphasising some things and downplaying others. Not by witholding information.
This is a bad film because the story is told backwards. Naturally, the viewer is mystified. There is no craftsmanship or artistry in telling a story backwards. The supposedly Turkish home of `Keyser Soze' was hardly Turkish.  The movie being what it is, I suppose it is too much to expect attention to detail.
This film is little more than a montage of violent scenes and the sort of orotund dialogue Hollywood's action movies specialise in.
Pulp Fiction was a brilliant film because it tried a narrative style not used very much in films, but common in literature. However, no one would say that the story was told backwards. Singer should have studied Tarantino more carefully before trying this out.


                
the usual suspects is all flash and zero substance. in fact, it could be said that there is negative substance given the outcome. the dialogue is at times completely nonsensical. example- "he would rather see his children die than live another day..." well, he sees his children dead AND lives another day. also, with the exception of DelToro and Palmenterri, the acting is over the top and stilted for no apparent reason. generally speaking, Kevin Spacey gets far too much credit for what he does and this time is no exception. That said, the visuals are pretty cool and the first time around we are nicely strung along by the flick's pacing. But, in the end there is nothing to grasp except the hot air blown by Spacey. Once you realize this fact, multiple viewings become impossible.
Distinct within its genre, though alarmingly overrated, 'The Usual Suspects' is a popular film whose reputation is likely to prove ephemeral. A group of east coast rogues use their unexpected gathering in a routine law enforcement roundup to plan a series of high-profile jobs, only to realize that forces higher than themselves are in control of their plans. Guided by a largely unpolished script, the film's numerous characters -only some of whom appear visually convincing- engage in a dialogue-based interplay that satisfies less than it entertains. Well-trained American actors like Chazz Palminteri and Kevin Spacey seem to have left their vast acting reservoirs essentially untouched, while even the Europeans Gabriel Byrne and Pete Postlethwaite, though refreshingly decent, appear to have their eyes primarily set on payday. The film's much talked about ending is somewhat predictable within its unpredictability, and the directorial and musical inputs, which can ideally salvage conventional visual sequences, are not much help either. Overall, 'The Usual Suspects' deserves to be watched in the context of Hollywood's increasingly sterile fascination with the criminal underworld. Veteran spectators, however, should restrain their expectations far below the over-exultant levels of most reviews.


                
I just can't believe so many people think this ending is so surprising. I mean come on, I guessed every little bit of it after about 30 minutes and the only suspense left was whether they'd really keep it that obvious......Yupp, they didIf you want to see a surprise ending, folks, go see any David Fincher movie (make it Se7en and you won't even think that Kevin Spacey is that good in this one!).I havn't seen the Sixth Sense with it's famed ending yet, but you bet I hope its better....And right, there is actually one good scene that manages to save it slightly: Verbal Kint saying: The best trick the devil ever pulled of was to make people think he doesn't exist... More of that and it might have been good in spite of the ending


                
I decided to watch this film given its high ratings on IMDB and the promises of a great twist at the end.So I went into it looking for what that twist might be.Somewhere around the half-way point in the film I was getting a strong suspicion as to what the twist would be. The film then proceeded to confirm this suspicion in a fairly artless and heavy-handed way with tons of emphasis on a certain character and odd things that they did or said that could only be explained if my guess was right.So I told myself that I was probably just falling for a nicely conceived red herring and that I still had a good twist to look forward to.But no, the twist at the end just confirmed my suspicion and I was left feeling cheated that there was no more to it than that.It seemed all too obvious and therefore the film failed for me.Neither was the film saved by any great performances, dialogue, action sequences, photography or special effects. Everything hinged on the supposed intrigue of the story. The principal cast members gave poor performances especially Gabriel Byrne who was wooden throughout. Kevin Spacey was good but not great. In a supporting role Chazz Palminteri gave as much as he could but a solid supporting performance does not a great film make.I am by no means a great detective nor am I an avid mystery solver. It took no great intelligence to see what was coming in the film---its secret was simply not well hidden.This film does not compare alongside other great 'puzzle' films that are designed derive their fame from cunning plot twists. M. Night Shyamalan's The Sixth Sense and Neil Jordan's The Crying Game are two recent examples of excellence in this genre where the hints given along the way are so subtle that they are never noticed until one avidly views the films a second time.I will certainly not be viewing The Usual Suspects again...--Fergus


                
There's a big difference between cleverness through weaving a tapestry of fact, and manipulating the audience through disinformation, smoke, and excessive complexity--ie, mere jerking the audience around. A lot of this film (it quickly becomes evident by the second half) will ride on the obligate identification of the smoky, legendary figure (whom I won't 'spoil' here but who obviously must be someone from among the major characters or it would be anti-climatic). Once you realize that, there are only 1 or 2 persons that could be, and that list becomes one person well before the ending. The manipulation of the audience is also seen in the apparent presentation of "clues" , many of which are deliberately misleading ( including the former appearance of the Legendary Figure). Even at the end, the other Lead Character shows no surprise at the unmasking ... In the end, this film shows itself to be 'full of sound and fury, signifying nothing.'


                
This is an interesting thriller with a fatal flaw. The flaw lies in the point of view. People who love it think that the flashbacks and other information being given the police are being presented in good faith. They are not. It's all Verbal's POV. And he is lying.Movies like "The Sixth Sense" and "The Others," which contain huge twist endings, also use POV to divert the audience. But in those cases, the POV which we see is sincere. The characters in the movie whose POV we use are convinced it is true. They are MISTAKEN. We are shocked at the end and the reason is that the characters whose narrative we have followed are also shocked. Kaiser Soze is hardly shocked at the revelation of who he really is. My reaction was more "oh" than "Whoa!" His limping was fake!!!Come on.
For most of the movie, we are treated to a fairly good crime movie.  The plot fair and the acting is good.  The end, however, is a let down.  The end does come as a surprise.  After I got over the surprise and thought about it, I realized the ending invalidates the rest of the movie.  I don't want to spoil the movie for others who haven't seen it, so I won't comment more here.Good surprise endings should make you look back on the rest of the movie in a different manner.  They shouldn't make you think you just sat through a bunch of stuff which didn't really matter.


                
Released in 1995 and directed by Bryan Singer, "The Usual Suspects" is a crime drama/mystery about five thugs who decide to team up and get revenge on the police (Keven Spacey, Gabriel Byrne, Steve Baldwin, Keven Pollak and Benicio Del Toro). After their successful operation, the five are manipulated by the legendary criminal Keyser Söze into taking a much riskier gig. One is captured and he's interrogated by the police (Chazz Palminteri & Giancarlo Esposito). The big question is: Who IS Keyser Söze? Pete Postlethwaite is on hand as Söze's right-hand man while Suzy Amis plays the babe of one of the thugs. This is a "twist ending" flick and, honestly, the film is too reliant on it. The whole movie is just "wait for the twist," it isn't actually that entertaining to sit through. In fact, most of the dialog is pretty boring; and only had some value in the end. Moreover, the main characters are just foul-mouthed, tough-guy low-lifes, although Spacey's character is somewhat interesting. As such, it's next to impossible to care about them. Let 'em all kill each other for all I care. Yes, the ending is clever in some ways, but everything that goes on up to that point isn't really worth enduring. As far as the twist goes, I was able to pinpoint the identity of the mystery man down to two people; and I was right. But there are some interesting details to the twist that I doubt anyone could figure out without first knowing the ending and then re-watching the flick. But, after watching, I'm not interested in seeing it again. The story and the characters aren't worth it. The film didn't make me care enough to watch again. Filmmakers must understand that, for a movie to be enduring, it has to be about the journey not the destination. And, for me, the convoluted journey in "The Usual Suspects" is just dull and laborious. If the characters were worthy and I cared about them I might be more interested, but that's not the case. Then there's something that I experienced a couple of times while observing the five main guys babble back and forth: I had the overwhelming sense that these were just actors playing 'hip' tough-tawkin' hooligans rather than the characters they were supposed to be. This is never a good sign. I can't believe the high rating this movie has on IMDb; the movie's seriously overrated.The film runs 106 minutes and was shot in the Los Angeles area and New York City. GRADE: C-***SPOILER ALERT***I want to emphasize that this review does not criticize the film based on pretending to "know the twist all along" (as stated above, I was able to figure out who the mystery man likely was, but not the other details). The problem is that the entire movie is based around listening to a guy make up a bunch of stuff. Gee, so all we really know is there was a ship that got torched and Kevin Spacey's character doesn't really have a limp. Okay, thanks for wasting my time with everything else. Great storytelling (rolling my eyes).


                
Maybe people say they like this movie because they are embarrassed to say they thought it was boring. The main problem is that the ending was very predictable. Perhaps it was a breakthrough when the movie came out but today, it was very hard for me to be surprised when We discover who the villain is. I mean the guy was creepy all along. In addition, the movie was compiled of an all men cast and the screen was too dark, which was not unusual in the 90s but it is another example for how outdated this film is. It was incredibly boring watching a group of ugly men talking about some crime that is too obvious to the audience. Maybe we should just tell em? Why the high score for this film is beyond my understanding.
One of those movies that everybody talks about in glowing terms because somebody in the media told them it was.Not bad really.Fair direction and standard performances drop this in the DVD shelf about half way.I can see how some people may find this a little confusing as there is a lot going on. Quite a clever twist but not enough to make this any cleverer than it already is.The one outstanding performance is by Peter Postlethwaite who looks as if he is the only person who knows what's going on.Worth a watch on TV but I woudn't go and buy it. If you are seeing this movie with high expectations from the media who bigged this up and from all the people who told you it's brilliant because they listened to it then you might be disappointed.Saying all that I think it would be good to see the extras to get a good idea of how the director wanted this to turn out.Full of one liners and stereotype characters this is good to watch with a beer on the sofa.You might end up feeling a bit let down.


                
