This is England 90 drops us in on the gang right at the start of the decade. Lol and Woody are generally settled in life with a young family and are therefore not fully immersed in the change of fashions and music,unlike the younger members of the group who now have a platform for expressing themselves with regards to going to raves and listening to "Madchester" music. They appear content in their lounge about,drug taking lifestyles and appear not to have any prospects.So on with the review: There are some real idiosyncratic moments here with good delivery. one example being Woody's ex boss jumping out of the cupboard scene which also reveals the complex relationship Woody has with his parents. there are similar moments with Shaun and the rest of the gang and it is very intriguing to see how they spend their days with a good eye for detail from Medows showing the early computer game consoles used at the time etc, creating a real authenticity about it. The Flip and Iggie situation is a slightly weaker part of the opening episode but is never the less mildly amusing and intriguing! I have read a few negative views about the first episode of TIE 90 but we have to remember that we are coming off some very dramatic episodes where as this is primarily used as an introduction. Perhaps our expectations are a tad high? If this was the only episode of TIE that you had seen you would probably be saying what a refreshing,authentic,amusing,engaging and warm television programme it was compared to the average drama on television nowadays. Indeed, the first episode of TIE 90 was probably more wholesome than the first TIE 86 episode. Surely the heavier, more dramatic scenes will unfold in the coming episodes. I think anything around the 8 out of 10 mark would be reasonable but to go below 5 as someone on here has is just insulting to this exciting and distinct work but then that is just another opinion ultimately!
Writer-director Shane Meadows reassembles the cast of his film 'This is England' for a third time in this latest min-series, picking up the course of his characters' lives a few years down the road. This is 1990 now, and as ever, Meadows is skilled at recreating a time and a place, with humour and sympathy but without rose-tinted glasses. There's a little less plot this time out than in the previous instalments, however; while the acting and writing is still spot on, this does very much feel like Meadows wrapping up the loose ends and winding the story down. He remains a special talent in the British film-making industry; the final credits bring the sad news of the death of his long term musical collaborator, the great Gavin Clark.


                
This Is England started as a brilliant film, '86 successfully continued the story on television, '88 was a fantastic Christmas themed follow-up, this was the final series from creator, writer and director Shane Meadows (Once Upon a Time in the Midlands, Dead Man's Shoes), I hoped it would go out with a bang. Basically the story takes place in the spring, summer, autumn and winter of the year 1990, catching up with the characters, following their lives during the time of rave culture and the FIFA World Cup. Lol (Vicky McClure) and Woody (Joseph Gilgun) are back together and have a baby, Jimmy, Lol works as a school dinner lady alongside her sister Kelly (BAFTA nominated Chanel Cresswell), her mother Chrissie (Katherine Dow Blyton) and friend Trev (Danielle Watson), Woody stays home to care for the children with Milky (Andrew Shim). Gadget (Andrew Ellis), Harvey (Michael Socha), Kelly, Trev and Shaun (Thomas Turgoose) are all following the Madchester rave scene, including doing drugs, Shaun tries to make it up to Smell (Rosamund Hanson), his former girlfriend who he cheated on, but she has already met someone else, Shaun later finds his own new girlfriend, Juliette (Poppy Corby- Tuech) and continues with his education and career. Lol gets a call from Combo (BAFTA nominated Stephen Graham) that he is to be released from prison, this prompts her and Woody to invite everyone round for Sunday dinner, following the meal Lol announces that she killed her abusive father Mick (Johnny Harris), following him raping Trev. Lol and Woody continue with the news that Combo will be staying with them, as he has nowhere else to go, Kelly is angry for the lies and refuses to believe that her father was a bad person, and Milky is angry that the couple will allow the man who almost beat him death to stay with them and his daughter (with Lol). Kelly and Lol eventually reconcile, Combo has a heart-to-heart conversation with Milky, admitting what he did was wrong and that he is not racist, but Milky had arranged for men to take him away and beat him death, the end sees Lol and Woody finally getting married with all family and friends, with Milky ridden with guilt for what he has done to Combo. Also starring Jo Hartley as Cynthia "Cynth", Lyra Mae Thomas as Lisa, Kriss Dosanjh as Sandhu, Perry Fitzpatrick as Flip, William Travis as Mr. Squires, Perry Benson as Meggy, George Newton as Banjo and EastEnders' Shaun Dooley as Mr. Lewis. The talented cast are all fantastic, with Turgoose, McClure, Shim and Graham standing out best, the subject matters and situations remain realistic and thought provoking, with authentic touches capturing the time period, this is indeed a great final series for what has been a terrific saga, a brilliant British television drama. It is nominated the BAFTA for Best Mini-Series. Very good!
