I am a huge history buff and know that history "Is written by the winner". This does contain a large amount of the untold stories of U.S. history that many of us did not learn in school. And just like the "told" stories of U.S. History it runs into it's own bias. I don't think that anyone would call Oliver Stone as unbiased in the stories he tells. As a true believer that you look at as many sides of history as possible and then the truth will lie someone inside of all.As you can probably tell I am not a big fan of this series as our "true" history of the U.S.. I do consider it a "must watch" because it does bring different points of view to a large audience. I hope this will do what it does for me and that is to get everyone to "think". I don't see this series converting people into everything Oliver Stone will have you think this was really how it was. But I think it will get most people to think "well I did not know that also happened" and incorporate it into things that they also have learned. Again no matter what side you fall on it will make you think, so is worth watching.


                
My education is in history so I like to think I have more authority in it than the common person. As such, I really enjoyed the first half or so of the series. It was well presented and (surprisingly from a guy like Stone) more or less even handed. Staring in the 60s, is when the quality starts to go down and Stone's political beliefs start to assert themselves. At this point, the history remains relatively intact, but his analysis of it negates any educational value it might have outside a simple entertainment value. The final episodes revolving around Bush and Obama are the most offensive in this sense in that it is clearly a Left wing take on the events of the last decade or so. While he is certainly entitled to his beliefs, I dislike it because he presents it as a purely educational and factual documentary. This kind of presentation can and does lend itself to a revisionist vibe which is problematic for its educational value.So, for you TLDR people, Overall it's decent. It starts out well and is even handed and then gradually becomes less so as it approaches the present day.I recommend it for entertainment value only as its educational value is compromised by the uneven presentation of the material. It'll maintain your interest, but you shouldn't take everything Stone says as absolute truth.


                
Amazing documentary and relatively unbiased, but definitely skipped completely over the importance of Gerald R. Ford. The things he accomplished were not approved at the time but proved to be invaluable in time.


                
