Not funny at all! I gave this a chance and tried a few episodes but gave up. It's the opposite of laugh out loud funny! Why do so many people like this and why does it win so many awards? The situations are so contrived and exaggerated. People just stand around looking daft and some supposed joke takes place. Hate the camera work too.Sofia Vergara is quite a natural comic but the rest just look ill at ease and unpleasant.This is the most overrated comedy in years. How can this compare with Big Bang Theory?I can't be the only one who doesn't think this is funny.


                
This show is the worst. The writing is, as if someone took cliché and patronizing story lines and ideas, pasted them to a dartboard, lobotomized a chimp and let her go nuts with fecal matter. The best part is the flung excrement, has more substance than the show itself. Did no one notice the desperation of of the casting, and ensemble of washed up untalented, familiar faces to play into the insecurities and dullness of the American viewer. This work of unintelligible garbage should to laid to rest, to make room for anything else. P.S. Anyone who compares this piece of self-indulgent, dimwitted, cliché, exploited deleted, sycophantic waste of space to "Arrested Development" should seek a psychological exam, because you are probably entitled to Mental Disability benefits. This show should be cancelled immediately before American Families become any stupider.


                
I've only watched a few episodes from the first season, but, aside from not containing one iota of actual comedy, this is one of the most offensive shows ever created, and the writers should be castrated. One could understand if this were satire or black comedy, but it simply isn't anything, while it does succeed in offending practically every minority group on the planet, especially gays and hispanics. Instead of a real gay couple were served up with a couple of raving gay queens. Instead of a hispanic, were are treated to a modern day Carmen Miranda. But speaking as a gay person, this is the most offensive piece of garbage since Will and Grace. I know the networks have no class, talent or style in their work, but this is beyond all that. Simply pathetic!


                
This show is severely overrated. I admit it is occasionally funny, and the premise of the 21st century "modern family" is an accurate and humorous representation of today's familial diversity. However, the acting from the majority of the cast is so pretentious and falsely exalted I have to skip through the episodes on Hulu just to look for a laugh.By far, the saving grace of the show is Cameron - the lovably gay eccentric that this world needs more of. His mannerisms exhibit a delicate confidence and appreciation for life's nuances. If only Mitchell could match half of Cameron's genuine exuberance, they'd be the perfect family. Cameron remains my only real laugh instigator on the show.I'm shocked and appalled Julie Bowen won an Emmy for her indigestible supporting role. Apparently, acting like a bitchy, whiny, bossy 13-year-old is what being a mom is all about in today's modern family. She'd fit right in with the cast of Troll 2. Phil remains the only bearable flesh of the family, and even he's losing my vote lately. Gloria has blatantly been mistreating and exaggerating her "accent" for a laugh to the point where she's probably offending the country of Columbia. And don't get me started on the kids.Here's some advice for the producers: Replace everyone but Cameron, Manny, Jay, and Lilly. Hire some writers who know what 'subtle' and 'organic' mean. Stop giving yourselves the hype. Unless you can deliver you'll be just another rock painted gold like Lady Gaga's 'Born This Way.'


                
I have only seen one episode, thank god. No, you aren't the only one who doesn't think this show is funny. You also aren't the only gay man offended by the stupid gay stereotypes. Not all gay men are scaredy cats. The only stereotype I saw broken was the fat gay man. They should be really modern and include a skinny lesbian. Both gay guys were afraid to stand up for themselves. Good West Side Story reference though, it still did not come off funny. That about says it all. No, they insist I drag this out! no pun intended. Obviously the episode was unmemorable or it would be easy to have ten sentences. Or even more, since apparently they cannot count. How many more do you need?


                
It's entertaining but it's not a classic sitcom or comedy series. You won't have any laughter-sounds in the background and it's not so funny compared to classics like Love and Marriage or Simpsons but it's somehow entertaining because the plot is usually quite original. The fact that Ed O'Neil has a major role made me watch this, he's still a good actor and somehow I grew up with him. The gay guys are quite annoying sometimes. It looks a lot like they try to make it a reality TV show but it's not, just camera moves around like that. Weeks after writing this review I had the feeling to add some things I highly dislike: This series promotes a very negative type of family and is full of subliminal messages and tries to brainwash you. They always put the beauty of the 2 mothers Julie Bowen and Sofia Vergara very much in front, character is not that important it's always more about their sexiness and makes them awful role-models. The gay-guys are nice people but this series tries to force the impression on you that a gay family with adopted child can work just sooo fine. The way they behave is always so nice and so typical TV-gay and nothing how real gay people behave. What bothers me the most is the way that those children are portraited, with their very feminine way of dressing and adult-like hairstyle they try to make them look like grown up women although they are children and trying to put a sexual focus on the three girls in this series. Especially the oldest daughter has her breasts almost hanging out of her clothes for the whole series and is usually slutty without regret. Even the youngest daughter (the Asian one) looks more like she is styled up for a "young miss Texas" contest than just being a normal little girl. Hands away from this Hollywood-Illuminati try to brainwash you and how you look at society.


                
I do not like too many of the newer 'comedies' (Well "Big Bang" is a fantastic show). This show just seems like everything is contrived and forced. I did try to watch 'Family' but kept vomiting - you all know how that is. With that in mind, questions do pop in my mind, like: Why all the awards? Good question. And Why all the hype? Another good question. People do like the show - that is obvious, so maybe I am just missing something. Wait while I ponder in deep ponderance mode. Hmmmmm, what would I do to this show to make me a fan? Let me see - a-HA! Maybe if the cast boarded a charter boat, and went on a short trip and ended up on an uncharted island. That is brilliant. Would I watch it then? Would I? Ah - nope. It is not what I am looking for and I just do not find it entertaining. Show stinks
This show is awful and boring. None of it was funny the only reason I watched the first episode because everyone was saying it was good but boy were they wrong.I thought the acting was pore and the show just gets annoying after awhile. The characters that were annoying were Gloria and Phil because Phil keeps trying to say these jokes that aren't even funny and Gloria is just plain annoying and I also get sick of her voice blabbering on. I know I won't be watching this show again.Also they don't have a laugh track in the show but I think they should because then you would know when to laugh.
No longer funny! They need to end our misery! Put everyone on an airplane and crash it!


                
People just want to laugh and that's all there is to it. All you to do is have some cheep laughs with boring character. On boring sets. Then all you have do is repeat the same stupid jokes with the same stupid characters over and over again. Comedy fans are not bad people. They just have interest what so ever in anything original. They just like what's marked. It is what make comedy so easy. The actors have some talent. The story lines are awful. The humor is awful. There are to many bad comedy shows that are popular. How this lasted as long as it has. And how it got and 8.6 is just something I do not get. 8.6 is just overrating it big time. The actresses in it are pretty I think at has a lot to do with it. Because it is not funny at all.


                
PLEASE don't renew this series for the 2018-19 season! Better yet, cancel it immediately. The story lines are tired and silly and most of the characters are offensive. Especially the "Gloria" character who prances around with her fake Charro / Carmen Miranda impersonation. Hispanic women should be grossly outraged at being depicted by this stereotype (an airhead with tight-fitting clothes). And the gay guys remind me of the depiction of gay men in the 1950s - all swishy high camp. And what's with the fat one who constantly wears those shirts with those outlandish cuffs rolled back? And he's a coach? Puh-leeze! Any coach that nelly would be booted off the team in no time at all. Jay (Ed O'Neill) is the only character that makes any sense. Most of the children are untalented and downright boring.


                
I gave it a good long run. Decent humor, likeable characters, okay stories. BUT, I just can't handle the falsetto hyper accented screech any longer.
Sorry, but she's easily the most annoying voice on television today.


                
I rarely watch network television anymore, but a friend of mine convinced me to watch this. The writing is sometimes funny, hit and miss. However except for O'Neil & Stonstreet, the acting is terrible. Where do they get these people from? Gould couldn't act to save his life (Ok, he's just a kid, but STILL). And was Haley adopted? She looks nothing like the rest of the family. Maybe we'll find out in a later episode the mailman is her father.This show strives for the same comedy and edginess of Arrested Development. But it falls way short. Not because the writing is bad, but because the acting stinks and there is no chemistry.


                
I watched about three episodes of this show and laughed not even once. This show is terrible, unfunny and boring.
If you want to watch a good TV comedy show, watch "It's alway sunny in Philadelphia". That is REAL laugh out loud funny.
Hell, even 2 Broke Girls is a million times funnier than this, and the show is very mediocre (still watchable though).


                
Obnoxiously clichéd and not funny at all. It's beyond me how this garbage wins prizes!


                
This is not a feel good series anymore. Season 1-7 was great!. But season 8-9 is all about tradigy, bad jokes, real life that we dont want to see. Its ennough to live the real life ourselfs.


                
When it comes to television... there is a lot better out there than this. I will also be fair I only watched disc 1 of Season 1 but I do feel that is enough to do a review. Basically this is a family sitcom/mocumentary so it's basically the stuff that The Honeymooners, The Brady Bunch and so many others have replicated beforehand that The Simpsons seemed to dominate after it hit it's stride (and even now after that... 6th dead horse is beaten). Usually I see some kind of effort with the shows that came beforehand... I'll analyze the three separate family situations. There's the rich old man and the annoying as hell gold digger and her son that seems to be beyond his years in maturity... This is not funny. There's the gay couple that would have flown if this was the 90's and their adopted kid... This is also not funny. Then there's the main family to cover all the demographics like any other family sitcom would do... This also, sing it with me - IS NOT FUNNY! I never once got a laugh out of any of the situations. Basically Ty Burrel is the crap version of Al Bundy combined with the "Ooh the dad that wants to relate to his kids is really dorky!" Seriously, this would have been okay if it was the 90's (well, it wouldn't because this isn't funny and I actually have laughed at some sitcoms from back then but I digress)... Okay, this will be the last tine I criticize the humour by saying how much I didn't laugh at a single thing for a number of episodes that I don't care to remember. But the whole 90's comparison still stands, this just feels like autopilot. The character of Gloria in particular is one of the most annoying characters I've ever seen. All in all my simple question is how does THIS go on for 8 years while I've seen better stuff not last a season?


                
Typical churned out for a quick buck American junk. Prehaps its just the first episode but I doubt it. All the characters made me feel uncomfy and I couldn't warm or relate to any of them. Wooden acting and no personality there seemed to be a lack of WELL known faces (thank god) makes you wonder why though, guess they didn't want to be seen in this garbage and who could blame them. Mind I did like the idea of putting on the calender a date to shoot that awful whiny kid pity that unlike real Americans they didn't use a real gun.I'll give it one more try but I guess I'll use the time this is on in between the Simpson's to wash the dishes
What the heck? O'neill is bad and was in Married With Children. Never like him in anything at all. This is so sad and every time I change channels and see this is on. I just want to keep going. It is not really funny, and if you think it is, you must love crude and rude jokes. I used to love comedy movies and tv but now it is just bad.This is as bad as watching reality tv but is not at all reality tv. Television is so pathetic now. I can't most of it anymore.


                
I tried watching this few times on TV but I didn't laugh at all. The jokes were clichéd or far from funny. Boring and repetitive story line.
Some of the characters are toxic to watch. Even the kids characters...One of the worst sitcoms I've ever seen.
Why are these people some of the top paid actors nowadays in television for this show?!?But what I didn't liked most in this show was the camera work.
It gives me massive headache after only few minutes with all that fast moving and zooming in and out all the time! It's really annoying!!! Makes it unwatchable.


                
Albeit most TV families have no relation in real life but this show grotesquely flaunts interracial "adoption" which actually tend to be illegal kidnappings.The thought of a TV series with a title "Modern Family" (which is a cool idea) promoting illegal adoption and such -- you have no idea what you are doing, put it that way. Keep it a clean family and I can go for it. Trust me, it's not funny.I do support the gay couple having a family. There are options today that you should defend -- idiots like to steal babies, your babies. Because you are gay or something. You should make them your babies. Our society doesn't actually let people walk around with someone else's kids and you should be so lucky.


                
This might be a decent show if it wasn't so behind the times. It's supposed to be modern but it's actually far from it. Even an old show like "The Simpsons" has had a main vegetarian character for a long time. So this show should at least have a vegan character, but instead it's actually the opposite where they are randomly bashing vegans for stupid cheap jokes. A recent episode they were saying how they were making better money than the nearby "vegan hotcake" stand which was deserted. Ridiculous and pathetic. Veganism is very popular and gaining momentum everyday. Apparently the makers of this show don't care about the planet. Get with the times!


                
I don't understand why a scripted sitcom use reality tv style camera work. We now have image stabilization technology for a reason, to make videos stable so that you can focus on the content. I tried getting over it and focusing on the content, but it just looked cringey enough that I do not watch this show anymore.


                
Modern Family is Okay but It gets boring sometimehe last season came I hated it. there were no funny peole in the end there was nobody to laugh at. I have looked at it on TV BUT turn it off later I enjoy Frieds more. My Friend Nathaniel is sitting right next to me and enjoying it. I see some funny bits but it is bad


                
What has the world come to when homosexuality is a light subject? It is an abomination, while this show virtue-signals, parading around as if it's just fine. A television at my gym I attend had this show on, and I was forced to face it while on the treadmill... Asides from the pitiful version of what they call "comedy" - (cheap, setup, thoughtless one-liners) - I can't get past the poached homosexual agenda Hollywood continues to shove down our throats.


                
