For those still in withdrawal from the cancellation of Arrested  Development, let me write you a prescription: Modern Family.  The comparisons are obvious and with good reason. The postmodern comedy  for the 21 century was ushered in by The Office(UK) and Arrested  Development, but I, for one, doubted something could come along and  satiate my longing for another truly, original comedy.  Albeit, you may initially be wary to see yet another mockumentary-style  show, but by the end of the pilot, you'll be smiling/laughing way too  hard to stay cynical. Thus far, the plot lines have been really fresh  and the characters are so, for lack of a better word, lovable. This  show fulfills all my comedy needs, and I feel like I must resort to the  listing of relevant adjectives: Witty, dry, smart, outlandish, silly,  clever, cute, sarcastic, subtle, not-so subtle. HILARIOUS.  I hate to say it, but the laugh tracks and raw goofyness of classic  sitcoms like 'Seinfeld' and 'Friends' are obsolete and leave something  to be desired. You will find that something in Modern Family.  And who knows, maybe some of the more painfully funny and poignant  scenarios will reveal insight into the changing dynamics of both the  modern family and modern comedy.  Great show. Period.  And let's get it right this time around: don't cancel good TV shows.  Pretty please?


                
Modern Family is one of the best shows on TV in 2009.It's written by smart and funny people. It shares some DNA with Arrested Development and Fraiser, but has a little bit more heart.6 episodes in and I am still impressed and still laugh out loud.I usually avoid ABC because their programming in years past has been terrible and vanilla. Happy to see they have taken some chances on this show and hooray for them, it seems to be finding an audience and critics love it too.I usually hate shows with little kids in the cast... they usually end up getting used as cute crutches when writers run out of ideas, but Modern Family has been giving the kids sharp dialogue to match the grown ups.The gay Mitchell and Cameron couple are portrayed honestly and they are hilarious.The very underrated Ed O'Neill is pitch perfect as the grouchy but soft family patriarch. Sofía Vergara who plays his Colombian trophy wife is excellent and very funny in what could have been written as a terrible bimbo role.I wasn't sold on Ty Burrell as the dad who tries too hard to be cool after the pilot... but he's a slow burn, and now it works.Julie Bowen as the slightly off kilter mom adds an anchoring charm to the mix.Every person on this show gets good lines, and the quality is holding up... I hope they win a boatload of Emmys.


                
I just want to say that I love this show!! It is good family entertainment. I believe all of us can relate to someone in it or have a relative that can. For those of you who only saw the pilot (which I watched by accident and loved)please don't give up on it, it is really good comedy. I can't decide who my favorite character is, Cam, Phil...all of them, each week another one cracks me up. I rarely watch TV but this one has me hooked. I agree that the format is much like The Office, which I also think is funny, but the shots to the camera, the expressions are some of the best parts. We have all of the shows on dvr because my daughter and I usually can't wait till the next Wednesday to see it again! Again...Best show in years!


                
Modern Family is an exemplary show. It's got everything to love in a sitcom. It has humor, heart, great acting, great writing, likable characters, I could go on forever. The jokes are sharp, believable and it's also not too hyper like a lot of today's sitcoms are. It has quieter moments. And not that I'm bothered by a laugh track, but it also understands that you don't need a laugh track to be funny. I love to watch it with my family every Wednesday. My family and I love it to death. It's as well one of those rare examples of a show that hasn't suffered from what I like to call "SpongeBob Syndrome" (With flanderizing characters, recycling episode plots, etc.). I definitely recommend it :).


                
At first when I heard the name of the TV show I was intrigued. I started watching it and man, I haven't laughed so hard in my life. I hope there will be more and more seasons to watch! And Sofia Vergara is AMAZING! Best actress EVER! I can't wait to watch the next episode! And Lily is so cute. There is a humor in every episode. I have my favorite episodes like when Lily cursed at the church, or the episode with the tornado, and there is the Halloween episode when Sofia shouted 'You put egg on my house I kill what you love'. And then there is my big thank you to the creators and the great job they had done, they are doing and the more that will come.


                
I love "Mordern Family"! Even though, sometimes characters like Gloria, and Cam get annoying sometimes. The show is great, and now it's even better! On wensday I watched the episode where "Larry", the family pet, (cat, in case you were wondering) goes missing, they eventually find him, and you won't believe what Cam tells Lily. The main Characters are: Claire, Phil, Cam, Mitchell, Jay, and Gloria. Main supporting characters are: Lily, Manny, Luke, Alex, and, Haley. I hope this has no spilers, so you can enjoy, this awesome show. Other shows that you might like if "Modern Family" are, "Aressted Development" or, "The Office". You can get both of these on Netflix. If you don't have Netflix you're out of luck! Overall it is a great show! Catch it on Wensday nights on ABC.


                
Modern Family is one of the most laugh out loud funny shows currently on TV right now. A lot of shows nowadays you might get 2 to 3 mild chuckles every episode but MF you have at least that many times every episode where you're literally Laughing Out Loud.Being a big Married with Children fan that I am it's nice to see Ed O'Neill get another show. Also been a big fan of Julie Bown since she was on Ed. The real scene stealer a lot of the times on this show though probably is Ty Burrell.How this show is able to juggle all 3 different smaller families within the 1 overall bigger family is very well done.


                
My favorite sitcom so far. It's smart, sweet, and unique and most importantly unpredictable. The one thing I abhor about sitcoms is when I can predict what's what the punchline is. And Modern Family avoids that completely, and what's even better, the humor is not awkward. It's just unique and full of love and sweetness, without losing the realism.The kids are realistic but funny. I love Manny and all the depth in the relationships as family. Another case where cast chemistry and great writing create a work of genius. I haven't seen anything like this comedy EVER.


                
I've been watching Modern Family since the beginning, and while most TV comedies have me staring at the screen with an immobile expression (if for some reason I'm even watching), while Modern Family is good for several LOL moments each and every week.I also very much like Chuck Lorre comedies in general (i.e., 2-1/2 Men, Big Bang for two)--they're very intelligent, exceptionally well written, and quite funny. But you don't really get involved in the characters of any particular show: It's simply a view from the outside looking in, watching what's happening on screen for a very enjoyable 30 minutes each week.I find Modern Family different: the situations and story lines are often hilarious, but underneath there's still a very warm and human story, and you actually find yourself caring about the characters. For those who remember the old Mary Tyler Moore show, Modern Family has the same feeling, it's just updated for today, and a bit more sophisticated and "real" all around than any '80s comedy could be.


                
I never wanted to watch this due to the title, "Modern Family." I thought it was about a dysfunctional 'modern family' with out-of-control and disrespectful children, and, unfit parents, who nowadays, are looked upon as funny, like in "Shameless." I don't see that as funny, but, as a growing and real concern.However, I was asked to watch it about a year ago, and, I was completely wrong. This is actually a very clever and well-written comedy about a very decent and close family with good kids and caring parents and adults who all help one another as any good family does.There are subtle rivalries, white lies, and, some snubbing going on...even a few minor insults; but, they are a very good and loving family...and, funny! On the other hand, if this weren't such a good family, many of the things being said could come across as mean, and, even appalling.Each character is very well developed. Each has their own special personality set just right to make interaction with one another work very well as a comedy.I'm happy that someone asked me to watch this as I now watch it every chance I get.


                
Modern Family is a mockumentary about a big joint family further consisting of three families. Recently divorced Jay Pritchett(Ed O'Neill), his second wife Gloria Delgado-Pritchett(Sofia Vergara) & her son Manny Delgado(Rico Rodriguez) is the first family. Jay's daughter Claire Dunphy(Julie Bowen), her husband Phil Dunphy(Ty Burrell) & their kids Haley(Sarah Hyland), Alex(Ariel Winter) & Luke Dunphy(Nolan Gould) is the second family. Jay's son Mitchell Pritchett(Jesse Tyler Ferguson), his partner Cameron Tucker(Eric Stonestreet) & their adopted daughter Lily Tucker-Pritchett(1st & 2nd season twins Ella & Jaden Hiller, 3rd season Audrey Anderson-Emmons) is the third family.This is the most unique comedy I've watched in recent times. It's not a traditional sitcom with a laugh reel. However, it's freaking hilarious! All the members of this quirky family are funny in their own way. Each character cracks you up at some point of time or the other. This show wouldn't be the same even if one character didn't exist. All the characters share great chemistry with each other. In fact, you don't even realize that's it's just a TV show. You really believe that they are a real family. I love all the characters. However, if I had to pick just two, then, Phil & Gloria are my most favorite characters on the show. Ed O'Neill has done a brilliant job as the patriarch, Jay. Sofia Vergara has done a mind blowing job as the nagging Colombian wife, Gloria. Julie Bowen has done an awesome job as the strict wife & mom, Claire. Ty Burrell has done a bang up job as the loving but clumsy husband & dad, Phil. Jesse Tyler Ferguson is impressive as Mitchell. Eric Stonestreet has done an outstanding job as Cameron. The kids, Sarah Hyland, Ariel Winter, Nolan Gould & Rico Rodriguez are spectacular as Haley, Alex, Luke & Manny respectively. The supporting characters like Dylan(Reid Ewing) are superb as well. All in all, Modern Family is a must watch. So, sit with your family, switch on the TV & watch a show that the young, middle aged & old can relate to.


                
This is what i call a perfect show.You may not laugh at every minute but overall you will enjoy the show. Every character is different and well executed. My personal favorite is Phil and Luke Dunphy. Phil is the delight of the show. Personally speaking he is the only one who will truly make you laugh. Ty Burrell has played the character perfectly. Only complain I have about the show is Mitchell Pritchett played by Jesse Tyler Ferguson. I don't like that character and I don't like his acting. I also love Claire Dunphy played by Julie Bowen.She is this controlling mom who has to take care of everything as her husband act like a child and has somewhat a free sprite. As far as I am concerned this my one of the best show in T.V. And I think it will surely continue for a long time.
Wow - you rarely find television comedy this fresh and original. Okay, the settings are familiar ... and maybe a lot of the "family" situations but what goes on is definitely NOT what we've seen before. For one thing, one of the families is a gay couple - played not with the usual clichés but with real human complexity - and funny without the usual slurs. This show is literally dripping with talent - wonderful writing and a stunningly talented cast make for an auspicious beginning for this show. All the kid actors are amazingly talented. Ty Burrell is particularly great, already "inhabiting" this quirky, VERY funny character. And Julie Bowen - almost criminally gorgeous to begin with - turns out to be sublimely talented as well, giving us a fascinating and fully 4-dimensional character that dazzles in every way. What a great new arrival to prime time TV !!!


                
First things first, I think this is the funniest sitcom since "Arrested Development", but it also dares to be heartwarming by the end of each episode. Thanks to the laser-piercing sharpness of the writing, it continually gets away with such a potentially fatal combination and has become that all-too-rare show that I schedule my otherwise hectic life around – even if the individual episodes are available on the ABC Web site hours after they air. Created by Christopher Lloyd ("Frasier") and Steven Levitan ("The Larry Sanders Show"), the show offers a simple premise and a familiar format. It centers on the families of Jay Pritchett, his daughter Claire, and his son Mitchell, all of whom live close to each other in Los Angeles.The format is a sitcom under the guise of a mockumentary (much like Christopher Guest's best films, "Waiting for Guffman" and "Best in Show"), which allows all the characters to express their honest opinions about each other, primarily exposing their personal idiosyncrasies and irritants. It's a tried-and-true approach, and in the expert hands of the writers involved, it works beautifully. Jay is the aging patriarch happily married to a much-younger Columbian spitfire of a wife, Gloria. He struggles to keep up with her energy and high-voltage temperament, while helping to raise her cherubic, pre-adolescent son, Manny, acting well beyond his tender years.Meanwhile, Jay's high-strung daughter Claire is married with three kids of her own. Her realtor husband Phil is your typical one-step-behind dad who thinks he is much cooler than he is, while Claire's control-freak tendencies are a reflex to not only his affable, conflict-avoiding nature but to her hopeless inability to push her children (especially eldest daughter Haley) away from the apparent hellion she was as a teenager. But I have to admit my favorite dynamic on the show is between Jay's lawyer son Mitchell and his flamboyant life partner Cameron, a former music teacher. Instead of focusing entirely on their same-sex relationship, the creators wisely chose to focus on them as new, overcompensating parents to their adopted Vietnamese baby, Lily. It's really easy to endear yourself to this extended family who manage to generate genuine likability through their somewhat dysfunctional nature.The fact that Claire and Phil represent the only traditional family structure of the three makes an emotionally resonant comment on the acceptance of diversity in contemporary relationships that cross cultures, generations, same-sex barriers and overseas adoptions. What's more, the point is not hammered in any moralistic manner but through shrewd characterizations, relatable personal crises, and genuinely funny, laugh-out-loud outcomes. The show is also blessed with an excellent regular cast that starts with Ed O'Neill who manages to bring curmudgeonly warmth to his Al Bundy-like bluster as Jay. At first, Sofia Vergara's Gloria bordered a bit too much on stereotype, but as her own foibles were exposed, e.g., her self-denial over her bad driving and her hypersensitivity to any misconstrued comment about her heritage, she became far more relatable. Julie Bowen could have been the show's inevitable wet-rag, but she makes Claire's often unpopular stances as the sensible mom hilarious case studies in the slow burn, the dead-eyed stare and the double-take.As Mitchell, Jesse Tyler Ferguson superbly contrasts Mitchell's elitist attitude and discomfort with public displays of affection with a deeper need to squash his "mama's boy" reputation. Even with such keen competition, there are two standouts in this crack ensemble. In Steve Carell-like fashion, Ty Burrell makes Phil a hilarious doofus of a dad in classic TV style, while Eric Stonestreet's Cameron is one of comedy's ingeniously lovable creations, an emotionally naked, over-the-top character who stays true to his corn-belt sensibilities. All the kid actors are great without being grating, and guest stars have turned in some stellar work. Most notable have been Shelley Long as Jay's new-age ex-wife unforgivable for "The Incident"; Fred Wiilard as Phil's evasive, joke-alike dad in "Travels with Scout"; and Elizabeth Banks as Cameron and Mitchell's perpetually drunk gal-pal Sal in "Great Expectations".


                
Most hilarious TV show there is. Wonderful mix of ethnicity in family By adding Sofia Vergara. Show does not get boring every episode has a new adventure. Along with being funny, the show teaches the hardships of family and how it is okay to not get a long some times. It shows what family is for and what they will help you get through. It also shows what it is like being in a family as a kid with three different age groups with the Dunham kids. It is a comedy all families can sit together and watch because they can relate to it. It has encouraging messages and valuable life lessons, showing that in the end you are capable and strong enough to achieve what ever you want to.


                
This is the heir to Arrested Development. Need I say more? Fantastic!!!My favorite character is Cam. Fully developed.Least favorite character is the husband. I will miss Michael Scott from The Office, too, but come on...Manny is wonderful as the man-child.It is easily one of the best written comedies to come out in years. I would put the combined quick wit of the writers and actors who deliver the lines up with Archer. The show is a reminder that for the best filmed entertainment is TV is replacing movies for not just high quality drama a la Sopranos, Band of Brothers, etc. but also comedy. Congratulations to the cast and crew for well deserved Emmys.I hope that the show continues for many seasons.


                
Everybody is saying that Modern Family may be a good runner up to Arrested Development. Well I disagree. And that's the beauty of having an opinion. This show is simply one of the greatest comedies I have ever seen! The characters are great, their chemistry on screen is amazing and the situations they create are just too laughable. Also, I find the dialogs brilliant and the awkward silences even better! And the quasi-Grey's Anatomy conclusions to every episode brings a real life feel to the show, which is where I think it diverts from A.D.. It has a meaning, while being outrageously funny.For me a 10 out of 10.


                
Modern Family is definitely the best new comedy of our time, as proved by the numerous Emmys it has already won, both for the show itself and its actors, directors and writers. Modern Family won Outstanding Comedy Series for the past 4 consecutive years. The only show to top that number is Frasier. Even though Modern Family is my current obsession, my opinion is not swayed by this bias. It truly is the light-hearted yet deep-messaged comedy we needed.Modern Family reflects the growing image of society's families nowadays, and although it can be over-the-top diverse, at least it means it can cater to everyone's needs of relatable- ness. As the tag line suggests, it truly is one big gay, straight, multicultural, happy family. Although not every episode, most (especially season 1) episodes end with all the story lines connecting together and the whole family learning a lesson as a whole. I especially love the Voice-over by some member of the family saying something audience members can learn. It truly gives you a nice feeling inside, seeing these messages come across. Overall, Modern Family is the perfect blend of light comedy and meaningful words that the audience can embrace at their own accord.


                
I'm not easily impressed by comedies, but I haven't seen a comedy this good since Seinfeld. In many ways I feel Modern Family is better than Seinfeld and of course, it's very different. It's one of those shows you could buy the DVD and watch again and again and enjoy it thoroughly each time.Modern Family is refreshing, warm, smart, hilariously funny, and it does not have a laugh track which is great.It has a superb cast. Just to name a few: Manny is played beautifully by Rico Rodriguez. This character is refreshing, warm and funny. It's great to see a young male character in a series who is not continually arrogant and rude. He is intelligent and wise beyond his years.I have to mention Sofia Vergara who is wonderfully vivacious and funny. Eric Stonestreet is just hilarious. The whole cast is wonderful. I'm glad to see the gay characters being given equal time and are not just someone's sidekick nor are they just token characters as is often the case with all mainstream comedies and shows today. It's also good to see that many of the cast are just average looking everyday people.When so many comedies today are so tepid today and such a waste of time and money, this one is stellar. I could go on and on about this show and how good it is. I have only seen the 1st series, but if future series are anything like the first one, I can hardly wait. The show leaves one feeling good. I hope it has a long run.


                
I would like to start off by saying that I can see why some people have a problem getting into this sitcom... I didn't immediately fall in love with it. I do believe it is not everyones cup of tea! Having said that I do suggest people give it a chance and watch a few episodes before passing judgement! It gives both ends of the spectrum. There are some 'silly' moments that make you chuckle and laugh, but there are also some subtle jokes. The difference is the 'silly' moments are well executed. When I watch some shows that take the 'silly' approach to comedy, I see how easy it is to take it over the top, and for me that takes something away from the show. Of course it is similar with the subtle humour. It is easy to lose an audience if all you throw at them is dry subtle humour. Its about finding a balance, and I think Modern Family does this well.There are a couple of characters that are like mar-mite, and its not very often you find a show where you love ALL the characters. Having said that, every character has their own 'thing', and the more you learn about the different characters identities, the funnier they become. I also love the fact that parts are shot in a documentary style. It gives a more realistic and intimate feel that works very well with the theme of 'family'.I could go on and talk about how well written it is and how it is one of my favourite shows and such but I think it is better you just all give it a go for yourselves! And remember, give it a chance! I hope you all enjoy it as much as I did!


                
This show is hilarious. It has kept me laughing all 10 seasons long. It had some lesser moments but every show has lesser seasons and greater ones. However I still love this show and I will never get tired of watching it.


                
Phil wow, you are an idol to every guy and Claire and Sofia too. The two most beautiful and goodhearted women someone ever can find.


                
This show consists of great actors who are very talented individually. Each one is able to embody their roles and as an audience you can really feel and relate to the characters. The show is very funny, light, family-oriented and what I kike best is how it tackles social issues and actually present life lessons in every episode ending. Give it a try and you will get addicted to every episode you watch!


                
Never disappointing and always a hoot. This show never disappoints. From the actors and actresses to the writers, on point and very funny.


                
I can's stop enjoying this show... i just want it more and more this is a brilliant comedy from Steven Levitan and Christopher Lloyd... it's very complete, you got to laugh and you it's teach you what is the real meaning of a family.... The jokes is fresh, the cast is perfect,when i watch this, i can't stop laughing, and even after i watched this.. in this show everybody have their own things, like Phil dunphy, who always trying to be a cool dad and funny husband, but he isn't. and he's trying so hard to make it happen and it end up very fun to watch, for us.. Sofia vergara, wow... she's hot... i just can't take my eyes of her, and every time she talks... her accent just make me laugh.... i was hoping someday i will have a family like this, funny, close to each other, and full of lovemust watch this! i'm sorry if my English is not really good


                
