While I enjoyed the first two seasons of MODERN FAMILY, the third is a bit tired. Very few funny lines and situations. They should have stopped while ahead. Two season would have been great. The acting is over board, even for a sit-com. The two gay characters are horrible...both the writing and the acting. Can't gay characters act like 'normal' human beigns???? They always bicker and how they've stayed together this long is beyond belief. And these guys were actually nominated for an Emmy. Who do they sleep with? Also annoying is Ty Burrel. Lousy actor in an inane role. He too was nominated?? Give me a break. Even for a sit-com, the situations for the most part are unreal. The camera work is also horrible. Trying to be like an art movie with all that hand held camera movement and zooming. Besides re-casting, they should stop with the 'fancy' camera work. After all I've said, I do enjoy the little girl who plays Lily. She's be best thing on it. Ed O'Neil also deserves some credit as he's the only one who acts with authority and humane qualities. As for Sophia, well, she's still great to look at and at times she comes through well, but stop with the screaming. As far as the kids are concerned...again, RE-CAST.


                
Modern Family is an another offspring of the colossus of political correctness in American sitcoms. We have tree families who are prosperous, predominantnly white people from dreamland suburbia where the "others" are treated as accessories: Sofia Vergara is an over-the-top emotional trophy wife, the gay couple is conceived as representing the whole range of looks from chubby and feminine to masculine and rational. On top of it we have their adopted daughter who happens to be Vietnamese and the nerd sister. However, the most annoying of all characters by far is Phil Dumphy who is desperatelly hanging on to his Stepford Dad thing and overdoing it so many times that he more often than not turns this borderline entertaining show into a creepy family cult full of paranoid pefectionism and shameless stereotypes. All in all, this is a show that's exactly good enough to make you not switch the channel, but bad enough to regret spending time on it.


                
This show is very clever, witty, and full of surprises. I have been a big fan for years ever since the first episode. However, Sofia V.'s role (Gloria) is becoming so annoying as a character that it is ruining the whole show. She continually whines at that crazy high pitch/volume all the time, always with the same complaints and her hypocritical attitude is almost unbearable. Please come up with a new direction for her. After years and years of speaking English, she still sounds like she immigrated last summer. I think her accent is actually getting worse. All the other characters are evolving and yet she still has the same persona as the first season.


                
Nothing personal about these actors. They were fine when they were children but now that they are little adults their lack of acting skills shines bright.Nolan now does a weird thing with his voice and Rico now comes across like a clueless idiot. If the show wants to revive itself and get out of a creative coma then they should ax these two and make Cameron's sister a regular.The show was funny the first 5 years. The last 3 have been terrible. yes I know it still has its fans but so does "Donald Trump". The shows lack of major awards in the past few years should send a signal to the shows producers that this family in in crisis. "Seinfeld" & "Everybody Loves Raymond" were still getting major awards late in their respective runs. "Modern Family" isn't.


                
Producers have acknowledged they stole the whole idea for this episode from a short film called Noah. So what's the shouting about? It was a cliché-filled story (she was in the basement all along, but no one thought to look there<U+0085>HER ROOM!) in a shiny package they stole. And brought to you by Apple! This is the all too sad pattern of most good shows. They start believing in themselves after a point and think they can serve any old thing up and we will love them. Yes the package here was a keen one, but credit there goes to some filmmakers from Oregon who came up with it. The writing here, which used to be the meat and potatoes of this show, is very weak. Sorry to see a good show resort to gimmicks instead of hard work.


                
