When I saw summer promos of this sit com I thought it looked forced and very predictable. As Cam would exclaim, "Surprise!" It is well cast, written, and consistently laugh out loud funny. The documentary camera bit is actually as well done, no, even better than one of the best, The Office. I recognized most of the talented adult cast, they have great chemistry, and it was so hilarious when Shelley Long guest starred as the ex wife. But it is the kid actors on the show who are amazingly well directed in their parts- Manny, as a son, stepson, brother, uncle, and cousin is a hoot: he can wisecrack with the best of them, and then break your heart when dad isn't able to fulfill his promise for the weekend. I always thought Steve Levitan did agreat job with "Just Shoot Me", on NBC and I think he and ChristopherLloyd have got a hit show for ABC. Take a look at this so ABC won't cash in on some more ridiculous reality shows.


                
Because I have not one, but two, DVRs I'm able to give all the new shows a chance, which I did with "Modern Family". Am I ever glad I did!! I have found that everything about this show is believable. Though the situations that occur during any given half-hour show would obviously never all happen in that short a stretch, I have no difficulty in believing that they would all happen. I never feel that anyone's exaggerating to draw a laugh or milking a laugh. It's just the only "laugh out loud for the whole show" on TV today. It is, IMHO, the funniest show since MASH, and that's saying some.There are some parallels to another of my favorites, the little appreciated "Arrested Development", "Modern Family" has its own unique flavor; and the flavor is . . . hilarious!!!


                
I wasn't sure about this show. I liked Ed O'Neil and wanted to see him succeed in another comedy. I talked my girlfriend into watching the pilot episode and we laughed uproariously. The casting was so good. Ed O'Neil's delivery is absolutely pitch perfect. Ty Burrell is annoying but, in the perfect over-compensating way that you would expect from a dad who feels his Life has aged while he has remained a teenager. Julie Bowen manages to under play her role as Ty's annoyed and insecure wife. Sofia Vergara is absolutely gorgeous as O'Neil's younger, Latina wife. Jesse Tyler Ferguson and Eric Stonestreet are hysterical together. The show ties together so well each and every episode.


                
Just a quick summary on the TV series: Modern Family is about a three families intertwining their lives in a comedic way. Firstly, I am in love with this. Modern Family is genius and deserves way more awards then it has. The "mockumentary" film style is very interesting as well. The acting from Ed O'Niell, Julie Bowman, Ty Burrell, Sofía Vergara, Jesse Tyler Ferguson, Eric Stonestreet. And especially from the children actors, Rico Rodriguez, Nolan Gould, Sarah Hyland and Ariel Winter is brilliant. They really do show an authentic way of seeing family life and the actors do give that justice as well. The "to camera" interviews and conversations closely resemble the UK's "the office" but is sill very, very funny and suit the story line for that episode.Whilst watching this, I realized I was actually, genuinely laughing out loud, which not many TV series or comedy films do.Great acting, hilarious stories, smartly filmed and just plain funny. Seriously recommend this.


                
I really enjoyed the first nine seasons but sadly the tenth season is quite underwhelming. Still a good one but not even close to the previous nine. It would have been a 10/10 if season 10 had delivered.


                
There is just about nothing wrong w/this show. It is hilarious & very rarely do you ever find such an absolutely perfect cast. Sometimes you see good shows that have the wrong cast spewing out the lines, this show does not have any of that. Each week they just keep getting better & better every single week they just merge better & better as a completely believable family. The cast is fantastic as a whole but I have to say that the three that really standout are (in order of the quality) Rico Rodriguez as Manny, (Ed O'Neil's Stepkid) Ty Burrell as Phil, & Eric Stonestreet as Cam. I love Ty Burrell as Phil but we have seen him in things before, however you've probably never seen Ric Rodriguez before & he is absolutely brilliant in his role. As far as the comedy goes there are so many zingers that fit perfectly in the story being told that week, that DVR's were made for shows like this. One of the best things about this show is the absence of a laugh track. It makes it that much more genuine & truly funny. If you haven't seen at least a few episodes (No one episode is not enough to truly gauge this show) you don't know what you are missing. My only worry is that the quality will go down, but the way the First season has played out, I'm not too worried. Plus the cast is just getting more and more comfortable together. The only reason I didn't give it a 10 is because I feel that there should be more of the interaction between the whole family instead of focusing so much on the core families. However that is my only minor complaint & if they don't add that, It won't change my opinion on the overall quality of the show. Give it a try & you will be happy you did.


                
Modern Family is simply addictive it's so good. The writers have explored a multitude of topics related to the titular "modern family" with amazing success. Gay couple, foreign born wife, three completely different kids. Every episode manages to touch our lives through their lives and make us laugh, cry, and tune in again and again. There are fights, misunderstandings, love, devotion, mishaps, and triumphs. Sometimes (rarely) it is not as "comedic" as one would expect, but it is never boring. The entire cast has amazing skills and I can't single any one in particular that is better than the other. Each character is played superbly and works in tandem with others. This show receives many praises and deservedly so. Keep it up!


                
If the Office and Arrested Development had a love child ==> This would be it!I like the way the show is directed...its almost Arrested Development- esquire (My favorite show ever). It is definitely my favorite New TV show this season. The characters are distinct and really funny. Also doesn't hurt that The gorgeous Julie Bowen and Sofia Vergara are in it; Eye Candy. Although this show is kinda cheesy but in a good way; There's always a Benign ending with the family coming together. Phil's character is probably my favurite..Ty Burrell is hilarious!While it is not a substitute for AD fans, it is as close as TV show can get. Arrested Development fans have something to watch now.I'm addicted to the show! You should be too!


                
This show is high on my list of favourites on TV at the moment. The humour is just so unique that you can't help but find yourself giggling about the experience hours after seeing it. The links between the families are very clever and it will really make you smile and I love the fact that it seems that you can slot your family into this programme in one form or another!I think that the gay couple storyline has got to be my favourite with hilarious quotes and situations that make you really laugh out loud. A must see for all ages. The only drawback that I can see with this programme is that its only 30 minutes long! It leaves me gagging for more and that's the only reason why it didn't get 10 out of 10.


                
All I have to say is "Wow." I just caught my first episode, and even though I've never seen the show, I found it humorous and very easy to get into. ABC definitely has a hit with this show on their plate, that's for sure. It's absolutely hilarious. With it's take on the modern semi-dysfunctional family, it's just realistic enough to be enjoyed by most people, but there is an air of surrealism (in my opinion) that makes it all that more enjoyable. I also like that it's only a half an hour in total, you don't find too many truly humorous and enjoyable shows (well, I guess you find some) that are short enough that you don't feel like you've just wasted an hour. I would definitely recommend this show to my friends, family, and coworkers!


                
Modern family is about just that, a modern family warts and all. You have the old fashioned patriarch but not so old fashioned that he hasn't snagged himself a Columbian trophy wife with her precocious over-mothered son, the two grown children one gay in a partnership with a theatrical sometimes clown, and their adopted baby, and the other married to a big kid - ex male cheerleader - and their three children (party-girl, brainbox and airhead respectively). The program is filmed mockumentary style with talking-head style comments to camera, but also breaking the fourth wall during the action bits which is usually timed to perfection for maximum laughs Observational and incredibly witty, silly and mocking of just about everything, Modern Family is hilarious and one of the best sitcoms on TV today. It's adult in it's themes but isn't gratuitous or resort to bad language, it relies mainly on the screen presence of its talented actors and very physical humour generally. I would say it was family viewing if the family were a little older, or much would go over a younger person's head. Steven Levitan and Christopher Lloyd, the writers, pitch their comedy perfectly and every script is flawlessly written - certainly one of the more intelligent sitcoms around - and deserve every new series and award they win. All the actors are great in their particular roles but interactions with Sofia Vergara (the stunning Gloria) or Eric Stonestreet (Cameron) or Ty Burrell (Phil) are my favourites. One of the funniest things I've ever seen on TV was the "ice-dance" in the car park between brother and sister Claire and Mitchell. Enjoy


                
well i am one of it seems many people who love this show and watch it all the time with my family and we really enjoy the time we spend together when we watch i love how every person seems to be like a member of Ur own family i say give it a chance u might be surprised if u haven't already watched its so much fun and funny i love it and I'm sure u will too if u just give them a chance its like Ur relatives coming over every week ha but on the other hand u may want to watch the show with very young kids as some of the content can get out of hand but other than that its wonderful fun for the entire family yes i sayed entire family u read that right


                
Such a great show. Sad to see it wreck it's great legacy by continuing for money, like the Murphy Brown remake attempt.


                
In the vapid, nearly transparent mess that television sitcoms have become, one show that has stood above the rest as the freshest and most endearing comedy in quite some time is ABC's "Modern Family." In the 30-minute uproar of laughs sitcom, we follow three non-traditional families through their everyday antics and how they deal with them by just being<U+0085>themselves. The series stars a wonderful ensemble of authentic, genuine characters: "Married with Children" star Ed O'Neill is Jay Pritchett, the patriarch of the family who is married to Gloria, (played beautifully by the even more beautiful Sofia Vergara) who is very much younger than Jay and just as high-tempered. Gloria has a son, 11-year old Manny (Rico Rodriguez), from a previous marriage. But don't let the number 11 fool you, Manny is wise beyond his years and effectively just as funny as the next adult. Jay has two children from his ex-wife (played occasionally by the delightful Shelly Long), Claire and Mitchell. Claire (Julie Bowen) is married to Phil (Ty Burrell), a zany real estate agent who sees himself as a "cool dad." More than not, the "cool dad" persona gives not only Phil some issues but drives Claire up a wall. They have three children; Haley (Sarah Hyland), a 16 year old stereotypical teenager who dates her on-again-off-again boyfriend Dylan, who's pretty looks don't often match her brains. Alex (Ariel Winter), a 14 year old wise cracking over achiever who loves tormenting her siblings in between her cello and lacrosse practices. And the youngest is the adorable Luke (Nolan Gould), the often times simple minded 11 year old who highly admires his dad and seems to be more distracted then he's aware. Mitchell (Jesse Tyler Ferguson) has been involved with his partner of five years Cameron (Eric Stonestreet), a more than over the top personality that acts as the matriarch to their2 year old adopted daughter from Vietnam Lily. Mitchell is an attorney that usually makes him super organized and very paranoid to Cameron's antics whether it's his moonlighting as the clown "Fizbo" or wanting to dance at Lily's parent's day at school. What has made "Modern Family" so successful, especially in the past second season is the incredible scripting. The writing staff knows these characters inside and out, knows what they're capable of, and never takes themselves too seriously. They utilize all their talents in building some hilarious and nearly tear jerking moments all throughout the series. The series, which has gone on to earn a groundbreaking seventeen Emmy nominations including Best Comedy along with acting nominations for every adult major character in the show is staggering. In this past season we saw the family do a lot of maturing both on the adult and child side. Jay has become more sensitive to his family and seems to be growing a very tender love and admiration for his stepson Manny. Gloria has finally settled into the family and even though she still gets picked on for her mispronunciation of the English language or dressing far sexier for inappropriate events, she's officially a part of their family. Claire and Phil, as dysfunctional or annoyed as they may seem, it's evident to the viewer they have love at the center of their marriage. They continuously keep finding ways to spice up their love life which often brings them into a mess of trouble (See Episode: "Bixby's Back" when they bring back 'Clive' and 'Julianna'). Haley and Alex, whom in the first season seem to have been always been at each other's throats have seem to have taken a strong liking to each other and at Alex's graduation you see the true test of their sister relationship blossom as Haley reveals her insecurities about being less intelligent and compliments Alex on her addictive and wonderful personality. Luke<U+0085>well, Luke is kind of the same but just getting older and even funnier. In the season finale, we see Cameron's genuine yearn to help all the kids and takes a great presence for Manny in his girl problems. Mitchell seems to share the same feelings without ever revealing it to Cameron. In the final moments of the show, Mitchell reveals to Cameron that he wants another baby and Cameron agrees but wants a boy. The performances of each of players are one of a kind, authentic and I dare you to find better on any comedy show on television today. The standouts always seem to be Eric Stonestreet, who won the Emmy for the first season, and Ty Burrell. Though hardly ever interacting with each other on screen, they seem to steal every scene they're in. Jesse Tyler Ferguson is endearing throughout the season. Sofia Vergara is electrifying, sexy, and uproariously funny. Ed O'Neill recaptures his magic we loved about him back in the 90's. Julie Bowen is magnificent and elevates the typical mother role into an accessible and triumphant comedic turn. The entire ensemble breathes new life into my television and shows the elevation of our comedy sitcom. It can still reign supreme.


                
This show is about 3 linked families - patriarch Jay (Ed O'Neill), his young and beautiful second wife, Gloria (Sofia Vergara), her son, Manny (Rico Rodriguez), and following that is Claire (Julie Bowen), Jay's daughter from his first marriage, Phil (Ty Burrell), her husband, and their 3 children Haley (Sarah Hyland), Alex (Ariel Winter) and Luke (Nolan Gould). There's also Mitchell (Jesse Tyler Ferguson), Claire's brother, his husband, Cam (Eric Stonestreet) and their adopted daughter, Lily (Sorry, Idk who plays Lily). I'll start out with my favorite characters: Phil - I honestly love Phil. Even though he's a little goofy and somewhat dim, he's one of the nicest people you can imagine, exactly the kind of person I wish I knew. He tries so hard to be accepted, despite being kind of a geek (but a lovable one).Jay - Jay reminds me of my dad - seems a bit obnoxious at first, but he cares deeply for his family and will do anything for them.Mitchell - he's a bit bossy but he has some of the funniest lines.Manny - he's an odd mix between Joey and Ross from Friends - like Ross, he's smart but terrible with social situations and is very kind. But, like Joey, he's obsessed with women and is something of a womanizer. His advice is often terrible but he's willing to do what he can to help out.Andy - The male nanny and Haley's new boyfriend. Like Phil, he's one of the nicest people you know, and he cares about everyone around him to eternity.Characters I feel indifferent about: Alex - I like Alex, but she's a bit of a smarta*s. Normally, I think that's kind of funny, but she should tone it down just a little.Luke - he's okay. He's like Phil, but less nice (he's not mean, per se, but he's not as cuddly and loving as his dad). Sometimes he makes me laugh though.Cam - he's very loving but also dramatic and over the top, and he tends to overreact in pretty much every situation. He does have his moments.Haley - She's kind of spoiled, but sometimes she shows moments of caring. Plus, she's hot (give me a break, I'm 16!) Characters I hate: Claire - she's selfish, arrogant, and just plain mean-spirited. She's even bossier than Mitchell, and she's almost always mean to everyone, often for no reason. She also has to prove she's right about everything, and is often willing to destroy something important to Phil or the kids. She doesn't deserve any of the things she has, and I wish Phil would leave her. One time, she spied on the kids, and they all got mad at her and she told them to suck it up and that's what parents do, when she had no right to be angry at all and no one in real life would tolerate that kind of unacceptable behavior. (before I get attacked, let me just say that I have nothing against Julie Bowen, she seems very nice and is a great actress, I just really hate Claire) Pepper - Cam and Mitchell's other homosexual friend. He's incredibly obnoxious, whiny, and rude. He can't take it when things don't go his way, and he's even more dramatic than Cam. Honestly, why are they even friends with him?!?


                
Let me start off by saying, this show is my favorite show. It is funny, crazy and everything I like in a TV show. I wish more TV shows could be like this one. Cam and Phil are my favorite characters in the show and every time they speak on the show I always end up laughing. I do believe that season three was not the best season because it was not as funny as season one and two. I did enjoy the 1st and last episode of season three because they were the funniest ones in the season. I would like to see Dylan in the show more often because he is just hilarious. In season three the dialogue was dry and left me thinking, 'seriously!?!? thats not as funny as it could be!' I was actually pretty disappointed with the turn out of season three.


                
It is by far the best comedy show i have seen. Everything is delivered to perfection or near perfection. A very well written, acted and directed show. It may not make you laugh your guts out all the time in an episode but its laughs are natural. I mean it does not force laughs on you like most of the sitcoms or other mokumentaries. The humor is subtle and natural. Ty Burrell does a great job of being a dumb dad and he is my favorite character on the show. He makes you wonder what if he really is dumb. He is that good on the show. Jesse Tyler Ferguson and ed o Neill also acted to perfection. The show doesn't look pretentious and doesn't try to be too clever at all. It makes you feel that they are not some characters on TV but a family living in a neighborhood.A must see show for people looking for some laughter well delivered.


                
I absolutely LOVE this programme! I think it is WONDERFUL!!! It is hilarious, and I genuinely feel happy as soon as I switch it on really. As soon as it starts I am smiling, and even though it doesn't seem like a laugh out loud comedy, I still laugh out loud at pretty much every episode. The only reason it doesn't get a ten is because sometimes the Dunphys pee me off just a bit too much (but I wouldn't get rid of them), if Claire chilled out a bit and her daughters weren't quite so extreme and slightly more believable this programme would be pitch perfect. As it is it is DAMNED CLOSE and I think that everyone should watch it.


                
This truly is an excellent show which is satirical , humorous , and it has that toe - curling awkwardness at times which makes it all the more enjoyable. Basically it's about a few families who are strangely related and live close to each other. A traditional 3 kid family Concerned and feisty mother, dim witted father, typical teenage girl , smart preteen girl and a 10 year old boy with a suspected case of ADHDA Gay couple with an adorable Vietnamese daughter called Lily.An old guy , and a young hot Latino lady with a strange intellectually advanced but socially challenged son called Manny.
This really is one of the best comedies to come out of the States for years. The multi-faceted family are characterised in a realistic, believable and best of all very funny manner.From the dysfunctional Clare, Phil and kids, through Grandpa, his new wife and son to Mitchell and Cameron with their newly adopted baby, every scene is well acted and nuanced. The acting is all first rate and congratulations to whoever cast the show, as they are all perfect for their role.I sincerely hope a second and third series follow.Ed O'Neill is excellent as the grumpy head of the family and he has created another much more likable character than his role in Married with Children. He really is funny, sincere and touchingly warm through to grouchy and bad tempered. He is hilariously homophobic around Mitchell and Cameron, creating some of the best laughs of the show.All in all a great series and my family was hooked from the pilot episode.Watch it!!


                
"IT'S GOOD!!!". This sentence tell it all. It became one of my favorite TV series just by watching the 1st season. All characters are lovable but I think Ty Burrell and Rico Rodriguez characters are really steal the show.The series story is things happen around three family in which is related to each other. Simple, isn't it?.Parts of the difference from this show than others is sometimes the character would stare to the camera as if it's record by amateur camera, Talk and tell the camera as if it's a reality show, And I don't hear any "Laughing sound" like any others. That's why it's the modern kind of sitcom.It lighted my day by watching it. "MUST WATCH"


                
Entertaining, sweet, light-hearted and funny. Some genuinely laugh-out-loud moments in many episodes. It actually got better with each season! I'm blown away with the writing and the characters. The chemistry between the cast members is so enjoyable as well. So many hidden jokes and ridiculous moments that keep it original. Love this show; will be really sad to see it end.


                
I've only been watching this show for a few months. However, out of all of my favorite shows, it is probably the one that took me the shortest amount of time to like. After watching only a few minutes of the pilot, I knew that this was something I was going to fall in love with. The characters are fantastic. All three of the adult couples have great chemistry. For me, the character that really makes the show is Phil (the father of the "traditional" family). I had never heard of Ty Burrell before this show, and I have yet to watch him in anything else...but he is absolutely perfect in this role.If I were to make a list of complaints about this show, it would be very short. At the top of the list, however, would be one of the kids--Manny Delgado. He is the only character that annoys me on a regular basis. Claire (the mother of the "traditional" family), has also irritated me in a few episodes, but that's not very frequent. Overall, I have almost no complaints about the rest of the main characters, so I am perfectly alright with overlooking my annoyances with those two.It's had its share of episodes that I haven't particularly enjoyed, but that has been rare.


                
Now already airing since 2009 and after many episodes I am still a fan of Modern Family. What it continues to do is amaze me in the amount of sarcasm and cynical lines said when they are in their 'talking to the viewers mode'. Characters such as Phil Dunphy are for me what makes Modern Family something I can relate to!The dynamics between Mitch and Cameron is another thing I really like. The feminine side from Cam in relation to the common sense of Mitch is priceless and quotes "really paisley and pink" make me laugh every time. In fact the only thing I do not find a good addition to the show, so far, is baby Joe. Looking forward to another episode! and just scrolling back through old ones


                
Modern Family is a winner! It's so funny, the cast is perfect and it is refreshing to say the least. 3 families, all related, but so different. You can't help laughing at the craziness that comes from such ordinary situations. Jay Pritchett, played by Ed O'Neill, is so likable as the patriarch who is married to a much younger Gloria,( Sophia Vergara, whom I love)! Her son Manny ( a very talented Rico Rodriguez)is so amusing. The daughter, Claire is played by Julie Bowen ( previously on Ed) married to Phil (the hilarious Ty Burrell).They have three children. The last family member is gay son Mitchell and his partner Cameron (actors Jesse Tyler Ferguson and Eric Stonestreet) who have recently adopted a daughter Lily. The stories are ordinary stories but with such a super cast and superb writing, they seem so fresh!


                
