I have to rain on the "Oz" parade here. For the life of me, I cannot fathom why this film is so revered, and I know my films. The 1939 "Wizard of Oz" has to be the most annoying, obnoxious, and overrated "classic" and "great" film ever made.The acting in "Oz" is horrible, the sets completely unrealistic always looking like they are indeed on a soundstage instead of looking anything remotely close to real (early Tim Burton syndrome), the characters are all annoying, really this is probably the most "in your face" obnoxious film ever. If it didn't strain SO hard to be a good film, this may have actually have been a decent "B" film, an early cheesy delight along the lines of countless 50's and 60's cheesy sci-fi, horror and fantasy films. But because "Oz" thinks a lot more or itself than it really should, it comes across as a bloated albatross of a pathetic attempt at decent fantasy.Even the supposed "great" song, "Over The Rainbow," is completely overrated. It's a horrible, horrible song, completely unmelodic and painful to the ears. The one lone bright spot in the whole film is the Wicked Witch, with Margaret Hamilton playing the role so well and clever she easily outshines literally everything else the entire film has to offer.But hey, many people like the film, so that's the way it is. But speaking of this film in the same manner of real films like Gone With The Wind, Casablanca, and so many more, is a complete joke. "The Wizard of Oz" is probably the worst supposed "great" film ever made.


                
Mary Poppins Who Framed Roger Rabbit The Sound of Music Shrek Back to the Future all timeless family movies they do not get enough credit but the Wonderful Wizard of Oz (More like the wonderfully bad Wizard of Oz) is loved by all not by me! For the millionth time Channel 4 showed the film on TV this afternoon and I just had to see if my opinion would change but OH NO certainly not! Now I loved this movie when I was tiny but then I just went with the adventure of it all, now just a pile of rubbish with a vomit inducing performance from Judy Garland vomit inducing! The most clichéd story in the world and really poor visual effects I mean a yellow slab is the yellow brick road! I can understand the reasons why everyone loves this film because they watched it as a child and then had to show their children straight away do not I repeat DO NOT show this to children they will be scarred for life and it will be your own fault! The constant singing is just enough to drive anyone with a brain mad we're off to see the wizard is sung over and over again repeatedly with no sense of pacing or movement! Dorothy is really whiny and annoying after a while! The Wicked Witch has always terrified me and will scare any children who watch this! Just do not watch this pile of vomit inducing rubbish it is 76 years old now everyone has suffered through this pile of vomit inducing rubbish enough! There is a better Oz film out there Oz the great and powerful from Disney which does not even need to be compared to this vomit inducing rubbish!


                
Possibly the most ludicrous and terrible film ever made, I am shocked as to how people found the ridiculous, predictable and boring plot so appealing. The fact that it has managed to get into the top 100 movies of all time speaks volumes of how little people understand or appreciate movies of the 1930's.


                
I watched this back in the day when I was single digits and it went in one ear and out the other. I couldn't remember anything about it except the tornado sequence. I watched it again in my 20's and 30's mainly at Xmas as you're forced to at that time. Still I couldn't understand all the fuss. Now, nearly 50 years old I can categorically state this film is aWFul. Yes, it is like a dream, a forgettable one and as a fantasy more like a bad acid trip. There is nothing 'heart warming' about it. Those that find that must be psychopathic. The acting is flat, including the 'famous' Judy Garland and the more she and the other stars over-act the flatter it becomes. None of the characters are likable or interesting and the whole experience is like someone being sick on your face. The fairy from the north is more ugly and disgusting than the wicked witch of the east and the dog Toto out acts them all. The only good part was when the tree slapped Dorothy for pinching an apple. THAT was the only cool thing in it. And that only probably 'cause you wanna slap her yourself for being such a precocious non starter


                
Very good children's musical/fantasy film that was incredible for it's time with regards to it's special effects and production.This movie has to be seen before one turns age 13 to truly get it's hypnotic and magical spell.Even today,this film has that effect on children.A living cartoon with give all performances by all the actors including every bit player extra in it.Garland showed her talents here and the song "OVER THE RAINBOW" is one of the best musical recordings of ALL TIME.If you are into children's book type fantasy stories and are forgiving of 1930's special effects,you will like this one for sure.........


                
I cannot understand people's infatuation with this film. Come on people, The Wiz is better than this, and that had Michael Jacksn in it. Michael Jackson, people!What's my problem with this? How everybody talks about it like it's the best movie on the planet. I watched it, I wasn't impressed. The lines were delivered alright, but just overall, I wasn't impressed. Sure, back in it's time, it might have been revolutionary . . . but I preferred Predator over this when I first saw Wiz of Oz back in 1995. Sorry, folks, not a lot of evidence to back-up my opinion, but my brain hurts just thinking of this terrible piece of garbage. The only part I liked was when the credits started rolling!My rating: 1/10


                
Having grown up with this movie, I am very familiar with it. However I must say that I find it overrated.A lot of effort went into this movie and it looks very nice for the time, and I must commend the movie movie makers who created this ingenious film. However, I must say that the story is lacking because the moral gets lost in it and because it has certain logical points that are worth exploring.The one major flaw is that the entire journey that Dorothy, herself goes on is entirely unnecessary; Glinda the "good" witch could have flew to the Scarecrow, the tin man, and the lion and told them the things that they went on a life threatening journey to the wizard to find out. She could have told the Scarecrow that he didn't need a brain if he had intelligence. She could have told Tin Man that he didn't need to actually have a heart to have compassion (otherwise he probably wouldn't want the heart to begin with --although I'd also like to point out that the tin man should have asked for a normal body that doesn't rust--.) And she could have told the cowardly lion that courage is about not letting fear get to you, instead of about not being afraid. Most importantly of all, Glinda could have told Dorothy that all she had to do is clapped her heels together and say, "there's no place like home" instead of again sending her on a life threatening journey in which she's being chased by a witch who commands an army of flying monkeys and throws fireballs. And from all of that, the moral is supposed to be, "don't run away from home.I think I have a better moral, don't be ignorant, don't withhold crucial information from people, and above all else, don't write books when you're stoned.
"The Wizard of Oz" is great!!  My favorite thing about it is the color change from Kansas to Oz.  I also love the Scarecrow and the Tinman. Maybe I was the only one who noticed, but I always thought the Scarecrow had a crush on Dorothy!!  I also love the little guy who follows Dorothy into Oz from her home: Toto!!"The Wizard of Oz" is such a classic, it has become a part of American culture!  So if you've never seen this movie, you really have to!  It's a definite "must see!"


                
This movie sucked. It is so rubbish not even your pets will be interested. If you want to see what the inside of a baby's mind looks like here is the film for you.My first problem is that the people who made it didn't know if they wanted it in color or black and white, SO THEY USED BOTH! LOL as if we wouldn't notice! Well I noticed and I thought it was rubbish.The little town with all those children was actually played by grown men. It's stupid to think we'll believe they're children. Another thing I hated was that it's telling a story about four people, and three of them aren't even real. One is a bear, one is a scarecrow and one is a robot. All they do is jump around and sing weird songs at each other like morons.Not even a baby would enjoy this, so please don't try making one watch it, no matter who it belongs to.


                
This is truly the worst movie ever made. Sure, you may have Twilight, Forrest Gump, or Avatar, (Just to name a few) but at least those are occasionally laughable. Fanboys/girls, hear me out.This film begins alright. Judy Garland may not be acting well here, but it is entertaining enough. Soon however, we see that Dorothy is a nasty, whiny beoch, (Watch it again, you will see what I mean) and that no one actually has a personality. Margaret Hamilton does do a good job with what she is being forced to work with, I must add. Her character, Almira, overreacts to Toto's indiscretion, and kick-starts the plot.But first, an awful song with no real rhythm and by a girl who can't sing, who runs away, meets the Wizard (I mean Gypsy) and comes home.But first, a Tornado! Then, a stupid line spoken to a dog by a stupid character! No Sh*t Sherlock, this colorful land isn't Kansas.10 minutes later: "Should I follow the Yellow Brick Road annoying Midgets with your annoying, high pitched squealing attempt at singing?" Do I need to point out the stupidity of the Brain, Heart, and Courage wishes? No? Good.Also, everything happens by chance. Oops, I just spilled this Water on you and it was your weakness! I HATE THIS FRICKING MOVIE!!
