The only thing I can see with this film getting any attention at all is because of the fact that it is the first colour film of all time, yes I admit that is a big achievement in cinema and changed the direction of cinema However that is about everything that's going for it.I know I might actually get bashed for this, I might even be called one of those "MTV McDonalds people that just say they don't like it because they are stupid", or something like that. I am very reasonable and I will say if you like this movie that's your opinion but I have seen this the whole way through and here is my opinion.Unlike other reviews I will not share the plot because almost everybody has seen this. The actors in this to me overacted actors like Margret Hamilton, Judy Garland, Bert Lahr, Frank Morgan and... well pretty much most of the actors in this entire movie were not good actors, more the opposite really, rather that all of the characters seem flat when trying to play whatever role they got to the point where I wanted to turn it off, If they did such good performances then what other performances of theirs have you seen aside from this.Now here is another paragraph attacking a small part, The Munchkin singing. The strange voices that they used got me a headache during watching, That song was also long for it's benefit, it's celebrating and rewarding Dorothy for killing a witch unintentionally and then says to go to The Wizard Of Oz.The use of the effects made everything look bright and happy, even the witch's enchanted castle, with the visual effects and sets made Oz look brighter and happier than anything I'd seen, From a point of view this makes it look fake, people might say "well that's what it's supposed to be" The Genre of this film is a family/Fantasy, There are many films out of these genres that I have seen that don't use this much bright colours.Look I realise this is a film from everybody's childhood but I just am going my way with these reviews, I am not trolling I am only here to say my opinion.
Why did this, of all movies, survive for over sixty years? I'm thinking it had something to do with America's fascination with midgets. The Lion was the only good character. Everyone is shallowly scripted. We know the good people are good because they're white, always merry and rosy cheeked. We know the bad people are bad because they are gray (or green)and black colored. The songs are boring. The lessons are commonplace; similar to what you could read in a fortune cookie. The biggest rip-off of all was that Glinda just toyed with Dortothy all along. She could've left Oz anytime. ripoff. Has Dorothy learned anything from this? There's no place like home. yay. The only good thing about this movie is that it lead to Wicked.


                
