I think it interesting how the critics always rave about these old movies, that have big name actors, no matter how bad the movies really are. This is a perfect example. If this movie was made today (especially if it had smaller name actors) the critics would all pan it. This movie is WAY too long, almost 3 hours. It only has about an hour and a half worth of story. The rest of the time is taken up by a lot standing around saying and doing nothing. Very long and very boring. Jason Robards is fun, Henry Fonda's good being evil, Chuck Bronson's fair, and Claudia Cardinale looks good, and has nice tiddies, but she is a terrible actress, seemingly barely able to speak English.


                
Sergio Leone will one day, maybe fifty years from now, replace Mister Wood on every critic's list as the worst movie director of all time. He'll at least make the top ten. At least Wood could make a story interesting, at least one character you might care about, and didn't have the gigantic Leone budget. Leone fails on every level. The story is very disjointed. It's mostly just comically unrealistic gunplay, with some guys being able to kill minor characters from great distances, but unable to kill major stars that should be easier. That's nothing new, but the circumstances are quite laughable. The story is just killing after killing, to take land away, and it follows sadist Henry Fonda, and his opponents, Charles Bronson and Jason Robards. Jack Elam appears in what amounts to a cameo. The characters aren't much to like. Bronson makes little jokes like an underdog hero of a Japanese movie, but the plot is so bad, and the characters so unlikable, you don't really care. To be fair, they aren't as unlikable as other spaghetti Westerns, but they don't have any appeal, either. You struggle to watch the film. You won't be able to do in one sitting. You'll have to watch a piece at a time, because you will fall to sleep. What makes the movie a bomb is the use of such outstanding cool music that neither matches or contrasts the situation. It falls flat, and it is a waste of good music.


                
As has happened so many times before, I am quite sure that the film I watched under discussion is most certainly NOT the same film as seen by other commentators. Or rather, and maybe, it is the basic film nous of the other commentators which really needs commenting upon! I have tried to watch this film several times on television. Mostly, I can never last beyond the first 20 minutes, but last evening I managed up to about the last half an hour before falling asleep. It was only by reading the excellent and first-class Synopsis provided on the IMDb web-site that I finally understood what the film was supposed to be about.Unfortunately for any judgement on this film, only a few days ago I watched John Ford's "The Searchers" once again. Now, there, you have a true western masterpiece! The story is told in a straightforward, concise, and economical manner, without any of the so-called modern tricks of slow meandering camera movements and/or long and supposedly pregnant moments of silence. I found "Once Upon a Time in the West" totally pretentious and often rather silly and "posing". During its first hour virtually nothing of the story was ever spelt out or even got going. As to calling this a "masterpiece" and other such nonsense terms, some people really need to educate themselves about what is good and bad cinema. "The Searchers" - the absolute best! "Once Upon a Time"? - awful and hopeless.
every scene filled with extended pauses and unnecessary camera angles, if you want boring to death between the paucity of action (ridiculous and totally without suspense) then this is surely the film for you! You say who knows the reason for the protagonists conflict? I say who cares! I had lost interest ......along with the will to live.....long before the end of this grindingly dull movie. Is this the result of a group of profits motivated film executives thinking "wow we have a major director here, lets allow him to do ANYTHING he wants, after all it MUST be good!"? Next time hire a cheaper director but pay for some decent dialogue!


                
To be fair, I only watched the first hour of this thing. Seriously, they could have edited that down to 10 minutes. I don't need to look at a tumbleweed for 2 minutes or a "bad guy's" face for that long either without dialog to add anything. I felt like yelling at the TV something like "GET ON WITH IT"! I find that a good rule of thumb for movie watching is the "20 minute Rule". If after 20 minutes the movie doesn't do anything for you there's a very good chance it won't after 2 hours. Sort of like going on a blind date, you sorta know after the first 5 minutes if it's a bust or not, then the best thing to do is to be polite until you can gracefully exit. Good luck to anyone else watching it, maybe it gets better after the first hour but I didn't want to risk wasting any more of my life watching paint dry.


                
Now I see many folks like this film, to be sure-there are some moments when this movie approaches something more than what it is-simply put-a violent saga of the Old West. Yes, Henry Fonda tackles a role far different from his normal stuff, but in reality-it was a big step down for an actor who showed far greater acting in roles like The Wrong Man, Mister Roberts and On Golden Pond. Jason Robards, one of my personal favorites has the best role of any in the story-at least his lines are interesting. Charles Bronson stands out-mainly because he has so few lines-the less said by Mr. Bronson in a movie-the better! He does makes for a stony, stoic character he portrays. Claudia Cardinale-forget her acting-she is there for beauty in what is really a very ugly film. Some of the music score is interesting, the outdoor shots are nice, but the screen play could have used a lot more work. If you are into the ultra violent western genre-go for this and watch it. This is just one person's opinion-but I have seen most of all the sound westerns-save for the "B" stuff-ever made. Once Upon A Time could have been done much better by a better director/producer.


                
It's not a question of liking or disliking. It's not a western. Western is an American style of movie rather than a genre and it's impossible to anyone alien to that culture to repeat it. The film is the Italian way to tell a story whose characters walk in an western scenery. Even if all the "john waynes" were casted, it wouldn't turn it into a western. The background could be anywhere in this planet and the film wouldn't change.


                
I don't really have a lot to say. It is simply a pretty bad movie, it has nothing. How can something to seem so long?? It is extremely slow and the characters suck. Nobody might believe something as bad as it is. DON'T WASTE YOUR TIME


                
I am an oldies fan. I love 60s,70s,80s films. I like some European westerns, too.But this is AWFUL! Long, slow, boring, just plain bad. I won't repeat what others very accurately said, but I will add my (femenine) opinion on one thing: Claudia Cardinale's makeup is grotesque. Those false eyelashes! So thick they look like brushes. I do like makeup on actresses. I always complain about most "realistic," washed-out faces in today's films. But the MU in this film is so 60s it's ridiculous. Sure, some women wore MU in those days (mainly prostitutes). But it consisted of white powder, black-rimmed eyes (they used charcoal bits), and crimson lips. It might not be a terribly important point, but it's SO obvious.IAC, this film is unbearable. Even Ennio Morricone's soundtrack is not up to his usual high level (The Mission, A Fistful of Dynamite, Chi Mai, etc.) He must have realized what a turkey he had to deal with and just matched the musical score to the quality of the film.


                
The whole movie is boring with no speed of action, there hardly happens anything.


                
I know some consider this a classic, but I call it a pretentious piece of crap. Worse yet, despite elaborate sets & a cast of seemingly thousands, it's tedious. The music's inane, the choral bits downright mawkish, the dialog consistently bizarre & the acting stilted, with far too many long - way too long - significant looks exchanged by all concerned. (If they'd cut the eyeball intercourse by half, this boring film might have been half an hour shorter.)And how can we gloss over the gaping crater in the storyline? In a brief flashback near the end, we're finally shown why Bronson's enigmatic harmonica player wants revenge - indeed, this is central to the whole dreary plot - but the flashback shows him completely surrounded by Fonda & his bad guys while being strung up by the neck. Guess we aren't supposed to ask how the hell he survived, eh?Leone did his best work, his classic spaghetti westerns, when he was operating on a shoestring budget. It's like what happens to some musical bands who've produced one or two successful albums & can suddenly afford orchestral background. They get carried away with that kind of froth & frippery & lose track of their original sound. With this film, Leone's committed the cinematic equivalent.
