This one only gets better with each viewing. Leone's masterful storytelling and Morricone's crazy, beautiful, epic soundtrack; desperate, haunted faces which look like the barren landscapes the story is set in and a plot that unfolds with impeccable pacing to culminate in THE ultimate western finale.As in Leone's previous films, music isn't just used to add to the atmosphere but is essential to the story, or perhaps even more: Morricone's main musical theme plays the actual role of a (or rather: the) protagonist in the film. Anyone who thought that the so called "Spaghetti westerns" were nothing but cheap, violent B-movies had to reconsider after seeing this film. It doesn't get any better than this: this is movie history; iconic, classic, unforgettable, epic. For this film, I just run out of superlatives.My vote: 10 out of 10Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite Low-Budget and B-movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/


                
I can't quite find the words to even come close to describing the pure brilliance of this movie. When this movie was made, the western genre was dominated by the big hollywood studios. The western was taken by these studios and transformed into an opportunity to portray classic superheroes like John Wayne and Burt Lancaster in their fight against all sorts of smalltime crooks and outlaws in smalltime stories and smalltime towns. It was a genuine effort to portray 'Americanism', the American Way, along with a romanticised view of the west as 'Frontier country' where good always triumphed over bad and where the life was hard but honest. It was the American Way.And then came this film. The title, 'Once Upon A Time In The West' must have seemed to mean nothing more than 'just another western' to the unexpecting viewers at the time. Oh boy were they wrong. With this movie, Sergio Leone singlehandedly redefined the western genre and no American western would ever match the brilliant spirit in which it was made. While the story is basically the same as in any other western, it is the WAY in which it is presented that so clearly distances this western from others. Whereas other westerns are simply stories that are designed to entertain, this movie is an emotional masterpiece that will move your heart. Sergio Leone takes the ordinary western and replaces words with looks, and conversations with feelings and emotions. With his brutal but honest portrayal of the sheer hardness of life and death in those times he thoroughly destroys the old romantic idea of the west as a 'generally-hunky-dory-kind-of-scene with the occasional bad guy and indian' and replaces it with an eerie, dark, hot and dry place where life is cheap and only the strongest will survive.I cannot adequately convey in words the way in which Sergio Leone deepens and defines the characters by pure means of visual persuasion. It starts with the three gunman in the beginning of the movie, waiting for some reason at a train station for someone or something that obviously is going to be on the next train. No explanation, no conversation; not a word is said. Even the stationmaster is ushered into captivity without a single audible threat. Then comes the waiting... Any other director would have skipped directly to the moment of arrival, but Sergio Leone takes minutes of boredom and translates it into a visual feast, deepening the characters that are portrayed and making them more human, more real to the viewer, while at the same time encompassing us with a deep dark sense of foreboding. This way in which the story is not just augmented but in times completely replaced by the sheer visual drama, is perfected by the absolute fantastic music, directed by Ennio Morricone. Who needs words and explanations when the combined forces of cinematic mastery and heart-tearing music are not just able to carry the story, but pick it up and push it up to such heights of excellence that it has no equal in it's genre?Another great feat that adds to the power of this movie is the minimalistic way of portrayal of the characters as real, emotional people. Not a single word is said that isn't required for the understanding of the story, yet the characters feel more true than those in movies where whole conversations are added merely to explain their motives. Instead of words, the camera focuses on the characters...so that you can simply read the emotion off their faces. Often no explanation is given other than than a mere facial expression. No superheroes or supercriminals, just real, desire-laden, traumatised, obsessed people that act upon motives inherently understood by the viewer.All in all this is without a single doubt in my mind the greatest western of all times, and even though Sergio Leone has made many more mindblowing, heart-shattering westerns like this one, like 'A Fistful of Dynamite', 'The Good The Bad and The Ugly', and 'For a Few Dollars More', none could equal 'Once Upon A Time In The West' in sheer magnitude of perfection. Western has never been the same since....I only wish I'd have been there in 1969 when the movie was new and see it, for the first time with fresh innocent eyes and an unexpecting mind..just like 2001: A Space Odyssey (also of 1969, a year of legends).A tip for those who have never seen this movie: Bribe, beg, borrow, or steal yourself into possession of a Videobeam and Hifi-audio equipment if you can't find a cinema that is showing this movie. Turn the audio up WAY HIGH (never mind the neighbors) and prepare never to be the same again.........I (obviously) gave this movie a 10 because no matter how hard I try I can't find anything less than perfect about it.


                
This is my fav film. It is more like watching a piece of art. The look is fantastic. The director does a perfect job. The acting is wonderful. The story is not the strongest ever but it should be watched to experience it. If your a film lover you can't fail but admire this film.Charles Bronson is the perfect broody loner. Henry Fonda surprises everyone by giving a strong performance as a bad guy. The close up of his eyes is stunning. The camera work and close ups have never been done better. The music is as good as anything you will find in a movie. Throw in the scenes when you first see Henry Fonda. The scene at the railway station which the water dripping on the hat. The sound of the spinning water tower. To me the closet movie to ART i have ever seen and i have seen a lot of films.


                
I thought I knew westerns, I'd seen John Wayne, Jimmy Stewart, Glen Ford, Audie Murphy, Richard Widmark, Alan Ladd, all of them save the day many times. I was wrong, I was 14 yrs old when I went to the local movie house to see this movie in 1969. My grandmother took me, she had always been a huge fan of Henry Fonda's, and even though she didn't care for western's, she dragged me to this one. I'll never forget how engrossed I was from beginning to end. And this one movie was the basis for all my future wish's to have been born a cowboy. Everything about this movie impressed me one way or the other.Simply put, this movie is the most visually stimulating and engrossing movie I have ever watched. I have seen plenty of great movies in my in my fifty years of life, but this one, is in my opinion more than a movie, it's a piece of history unfolding in front of your eyes with no censorship or BS added for flavor. True, the movie has been chopped up some for TV and other forms of presentation, but when I was in that theater in 1969, the movie was, to use a semi modern term "AWESOME".No one, not even if you dislike westerns, should pass on this one.


                
I've seen a lot of superb movies, and this one is right up there so high that it is impossible to name one that is better. The cast and crew reads like a list of masters of film, every one at the very top of his game. From the top stars, Henry Fonda and Jason Robards, through a whole host of superb supporting character actors, Charles Bronson, Gabriele Ferzeti, Woody Strode, Jack Elam, Keenan Wynn, and Lionel Stander, they comprise a film maker's dream. Even the unknowns with the bit parts are unforgettable.Now you add a towering director, Sergio Leone, an absolutely sublime operatic musical score by the matchless Ennio Morricone, superb cinematography, great costumes and makeup, fine voice and sound work, and you end up with a seismic event.It holds up like the masterpiece it is, no matter how many times you have seen it before, no matter how many years it has been since it was made. It is the closest thing there is ever going to be to a perfect film.


                
After the great success of the masterpiece "The Good, The Bad and The Ugly" which perfectly finished the "Dollars" trilogy. Sergio Leone get bored with nothing to do, and decided to start another trilogy, the "America" trilogy with "Once upon a time in the West". That today is considered the best Western ever made in the history of cinema."Once upon a time in the West" begins when the farmer Brett McBain (Frank Wolff) and his sons are murdered in cold blood by the hands of the ruthless bounty-killer Frank (Henry Fonda) who puts the blame on the criminal Cheyenne (Jason Robards). Frank was hired by the legged-rail baron Morton (Gabrielle Ferzetti) to just scare away McBain and his family of their land, because she would be much valued with the advancement of the railroad. But on the same day Jill (Claudia Cardinale) arrives in town, coming from New Orleans, and when she finds out of the crime she reveals that she married Brett McBain weeks before in New Orleans and therefore the land still had a owner. On the same day, Jill meets a mysterious man who is known for Harmonica (Charles Bronson) because he always carries with himself a harmonica, and offers itself as a protector of Jill. And when the criminal Cheyenne knows that he is being unfairly prosecuted, he decides to join forces with Harmonica to help Jill keep the lands of her deceased husband. But a web of mystery and deceit circulates between the contradictory relationship of the characters.When the film premiered at the time it was poorly received by critics and was a box office failure, only today that the critics and the public praised the film as not only the best Sergio Leone's movie, but also the best Western ever made. Well, not quite (in my opinion), but I understand why people praise him as such. The main complain of the critics to the film at the time, it was that the film was extreme slow. But this slowness is caused by some reasons.The first one is that the film was completely different from all the Western films ever made, even from the "Dollars" trilogy because Leone gives the film a dramatic tone. What Leone tries to show in the story is the end of the Old West, the title shows that perfectly. The original translation from Italian to English was "Once upon a time THE West", that is, the end of the Old West. And that originally came in the time of the advance of the railways, and the grand corruption and death that she brought to the population. Leone shows that giving the film an excellent script (written by him and Sergio Donati), which gives the film a superb narrative with beautiful dialogs between the characters, but like any Leone's film, it never loses his great sense of humor.The other reason is, as always. the magnificent direction of Leone, which once again shows advanced for its time. With its perfect close-ups on characters and enormous scenarios, making everything beautiful and epic. But there it comes the problem that prevents the film to even beat "The Good, The Bad and The Ugly". Leone was known for his quiet moments brilliantly filmed, and "Once upon a time" is full of them (but maybe too much). Without considering the first 10 minutes of the film (which is brilliant, putting us in the heat of the scene), but others seem to boring taking the power of narrative and our investment on them.Another problem with the film is the relevance of the characters. Not that they are not superb and memorable (which they are): Jill is nothing more nor less than the representation of the women in the world of men in the Old West and its extreme strength and intelligence, along with an excellent performance from Cardinale; Cheyenne can be compared with Tuco from "The Good, The Bad and the Ugly", both characters are cruel bandits, but in several times they are shown to be simple human beings with their problems and their kind and innocent side; Frank is another cruel-badass villain that Leone built in his films, Frank is a bounty-killer who in previous films its showed that they are honored to their "job", do whoever they were told and paid for and nothing more. But Frank in the film betrays its own principles, and gets into the corrupt world of the railways; Harmonica is almost the same character that Clint Eastwood was in previous Leone films. Mysterious, don't talk much, and never shows his true motives (only at the most epic and badass moment of the film). All characters are fantastic, but thanks to the silent moments of Leone, their relevance and relationship fails in several moments in the history.I don't agree that this is the best Western film ever made, but I understand why people consider it so. From a fabulous story that shows excellently the end of the era of legends with a flawless script, magnificent direction and unforgettable characters. All this makes "Once upon a time" not only one of the best Western films ever made, but a beautiful masterpiece of cinema and the beginning of another amazing trilogy! 10/10


                
Once Upon a Time in the West (OUTW) is a piquant cocktail of style and substance in equal parts, potent enough to catapult the viewer into a whirlpool of incessant excitement transcending him beyond the usual realms of an adrenaline rush. Vintage Leone, OUTW is inarguably the best Western ever made and undoubtedly features amongst the very best works of cinema, period. Leone incredibly surpasses the brilliance of The Good, the Bad and the Ugly (TGTBTU) with OUTW by blending his favorite theme of Greed with that of Revenge. The only thing that TGTBTU lacked was the presence of a strong female character and Leone more than makes up for it in OUTW. Its eccentric yet consummate plot revolves around a female protagonist, thereby revolutionizing the very tenets associated with the genre where machismo and chivalry had solely held sway, hitherto. OUTW is a juxtaposition of the lives of five individuals, viz. Harmonica - a mysterious stranger, Cheyenne – a notorious desperado, Frank – a ruthless assassin, Jill – a beautiful widow with an obscure past, and Morton – a railroad baron, whose motives inevitably make them cross each other's paths albeit through an act of fate. Henry Fonda is a revelation as the cold-blooded assassin, a portrayal that is remarkably contrasting to his usual 'good guy' on-screen image. He goes about his business with a sublime touch of feral grandeur that makes him equally chilling and fascinating as 'Frank'. Charles Bronson plays his part with utmost conviction and incredibly manages to conjure up an element of mystery in his portrayal that not only brings 'Harmonica' to life, but also gives it a very distinct identity despite Harmonica's conspicuous similarities with Eastwood's 'Man with no name'. The role of 'Cheyenne' is played with equal brilliance by Jason Robards. He has taken care of the various subtleties and nuances to such an extent that he perfectly fits into the shoes of notorious, yet likable, 'Cheyenne'. Claudia Cardinale is ravishing as the beautiful, yet vulnerable, 'Jill McBain'. She has fully justified the trust shown by Leone in casting her and by Bertolucci in penning down a strong feminine part in a Western. She truly entrances the viewers with her mystifying pulchritude and enigmatic charm. She meticulously highlights the flaws in Jill's character while also managing to depict the elements of tenacity and grit which represent the true spirit of femininity. Gabriele Ferzetti is quite effective in his cameo as the crippled railroad baron, 'Morton'. He suffers from the tuberculosis of bones and each passing day brings him closer to his end, thereby further intensifying his desperate urge to fulfill his far-fetched ambition of taking the railroad to the Atlantic. He truly represents a man worthy of achieving the impossible, unfortunately cut short by his haplessness. Despite the inhuman and unjust means adopted by him to fulfill his naked ambition, one finds it excruciatingly hard to derive pleasure from his perpetual plight and eventual doom. Contrary to the popular belief, the slow pace of the movie and laconism in dialogue pose no impediment to the viewing and in fact this deliberate pacing enormously adds to the detail and beauty of the movie, and also helps in brewing the desired level of tension before it is finally punctuated suddenly with quick bursts of action. Tonino Delli Colli's cinematography is vividly descriptive and has elements which have become his and Leone's trademarks like the extreme close-ups, the quick panning of the terrain, the rotating camera shots etc.The haunting score written yet again by the master composer, Ennio Morricone enhances the grandeur of the movie tenfold. If Leone's direction and Colli's cinematography are the backbone of the movie, then undoubtedly Morricone's plaintive score is its heart and soul. The surreal score has shades of melancholy, intrigue, and romance that become more obvious with each passing moment. The music features leitmotifs (a melodic phrase that accompanies the reappearance of a character) that relate to each of the main characters (each with their own unique theme music). The soundtrack to the opening scene is a creative orchestration of ordinary sounds like that of the dripping water, the clicking of a telegraph, a buzzing fly, and the screech of a windmill after Morricone experienced a musical performance created by the medley of these sounds. This created an exaggerated version of what had come to be known as 'Spaghetti sound'.OUTW is a magnum opus unparalleled in direction, screenplay, cinematography and music. With its slower pace and relatively somber theme (compared to Leon's previous works), Leone managed to transform his image of a satirical showman into that of an accomplished auteur capable of producing much profound works. OUTW also served as the harbinger for Leone's surrealistic masterpiece, 'Once Upon a Time in America'. P.S: OUTW is an absorbing masterpiece; an absolute gem of a movie and a must watch for those who understand the true meaning of 'A Timeless Masterpiece', and are willing to indulge themselves completely through the whole length of the movie. 10/10http://www.apotpourriofvestiges.com/


                
The "fourth" and best of Sergio Leone's Dollars Trilogy, 'Once Upon A Time In The West' is a sprawling, operatic masterpiece of cinematography. The languid pacing only accentuates the meticulously presented scenes and the Ennio Morricone score is powerful, poignant and haunting. Each major character has his own musical theme. Henry Fonda's character has a menacing and jarring score which chills and thrills me every time I hear it (I bought the soundtrack too!). Fonda as Frank is the "coldest villain in screen history" as I have read in other reviews and was cast against type in this film. When the camera pans up into his passionless blue eyes early in the movie, one sees what a brilliant piece of casting it was to have him as the villain. This movie is a metaphor on the death of The Old West and the final word on how a (spaghetti) Western should be. Not to be missed!


                
No other films in the world have produced such sharp, raw, gritty and atmospheric yet absolutely beautiful cinematography as those directed by the Italian director, the great Sergio Leone. Audiences around the world saw first hand the power and influence "A Fistful Of Dollars" bought to the world. It made a director famous, a young Clint Eastwood a household name and the Western more popular than it had ever hoped to be since the master works of John Ford. However, Sergio Leone bought with him a whole new sub-genre - a whole new style - and the Western had never looked darker and grittier. 'The Man With No Name' bought with it a whole new meaning to a heroic protagonist. There was no more good guy/bad guy, but only a survivalist type - ignorant and self indulgent, yet still moral and fair, tough and smart and damn good with a gun. The world fell in love with him and anticipated its sequels which only became more violent, atmospheric and realistic and gave the authentic true feeling of the West.It is why I consider 'Once Upon A Time In The West' to be Sergio's definitive masterpiece. He took everything that he ever felt about the West and made some of the most intriguing 3 hours of film ever produced. The budget had never been bigger. The plot had never been more riveting. The music and setting had never been more epic and the cinematography had never been more powerful. This film is perfect, start to finish!This time our premise intersects the stories of five people - yes five people - and it is brilliantly crafted. And this time it isn't a chain smoking son of a gun without a name that carries the film, but rather a female prostitute. This isn't the 'Rocky Horror Picture Show', so please continue reading. The plot revolves around a certain family and its moist establishment in the middle of a desert with hopes for it to one day be a thriving town with a railway station. It is this future town that brings our five protagonists into relation. The family is murdered by a gang led by Frank (Henry Fonda) who works the hit-man for a corrupt railway boss who wants the town out of the way so he can reach the coast and view the sea before he dies. However, unaware of her arrival, Jill (Claudia Cardinale) - the family's patriarch's fiancée - comes to claim her property and therefore possesses a threat to the railway boss. Meanwhile a man with no name nicknamed 'Harmonica' (he always plays a Harmonica before making a kill) has come to town looking for Frank for personal reasons. Charles Bronson nails the role with extreme prejudice. Also a fugitive going by the name of Cheyenne (Jason Robards) assists in his journey to prove his innocence regarding being the wrongly accused murderer.No spoilers, but just an assurance that this film will blow you away. It is impossible to comprehend the overwhelming powerful epic experience in one sitting. This is what motion pictures are meant to be. Masterful storytelling, a larger than life score by the brilliant Ennio Morricone, cinematography yet unmatched and a cast made in heaven. Performances from all the actors are some of the best you will ever see.It is films like these that redefine genres and that honorable of all words, a 'classic'. Prove me wrong. For those who experienced it, I hope it has impacted you in much the same way it has me. Upon its release, this film was unsuccessful, because the world wanted another Clint Eastwood picture. But they couldn't see for a mile what was coming. Sergio Leone is platinum. May the force be with him...........always!
What a wonderful,wonderful film, perfect in so many ways,flawless cinematography, editing, acting,you just cant take your eyes of it from beginning to end, in the end, all the motives of harmonica become clear and the ending leaves you breathless wanting for more, what more can i say, this movie is a masterpiece.


                
This is one true masterpiece, I can't remember any other movie (and I have seen a lot of movies) that is so powerful like this one. This movie has everything great ambient, scenes larger then life, hypnotic Morricone music and what is most important great acting. In this move Sergio Leone proved that he is one of the most unique directors in movie history. If you saw this movie you know that almost every scene is great piece of art in almost every scene you are amazed by visual style of Leone. In all other great movies (like: Godfather, Casablanca, Citizen Cane, Notorious,Big Sleep, The Third Man, etc.), you won't find these many great scenes like in this one. This is an ultimate Western and i want to say: Thank you Sergio Leone for your great vision and this masterpiece, after this one there is no need for any other western, in compare to this one John Fords westerns are movies for kids and women.


                
Once upon a time in the west is a true masterpiece. In my opinion it has the best opening of all time. And his line with 'You brought two to many.' Love it!The ending is also very beautiful. The duel with Frank is perfect! It's very intense. I love the part when you get a flashback when he met Frank for the first time. I always get the chills whenever I see that part. Because there is so much meaning in that scene. And when Frank puts the harmonica in his mouth and the music starts playing.... Just perfect!Speeking of the music let's not forget the amazing soundtrack of this movie. Thanks to Ennio Morricone. His music makes those intense moments even better. Thanks to the music it has become a true masterpiece. So that's why I believe that this movie is a masterpiece! And this movie is most certainly worth a 10 out of 10.
Once upon a time there was a European who perfected the typical and old American western genre. It was the Italian Sergio Leone who succeeded to reach this seemingly impossible perfectionism. With Once Upon a Time in the West he brought both his own career and the complete genre to the highest level. Of course that's just my opinion and there are a lot of people who would disagree with that statement, but for me this extraordinarily great movie seems currently unbeatable. Now, the last 45 years much has been said and written about this movie, but that doesn't prevent me to add my humble opinion to the increasing number of shared opinions about it. The fact that I truly love this movie was just something I didn't want to stay unmentioned.Yesterday, one of the songs of Ennio Morricone's wonderful soundtrack got stuck in my head. The characteristic sound of Cheyenne had kept me busy the whole day and because it had already been a year since I saw the movie for the last time I decided to see it once again.Almost every time there's been talked about this movie in the past there's been talked about the distinctive, sluggish, but powerful beginning. We're lucky that the three men were not half an hour early for the train, because it shouldn't have last much longer before boredom would've struck. However, right now, with only ten minutes to wait before the train comes in, the beginning is brilliant. You then approximately know what's about to come 'cause in the rest of the movie Leone also takes ample time to show what he wants to show and with the pace in which the movie continues there isn't much important you can be missing.Every character which can be found in the movie is a unique and original one, without any form of overacting or a highly overdone presence of one of them. Whether it's about the remarkable Harmonica, which attracts the most attention with the striking tune he plays, or about Cheyenne, which can be recognized by his own theme as well, all of them ensure that it's enjoyable from the beginning till the end because of their abstruse, unknown history. Furthermore, Leone succeeds to let his characters behave very human, just like he did in his previous movies. They all have both their good and their bad sides and none of those sides is hidden, let alone that one of the characters is idealized.Yet the movie feels a little unrealistic in the sense that it seems to take place in a different universe. Especially the slowness in which everything happens makes you feel like you're looking into another world. In particular, the time that is taken to say something feels unreal, while on the other hand it gives a magical feeling as well. It's Ennio Morricone who perfects the ensuing mysterious atmosphere.But a movie would be nothing without actors. Actors which are all delivering a great performance in this movie. Jason Robards perhaps got the best role. He seems to be made for the role of Cheyenne and it's wonderful to see how he slowly changes during the movie. I think Charles Bronson plays the best role in his career and just like Henry Fonda he's acting great in the interesting, mysterious conflict in which they're involved. In my view, Claudia Cardinale can do no wrong and she therefore brings along the necessary femininity in a perfect way. Finally, Jack Elam, Woody Strode and Gabriele Ferzetti deserve a special mention which they owe to their great performances, although not all of their roles had very much influence on the movie's story.After the very good beginning and the great continuation the ending is at least as admirable as the foregoing. A shootout wasn't a big innovation and there already was a foretaste of the use of flashbacks in Leone's earlier For a Few Dollars More, but the way he combines these two elements and the quality of the combination makes sure that the end is more brilliant than that of the average movie. After the first few blurry, mysterious flashbacks the flashback at the end ensures clarification. Then everything falls into place and some of the characters seem to face a happy life ever after.


                
Leone and Morricone, combined with a formidble cast, deliver us a cornestones in movies, and an immortal masterpiece; that's what is called art.


                
I was in college when this movie came out. I had already seen the previous Westerns by Sergio Leone, and was especially awed by "The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly" (1966), so I looked forward to "Once Upon a Time in the West" with great anticipation. I was disappointed. On the one hand, I could see that it had a lot of good stuff in it, but there was something lacking. As I found out later, what was lacking was all the footage that had been cut out of the movie for its release in America. It was not until the movie came to television, and I saw much of the additional material (with some stuff edited out for the usual reasons), that I realized what a great movie it was. Even then it was not until somewhat later that I saw the restoration, which included even more material. Unfortunately, those who restored this movie messed up on the music at the end, which is hard to understand, because it would have been simple to do it right. I guess we Americans just were not destined to see this movie in its perfect form, and certainly not in a movie theater (at least not where I live).On the whole, the critics did not seem to like the movie when it first came out either. Some of them may have also reacted negatively to the chopped up presentation, but others were offended by other things, such as the slow pace or the amoral characters. Some of the critics objected to the way it copied stuff from other Westerns. What they (and I) did not realize at the time was that these were quotations, not necessarily in the sense of quoting what had been said in other Westerns, but in the extended sense of creating images and plot points similar to those in previous Westerns. Presumably, Leone had intended that people would watch his movie and smile appreciatively at these quotations, and I suppose some people did precisely that. What he probably did not realize was that these quotations were more likely to be appreciated in reverse, as was the case with me. I had seen many of the Westerns that were quoted, but only once, and thus did not catch the references. "Once Upon a Time in the West," however, I watched every chance I got, and I quit counting after I had seen it twenty-five times.Little by little, I watched the classic Westerns again, or for the first time in many cases, and I would experience déjà vu. For example, one night I was watching "The Plainsman" (1936), somewhat listlessly, when suddenly, toward the end of the movie I felt a ripple of exhilaration go through me. At first, I did not know why, but I quickly realized that when Gary Cooper dressed up in black and entered the bar, he looked just like Frank entering the bar to buy the land back from Harmonica.From then on I never knew when I would catch another quotation and get another feeling of déjà vu, as I did when I watched "High Noon" (1952), "Johnny Guitar" (1954), "The Searchers" (1956), "Shane" (1953), "3:10 to Yuma" (1957), "Warlock" (1959), and many others. Those are fairly obvious, but others can easily escape notice, as in the case of the little piece of material missing from the brim of Harmonica's hat, just like the hat Charles Bronson wore in "The Magnificent Seven" (1960).Of course, one's ability to appreciate these reverse quotations presupposes having seen "Once Upon a Time in the West" many, many times. No problem.
Brilliant, breath-taking, mind-blowing, minimalist dialog, creative camera angles, closeups that speak volumes without a word, gritty, suspenseful, dangerous, brutal, sadistic, sad and cathartic period masterpiece by cinematic geniuses with an outstanding score, great cast, plot, screenplay and scenes. Leone's Masterpiece made with 100% Directorial Control of every aspect. Outstanding and thought provoking. Primordial emotions: fear, revenge, hate and finally, their resolution.


                
As lives of mysterious man, gang, women and assassin that is hired to kill her interweave in a great story that will keep you amazed till the very end. Violent and intense start of the movie promised a great things and fulfilled every one of it. As we are more and more drawn into a characters stories and purposes plot gets way twistier. Now things are starting to get serious and Harmonica starts to really take his place as main focus. Frank and Mr. Morton are the guys responsible for all trouble and they are trying to kill Jill as she is the only one left but in all that Harmonica and Cheyenne are determined to keep them away. In magnificent turnout of things comes the brilliant ending. Cheyenne is returning obviously wounded, Harmonica is waiting for Frank and Jill is seemingly worried about everything. Cheyenne went to train and had a great shootout with Mr. Morton and Frank has come and gets ready for duel with Harmonica. Jill is shaken while Frank tries to realize why Harmonica wants to meet him. In shootout we realize he couldn't save his brother and only thing left to him by Frank was harmonica. As Frank dies he got same harmonica back. Amazing turnout of events left with great ending. Claudia Cardinale as Jill is absolutely amazing, as she is beautiful, charming but at the same doesn't hide what she really is temptress and prostitute. Fonda as Frank is powerful, leader that is not afraid of anything and cold blooded murderer. Bronson as Harmonica was incredible, as he is quiet but dangerous, calm and in seeking revenge shows that he cares for things being right. Some absolutely incredible scenery and amazing directing of the movie. Music was probably one of the best ever in western movies as it has some weight but also creates all sort of emotions and creates amazing situations feelings. 4/4
The opening scene in this masterpiece from Sergio Leone is alone worth the 10 points. I would add another 10 if I could. To think that the three main actors from another work by the great master, "The Good And The Bad And The Ugly", Clint Eastwood, Eddie Wallach and Lee Van Cleef, said NO to appear as the three bad guys in the film's beginning, is just hilarious. Any actor would die just to be in this film. But these three guys were all thinking to highly of themselves, and didn't consider such a "small role" to be a great honor. It's not hard to understand Leone's meta intention to ask the three heroes to appear like that, but perhaps we all should thank them for refusing, because how much more epic didn't Jack Elam, Woody Strode and Al Mulock become after acting in this famous scene. They are simply perfect for it. Even more incredible is that Mulock committed suicide with his costume still on, and this way actually died, if not for playing a part in the film. His reason will forever be untold. One person getting too little credit is Leone's co-screenwriter, another Sergio by the surname Donati, who together with Dario Argento and Bernardo Bertolucci really must have inspired Leone to get at top level. Every single actor in the film are at their top level too and make appearances so perfect that the audience forget that this is fiction. Personally I have seen it again and again only to see the beautiful and great acting Claudia Cardinale appear. But I believe Charles Bronson got the part mainly because he had the perfect looks and the most amazing eyes. Also, Bronson pretending to play the harmonica is THE ONLY just a little annoying thing about the film, even though the character's name is Harmonica. I am certain that the master behind the fantastic music score, Ennio Morricone, had little or no saying in this, the one place where music and picture don't fit together. There are so many to mention and give the very best credits. Tonino Delli Colli, director of photography, has caught the actor's faces, in particular Henry Fonda's and Charles Bronson's, but also the grand landscape and every important and non important detail in such an amazing way, it's totally stunning, and all the way. Nino Baragli is the master of editing. The total is so well composed that it just can't be made better. We can smell the air, taste the dust and feel every part of the setting. This is not Spaghetti Western, this is Italian epic film art at its very, very best!
"Once upon a time in the west" symbolizes the quintessence of theatrical ceremonial. Sergio Leone seized the traditional western and, helped by his scriptwriter Dario Argento, the future reference of giallo and baroque slaughter on large screens, enriched it with emphatic approach and humorous disenchantment. In fact, he builds a myth with modest elements - an organ mouth, a blue-eyed glance, long coats - and introduces lyricism and immoderation, to sublimate the manners of this specific spectacle. The daring of realization - inverted or encircling shot - and artistic choice (Henry Fonda becomes a tough guy) express an authentic will to break the common rules, in order to confer sensible density on his characters and an aesthetic energy on his scenery. Paradoxically, this glittering vision of Redemption, which was hesitating between homage and parody, belongs now to the classics. Looking for ruins poetry and contemporary genesis, the director has created an absolute. A story beginning by "Once upon a time" contains always some scraps of eternity...


                
Sergio Leone's greatest film and a strong contender for the best movie western ever made. Claudia Cardinale arrives at the desert home of her new husband only to find him & his children massacred. What ensues is a hideous game of cat and mouse between Henry Fonda (as the blackest black Bart imaginable) and the nameless & nearly silent Charles Bronson. Things are kept ambiguous as the viewer tries to figure out who is looking to save Cardinale's land and who is looking to steal it. To say Fonda is cast against type is an understatement. He's a conscienceless devil incarnate. Bronson, while ostensibly the "good guy" is no saint either. Jason Robards, in a role of pure irony, provides the moral compass for a cast of lurid characters. Leone proves to be a real artist with this film. The score, the editing, the cinematography and the pitch-perfect, wholly outrageous cast come together to produce a brilliant piece. Ennio Morricone's music score is rightly considered his finest and the stunning photography is by Tonino Delli Colli. Leone worked on the script with, among others, Bernardo Bertolucci & Dario Argento. The enormous supporting cast is excellent and includes Lionel Stander (frequently cut for some prints), Jack Elam, Woody Strode, Frank Woolf (in the pivotal role of McBain), Paolo Stoppa, Keenan Wynn, Fabio Testi, Don Galloway and the great Gabriele Ferzetti as an infirm yet ruthless railroad baron. Versions of this film reportedly run as long as 170 minutes though the US version available on DVD runs 165 and is considered complete.
A railroad magnate named Morton, Gabriele Ferzetti, hires a cruel gunman named Frank, Henry Fonda, to "remove obstacles from the track."  One of the obstacles is Brett McBain, who owns some water rich land the railroad must pass through.  Frank massacres McBain and his family, framing a local bandit named Cheyenne, Jason Robards, in the process.  Unbeknownst to Frank, McBain married Jill, Claudia Cardinale, on a recent trip to New Orleans.  Jill arrives to find her new family dead and herself in possession of the land Frank will certainly kill again to obtain.  Jill's survival depends on Cheyenne, who wants to find out who framed him, and a mysterious stranger called Harmonica, Charles Bronson, who has his own business to conduct with Frank."Once Upon A Time In The West" is perhaps the most beautiful western ever filmed.  Employing his signature style, director Sergio Leone uses the wide screen format with the skill of  a master painter, alternating breath-taking vistas with stunning close-ups against the magnificent score by Ennio Morricone.  Leone lets the story unfold slowly.  Characters surrender their motivations only grudgingly, all the while slowly building to a powerful conclusion.  The pace of the film, which I credit as one of its strengths, may also be its main drawback today.  Many members of the post-MTV generation accustomed to quick editing may not have the patience to let themselves be swept up by this film.  That is a pity."Once Upon A Time In The West" stands as Leone's homage to the great, and not so great, western films that came before him.  "Johnny Guitar" certainly springs to mind and the opening sequence makes an undeniable nod toward "High Noon."   However, unlike Quentin Tarantino's recent homage to his roots, "Kill Bill, Vol. 1," this film not only stands on its own two feet, it expands the genre.  These characters are more than a group of archetypes wandering about under the western sun.  Jill isn't your traditional victimized widow.  A New Orleans prostitute taking a chance on a new life on the frontier, she's an independent woman who knows men.  If sleeping with Frank is the only way to save her life, she will, knowing that after a hot bath she'll be the same as she was before.  Frank, in a brilliant performance against type by Henry Fonda, is also a man in transition.  He envies the power flowing from Morton's money.  He would like to become more like Morton, but his propensity toward baser evil deprives him of the discipline he needs to become a businessman. Cheyenne seeks revenge for being framed and pretends to interested in the wealth the McBain land will bring, but he is mainly motivated by growing feelings for Jill.  He's the most sentimental character in the film.  He's a bandit with a heart of gold, which is more than can be said for Harmonica.  Harmonica, the man with no name, develops a liking for both Jill and Cheyenne, but one gets the feeling he would sacrifice either or both of them if there was no other way to get Frank.  He is not the classic, selfless western hero of old.When I originally saw this film, I was disappointed by Bronson.  I didn't think he made the most of a role obviously tailor-made for Clint Eastwood. I was mistaken.  Bronson brought nuance to the role I doubt Eastwood would have at that stage of his career.  In his three films with Leone, Eastwood's "Man with No Name" character tended toward smug amorality motivated only by self-interest.  Harmonica has a little more depth and introspection than Eastwood's characters.  He plays him with a certain sadness in his eyes; a doomed self-awareness.  Harmonica realizes when he kills Frank the remainder of his life will be devoid of meaning or purpose.  He doesn't speak much, but he tellingly attempts to wax philosophically with Frank about the nature of men of like themselves and the changing West.  In a sense, he knows Frank is the only person who could understand him, since he had to become a gunman like Frank in order to achieve his well- deserved revenge.  The characters Eastwood played for Leone were less troubled about their place in the universe than Bronson's Harmonica.  This might be Bronson's best performance."Once Upon A Time In The West" deserves an esteemed place among the canon of great westerns.


                
Good story
Good Cinematography
Good Music
Good dramaturgyA movie for the whole family ;)


                
Once Upon A Time in the West (1968): Dir: Sergio Leone / Cast: Charles Bronson, Henry Fonda, Jason Robards, Claudia Cardinale, Gabriele Ferzetti: Epic western that refers to the passing of events that shape our future despite forgotten souls. Charles Bronson plays a nameless gunslinger who is identified by the harmonica that pierces the night. He seeks vengeance upon the ruthless Frank, played with calm cruel delivery by Henry Fonda. The setting is Flagstone and the place is Sweetwater, land where water exists for the steam locomotives. Gabriele Ferzetti plays a crippled tycoon who wants this land and sends Frank to scare off those living there. Instead Frank kills the owner and his children and pins the blame on bandit Cheyenne, played by Jason Robards. Claudia Cardinale plays the new owner. She is a prostitute and new wife of the deceased owner. Cardinale brings out her grit teeth anger and her willingness to face intimidation. At three hours director Sergio Leone, a veteran in the genre presents standoffs and numerous gun fights including one aboard a moving train. Bronson is silent and determined to right the past. Fonda dominates with careful progressive evil. Robards is the sinner seeking redemption. Ferzetti is disabled but deceitful and ruthless. Cardinale is the pretty flower growing in poisonous soil and she faces the west living within the tragedy left by greed. Score: 10 / Writing: 100% / Themes: 100% / Acting: 100% / Directing: 100% / Visual: 100%
The film portrays two conflicts that take place around Flagstone, a fictional town in the American Old West: a land battle related to construction of a railroad, and a mission of vengeance against a cold-blooded killer. A struggle exists for Sweetwater, a piece of land near Flagstone containing the region's only water source. The land was bought by Brett McBain (Frank Wolff), who foresaw that the railroad would have to pass through that area to provide water for the steam locomotives. When crippled railroad tycoon Morton (Gabriele Ferzetti) learns of this, he sends his hired gun Frank (Henry Fonda) to intimidate McBain to move off the land, but Frank instead kills McBain and his three children, planting evidence to frame the bandit Cheyenne (Jason Robards). It appears the land has no owner; however, a former prostitute (Claudia Cardinale) arrives from New Orleans, revealing she is Jill McBain, Brett's new wife and the owner of the land. Meanwhile, a mysterious harmonica-playing gunman (Charles Bronson), whom Cheyenne later dubs "Harmonica", pursues Frank. In the film's opening scene, Harmonica kills three men sent by Frank to kill him. In a roadhouse on the way to Sweetwater, he informs Cheyenne that the three gunfighters appeared to be posing as Cheyenne's men.Once Upon a Time in the West (Italian: C'era una volta il West) is a 1968 epic Spaghetti Western film directed by Sergio Leone. It stars Henry Fonda, cast against type, as the villain, Charles Bronson as his nemesis, Claudia Cardinale as a newly widowed homesteader, and Jason Robards as a bandit. The screenplay was written by Sergio Donati and Leone, from a story by Dario Argento, Bernardo Bertolucci and Leone. The widescreen cinematography was by Tonino Delli Colli, and the acclaimed film score was by Ennio Morricone.
Once Upon a Time in the West is just one of those mindblowingly good classics, and just continues to amaze me every single time I watch it.A strong selection of scenes continuously pile up in youtube as "best western scene ever", and there is a good reason for that, especially the scenes featuring the infamous harmonica, which are just extraordinary.I consider it to be the best western movie ever made, and yes I am aware of that being a controversial statement as "The Good, The Bad and the ugly" is by many considered the better one, but this is subjective, and Once Upon a Time in the West slides easily into my list of top 10 all time movies.


                
