Really not my kind of film. I thought my tastes were quite broad, but apparently not broad enough to encompass this one. The best writers and directors can make a point quickly and effectively without seeming to hurry. Sergio Leone, it seems, can't do that - at least, not in this movie. He takes his time over every scene, whether it has a point to make or not.It takes ages to get started (whatever happened to grabbing the attention of the audience to make them want to find out more?!) and ages for anything to actually happen once it has started. The word "lean" cannot be applied here; I suppose the best phrase I can offer is "elegantly lumbering".I saw the director's edition rather than the theatrical release, and as far as I could tell, the long scenes didn't achieve anything that ones half or even a tenth of the duration could have achieved (boredom aside).Yes, there were some "pretty" camera angles. Yes, there were one or two clever lines of dialogue. But the impression I came away with was, I'm sorry to say, that the director put his self-indulgence firmly above the audience's entertainment. The music was noticeably repetitive; the sound-effects intrusive beyond the point of distraction; and the dialogue invariably too quiet.I suppose I must be missing something given the absurdly high (IMHO) position of this film in the top 250. I really can't imagine what that might be!


                
Great visuals; great soundtrack; Sergio Leone directing; Henry Fonda, Charles Bronson, and most important (for those of us whose tastes run in that direction) Claudia Cardinale. What could go wrong with this movie? judging from the IMDb rating, nothing. But since I liked very much the Dollars trilogy and Once Upon a Time in America, I am writing this review to warn others that they might, possibly, be as disappointed as I was.So, once again, what can go wrong with this movie? for starters, one can figure out, very early on, that it is going to end with a gunfight between the two main characters, and therefore that they are not in any danger at any point in the movie. That is true of many other westerns, but I cannot think of any other western where the entire plot consists of a series of diversions with the sole purpose of delaying the final gunfight -- for nearly three hours. Good westerns, and good action movies in general, build up the tension, which is not the case here: the final gunfight might as well have happened in the first scene, if both of the main characters had shown up at the train station. Apart from that, there were other excellent opportunities which the main characters let go to waste. They should have seized their chances and saved us a lot of time, part of which could have been used in finding images of Ms. Cardinale on the web.On the positive side, the final gunfight is worth fast-forwarding to.As is often the case, my rating is lower than it would have been without high expectations.


                
I recently purchased a double DVD package of "Once Upon a Time in the West" and re-watched this film after having revisited the "Dollars" trilogy...and what a comedown. First the positives: a lovely score from Ennio Morricone (especially the "Jill"/Claudia Cardinale theme), gorgeous photography, sets, locations, lighting, and some decent (but not terribly great) acting - Gabriele Ferzetti probably comes off best in his role. You know you're in trouble when the very last bit in the documentary extras is a quotation of Sergio Leone worriedly admitting to co-scripter Bernardo Bertolucci that he had set the pace far too slow when filming the opening sequences, and that the ensuing film would probably be five hours long as a result. It was almost three, and it barely moves along at all. The plot is paper thin and could have easily been filmed in 90 minutes. Perhaps then the much-needed forward momentum and suspense would be in place. As it is, the film has far too protracted silences which do not advance it at all.Henry Fonda's villain Frank is rather drab and one dimensional, especially in comparison to Gian Maria Volonté's romanticized villains Ramon and Indio in the first two "Dollars" films. Fonda is also not even remotely formidable as a physical opponent for Charles Bronson. I'm not certain why Jason Robards' Cheyenne character is even in the film---perhaps as comic relief, but he does not ever really seem to belong in the Old West, despite his grizzled appearance. He and Bronson have none of the chemistry and camaraderie that Clint Eastwood and Lee Van Cleef had in "For a Few Dollars More." Claudia Cardinale is beautiful and beautifully photographed, but even her character is rather one dimensional.Back to the music: for this film Ennio Morricone recorded the score in advance (unlike the "Dollars" films), and some of the soaring themes arrive early in the film and are far too stridently emotional for characters and situations which have not yet won the viewers' hearts. He should have subdued some of his orchestration of the same themes earlier in the film, then revisited them in full intensity after some of the drama had likewise escalated. As such it is a bad marriage of sound and celluloid at the outset.In the end it is director Sergio Leone's fault for not shooting this film so that the story would unfold at a much faster pace. It seems he didn't learn his lesson, though, as his next film "A Fistful of Dynamite" (1972) suffered from the very same problems. I donated the "West" DVD set to my local library just before writing this review; perhaps someone else will enjoy it.


                
Numerous times during my viewing of this movie I was distracted by a persistent thought: What's the mph of a Galapagos turtle moving at top speed? Oh did this movie drag on and on! Seeing 'OUATITW' also reminded me of Shakespeare: did the actors, during the seeming hundreds of interminable pauses between the banalities they uttered think they were doing 'Hamlet' or 'King Lear'? My irritation and the distraction it caused led me to ponder minutiae; I wondered a few times how the characters were feeding their horses and livestock. No fields of alfalfa, no streams or rivers. Just 'stark' arid desert. (Perhaps 19th Century American western fauna could find nutrition in cacti?) On occasion I enjoy seeing forty, fifty, sixty year old American films with all star casts even if the movies stories don't hold up. But in this case I experienced a physical torpor not unlike a backpacker crossing Monument Valley without enough water or food to sustain himself. — Aristides, Winthrop, WA
This is considered to be one of the top films of all-time, which I tell you is positively preposterous.This is a great casting, hard cowboy faces, the overwhelmingly beautiful Claudia Cardinale on the screen, an original soundtrack concept (that harmonica+electric guitar modern twist), a totally basic story about mere vengeance and...really, that's about it.The acting is as good as you'd expect from such a cast, but this film isn't even as good story-wise as lots of much more common previous westerns. I can think of some very ordinary westerns not many know that were better in terms of rhythm, story and morality.This is so over-the-top it is cartoonish. No character is identifiable and literally seems taken out of a comic book, where all those other previous Westerns gave you a feel of 'real', realistic characters with real incentives, motivations and relationships.This here is looooooooooooooooong, endless "stylistic" Euro-type cinema conjugated with large American budget production, top actors, and just such a thin center it feels practically agonizing that it's stretched over nearly three hours. You know what it feels like ? A soap opera. Yes. A Western-set soap opera. We move from scene to scene, at the slowest pace imaginable, and look at successive groups of people dialoguing about various topics each taking their turn. It's slow as heck, without substance, totally banal narrative-wise and ultimately, majorly overrated.3.5/10.


                
I can't believe that this movie has received so many great reviews.  One of the five greatest westerns ever made said one article.  Clearly there is something to these Italian made spaghetti westerns that I am not getting.  I still am undecided as to whether or not this is supposed to have been a send-up of western movies, and if so then maybe I can understand the atrocious acting. All in all, Italians make the worst westerns and horror movies (I should have known better when I saw Dario Argento's name in the credits)


                
Bronson looks so dumb that you wont think there is a brain inside that cowboy. He was just lucky at that time era to get into this. Just staring around was the greatest acting required..Making things go really slow, stare a lot, increase surrounding noises a lot and you have a western? no. Watch Eastwood movies and you really get a feel for style. Not just unwashed people staring around, talking little andpretending to be in a movie..what an overhyped oldie. i love eastwood movies, or many other westerns, but this god, i sat through frame by frame just incase i missed what others might have missed. i can only imagine that in the past when there wasnt much else to call entertainment , this would have been great.. i always say that newer movies have scifi and no good story..but to have a soty and drag it out like this ...waste of my time!!


                
Gritty, sharp, and intense are all words that adequately describe Sergio Leone's Once Upon a Time in the West. Unfortunately, words like slow, painstaking, and violent term the film just as accurately. I'm not one to shy away from a film simply because it's long. If done correctly, plot can be woven along quite nicely through a long film. (One of my favorite films is From Here to Eternity, which tells a story through a long film quite well.) This film however, felt more of a poorly done documentary than a film at all. (It should be noted that I am a documentary fan, emphasis on poorly done.) The audience has traveled 2 hours into the film full of excess violence and bloodshed before we get any details on the plot. With what is well done in the film, like the lighting, the long shots, the editing, and sound effects, there is so much more that detracts from it. The acting was only sub-par, saved only by a strong screen presence from the veteran Henry Fonda, albeit, in a shift in the roles I'm used to seeing him in. Packed with more violence than a Tarantino flick, the needless bloodshed especially against a little boy 20 mins. in was off- putting to say the least. Maybe it wasn't my type of film, and maybe I'm not well-versed enough in westerns to appreciate this film, but Once Upon a Time in the West is not a story I will be revisiting.


                
Every Sergio Leone movie has impressive stuff in it. The sequence here where Jill arrives at the train station and takes a carriage through town, and then Monument Valley (while a ravishing piece of Morricone scoring plays) is astonishing.But... I've never loved an entire Leone movie. He's too self-indulgent. Here, long stretches of silence are his only idea. When they work, the results are sublime. But here that's only three times out of twelve. There's so many of them they're quickly exposed as a gimmick/crutch, BUT alternately, when he gives lines to his actors the quality instantly plummets. We never become interested in a single character's arc. As soon as Claudia Cardinale talks, you go "oh, that mysterious, vivid creature we've been looking at, is just a common two-dimensional female lead... meh..." Her Doonesbury mascara is a bit much. This movie plays like an unrelated series of scenes Leone wanted to shoot.It still might have been a decent effort... but then Jason Robards shows up, and destroys the movie. In the history of film, has there ever been a less interesting actor than Jason Robards? At his best he's average, at his worst, he's an energy vampire, sucking the life out of projects. Over his entire career no viewer has ever said "I've just got to see that new Jason Robards movie this weekend." If you ever thought actors were interchangeable and all you needed was a competent one who could read his lines, watch Robards here. What was Leone thinking? You cannot hang an entire movie on Jason Robards. His heavy is feeble, not intimidating. He wanders around hoping to look competent; clueless about where to place the emphasis in his lines, or what to do with his arms. And when he tries to flash an intimidating look, he focuses too close to his face and just looks cross-eyed and silly. He molds nothing about his presence or his role. It actually seems like he's thinking 'I'm all wrong for this. I hope no one notices.' He brings nothing to the table. He' s completely out of his depth. Nothing resembling chemistry forms between him and Cardinale. Charles Bronson's harmonica theme is excruciating. It's Morricone's worst motif.
First of all, this is a 45 minute short story, stretched way out to four and a half hours. First, the good. The atmosphere, although slow, is effective. We can see how people really lived. The money was well spent on buildings, costumes, trains. It rates highly, there.Story, a simple story really. Which I won't give away, but the pace is ..as many have said, slow. We really don't get to know the characters, but maybe that's the way the director wanted it. After a while, we do find out who wants the land, and why.You could look at it like this, when you first meet someone, you really don't know them. Takes a while. That is how I would describe this movie. Takes a while to get to the bottom of it.Maybe the director wanted it that way. To slow for my taste. Three stars for the sets and decoration.
