There are certain people who have developed a very negative view towards Hollywood movies and U.S. cinema. In this mindset, any movie coming from the US is automatically lambasted, while non-US cinema is praised without merit. City of God, or Cidade de Deus, is one such case. Its serious overvaluing can only be attributed to a cloudy-eyed sentimentalism for the real situation behind the movie without even considering whether the movie itself has value in portraying that situation. And the unfortunate case is, no. Meirelles and Luns' generic directing is completely devoid of feeling and insight, and the actors are merely going through the motions, lacking any emotional impact in the actual proceeding of the screenplay. For these failings, the film collapses into a jiltingly generic mashup of violence and crime, with nothing to tell. There is no shock value, there is no empathy, there are no thoughts evoked. Perhaps this movie has some appeal and bearing to people who are more closely connected to Brazil and the kind of events portrayed, seeing as they can draw from another experience to put some weight into the matter, for this film by itself has none. It takes a special kind of pretentiousness and self-delusion to rate this film highly on its own merits, and the kind of a critic that dares not criticize a film with a sensitive subject. Yet this film desperately needs more of a voice of reason to call it for the empty shell it is.


                
What is it about violent crime that makes everyone so damn proud of it? From the brainless antics of Al Capone to the drugged stupidity of Scarface (and many others since <U+0096> I didn't finish Reservoir Dogs cos it ended up in pieces in my garbage can) there seem to be no lengths to which directors won't go to display the trashier side of life and yet make it seem like they're showing cuddly everyday folks.And now Brazil has a chance to flaunt its criminals, and no effort has been spared to demonstrate that when it comes to pointless shootin' and killin' the Brazilians (so it would seem) are way up there in front of the pack. They've even all got cute names, just in case you may decide to warm to them. Actually, I didn't (mostly). The more enjoyable scene of this movie for me was where they were all stretched out across the street dead as old mutton and more full of bullet holes than an rusty tin can in the back yard. I was disappointed that the director didn't follow this up with a shot of a sizeable nuclear weapon consuming the "City of God" in the sort of fireball which you normally associate with hell.Then perhaps something natural like trees and stuff could take over.
I would like to share my opinion with those interested in watching this violent film. If MIRAMAX films aims to draw attention to the crime and drug problems of the poor neighborhoods of Brazil, they should not use these kind of shocking portrayals of violence against children, total disregard of taste, and association of sex with violence, drugs, and criminal activity. If one was really interested in solving Brazil's desperately poor and criminal gangs, government-sponsored media should be used, (the raising of) television commercial adverts, political action, and the use of Red Cross Society and Amnesty International. The awful aspects about this movie are that young children are shown being frightened and subsequently shot by gang-members, black children owning guns, and the association of sex and lust with crime. After that, the (general) public is appalled at the number of incidents of child violence and child pornography being distributed on the world wide web. Films like these should be reviewed by a special committee for their quality and their degree of taste of delivering the message they sought to deliver. In my personal opinion, there should be no room for such sort of films that contain raw and barbaric portrayals of violence, bullying, and humiliation in civilized society, in order to prevent the very idea of turning to violence among the desperate poorest of the poor.


                
I want to like this movie but it just takes itself a bit too seriously.It's a vivid depiction of poverty where there is a serious civil war going on just beneath the surface of a vibrant city, with its own elaborate politics. The sense of place and local colour is stunning.It goes on a while without a lot of wild developments. For a palate more refined than mine it's probably very enjoyable, but I couldn't personally recommend it.


                
