This film has been executed with considerable skill - 10/10 for visual and storytelling style. It is brilliant, expert and flawless in its execution.Much of the style is stolen from Scorcese movies, as unashamedly as the characters in the film steal money. I don't mind that, as there's plenty of original invention - I particularly liked a scene in the a room where the time fades from one part of the story to the next, with the room's decor changing, but the camera angle was fixed. Although, I'm sure someone will tell me that wasn't original either. The use of freeze-frame with subtitle is tired now, as it's been done by so many Scorcese wanna-bes in the last 15 years.So this was all very impressive - except I didn't care about any of the characters. I don't know how accurately this is based on the "true story", but if the real characters can dispatch each other as carelessly as their fictional versions, and think of nothing but screwing, stealing or killing, I think they must be rather boring company.Much of the action focuses on a man called Li'l Ze who, we are shown, kills people and enjoys it, from a very early age. Why he enjoys it is a question not entertained here, and so he comes across as a rather bland killing machine; at one point, shooting a comrade on the spot for talking to him in an annoying way. I wasn't sure if this was supposed to be a comedy moment - it certainly came across as one.The one character who isn't obsessed with killing and stealing is the narrator, Busca-Pé, who's ambition is to become a photographer. But he's not really involved in the story, except to be in the right place at the right time to be able to recount it for our benefit. We never see Busca-Pé have much of an effect on events, or express much of an opinion, or even express much emotionally during the constant slaughter. He seems more concerned about losing his virginity than anything else.The way women are portrayed in this film is questionable. They are either objects of sex, having sex, talking about sex, being raped, or being beaten by their men. At no point do we hear what the women of the City of God express their thoughts or feelings on this hellish world in which they exist.In fact, nearly all, if not all, of the characters in this movie appear entirely soulless. Are we supposed to sympathise with Li'l Ze's best friend because he doesn't kill people as wantonly as the rest? Am I supposed to feel empathy for this man because he occasionally persuades Li'l Ze to spare someone's life (meanwhile, coming across as a fairly easy-going chap - something of an achievement, considering the countless killings he's been involved in)?No matter how skillfully this film was made, how well acted, how perfectly constructed, as the body-counted mounted, like the characters in the movie, I didn't really care.
The movie deals about children and adolescent factions in the impoverished Favelas , Rio Janeiro , for 1960 and 1970 years . And it centers upon a teen who tries to leave that world by means of the photography . The final confrontation among the motley gangs for Favelas control is pretty violent and bloody . In the motion picture there are shocks , emotion , sex , violence and a little bit of social criticism . Runtime film is overlong but it's fast moving and that's why it isn't boring but it results to be enjoyable . The picture is similar other film from 1981 : ¨Pixote¨ (Hector Babenco) that was likeness in atmosphere and showing the delinquent vagrants . It's a thought-provoking and clever studio of juvenile paupers and unflinching remark at the underbelly of Rio Janeiro city , where teens and children become into burglars and assassins . The movie was not actually shot in Cidade De Deus slum as it was too dangerous ; it was shot in a neighbouring , less dangerous área . Principal actors' interpretation is outstanding , in spite of most are newcomers . All of the amateur actors were recruited from Favelas (slums) in Rio de Janeiro, and a couple of them actually lived in the Cidade de Deus (City of God) itself . Fernando Mereilles direction is awesome and stylish , he even has been hired by Hollywood to make lavish films . The motion picture had an Oscar nomination and obtained a lot of success at box office around the world . The movie is produced by Walter Salles , the best director and production manager from Brazil .The film is rated ¨R¨ for crude murders and sex and isn't apt for boys , only for old people (+18) , neither squeamish. The flick will appeal to social drama and thoughtful films lovers . Rating: 7/10. Well worth watching.


                
I watched City of God a couple of years ago and was blown away on first viewing. I recently decided to watch it again the other night and was rather disappointed. Basically, COD is a massive case of style over substance - there's basically not much underneath the flashy exterior. For this film to be rated at number 18 in the top 250 is very hard to believe and I would presume that this is due to younger viewers being taken in by its easy charms (I'm only 24 myself though).On the positive side, the film looks amazing. The cinematography is beautiful, from the warm feel of the 'Tender Trio' story through to the bright colours of the later parts. The camera-work and editing are also first class and give the film a great immediacy, there are also some wonderful montages which really stick in my mind.The basic plot and milieu of the film is attractive, a potentially excellent base for a great film, but unfortunately it doesn't deliver. The most important problem with COD is a lack of any meaningful structure - the film simply doesn't 'go anywhere'. The only thematic development in the film is the perpetuation and escalation of violence to such a point that you just don't care anymore. I'm not sure how many killings there are in this film but it must getting on towards about 50, and the more this goes on the less impact it has. I understand that the film was making a statement about the 'reality' of life in a notorious favella - that violence is the norm - fine, make the point and move on, integrate the message into a meaningful piece of art. Instead the film just keeps on offering us another 'shocking' killing, and pays as little attention to these acts of violence as the thugs who commit them. Its overkill in more ways than one.The characterisation in COD is another one of its major downfalls. I just didn't care about any of them, or even have any basic interest in any of them (except maybe Lil Ze). The main character, Rocket, was a nobody in the City of God and also a nobody in the film, City of God. He hardly had any defining character traits - he was scared of guns and wanted to lose his virginity (this basically puts him on the same level as Scooby Doo who was scared of stuff and liked sandwiches - but at least Scooby is funny!). Rocket is dull, he is not funny, not cool, has no passion, little emotion - there's just nothing to care about in him, and the actor playing him fits the part perfectly. I felt that the best character in the film was Lil Ze, mainly because the actor did a pretty decent job in the role. But he is still a hugely underdeveloped character. Lil Ze is a psychotic thug who murders as casually as you or I might pick our nose, he kills about 10 people in a massacre in a hotel at about the age of 10. The deep insights that the film offers us into the creation of such a monster is that he is too ugly to get a girlfriend - is that it?! surely loads of people can't get a girlfriend? There are loads of other characters in the film with much weaker characterisations (e.g. Benny - 'the coolest hood in the COD', who isn't cool at all, just an annoying ponce; Tiago - a loser who hangs around trying to get drugs, he also has a bike; Carrot - a big dealer who doesn't like trouble). One character who did have potential was Knockout Ned, but he ultimately became just another (mostly) mindless perpetrator of violence.My intention is not to completely trash COD, just to point out its (major) flaws. It is a good film and I can understand its popularity, but no way the 18th best film ever! The film is lovely to look at, and guns, drugs, gangs and Brazil are cool - right? But the film has no emotional core. At no point do you feel anxious, sad, happy, affectionate, uplifted, empowered - you may feel shocked near the start but that soon wears off, and then you don't really feel anything.


                
If I had written this review as soon as I came out of the cinema I think I would have given it 9/10. However, having had a week or so to reflect on the movie I don't think I will be quite so generous.CITY OF GOD has many good points: the directing, the acting, the locations, the interesting storyline. But I can't help thinking that it's all a little hollow. The central theme of the movie is that violence breeds violence -true but trite. Perhaps the worst thing about it is that, despite the violence, the slums in which the film is set don't seem like such a terrible place to live. The people there have a strong sense of community and, as long as they don't step out of line, all seem to be fairly happy. As a piece of social commentary, I don't think the movie really pulls it off.Regardless of these flaws, CITY OF GOD is stunning to look at and a joy to watch. If you like action or gangster movies then this is the film to see.7/10


                
I saw this movie with a couple of friends, and none of us had any prior knowledge of the film. Interestingly enough, none of us where overly impressed... I only realized afterwards, when I went on to IMDb to write my review, that this is considered by many to be one of the best motion pictures ever made! I was shocked. Not to say that it is a bad movie, because it isn't, but it is nowhere near being very good, let alone a masterpiece.What is it missing? Well, in my opinion, a lot. For starters, the script is very weak. We hardly get to know any of the characters well enough, and consequently do not care what happens to them. This is a major flaw, a 'conditio sine qua non', I cannot imagine a good movie that does not transmit emotions. The same is with the cinematography... The camera is too hectic, the cuts too frequent, the movie looks too much like a video spot or a commercial. I know it is modern, but I find it unfit for a full length motion pictures.So why then all the hype? In my opinion, most people living in the developed world nowadays are so far removed from the harsh realities of life, so used to living their comfortable, politically correct, protected, cuddly lifestyles that seeing something like this is so far from their understanding that it 'shocks' them and they believe they are experiencing something metaphysical, highly artistic... Consequently, they praise these movies in the belief that by doing so, it also makes them more 'artistic', because they can 'understand'. How sad.


                
The opening scene set the tone for what was to come in the next two hours. What should have been a jolting and gripping experience, ended up underwhelming. The events should have made for a dramatic and even suspenseful sequence, but the ancillary movie elements added little to the scene. A chicken is tied to a post. We can sense its fear. It knows it has no chance of survival in this environment so it flees from this world of death and destruction. The tormentors give chase and we see the chicken desperately seeking salvation through escape. The metaphor is not lost. This is a corrupt and loathsome place, and escape to the safety of an outside world is the only way to live. Beautiful. I want to love this opening, but something just isn't quite there. I can see and comprehend the message, but I just don't feel it. Then a young man emerges and stalks the chicken from behind as a group of gangsters armed with machine guns watches him approach their target. More armed gangsters appear, and soon the young man and the chicken are surrounded. The young man surveys the area and hesitates. My heart should be pounding, but I remain perfectly tranquil. The ideas and events are in place. This quality of this premise is off the charts. We can already imagine that this film will be about choices that lead people down different paths in life. We envision the different themes emerging, such as the unjust suffering of innocents, like the chicken. This movie should have me on the edge of my seat and on the brink of emotional eruption, but it doesn't. Not much changes during the remainder of the film. The storytelling is phenomenal, aside from a few over explanations via flashbacks. The acting is hit and miss. The characters entice, but fail to completely generate the attachment to them that I wanted to feel. In the word, the film was underwhelming. So much potential, not completely wasted, but not completely utilized either. A good movie that should have been great.
Let me start from the beginning,I saw this movie had a rating of 8.7,I say that this must be really good,after a few days I decide to watch it.During the movie,I was like "wtf am I watching right now?" I mean seriously,first of all the movie has no story,no plot.It serves no purpose.Is this so highly rated because it shows poverty and how difficult life is in these neighborhoods?I just don't get it.Second,the characters...its like there is no protagonist whatsoever,its just a big mess of guys,that you don't care about,not even the protagonist,he is like non-existent,they are like to many that you don't even remember who is who during the course of the film,and some poor dialogue,its just not even amusing to watch them talking.Third,I actually like violence in my films,but this one,the scene where they shoot the two little kids,I watched it in disgust.It was cold and not pleasant to watch.And before you say, "yeah but this is what happens in the Favelas" how are you sure?So you tell me the local drug kingpin goes around and kills innocent little kids?Its not even realistic.In general for a gangster movie it was really not great.There were some good scenes and moments in the movie,but that's that.And the worst thing is that this movie could actually be really good.There is no charm in poverty.You like watching poor people and small time shitty gangsters in a movie with no plot?Then this movie is for you.5/10 might seem a big high after witnessing my negative opinion,but I rated it as such because it was watchable...a bit and was not entirely terrible.Surely it was bad but not terrible.For the finale,don't watch it.You are not going to miss something,there are better 2 hour long movies you can watch out there
This movie was gut-wrenching. I had to turn it off when one of the older thugs asked the two little boys whether they wanted to be shot in the foot or hand as "punishment." He shot both little kids (one in the hand and the other in the foot) and the youngest (who was probably 6 or 7) started screaming and crying for his mommy. I myself am I mom of two and I couldn't imagine a young child going through this. I've watched movies like Snowtown Murders with no problem but when young kids are involved I just can't handle it.
The City of a God is a very ironic name for this movie as well as the city that the film takes place in. When people think of God they picture happiness and well being. In this film however, the City of God is full of thieves and murderers. This movie tells the story of how a group of children grow up with very little parental guidance and gives you a chance to see some of their challenges when they are younger as well as when they are older. The down goes down hill through out the movie and you get the chance to see a boy and his dream to become a photographer come in to play as he uses the power of his photographs to create his own affect on the situation.
Personally, I really enjoyed the movie. It was full of action and kept you on your toes multiple times in anticipation for what was to come. What really drew me to this film was that circumstances similar to these have happened around the world through history and for someone looking from the outside in, it really gives you a sense of how lucky you really are.
As far as the quality of the film goes, it was many action shots showing the perspective of many different characters. The lighting also brought a lot of character to the movie as well, because a lot of the dirty work was done at night time behind the safely of darkness. I believe the makers of this film did a very good job at depicting many of the details of this movie. From the movement of drugs and movie, to the handling of guns and the brittleness of life, they directors captured all of it very well to the point that you could feel what the characters were feeling
 Overall I felt that this was a very well directed movie with a lot of very well captured moments. I would definitely recommend this movie to someone who interested in historical and action filled movies.


                
The City of God may be an ironic title for the movie. The film is set in a slum of Rio and focuses on the story of a group of kids who grew up to be adults still living the slum. The set of the film truly encompasses the looks and appearances of how slum and the people in the slum would appear in real life, which helps add to the fact that the film is based on a true story. This also adds to the realness of the film itself. The development of each character really helps create the plot and each character builds off of each other, which makes the film enthralling. Each character keeps the audience on the edge of their seats wondering what will happen next; and the film is set for all audiences. The casting of each actor was very methodical, as all of the actors seemed to fit directly into their roles and assume the personalities and feelings of each person's lives. However, I definitely believe they may have type casted the actor who played Angelica because she appeared to have very basic skills in acting. Besides her, the rest of the actors allow you to connect directly with their characters and understand them as human beings. The film creators even play the historical interviews after the credits to supplement the information given throughout the movie. The director even lined up one the interviews of a person with their character in the movie almost exactly, which also contributed to the realness of the movie.


                
There was nothing all terribly special about City of God, and I am almost tempted to call it overrated. Not to say that it is a bad movie, it just didn't seem like anything to go crazy over. Perhaps I just don't appreciate it, after all I'm not big into gangster movies, but I think I'm also a little too young to understand them. There were some unique things about the world of the movie, mostly generated from Rocket's commentary on the culture of the slum. I thought the scene where him and his friend go out to try to kill someone but everyone they meet is too cool to kill was fun, and it was oddly one of the more thematic moments of the movie. In a lot of ways, this movie is a lot like Slumdog Millionaire, though more than a little grittier. Personally, I liked Slumdog better, but there is definitely value in City of God. It shows the way that growing up in extreme poverty shapes the childhood of those who grow up in it, but also how one can escape from the slum. This is a pretty compelling subject matter, especially with the juxtaposition of Little Z, the worst of the products of the slums, with Rocket who manages to make a better life for himself by following his more heartfelt passions. What's really cool about that is that it's a cool story and doesn't feel like one at all. I had no idea it was based on real events at all until the end of the movie. Actually, as I am writing this, I am starting to gain a better appreciation for this movie.The technical execution of this movie is somewhat notable, though not a master-class in any aspect of filmmaking. The writing is pretty good I suppose given that the movie is also pretty good, but it's definitely not flashy. I remember there being some unique cinematography and a couple of scenes that were shot in non-traditional ways. Something should be said for the fact that it seems to honestly and accurately portray a specific yet real culture and world that most moviegoers are unfamiliar with.I would lightly recommend this to anyone. It's a violent crime movie, but there is a balance of light moments to make it easier to watch. Again, it's not overly light like Slumdog Millionaire, staying well in the bounds of the violent reality of its setting. However, there are a good amount of moments that focus on the characters and their emotions and even a couple moments that will make you laugh or at least smile. I doubt this will be your favorite movie, and it definitely isn't the most entertaining to watch, but if you sit on it you may come to like it. Overall Rating: 7.6/10


                
"City of God" directed by Fernando Meirelles and Kátia Lund is a story about two boys growing up in a favela in Rio de Janeiro. The boys both face hardships in their lives, but in diverse ways. One is aspiring to become a photographer, and the other is aspiring to become the drug kingpin of the Favela. Their lives intertangle, but eventually their lives take divergent paths. This whole storyline entices excitement and emotion through its cinematography. The image match between the raindrop falling off the leaf into a bowl with a fish swimming around in it with a bigger fish ready to catch and eat its prey. This symbol of predator and prey correlates to when the cops are hunting the teenagers in the woods for robbing a hotel. This technique helps feel the emotions of the characters in this scene. There are many scenes in this film which makes the audience feel the emotions of the characters. One scene that moved me was when Benny was shot by Blacky. The use of a close-up with strobe lights gives a chaotic effect visually making the viewer disoriented. This made the movie well worth the two hours and ten minutes. Another aspect is the amount of shown violence in the film. There is an exuberant number of adults and even children getting shot. This adds to the authenticity of the film, and in the end when the audience learns that this is a true story, that makes it even more compelling. I feel that this is a must see because it shows the hidden truths of areas in poverty that get swept under the rug. This film shines light on the problems that do not get much mention in the media. I personally did not know how bad the slums of Rio de Janeiro were until I watched "City of God". It is a great thriller and educational at the same time. I would recommend watching "City of God".
Violence on children is something that has been strayed away from in film due to fear of being taboo. In City of God, the true story of gang wars that take place in a small city in Rio during the 1960s and 1970s, violence against (and typically stemming from) children is anything but taboo, and so it is that the children define the film. Their interactions both business-like and genuine, and with little remorse from any of the involved.The pacing of the film as it follows its lead Rocket through the decade or so that this story takes place in is surreal, and makes the viewer feel nostalgic for a time that they may not have lived. The movement from the slums of Rio and the titular "City of God" to the nicer areas with consistent power and running heated water serves as a wake-up call to how little the children really have in their lives, and at times, almost gives a reason for the violence; one kills to survive. The shot lengths and angles, whether it be an eye-to-eye stand off between gang members, or an aerial view of a fight about to break out on a dance floor, keeps the tensity palpable at any moment, certainly meant to be akin to actually living in that lifestyle. The use of lighting, keeping both extreme high-key and low-key lighting for Godfather-like scenes or chases and escapes and choosing to keep a very moderate low-key atmosphere for the majority of the film speaks volumes to the setting and the poor state of decay the characters must muscle through to make a life for themselves.Though the violence takes center stage in this coming of age story, there is still plenty of heart coming from all angles on the deeper levels within. Losses of family, dignity, and love all have their roles to play, some winding down to let others take stage and some seemingly abandoned altogether. Though the plot closes in late adolescence, it leaves the audience wondering about the fates of the children in their City of God.
***SPOILER ALERT***The City of God, directed by Fernando Meirelles, is a cinematically beautiful film with a harsh plot, told through the perspective of the main character, Rocket, that takes place in a suburb of Rio de Janeiro. The film begins years in the future and tells the story as a flashback, deviating from normality. By beginning the film in such a way, our interest is peaked, we want to understand why this man is stuck in the middle of this conflict. The use of a hand-held camera during action sequences, increases the suspense and creates the feeling that we're part of the film. Not only does it create suspense, but also disorientation in a scene, which seems to be the intended effect because we become more intrigued and confused—we want to figure out what is going on. The use of camera angles aim to invoke the feelings of anger and vulnerability, when Lil Zé was fulfilling his desire to kill, the low angle makes him look menacing making us feel fear and anger towards him—especially since he's shooting down at us. However, when Lil Zé is about to get shot, a higher angle shows him to be vulnerable at the moment. In just about every scene, there are either guns or drugs present that remind us that this is the root of the problem, drugs are their solutions to get out of poverty or gain power. However, this is everyone's downfall. Unfortunately, we even see Rocket turn to this "solution," but with no success. While all these kids are essentially criminals, the story developed around them makes us feel sympathetic and grow attached to them, we hope that they will survive and leave these impoverished neighborhoods. Overall, this was a great film that can be hard to watch. It exposes the truths of what is going on in certain parts of Rio de Janeiro, not the kind that go on a postcard. This can sometimes be forgotten as we only see the beautiful and glorified neighborhoods in films. The children of these suburbs, at a very early age, are manipulated and are pushed into the drug trade—they feel like there is no other way of life. We become more aware and realize there are bigger problems in the world, some that we may not even realize.
I have seen this movie only recently (2005) and it's easily one of the better foreign films I have seen. Actually, it's probably just about one of the best films I had ever seen.The characters really make this movie come alive with each of their compelling personalities shining though in the backdrop of oppressive conditions and constant violence. One thing which clearly comes to mind is "Lil' Dice's" ear to ear smile - so vivid and yet so ironic since he personifies pure evil.The City of God is a world you don't want to visit, it won't be featured on a post card, and it's said to be the city ignored by god himself. This movie makes you feel uncomfortable, puts you on the edge of your seat -- you are right into the middle of the City and you too are caught up in it's violent temptation. More importantly, it's about the triumph of the human spirit against all odds.This movie in effect is fast paced and hard to follow (with the added stress of subtitles over Portuguese), but it's worth it; and in fact really adds to the impetuous and impulsive undertones of the movie. In addition, the quintessential Brazilian music blending into the film like a well made Caprahina makes it feel authentic like the Italian music in the God Father.You see the flaws of these men played out in an almost fatalistic nature -- hated, greed, futility; and in it all we see ourselves, our own flaws, and our own condition.
the abundance of handguns says it all.they are very deadly, and the scene where the young hood kills all the people at the hotel and smiles in a flashback is typical of the motivations of far too many hoodlums. they kill not in the course of committing a crime out of necessity to carry out the deed, like shooting an armed security guard, no, they kill for fun and because no one can stop them in the moment.I have fired handguns but not recently, and only at a target range, so I understand the dangers of the bullets flying out at a thousand feet per second. once it leaves the barrel anyone in front is doomed. and the finger pressure to make that happen can be done by a child.city of god should be a warning to us all on the costs of crime and violence. building a city, educating the young and creating conditions that give them job opportunities takes a long time and a lot of work; this is why so many choose the 'easy' way of crime.it is also telling that at one point you start to lose track of who is in what gang and what they have done, and then all the even younger hoodlums get guns and start shooting up the place. and then subtly the action moves into the big city, they are no longer in the shanty town.a depressing film but one that should be seen at least once.I definitely wouldn't rank it so high up in the top 250.


                
I have to say I don't usually enjoy watching movies with only subtitles, but this one was so interesting I couldn't stop watching it. It was like a roller coaster of emotions.


                
Normally Brazilian cinema is strong in good comedy but rather unhappy with respect to dramatic films. However, this film is quite different. Most of the action takes place in one of the largest and most dangerous areas of Rio de Janeiro, the so-called "favela" Cidade de Deus (favela is the name that Brazilians give to the slums, where the poorest live, in the midst of total misery). There, people live alongside with crime, knowing that it may be the last day of their lives and having few opportunities to rise in life. In fact, this is not a movie thing, this is reality. The film merely uses reality to stage a story in which two young people take different life paths: one ends up becoming a photographer and the other becomes a drug dealer. These stories are fiction but they are very similar to the lives of immense young people who live in that place. And that's the great advantage of this deeply shocking movie: we know it's all fiction but it could be true.Most of the actors have no stage experience and were unknown to the audience, but they ended up being known in Brazil, having worked convincingly and credibly. The film has many scenes of violence, but its a kind of violence without the American style, very similar to what we can see in the streets of Brazil. The way the film was shot and edited reminded me a little of the film "Goodfellas" and a style inspired by Scorcese, and there are many critics who immediately established the link between these two films quite obviously. Its a powerful and somewhat shocking movie about a painful social reality that Brazilians should think about solving.


                
Based on a novel by Paulo Lins who based the plot on real events having taken place in a favela, Brazilian slum, called City of God. The story is one of lost, unforgiving odds, bleak chances, little to no chance of escaping and of friends turned enemies.City of God is a unique experience and a unique film. Only a couple of the actors had had any prior acting experience, all of them in relatively minor roles. All of the rest, including all the main actors, were picked from actual favelas, many of them from the actual City of God. And yet, if I hadn't been told this, I couldn't have told. They're that good, that deep into their characters, and they bring this manic energy into everything they do on screen. You can sense the raw emotions churning under their skin, because they've been there. They know what it's like.The film doesn't pull any punches either. It tells the story about young street punks, looking their slice of heaven and riches through robbery, drug dealing, racketing, murder and mayhem. It doesn't shy away from the harsh realities, it doesn't try to sugarcoat it, nor does it offer any excuses.Aside from the unprofessional actors, the rest of the film is very professional. The cinematography is brilliant, as is the whole style, the whole vibrant yet muddy feel they give to the City. The story spans about a decade of time, yet it feels cohesive, like we never lose anything because of a jump in time.City of God is unforgiving. It's brutal, bloody, unpleasant and showcases that we still have a long way to go as a species. But we need films like it exactly for that last part. We need to be shown what's still wrong with the world. And I admire this film for having to guts to do just that.


                
The story starts with the early times of the City of God showing where many of the problems stem from- the extreme poverty, overcrowding etc. In this time,the director introduces the main characters with you.The story revolves mainly around Rocket and Lil Ze, and how they take two different paths through life. Rocket dreams to become a photographer and to escape the City of God.On contrary, Lil Ze becomes a powerful gang leader and drug dealer.The direction is absolutely Oscar-worthy. The success of small-age actors is also remarkable.The director rises from Brazil with the support of the novel and screenplay.The film is completely good but I think its' time is quiet long and boring like the other long-time films(exceptions are Godfather,Good Bad Ugly etc.) Watch it.But don't care the repeating fighting scenes.
The violent, and often shambolic, life and times of the Rio de Janeiro favela (or slum) told from the point of view of two contrasting former schoolboy friends. Filmed in the modern "shaky hand-held camera" fashion to give it a documentary look-and-feel. (Something we will return to later.) The great problem with the English speaking mass cinema audience is that they rarely go anywhere abroad outside of tourist traps and have little interest in the Third World. Well outside of outrageous disasters - whether man-made or natural - which quickly slip from our TV screens or newspapers within days of their conclusion.Therefore when cinema takes a stroll down these new avenues it comes as a complete surprise to the virgin audience who get the full head trip. So Brazil is not all long beaches, endless samba beat and sexy girls in dental floss thongs? Well I didn't know that! Shock! Horror! Something must be done!(IMDb always seems to give a bonus mark for a new and different location - Cidade de Deus being only the latest recipient.)For most this product will be the only education about the Brazilian favela (slum) that they will ever get - but at least it is a believable portrait. Nevertheless it is not the last word on the subject and covers only limited ground. Indeed it is a classic example of a film that starts well - loses its way in the middle section - before it arrives at the only climax (and closing impression) which is conceivable. A bit more social context about Brazilian class society would have been welcome - but maybe the budget didn't run to it. Not travelling back in time. This film's idea of background detail is a lone period car! We needed the "other Brazil" - but, baring a few voice-over references all we get is a few token scenes in a supermarket or in a newspaper office.(The media types are shown as friendly, warm and caring in perfect contrast to the police who are shown as being totally corrupt. Almost on a parallel to the gangsters. I wonder which camp the writer comes from?) This film has been compared to Goodfellers, and I can see why, but it isn't really in its league. If anything it is a home movie version of the Scorsese classic and needs constant voice-over and subtitles in order for it to make sense. Even with it I was lost several times, but that may have been trying to keep track of too many characters that looked - because of the passing of time - nothing like they did when first introduced!The plot is curiously male orientated when sex is not involved. Do these gangsters not have mothers, sisters, social workers, teachers or sensible relatives? The types that crop up in 40's Warner Brothers gangster pictures to give balance to the criminals and their life views. Overall the script spends too long in the gang hut with the venom-spitting hoods who alternate only between loading weapons and smoking dope. There is no real conventional acting in this movie, there is no need for it. Ducking, diving, shooting guns and looking scared is not that hard. Yes it convinces, but stupid/reckless/desperate Third World people are hard to pin down, how can you say anything is wrong? They march to a different drum.Here leadership seems awarded for recklessness as much as brains, but they have nowhere to go and little to say. Why should they? They have no education. There is only one business (drugs) and there is only one punishment for those that go against the interests of that business.(Once you establish life is cheap and taken on a whim, you don't need to go there again unless it is essential or part of the grand climax.)I am not all that fond of hand-held camera work. It allows you run around and this only results in lots of scenes of people running around. This establishes it as a real location, but doesn't really add any sense of composure. There are times when I feel I was running with the gang as part of it - while I really wanted to be a cold and distant condemning witness. Yes there is lots of questions, quibbles and short comings, but it is a powerful and thought provoking film. But it rather suffers from the Holocaust syndrome: It is hard to criticise the film without seeming to attack the honourable subject. Maybe director Fernando Meirelles has something - he certainly includes some masterful scenes here - but the limited characters overstay their welcome. I wouldn't want to watch it again.


                
The hype surrounding City of God has become enormous. It has obtained rave reviews here in America. Especially among the college professors and students that I frequently converse with. Unfortunately, this movie did not live up to the hopes I had for it.  Having already seen "Harder They Come" and "All the Forgotten Ones," I assumed that this film was garnering so much praise because of a message that would go above what those other films portrayed. The cover of the DVD even has a quote mentioning how this would change my life. It did not. I personally feel both of the other films just mentioned did what "City of God" does, and with more originality.  This film takes a lot of modern movie concepts, especially those made famous by Guy Ritchie, such as interweaving plots and jumping to different points of time as the film progresses.  I highly recommend seeing those other two films before this one, and it should change how impressive it really seems.


                
Great reviews.  Disappointed by the relentless violence.  Had no idea this was based on a true story because of the excess.  As seems to be the case in 2004, graphic violence is supposed to make and help us feel the impossible situation of the poor slum kids.  It doesn't.  Damn it.  Is there anyone who remembers that the story of one, only one, victimized character is more powerful than watching millions of people slaughtered.It was like watching 2,000 St. Valentines Day massacres in 2 hours. Horrific but not touching.  We need to care.  This film had too many stories.  Tried to link Vietnam with corporate greed and the eternal reach for money and power.  This could have been a brilliant film.  Instead it was a two martini film (you had to wind down) but one which left even the photographer survivor, suspect.


                
well first off the film is very intresting being based on true events i just think that the violence is very stupid and unwarranted, i understand the point of showing it, im not against violence in films but it was very exploitative in that the end of the film almost every character is dead, this makes the movie hard to like for alot of reasons, i couldn't relate with the narrator at all and the character benny seemed like he was too cool and popular to be friends with such a stupid person like lil ze or whatever his name was, it just doesn't make sense if he was such a gangstar and killed all these people he would be so liked, also the kid killing was way f**ked up to watch i mean more so watching the kid get shot in the foot and cry while the other kid decided to kill one of them, come on this is like worse than gta, gangs of new york was a extremley realistic violent film, but this film had no morals or values killing was just so dumb and it made the movie dumb, if anybody could get killed, it made u just feel like rocket was lucky and at the same time stupid for living there.  Lets just say that the city of god is not somewhere u should move to based on children walking around with alot of guns and no books, enough said, seeing this movie was very painful in a honestly fustrated stupid sort of way


                
This is the Brazilian version of `Boyz N the Hood' <U+0096> but City of God is two notches better, yet with a few shortcomings.
The initial scene of a chicken running away is masterful.  If one has had the experience of running after chickens, then one must admire how the cameraman managed to keep up the pursuit until the poor thing disappeared under a police van.  Surely, the Humane Animal Society was present ensuring the humane treatment of the bird <U+0096> although the miraculous escape from underneath the wheel could not have been planned.
Now is the film depicting reality and is it providing some incisive criticism?  Not quite.  The favelas surrounding Rio and always perilously close to sliding off the sides of the hills after a rainstorm contain masses of people.  Increasingly, it is the favelas or the outlying quasi-cities/slums -- built to remove the pressure off Rio from the migration from the Northeast -- that cast ominous shadows over the rest of the city.  They are cities because their populations are huge; they are part of the bigger city, yet a city apart.  The same repeats itself in the rest of Brazil.  The crime rate is legendary, and it paints a rather bleak future for the country unless something is done on the double.
City of God is about the internal dynamics of a quasi-city/slum.  The city is portrayed as devouring itself <U+0096> suggesting the bitterly ironic name of the city.  Gang vs. gang with the occasional corrupt opportunistic intervention by the police.  Crucially the spillover effects of this criminal culture don't envelop the posh areas of Rio.  Any well-to-do Brazilian watching this film won't sweat too much <U+0096> the violence is happening elsewhere.  Here is where the film is a bit weak <U+0096> it is hardly a political statement or an indictment of the Brazilian model.  It is just internecine warfare, not a crime wave descending on the middle classes by the beach, and the film doesn't make a political statement by suggesting that the inequality has anything to do with the problems depicted in the film.  Unfortunately City of God is a shallow story, all be it a well told one. One more thing is evident in this film and it is a problem affecting all of cinema.  All films must fall within the commercially imposed time limits, i.e., the absurd two-hour mark.  Unfortunately, it is impossible to weave a rich story in such a limited time slot.  Several characters are developed early on, although one can hardly empathize with them or understand them. The first five characters are introduced, but soon afterwards, several are bumped off.  Then right smack in the middle of the film another important character is introduced <U+0096> errr<U+0085> isn't this a bit late?  Whoa!  Mr. Meirelles man, you only have two hours to tell a story!  This would have been acceptable if the film were a wee bit longer, but suddenly it is difficult to discern who is who and what makes them tic.  The way this film handles this is by having `chapter headings'.  The story is compressed and explained by these subtitles.  It may be borderline-effective, but what this film needed was another half hour developing the `smell' of the place.  This was wonderfully achieved and portrayed in the initial football (aka soccer) scene in a barren field.  A few more scenes of the open sewers or the fermenting garbage and Meirelles would have had a masterpiece  (although another hour to make a political statement would also have been necessary!).My score = 7/10


                
