I can't find a strong enough word in my vocabulary to describe how spectacular and engrossing this show is. I remember when I first heard about it eight or so years ago when the show premiered. To be honest, after seeing the movie, I thought it would be cheesy and not all that good. After Breaking Bad ended, I needed a new show to watch and while searching for the best shows available on netflix streaming, this was near the top of the list. And I can truly say even after watching something as incredible as Breaking Bad, I think this show is almost more special in it's own way.It doesn't need violence and drugs to be to be entertaining. I remember right after watching the pilot, I couldn't stop and stayed up till 7 am watching. It will pull you in that quickly, especially if you are a football fan. Not that you cant watch it if you don't like football or don't know much about it. I absolutely love football. Love watching it and played it in high school. But football is absolutely the least interesting aspect of this show. The first episode of the series goes through each day leading up to the first game of the season. After watching it I thought every episode would be that way. But after seeing the end of the pilot I realized the show is about much much more than just football. Football is just a backdrop. The most important part of the show are the lives of the characters off the field, focusing on the head coach and his wife and their daughter, as well as the players. He is more of a father figure to these players before he is a coach. The main theme of the show is that people have dreams. It shows everyday problems that people face, which we can all relate to in one way or another. Then it shows these dreams can come true if you have someone who believes in you and is willing to help you until you reach these dreams. The show creates these characters in a pretty cliché fashion. But what makes the show so great is these characters are brought to life, making the viewer able to literally feel the emotions of these characters, even without words being spoken. For the most part, the acting is incredible by most of the cast. The way the show is shot makes you feel like you are in the room with these people. This show will move your emotions and make you laugh,cry, smile and cheer. There's not many other shows out there that can hit you with so many ranges of emotions. You really feel like you are a part of these peoples lives, and you really become connected to them. You are able to watch them change with your own eyes. You will think differently about life and football after watching it, I can guarantee that.


                
Simply put, this is reality. If someone had affixed a camera to my head, 24 hours a day, when I was in high school, you couldn't have gotten a better picture of life. I know someone like every single character in this show. The story lines, the acting, the cast, couldn't be any better in this show. For those who haven't made it to high school yet, in Texas, this is your future. Wonderful, wonderful drama. I didn't even hear about this show (don't have time for much TV) until season 4. Watched one episode and I was hooked. Went out and bought every episode and sat down and watched every one in about two days. Didn't want to turn it off. I had always thought that The Shield was the best show ever on TV....until I was introduced to this tremendous story about life.


                
Easily one of the best shows on television. It's real and dramatic at the same time.The characters are amazing(Saracen and Riggins). The football sets the setting of this town and their passion towards this young team of high school students.I thought i would lose interest in the show after the first threes seasons(because of some of the main characters leaving) but i have to say the 4th season has been the best so far! Sports+ Drama+ True Life= Friday Night Lights.The characters face the same challenges that real life people face everyday.This show is perfect. I give this show a 10 because of its entertainment, drama and respect towards football. Watch this show its easily the best show on television
I'm surprised by the negative comments I've seen, simply because I never noticed or was bothered by shaky camera work on this show. Perhaps I was too busy being drawn in by the fascinating, sympathetic, beautifully drawn characters and their challenges and successes. I cannot think of another show that has such believable characters and story lines. I can't remember when a show has made me care so much about the characters. I think that's because there aren't other shows that have achieved this. Friday Night Lights is very well written and well acted. The music on this show is great. I keep coming back to my love for the characters this show lets us get to know, though. This show is about much more than football, and it certainly isn't about being "arty" and having shaky camera work. It's about people. And darn good storytelling.


                
All these people saying the camera was too shaky? I didn't even notice. Listen, it's not our fault if you can't concentrate on something for longer than ten seconds.Most of the people who have given this poor ratings are just people who were expecting this to be a live NFL game or something. Don't listen to them. Football is an important part of the show, but it's secondary to the characters, who are deeply explored and easily related to.Do yourself a favour and watch this from the very first season until the last. You won't regret it. Oh, and NBC, please bring this show back. One of the few shows I've ever really loved.


                
I don't understand why people have such a problem with the camera work. I find it truly original and I find that it really captures the whole scene- instead of just being pointed at the face of whoever is speaking.Friday Night Lights is hands down one of the best shows on TV right now. The stories are interesting and the characters are complex- not just a bunch of pretty teenagers bemoaning their dating woes. I think relationships are portrayed about as realistically as they can be on TV. I hope it makes it to another season. I am not really a big fan of network TV shows either- but this one I will not miss.


                
Friday Night Lights is an excellent show. Truthful, honest, gripping, funny, and (insert your favourite adjective here), the show depicts small town life in rural Texas/(insert the name of your hometown here). While on the surface the show is about football, it is a very engaging amount of football where you find yourself cheering for the key moments the way you would if you were watching your little brother's high school football game. FNLs is about more than football though - NBC and Peter Berg have created a gem of a show, with realistic story lines and realistic characters. Kyle Chandler (Dylan the Bomb Guy for all you Grey's fans) and Connie Britton have done a fantastic job as the two adult leads, Scott Porter has done a fantastic job at portraying someone who is paralyzed, and Aimee Teegarden and Zach Gilford are extremely believable as two teenagers in love for the first time. Give the show a chance - you'll be hooked!


                
With summer reruns in full swing, I decided to give this critically acclaimed show a try even though I don't like football. Well, I'm glad I did because this is a quality show with great performances. My favorite characters include the coach (and his family), Matt, and Jason. The situations feel real and not contrived. Despite what others have posted, the camera-work does not ruin the show. In fact, it gives it a documentary-like feel, which is the point, I believe. I would suggest that you watch the show and decide for yourself if it is worth watching. You can watch every episode online at nbc.com in case you would like to catch up.


                
I think that this is probably one of the best shows on TV right now. With such crappy shows as CSI and Law and Order clogging up the air time, it's refreshing to see something different. A teen drama with football as a backdrop and how football affects everything in this town makes for great TV. I loved the movie, but now I love the series even more. The characters have really grown on me. Now, every Wednesday night, I can't wait to watch this show.The story lines have been widely varied over the course of the season, and the characters have shown tremendous growth. I won't go into detail, but each character has changed in a major way throughout the season. Kudos to both Kyle Chandler and Connie Britton. They have such great chemistry that at times I've wondered if they are really married. The high school side of the cast is a bit old for the most part, but they do a great job as well. Zack Gilford and Aimee Teegarden have a very believable relationship and the constant back and forth emotions of Taylor Kitsch and Scott Porter kind of remind me of my high school days.All in all, this show is one of the best shows on TV. From everything I've read, it's on the bubble as to whether or not it will survive for another season. The show still has a lot of growth potential and it would be a shame to see a show this good, end.


                
As an ex high school football player, this TV series is Awesome! The way it is filmed makes it even more believable and the emotion that this show provokes is incredible. Mud Bowl was as good as it gets. The ending to MudBowl was INTENSE! The show is great! I love it and the cast of characters are second to none. Whoever the casting director for this show is, deserves an award! Taylor Kitsch does an awesome job in his roll of Tim Riggins. I am sure he has a great career ahead of him as does many of the other characters. This is not far fetched as it does deal in real life situations. I really look forward to every weds night and if I can't make that i download the episodes on Itunes! I hope this series continues for years to come! Great Work!!! What can I say except..... I am hooked... Highly recommended A+++++++++++++++++++++++++


                
The show is excellent! As a Texan and an ex high school football player here in Dallas it comes pretty close, except for one thing. This show is a drama, so why on earth would you shake a camera while filming?? We don't have earthquakes here in Texas. And tornadoes don't move the ground either (only what's on top of the ground!) The show's director needs to keep the camera on the character's face long enough so we can see what they are feeling. Isn't that what good acting is all about? This is my first comment on IMDb and it wouldn't let me submit unless I have 10 lines are more?? No wonder so many of the comments are long winded! Maybe a minimum of 5 lines since some of us can get our point across without jabbing away endlessly.


                
I started to watch the show on Netflix, the month before it was going to be taken off, to see how middle America is represented and American football(I don't know much about football). I watched the whole show in a month, amazing characters and a must watch show. Doesn't matter if you do not know football or much about USA, the humanity in the show is a treat to watch. Hope this show gets popular internationally as it transcends genres and touches a lot of topics such as race, abortion etc. in a sensitive and intelligent fashion.


                
I watched this on Netflix some years ago. I was so impressed I bought the complete five season collection on DVD. I am currently traveling on a sixteen day road trip across the US. I watch this every night when I check in to my next motel. I never have to worry about television programs or anyway to spend my down time.Too much of television deals with unrealistic characters and situations. This show portrays people as flawed individuals and life as something we can't control.The five season set is over 4,000 minutes long. Plenty enough for a long spell in a motel.My number two choices would be Dead Wood or Veronica Mars.


                
I only recently started watching this show. I was a fan of the film and have been a fan of Peter Berg's other work (The Kingdom, etc.). The pilot is brilliant and Berg's writing - particularly the final coach's speech and accompanying montage - is one of the best in recent television. There are some things this show get's absolutely pitch-perfect. The way they depict the notion that a whole is greater than the sum of it's parts, that we are all connected to one another, that through adversity seeming "average" people can come through and do very above-average things, and the way that the characters each represent the humanity involved in these lessons is undeniable.I've never written a "review" for a TV show before. So this show prompted me to do that. Also, watching the character Coach Eric Taylor and how he works to bring others to success, to help others on to reach for their dreams ("Smash's" post-injury story line) provided a little inspiration for me to try to do the same thing. I think any time something as seemingly insipid as a Television show can do that it's the mark of something very good.
i have never been into TV shows..kind of a guy who stops watching a show after a few episodes getting bored...i always thought may be TV shows are not for me...until there came FNL that touched my heart!!! what a show...TV shows cant get any better...a few episodes into it and i was hooked...it is what a TV show needs to be...realistic plot..brilliant depiction of characters..awesome cast and acting..,being from Pakistan i was never interested in American football...but FNL changed all that...after watching it you just cant help falling in love with American football and the great state of Texas!!! the performances of all the actors are so realistic u just cant help but imagine that somewhere in Texas there really is a coach eric taylor..tami taylor..tim riggins..matt saracen..buddy garrity..................i recently watched all the five seasons again nd enjoyed it as much as i did the first time...FNL KICKS ASS!!!!!!!


                
I just finished watching the series on Netflix and I am ashamed that I did not follow the show when it ran on NBC and then again on DirectTV. FNL was filled with such strong characters and excellent writing that it was hard not to get emotionally involved in their lives.Kyle Chandler deserved his emmy for his role as Coach Taylor, the high school football coach of the town favorite Dillon Panthers and then the East Dillon Lions. Connie Britton as his wife, Tami Taylor, who played a similar role in the FNL film, was a perfect match. These two are an inspiration to what a perfect marriage should be. Their on screen romance, fights, parenting, jokes, etc are played perfectly by these two that you get the sense that they have been married outside of the show. The show is rounded out by great supporting characters and actors, all with their well written story lines (though some get to be a bit far fetched....watch season 2) FNL is a show which does not ignore the supporting characters or their story lines and makes them seem just as important as what is going on in the Taylors life.I feel the show delivers on how High School Football can really be in a state like Texas, where it is more important than college or even the pros in some towns. The town of Dillon lives for their football, they swear by their football, it's like no other place on earth for High School Football.Now believe me, FNL is not without it's Flaws. From season to season, it appears that some story lines are just dropped or forgotten. Much of this can be over looked because of the well written characters as this is a very character driven show. ANd some of the story lines do get recycled but then again, it is High School Football and in High School, the hallways are filled with decades of the same story, just different characters.....FNL lasted 5 seasons and though I enjoyed the characters of Tim Riggins, Smash Williams and Tyra Collete , I found the kids of East Dillon, season 4 and 5 to be filled with more believable stories. Their actions and interactions felt more real. Their relationships with each other were more heartfelt. And their situations felt more genuine. Characters like VInce Howard, Jessica, Luke Cafferty, Becky, and even Tinker seemed more like High School kids trying to make it.When said and done, FNL should be considered on of the best TV shows to ever air on Television. As a TV Power couple, Coach Eric Taylor and wife Tami Taylor should be right at the top. Very rarely can I complete a series and know that I will forever miss those characters.Check the show out on Netflix or buy the DVD's.....it's worth it! FNL is what Television shows should be like.


                
Friday Night Lights is by far one of the best shows on TV this season, and the show is only getting better. I'm upset the season ended so early!!! This show is not afraid to hit on any subject....you have a great cast, great stories and a different style of filming....something different is great! People of all ages across the county are loving the show and look forward to Wednesday nights. Why take that away from people-- why would NBC want to take an award winning show off the air....and for goodness sakes, why aren't more people watching!!! I hope NBC doesn't make a dumb mistake...keep the show and keep this young, good-looking cast busy!


                
I think that Friday Night Lights is by FAR the best show on television right now. I'm not a teenager, I don't live in Texas, and I don't even like football and I LOVE this show. The writing, the direction and the acting are all top-notch. It is the only show I watch where I regularly get goose-bumps because the stories are so poignant and ring so true. I consider it to have the potential to be one of the all-time great shows ever produced for television, and it would be a CRIME if they didn't renew it for a full second season and give it every chance to succeed.I am reminded of other really great shows, such as Freaks and Geeks, My So Called Life and Firefly -- in this case lets hope the network gives Friday Night Lights the chance to catch on and make it!


                
This is the best show on TV right now. I really hope NBC goes for season 2-- they just need to give this show a chance. I really don't understand where the very few negative reviews are coming from- they seem hung up on the shaky camera work. well guess what: it's shot that way because the scenes are not rehearsed and only roughly blocked so the camera man is simply trying to catch the action. and i DO think it adds to the realism of the show-- and the performances are all excellent. This show has some of the best writing and character relationships of any TV show in recent memory. That's why i watch it-- not because of the football. Honestly I'm not even a sports fan. But these characters are so emotionally involving I'm at the edge of my seat come game time on FNL. Watch it-- you won't be disappointed.


                
Well, I just got done watching the first 13 episodes of Friday Night Lights. I find it to be the most intriguing and inspirational piece of dramatic television in a very long time. Friday Night Light definitely has a pulse. The series is alive and a great showcase of wonderful directing, well developed characters make you draw close to them whether you love them or hate them, and the picture and angle in which the picture was shot is perfect. You really get the sense of what this town is like, how the people live, and the what importance of highschool football means to these people.The angle in which it was directed focuses on all aspects of life around football:love (the love story is wonderful), Passion (for the game), inspiration (how the game of high school football translates into giving strength, spirit, and happiness to the people of this town), the people (how every single character in this film is well developed).I've heard some critics on here giving negative comments about the direction, story line (how it's so cliché or a carbon copy of other series, etc.I don't understand how you can dislike a perfect drama series that appeals to so many people in different ways. I honestly think the love story between Streets & Lyla is one of the greatest displayed ever on television.This show should be the benchmark for all television series. I'm very lucky to be able to watch it.


                
I am Australian and I don't follow American Football at all, however this show is superb. The show is not just about Football, lets get that straight. It is about how the people in a small Texan town base all their entire lives around some high-school kids who play it. It's such an interesting premise for a show and the themes and story lines explored are fantastic.I can't understand how there is so many bad reviews about this show on IMDb. Most say that they don't like the camera work. I think the camera is used perfectly in FNL to give the show a gritty, realistic edge that makes it all the more powerful. The writing and pacing of the show is excellent. The characters well developed and portrayed by the actors. My personal favourite is Tim 'The Rig' Riggins. :) Gotta love that name. It has also been mentioned that the female characters in this show are all interesting to watch develop, it's true. I don't find this on many other shows. (It doesn't hurt that most of them are stunning looking women) :) Do yourself a favour and watch a couple of episodes, you will quickly be hooked by this excellent show. Please, please, please keep making this TV show.


                
How can no one be watching this amazing show? It is far superior to some of the garbage on TV today. I saw the movie and I didn't miss a single episode this season. I am terribly sad the season ended early. As the weeks passed, the show kept getting better and better. Character development was well-executed and my personal investment into these characters continued to grow throughout the season. The acting is outstanding, the writing tight and the stories lines believable and intensely beautiful and painful. This jiggly camera debate is bs. Every show has a style and this is theirs-raw, gritty and realistic--as if you are part of the drama. Creator Peter Berg is a genius (thank you for the movie) and the show is one of my favorites. Of course, because it is intelligent, well-written, well-acted, well-directed and well-edited it will be canceled. Good job America! Way to be observant and open-minded. You are truly missing out.


                
This is best new drama on network TV in years. The acting is quite good, especially considering the youth of many of the actors. The art direction is impeccable. Coach Taylor (Kyle Chandler) and his wife Tami (Connie Britton) are the most authentic married couple portrayed on TV in a very long time. There are plots and subplots aplenty to keep viewers with disparate backgrounds and interests glued to their sets. Al without losing focus on pushing the show and overall plot forward.This is appointment television, and, football fan or not, you will be hooked after just the first couple of episodes.Clear Eyes, Open Hearts, Can't Lose! Go Panthers!


                
I love the way Friday Night Lights deals with real issues that parents and kids face. To describe Friday Night Lights...it's like The Brady Bunch, Full House, The Cosby Show, etc. Only the issues aren't as simple and rosy as they were back then, this is a tough world we live in and Friday Night Lights deals with real issues in a real way exploring the consequences of actions, challenges and the decision making process it doesn't shy away from tough topics like teenage sex, handicaps, alcoholism in parents and the children that suffer and struggle to survive. "It's raw truth." It's dealt with and worked through as a family, with friends, or a trusted adult, etc.There was a show called Higher Ground that was about troubled teens who went to a camp with counselors to help them overcome the evils of this world and learn to love themselves. It was the best show on TV ever for me till Friday Night Lights and that was about 7 years ago.The cinematography drew me in and the acting and writing sealed the deal. It is just an amazing show.You get to see teenagers and how they deal with many different problems, like living with and taking care of grandma while dad is away on active duty, or taking care of mom, or taking care of little brother cause the parents are not always parents and where do you turn and how do you deal? FYI...it's rated a perfect 5 stars on Yahoo TV based on 12000+ viewers (3-22-07)


                
= May contain spoilers. = Most all of the new drama series premiering in the 2006/2007 TV season are far, far above average for network TV. Without a doubt, Friday NIGHT LIGHTS is the very best of the lot.No car chases. No "unscripted" reality overstuffed with American coffee achievers. No $1.98 GONG SHOW talent search. Friday NIGHT LIGHTS (affectionately known as FNL by fans) combines a serial drama about intense personal pressures together with the striving, determined energy of a Stallone sports movie. Fast pacing. Top shelf quality. Appealing competent actors. Compelling drama.The always underrated Kyle Chandler skillfully leads a cast of lesser-knowns. Chandler plays Eric Taylor, a high school football coach in the American heartland of Dillon, Texas -- a place where football is not a sport, it is a prideful unchecked obsession. Dillon football squads are longtime state champions, and Eric Taylor is the new coach who is expected to do the impossible with this year's troubled team. By every measure, Coach Taylor is an ideal role model. Although heavily stressed by the pressures of his job, Taylor is a sincere hard-worker, a decent husband, a loving father, and is a tough-as-nails man's man when the need arises. If the Six Million Dollar Man was ever a hero to every American boy, Coach Eric Taylor is the hero for all of these boys who are now middle aged men.Coach Taylor's wife and daughter are normal, regular people. All of them face a daily onslaught of pushy townsfolk who demand that each Friday night football game ends with a "W" (a win). Come Friday night, the retail businesses of Dillon, Texas, are closed. The streets are deserted. The universe centers around the Friday game. I personally never watch sports, but I love the drama of FNL. Friday NIGHT LIGHTS is a winner!


                
