This Wednesday, Friday Night Lights hit yet another ratings low (3.8/6 in the overnights).How is that possible if this show is so great? The answer obviously is that Friday Night Lights is very far from "great".In fact, it is awful, really awful.The culprit? The oft-mentioned camera work.For you see, when you can't see the action without getting a headache or nausea, you just don't keep watching the show. Whether FNL delivers a realistic view of life in a small town becomes completely irrelevant since the show is plainly unwatchable.Somehow, some incompetent producers and directors thought that shaking the camera would help their show.Maybe they should have gone back to film school instead of reading ridiculous hype in trade reviews written by incompetent critics.


                
Apparently, from what I 've read, the producers of Friday Night Lights are under the impression that shaking the camera to and fro is giving their show a sheen of "reality".Let me be the one who disabuses them of this notion.Shaking the camera does not add realism to a show. It actually subtracts from it. For you see, realism comes from the writing and the acting, and shaking the camera, well... it's just shaking the camera. It's annoying and detracts from whatever realism exists in the show. It also makes a lot of people reach for the remote.At this point, there are two mysteries about Friday Night Lights: 1) Why did NBC put this on the air? After all, they must have seen how unwatchable the pilot was. 2) Why is NBC still airing FNL? After all, they must have seen the ratings.


                
Friday Night Lights is one of the worst-made TV shows I have ever seen! I was going to same "the worst" but NBC Universal does have a couple of other unwatchable shows that compete for the title.In any case, the only reason this show has had any "critical success" is because of the vast amounts of money that was spend by NBC to try and force this travesty of a TV show into being a "prestige" show.Come on NBC!! How can you guys think that a show where the camera-work looks like it was done by a 2 year-old will be seen as "prestige" by anyone other than critics you spend a lot of money on.Well, there is something money can buy: awards. Unfortunately for NBC, money can't buy sustained ratings, because these require people to keep on watching, and Friday Night Lights is unwatchable. Literally.Let's hope this will get canceled so Connie Britton can find something decent to be in.


                
Saying that Friday Night Lights is badly made, is like saying Cindy Crawford is kinda pretty. It just doesn't do the concept justice.Some TV shows are bad in spite of the best efforts of the producers, directors, etc... Sometimes it's because they don't have a big enough budget, sometimes, they just fail because they overreach.Not so Friday Night Lights! Friday Night Lights is incompetently made by design!! The directors, aping the awful work of Peter Berg, are content to shake the camera at everything in sight. They also have fun with the zoom on their lens.All this awful camera-work is supposed to somehow make us feel that what we're seeing is "real". Of course, it achieves the exact opposite: it reminds you every second that you are watching a badly conceived, badly executed TV show. It also makes you feel nauseous, and not just from motion sickness.Predictably, audiences have stayed away after the initial onslaught of critics claiming it was the "best of the year". Hopefully, this travesty will be gone from the air by April, never to return.


                
First of all, let's make something clear: Everything you've heard or read about how badly made Friday Night Lights is... True.It's actually almost worth recommending to watch for five minutes just to witness how awful this show is. It does, as has been written before, put "reality" shows to shame when it comes to camera work.Then again, reality shows don't actively try to look as bad as possible. They're badly made because they're cheap and they are not real "movies".Friday Night Lights the movie was an unwatchable travesty of a movie and, of course, NBC chose to use everything that was wrong in the way the movie was botched for its TV show.I'm sorry, but I don't think watching some incompetent cameraman play with the zoom of his camera helps me feel the show is more real. It makes me painfully aware I am wasting my time.Please NBC. Admit you should never have made this bad show and move on. If you want to renew something low-rated, renew Studio 60. At least it's well-written and well-made.


                
For those who have yet to watch the TV series "Friday Night Lights", go in with low expectations. And hopefully you're a fan of teen drama crap like "Laguna Beach" and "The O.C.", because that's basically what you have here, except that they've whored out an exceptional movie to make this trash.The original Friday Night Lights was so popular because it was so incredibly real. As a Senior high school football player myself, i was blown away at the realistic game footage, and the gritty looks at injuries and the drama at school you face. The camera work from the original was also the perfect way to capture it all.Enter "Friday Night Lights" the TV series. They have kept the camera work, and lost everything else. The story now revolves around uninteresting bimbo's and morons, and of course everyone that attends this high school has to be a model. The footage of the football game is adequate, yet they decide to throw commercial breaks in between completely idiotic times to take you out of the show. And those games you see? the one game every 2 weeks you see? that's going to be all the football you get from this show, as the rest is about who is going to take who to the prom.In the end, if you are a 13 year old pre pubescent girl, you will find this show interesting. Hopefully this show is not watched and it will be erased from the memories of people before the name "Friday Night Lights" is ruined forever.


                
I did not like Friday Night Lights, and honestly I finished it only because I did not have anything else to watch and I'm really curious so I had to know how it ended. Maybe it's because I'm from Canada and not a small Texas town,but I did not relate to nor cared about any of the characters at all. Seriously, anytime any character did anything, I was like ''nooo that wouldn't happen in real life''... And also, what's up with all the plot lines being dropped all the time?? like so many time something happened and we wouldn't have any explanation or follow up! Just to name a few: 1) Landry killed a guy and his policeman father burned the car with the evidence in it and after a few episode it's like ''oh it was self defense so its okay'' and then its never mentioned again... um what? Cases like this can take months or even years to figure out, what the hell? 2) Lyla ran a car in her father's car dealership and smashed several cars because she was angry and its literally never mentioned after!!! First of all, you have to be crazy and not okay mentally to do something like that, you don't do that when you're a normal ''angry'' teenager... ughh thats so dumb. 3) A lot of characters got jobs out of nowhere without interviews or diplomas or skills, but just because they wanted to? ugh. Anyway, what i'm trying to say is that the show is not realistic, the characters are not relatable and the story lines are often dropped and we have no closure. There are too many characters in this show and some of them just randomly disappear and it's frustrating. Even the finale didn't satisfy me. And finally, I have to mention the fact that the actors they hired to play ''teenagers'' are VERY obviously too old to be teenagers and that's just stupid.
