I heard many great things about this TV series. I saw the movie of the same title but I told myself to discard everything I had seen and to give Jason Katims a chance with similar characters in a similar setting.Granted, I think I have a unique perspective on a show like this one. I went to a small high school in a small town in Texas. High school football is extremely popular where I grew up, but nothing at all like this series. We had no "secret group" of local businessmen arranging recruiting of players from other schools, paying for the players' room and board, etc.This show has dozens of people telling the coach what to do rather than his supervisors at the school. Like many movies and shows before it, this series has the usual broken down parents that "used to be great players" throwing out advice to the new coach. This may have happened once or twice in my community, but not on a daily basis.My team and I ate together at a local hot spot once in a while, but not every meal with every other family in the community. The TV interviews with players? Nope. Simply not worth the coverage every week plus there were many other things to watch besides a high school junior fumbling over his own nervous comments. Kyle Chandler seems to be a great choice for the coach, but he is awfully young compared to the coaches I had. When his players run up and down the muddy hill after their loss, I was shocked. We had many rough practices, but running in the rain at 11:00 o'clock on a school night? Coaches constantly going to players' houses? Never would happen.The show has so many clichés almost as if someone "imagined" what high school football would be like, not how it actually is. Even the girls in the pep squad sleeping with all the players? Wow, we had no official hookers in my day. Heck, I am surprised the actors' did not all have mothers and fathers working in the fabled "mill" and about to be layed off. Then again, I have only watched the first six episodes. Where is Uncle Joe, who could have been somebody if only he had not blown out his knee? Is he coming to the show soon? :-)If you played high school football, stay away from this show. If you never played high school football, watch this show knowing it is just a show. None of its plots or characters are based on real people in small Texas towns.


                
