The thing I really love about this show is the wardrobe. It's nice to see what lengths a wardrobe department will take to make sure the situation and people are as real as possible, such as using clothing pieces that the actors have already worn previously in episodes. Also, the acting is fantastic! I mean, the entire point of acting is to be truthful under imaginary circumstances and these actors are wonderful at accomplishing that. It's difficult to watch a show when acting is oh so obvious. I have to say though that I admire the men in this series for capturing the true love of football. I've grown up around football and seeing the same love and dedication to the sport come through in the show (and also the same feeling in the movie) is really a ray of sunshine :) Bravo!


                
What a fantastic show. Yes, football is a huge aspect of this show, but in the way that it's a backdrop rather than the focus for the most part. I like to think of Friday Night Lights as similar to The O.C. and at the same time, completely anti-O.C. The thing about this show is, it deals with some issues that you see all the time on The O.C. - alcoholism, drugs, cheating, high school stuff...and yet, it comes off infinitely ahead of The O.C. It's in the treatment, the way they execute the story lines where the difference is, and that difference is MASSIVE. It's the difference between a guilty-pleasure borderline soap and a sophisticated and earnestly dramatic piece of film-making. This show takes those elements that could be turned into melodramatic/stereotypical clichés, that could be simplified into the escapist world of The O.C., and it manages to wring out every inch of raw emotion and drama out of them. It doesn't put its moments to waste. I really don't think I ever saw a moment of honest, real emotion in The O.C.. Friday Night Lights easily has three powerful and honest moments an episode, if not more. Besides the stuff that is similar to The O.C., the series also tackles more issues like racism, mental disorders, rape, and parent/child relationships. In fact, the two episodes that deal with racism are a great example of how FNL is so great. It showcases a lot of viewpoints from different people inside the show, and while it doesn't solve things completely (just like real life), it certainly shows more insight into the issues than most shows or movies I can think of. If Crash won an Oscar for its simplified and stereotypical view of racists and racism, the complexity in the way FNL deals with the issue should've made it the Best Picture of the century.That's not to say the stories themselves are perfect. When I step back and look back at the season of FNL, yeah, a lot of the story lines can seem at the end of the day overwrought and almost melodramatic. But that's the nature of the story lines. In the moments themselves, they are almost always written believably with perfect dialogue and acting. There are a few moments in the series where a character's turnaround or change of opinion might happen too drastically, but considering the 100 things they do right in every episode, 1 small problem like that per episode is really not much in the long run. There is always a fine line between melodrama and drama when dealing with shows about high school, and FNL hits the dramatic mark more consistently often than nearly anything else on TV or on the silver screen. The other thing is, like I said, FNL has a lot of raw and powerfully emotional moments in it. It wears its heart on its sleeve and some people may mistake that for melodrama. These are characters you care for, that are intensely real - yes, so the girls in the show may be hotter than most, the cast is good-looking, etc...but the root of the characters feels like real people. The actors feel naturalistic, and the breadth of the show is stunning. You feel like this town actually exists somewhere. It's not just about the high school kids either. This show is equally about the parents. This is a show about an entire town, a town that is in love with football, that lives for football because, well, quite simply, most of them have nothing to look forward to except for football. It really nails the closeness and intensity of living in a small town, of everyone knowing everyone, etc. If I had to use one word to describe what I think Friday Night Lights is about, it would be - dreams. This comes to the surface towards the end of the season but its always been there since the beginning. This show is about everyone's dreams, how and what everyone wants out of life, where they wanna go, where they seem themselves in the future. There are people who long for an escape from the town where there's not much of a future (Tyra), there are people with crushed dreams who have to rebuild (Jason and Lyla), there are people who are starting to live their dream (Matt), and there are people who are well on their way to their dream (Smash)...the entire show is about the struggle to follow your dreams and what that is worth. It's one of the best shows on TV and the best show that you're not watching.


                
...the first three episodes and not get hooked. The characters are some of the "realest" I've ever encountered on a TV show. The story lines will suck you in. They made me laugh, they made me cry, they made me bite my nails and yell at the TV during game scenes (and I don't even care about football). Truly, I can't imagine anyone who wouldn't get something out of this show, and in my opinion, most will love it. It's not perfect. There is one plot in Season 2 that seems out of whack with the tone of the show, and Season 4 is predicated on a frankly illogical premise. Over the course of the five seasons, there is the occasional dud subplot. But overall, it is so much better than most TV drama. As a testament, they introduced a raft of new characters in Season 4 and by season's end, I cared as much about them as I did about the original cast. As for that illogical premise, it's best just to go along with it - the show is good enough to make that pretty easy.Another testament to the show is that they had only one full (22 episode) season to work with. I can't imagine what they might have been able to accomplish with full season orders every year.In short, this show lives up to the hype. Do yourself a favor and watch.
I just loved Kyle Chandler as an actor since when I was a kid from the first time I saw him perform on "Early Edition". I'm really glad that he won an Emmy for his role on "Friday Night Lights" as "Coach Taylor". Recently I started to watch "Friday Night Lights" and I just want to say that this is one of the best drama series that I've seen (and believe me when I say this 'cause I've watched lots of series)! It has every aspects of a real life story and it involves the viewer with the lives of all the characters. I wasn't a fan of American football before I watched this drama, but now I really enjoy watching football games. I recommend watching this drama series to anyone who enjoys sports and loves a very close to real life story.


                
I've watched the show from its initial NBC launch throughout its completion along with help from DIRECTV for picking up seasons 4 and 5. Since the show's completion, I've probably marathon watched the series four or five times and for me, I just can't get enough. Sure, people can complain about the shaky "Blair Witch Project-esque" camera work and some dry deliveries as a result of stiff acting in season 1, but once the actors found themselves and the production crew and directors found their vision, everything fell into place alongside what was already a damned-well written first season. For me, the show had a little bit of everything that added up to a whole lot of nostalgia. At the center of the show isn't football, but a football coach and his family facing the harsh realities of Texas football. Add to that the teenage drama that surrounds the football players lives--both on and off the field--and throw in some action- packed, in-game sequences and it's easy to fall in love with the show. If you've grown up in a football town like I have, then you can see how closely art imitates life through the picture painted by FNL. Friday nights are regarded as religiously as Sunday mornings are for Christians in football towns, and the game gets a grip on everyone, encapsulating their lives whether they are fans or not; due to the tradition of competition. The parade's through town after each victory and the dissection of every element of every loss impacts the very environment that surrounds you. You can get swept up in the uproar of celebration and have your heart ripped right out of you at the hands of defeat. The pep-rally's where the students and faculty psyche the team up for the big game, and the rally girls--the REAL rally girls--are at the player's beckoning call. For myself, FNL represents the crossroads where art imitates life, and life initiates art. For that reason, Friday Night Lights--to this viewer--is television at is finest.


                
Friday Night Lights is beautifully written, and has some of the most powerful characters on television right now. Anyone who really dislikes it must have only watched the first episode, because this show started a bit slow, but grew quickly as the season progressed, and became my second favorite show (with LOST being my favorite).Matt Sarascen, played by Zach Gilford, is the quiet sophomore forced to take over the reins of a winning team after a tragic accident. Gilford plays the character wonderfully, making Matt shy and awkward without seeming stupid or inaccessible. Jason Street is the star quarterback who has to deal with a life changing injury, and betrayal by those closest to him. He displays his anger and vulnerability simultaneously, and you find yourself rooting for him as he goes through rehab, and back out into the world. Tim Riggins would be your stereotypical "big, dumb, jock", except that Taylor Kitsch is a brilliant actor. His character struggles with his father, his brother, his girlfriend, his anger, and a drinking problem, but manages to show a sweet side amid all the drama and bitterness.Smash Williams is the star running back who has a hard life, but manages to be funny and endearing anyway. And Coach Taylor is all you could ask for in a coach. Kyle Chandler has formed an amazing character who loves his team, and is determined to help each player, even at the expense of winning.But my favorite part of the show is the women. I would be hard pressed to find another show in which I appreciate the female leads as much as the male characters. Lyla Garrity is the sweet cheerleader girlfriend of Jason who makes a terrible mistake and deals with the repercussions for the rest of the season.Julie is the daughter of Coach Taylor. She's young, slightly rebellious, and her interaction with her father is wonderful. She also becomes Matt's girlfriend, and their relationship is sweet and loving, unlike most teen relationships on TV these days.Tyra Colette and Tami Taylor (the coach's wife) are my two favorite characters. Tyra is unmotivated in school, rather easy, a drinker, and a shoplifter, but her character is nonetheless lovable. She's strong, and determined, and she'll do anything to protect her mother. She dated Tim, and although they had many problems, she was always there for him when he needed someone.The chemistry between Connie Britton and Kyle Chandler, as the coach and his wife, is amazing. They're best friends, confidantes, a loving couple, and great parents. They don't agree on many things, but they love each other and keep their marriage strong through everything. Tami is also the school guidance counselor, and she loves the students, and works well with all of them.This show isn't about the football, although the games are interesting and suspenseful. This is about the characters, and how they struggle and fall, and get back up again with the love of their team, and families. So don't just watch the first episode and write it off. Watch a few episodes, and get to know the characters. I guarantee you'll fall in love.
Nine times out of ten, you turn on your TV to find some Reality TV game show that makes as much sense as having the Jackass guys do a remake of Dallas. Or, worse yet, you get one of ten shows about a psychic solving crime, or some crack crime scene unit that never miss a beat.On that rare tenth time you tune in and find something like Friday Night Lights. From the music, to the acting, to the writing, the show delivers week after week. Friday Night does a great job of building tensions during games and fleshing out complex relationships between them.After dining for so long on questionably written shows, it is refreshing to finally find a show that tells a story about characters.


                
There is a lot of shows on today about adolescents trying to get by in life as they for the first time tackle many of the mature life's pressing issues. Especially since The OC:s extreme success.The thing is, though, that they seem to resemble each other more and more. The intrigues are pretty much the same, the people look pretty much the same and all jokes are closing in on The OC's at an alarming velocity. With the risk of being way too technical, I would say even the lighting is the same orange-yellow, complementing light in every one of the most seen high school shows.This is where Friday Night Light is different. It is about a small, economically depressed town which seem to have only one thing on it's mind and that is their Panthers high school football team. All characters in this town look like real people and the dialogue is as close to reality as it can be. The lighting looks real to and does not always try to do it's best for making the characters look their best. This honesty of the show also reflect itself in the troubles the high school goers face and how they try to solve them.All of this makes you all the more engaged.I haven't said anything about football and honestly, I am not a fan of it. That, however, doesn't matter as the football games are so well tied up with the story that you are completely involved in that game, even if you know nothing about football. Actually, the show is seldom about football but rather about the people involved in it.


                
Personally I loved the show, I thought it was a incredibly accurate portrayal of Texas football (trust me i'm a high school student in Texas). Everyone who doesn't care for the show has one of two reasons. One: they believe the show is based off the move. Not true, NBC simply bought the name, not the story. Two: They complain about the camera shaking. Guess what, if you look at a lot of successful shows, the camera shakes (i.e. the office, arrested development). but really i think if you like the show or not can depend on how your high school was like. If you got beat-up by football players then of course you wont. If your school was more of a baseball, or soccer school then you wont understand it.But if your like me and go to a high school in Texas where Football is king, then you will not only fully understand it, but to'll also love it.


                
The first word that comes to my mind is "realistic".1. Every character was casted perfectly. They found 26 year olds who are not only talented, but can pass for 18 as well. (Possibly, with the exception of Matt Saracen who looks more like a senior than a sophomore) Also, it helps that some of them are nice to look at. 2. It's not sappy. When a character is getting ready to break down or blow a fit, we see them look like they are about to cry--when it goes to a commercial. Some call this the inability to act, but I say that it's excellent directing. Let's face it, who likes to watch people break down and cry on screen, especially the big tough football players? I don't. The director leaves it up to you to understand what is going on, how the character is feeling, and picture the rest of their reaction. That's part why I think this show works so well; by doing this is allows us to explore the depths of each person and not just be spoon fed their emotions. It makes us dig so much deeper into their minds.3. I hate how in movies, there will be tons of extras doing one thing, and then it flashes to the main characters doing something else. But in FNL if you look hard enough, you can see Smash or Riggin's brother, or Tami in a crowd of extras, acting as their character would. Smash is surrounded by guys and girl laughing at him, Tami is talking to some woman, Riggin's brother is alone. I like this because this is what life is really like; the people you know aren't going to be standing off to the side for you, we all blend together with strangers.4. It's adds humor. Just their facial expressions when they are ticked off, or the Coach's reaction when he finds out his daughter is the quarterback in a powder puff game are enough. 5. The plot is lifelike- each person has issues and handles them in a matter that a normal person would. They don't go doing this outrageous (and stupid) things that people normally do on TV. They act like a person would, and I enjoy that because it makes me feel like I'm not alone in my struggles. I know that there is a "conflict" in every story, but if the character's reaction is unrealistic, I can't see it as anymore than a story. In this show, I really connect with the characters. I understood how Smash felt when he was presented with the steroids and I felt Tami's pain when Julie was talking about having sex. I was never in Tami's position either but she was portrayed so accurately, I felt as though I knew her every move. This goes for the rest of the characters as well. I can't find any faults. 10/10
Friday night lights has shaky cameras, so much so that the first episode after the pilot made me a little dizzy. Once you adjust your eyes you will be amazed.This is one of the best shows around. It has survived for a second season despite low ratings because NBC recognises that it is a great show that is beloved by critics and it's fans. The characters are wonderfully crafted. This show can make even the clichéd love triangle an emotional masterpiece. It makes the other teen driven dramas look like a daytime soap. There's a bit of football which is handled phenomenally (especially considering I know nothing about American Football and don't like watching sports).I watch a lot of TV, but this show is one of the few I have gone out of my way to watch and would not miss. Please watch it! Look behind the shaky camera and see the characters relationships with each other. You won't be disappointed.
Perhaps the best drama on television at the moment, wonderful. As a big football fan this is interesting television, however it is not just the football that makes me continue to watch this program every week. the characters are great and are well acted by an mostly unknown and fresh cast. The real life tension and situations both on and off the pitch is well written and in depth. The documentary style camera work may not be to everyones liking but I find it adds to the real life story and pace of the show. When a television program makes you think and care about the characters and in the case of Friday night lights, the outcome of each football game, it proves that the show is compelling and worth watching till the end.


                
I disagree with a lot of the comments about this show being "bad" and the shaky camera work. I would suspect that those who don't like Friday Night Lights would tend to prefer the manufactures, soapy qualities of shows like the O.C. The camera work, while shaky, gives the show the gritty feel required to make the plot work. The episodes are well scripted and the show manages to touch on realistic situations that involve both the pleasant and unpleasant sides of life. I would give the show a chance past the first episode, as the show's plot and complexities really take more than one episode to develop. I think you might find that after watching a few episodes, it would be very difficult to not relate at all to a character, to not find the show to be touching. While it's a lot less high drama than Grey's or the OC, it's intelligent and realistic, and certainly more believable.


                
The best drama on television this year. The way the dialogue and stories run, and the way the scenes are shot - makes you feel like you're an invisible person inside that world, peeking from around the corner at the character's lives. The score gives an ambiance that completes the experience perfectly.This show got better every week over the course of the season; my favorite episode was "Mud Bowl." Lots of character development - each character is flawed is his/her own way. No big names in the cast, but most of the actors are so convincing, it could almost be a documentary.And although the show isn't really about football (football is just the setting), the game scenes are incredible.


                
Sure, all the high school characters are uncharacteristically mature (but nothing at the Dawson's Creek-level) and, sure, everything seems to always work out in the end. But somehow they pull it off, making each hour of television even more adorable and uplifting and feel-good than the one prior. It's like the Haagen Dazs Mint Chip ice cream of television -- sweet and perfect and clean and well-done. The show is filmed like a documentary, and most of the actors seem to embrace the ad-libbing that comes with the film style. Props to the Matt Sarecen character for being so real and bumbling and nervous that it cancels out the more standard, stereotypical characters like Jason Street and Smash and keeps the shows' documentary feel.


                
I am surprised by all of the negative comments surrounding this show. I think that Friday Night Lights is one of the most entertaining and innovative shows to be broadcast in a long time! This television show delves into realms of real life and human emotion that feel so raw and visceral. It is like watching life reveal itself on screen and it's flawed and beautiful just like reality.I think that too many people want television shows that display overly made up characters with too much gloss and soap opera antics and that is why they are so quick to disparage Friday Night Lights while television shows like Grey's Anatomy get audiences that are not deserved. Friday Night Lights goes beyond mere surface and peeks into the human condition; not to mention the fact that Taylor Kitsch is one sexy, dirty piece of eye candy ;). Just give the series a chance. You will not be disappointed.


                
This show has the most brilliantly made pilot ever. It draws you into the story and you cant stop until you're done with the whole season. Most of the characters are very well developed and you're sure to end up associating yourself with one of them. It's also nice to see that the plots give considerable time to everyone in the ensemble. Also not to be missed is a great soundtrack that matches the mood of this show perfectly. Jose Gonzalez with 'Storm' is one song from the soundtrack that I'd recommend. But what I liked most about Friday Night Lights is the atmosphere of the show. A small town in love with football and despite what happens during the week, there's always a game on Friday night. Let's hope season 2 is in the pipeline.


                
Friday Night Lights offers quality programming in a sea of mediocre game shows, reality TV, and overt sexual and violent themes. The acting is top-notch and truly ensemble-quality, much like Grey's Anatomy or ER. These are real people you care about and the story lines are believable, without predictable endings. FNL reflects Texas' true fanaticism with high school football, but it also offers a peek into the lives of real people involved in the game- the coach who doesn't always make the right decision, the supportive but sometimes argumentative wife, players with issues, a fallen quarterback, the slut with a good heart, flawed or absent parents-- characters that could have been written as stereotypes but they aren't--and it draws us into their lives.


                
Having grown up in small-town Texas, I can tell you that Friday Night Lights is real. And real is what many of these stiff-shirt reviewers probably don't like. They want sugar coated sweet little sitcoms and just don't "get it" when it comes to Friday Night Lights. An athlete with a spinal-cord injury, who is coping and dealing with it. Coach Taylor has the high-school coach gig down to a T. From his expressions & mannerisms to his clichéd talk, he's doing a fantastic job. Alcohol issues, teen sex (whether to or not to). Great acting. Great drama. Watch it.
I hate football, plain and simple. I went to a high school where it was huge, and I still hated it. That's why I didn't watch Friday Night Lights when it originally aired. Everyone kept telling me how great it was, so I finally tried it.I was amazed.So many shows (West Wing, 24, Lost, Heroes) focus on people in extraordinary circumstances. But it's shows like Friday Night Lights (and , of course, the Wire) that remind people how great television can be by showing normal people in every day situations. When you see how much stock is put in the Dillon players, and how much stock they themselves put in the sport of football, you realize how important dreams are, even if they have nothing to do with your own. This is the story of people trying to make due with the only path they can see, and coming to terms with the problems they encounter when this path leads them astray. It's so difficult to pick a favorite character in this show. Is it Landry, the geeky best friend of the new quarterback? Is it Riggins, the alcoholic teenager who slowly lets his softer side come through? Is it Julie, the coach's intelligent yet naive daughter? Matt, the new quarterback who's insecure and under immense pressure--both at home and on the field? It might be the central couple- Coach Taylor and his wife Tammy, who share every challenge their new life in Dillon presents together. I don't know, it's all fantastic. What I do know is you'll be saying "Clear eyes, full heart CAN'T LOSE" long after the season finale, and hopefully for many more seasons to come.


                
First, how the camera flows makes this show special, mainstream series from the US usually is captured very boring, but how the colors of Texas is shown and the motion of the camera, is very European...Second, every female in this show is a Goddess (regardless age), they are shown very natural, but they're all beautiful and it shows that they know it. As for the males, I don't know, i guess there's something for every taste there too.Third, Peter Berg, has real grip on the story. The way it's cut up during the season is very original. I'm sure this show will get some verbal beatings in the US, but since American Football is on it's way up in the European countries, this show has in style, story and casting shown a good bit of what goes on in the Friday nights in small town USA.Fourth, the music in this series is not scared of new music, Gilmore Girls and The OC each had good music from upcoming artists, perhaps this show is the new series to dig out the new mega names of the music scene. José Gonzáles, Kasabian, LCD Soundsystem and The Killers to mention a few, all been part of the sound-frame...


                
This show brings it all, drama on and off the field. It has strong character development, throughout season after season. It doesn't stick with one set of actor, develops as the season go with different actors well developed story lines. It has just the right amount of football that it's not repetitive or used as a filler or easily predictable, but enough action that you feel the drama and pressure of the players on the field. This show hooked me from the first episode, till the last without slipping or sacrificing it's fan base with pointless episodes to fill their pockets with money. Great series!


                
I saw the movie and was less than impressed, very mediocre. I thought the same when I saw previews of the show. However, from the first episode, this show has belied expectations. The cast captures the essence of small townspeople. Football is not the focus of the show, but rather the frame which the writers launch from. This allows the characters to breathe while still driving the dramatic tension. Good acting, good writing, good directing (no over the top songs playing for 5 minutes to drive home a point or to hide that there isn't one). Most of all, the show makes you want to see what happens next. And that is the key to good storytelling.


                
I don't know how a show of such high caliber can be so panned on this forum. I have been a fan of FNL only for the last 2 months and got caught up with DVD's and online. I didn't start watching because I thought the movie was a hackjob performed on one of my all-time favorite books and didn't want to see more of the same on the TV show. I couldn't have been more wrong. Bill Simmons on ESPN.com wrote a great article that pretty much sums up my interest in the show. I challenge anyone to watch the first 4 episodes of season 1 and not get hooked.Here's a link to the article that first peaked my interest: http://sports.espn.go.com/espn/page2/story?page=simmons/070919


                
Yes the camera work is a bit distracting, but this show is amazing!!! The writing is realistic and entertaining without falling into the contrived "speak the way that young people speak today" or "adults trying to relate with outdated slang" that seems to plague so many "realistic" shows.The relationships between the characters are sordid, difficult, happy, tender, and meaningful without excessive drama. The cast managed to capture every facet of friendships, romantic entanglements, marriage, coworkers, teammates, and parent/children relationships.The acting is some of the best I've ever seen on film or TV - and I watch a lot of both. As a viewer you feel compelled to hurt when they hurt and celebrate when they celebrate.The characters are more complex that what first seems, whether it's the perfect head cheerleader Lyla Garrity, typical bad-boy jock Tim Riggins, showboating football star on and off the field Smash Williams, or the shy nice guy Matt Saranson. The list goes on and on. There is not one character that is not likable or relatable.Simply put this show is film/television at it's finest.


                
