absolute waste of time, do not get carried away by the overrated reviews. even though the first season is to some extent o.k. the second season is absolute waste of time and effort and absolute meaningless. many episodes are simply ridiculous and what the creators wanted to drive nobody can understand. i hope wisdom prevails and this kind of nonsense should be avoided in future as peoples money and time are very precious. absolute avoidable show. benjamin horne civil war episodes are disgusting.james hurleys drive tour is total waste of time. nadaine character only god can understand. extension of the episodes by introducing windom earle character is meaningless.


                
I literally could not force myself to watch the entire first (pilot) episode (I watched most of it - about an hour - before I turned it off). Here's why: (1) - slow, slow, SLOW-moving story (2)- all of the characters are very odd - like in the movie "Fargo" - but not humorous like in that movie (3)- several of the characters are anachronistic - dress and act like characters from a 50s or 60s movie (both - some are 50s, some are 60s, most are modern-day). Perhaps this was an attempt at humor? It failed miserably. (4)- the high school students - which play an important role in the show - all appear to be in their mid-20s. Not done in a humorous way. (5)- inappropriate music. I don't mean that the music is adult; I mean that it is as quirky as the characters, typically not fitting either scene or plot. Again: not funny.There are movies, shows and books that have included "out of place" things (characters, actors, music) in a very humorous way. The movie "Fargo" is an excellent example. This is not. In this series, we have out-of-place characters, out-of-place actors, and out-of-place music all done in a way that is neither humorous nor entertaining. The frustratingly-slow pace of the show seals the deal. One of the worst shows it has ever been my misfortune to waste my time watching.
I can't understand why so many peoples praised this show. Twin peaks is one of the most boring titles I have ever seen in my life.Now I have seen all season 1 episodes, and seeing season 2 episode 1. Simply I can't take this show anymore.1) Where is the proper induction in criminal investigation?In season 1, there was a scene that agent Cooper throws stones to a bottle. Can you guess why he did that? He just want to identify murderer by doing this 'joke' while mentioning supernatural ability given by Tibet dream. Wow!!!2) There are too many unnecessary scenes in this show.For example, season 2 started with a 'funny' scene that a dumb old man serves agent Cooper with a cup of milk while Cooper are laying down on the floor.( He got the gun shoots in his belly already. ) This old man is doing nothing but saying some dumb comments. That's all.This scene is really boring and even long ( 3 min 30 sec.... It's like Hell. )I would read some comic books rather than see this show anymore.
I don't know what is it with people and old 'classic' shows that they feel obligated to rate so high, sure for some old folks this kinda shows brings back memories, but does it mean it's worthy of a high rate like 8.9 ? in my opinion absolutely not. i'm a fan of classic stuff , and some of you may say you should not be so hard on the shows like this, because well they're really old. that is simply not a good argument, x files was old too and i loved it, twin peaks is dull and not even remotely scary.this show is consisted of a dull storyline, unfit music and stupid actors who have no idea of how they should act, all these elements and much more that i can't recall right now makes this show a cheap attempt to what i don't know, if their purpose was to make a horror series i have to say they failed big time, throughout the show i felt everything but horror, even laughing occasionally occasionally.


                
This was the most painful show to watch. It was so incredibly boring and poorly written. The background music made it a million time worse. I could not bare to even finish the first season. I have no idea how this show is rated so high. If I could give this show negative stars I would!


                
After seeing the rating and reviews of other users I felt like downloading the serial. At the start it seemed interesting. But gradually as the episodes went by it seemed the story was about all the characters displayed in the serial including a log. There was no focus on one single subject.In displaying multiple stories the serial just went round and round making it bore and irritating. The end was just more than enough to take for. Not really understood whether it is mystery or spiritual. Please do not waste your time in watching this serial. My rating at start would have been 7. But sorry now it is 1.The end made it all for the reviews.


                
There is nothing unique in either the TV Series nor the Movie. Which is a prequel to the TV Show, that isn't found everywhere else in life and entertainment. Both before David Lynches disgusting style of story telling, and after. From the Moment the body of a poor misguided girl washed up on the beach. And being introduced to some of the most mind numbing shady immoral character of the Twin Peaks.To the Mind numbing almost pedophilia disgusting way the movie seems to romantically tell of the destruction of a Human Life through some random psychedelic phenomena in the Movie Twin Peak:Fire Come Walk with me. I watched it all just to make sure I wasn't missing anything. I didn't. It's is simply one mans obvious sexual fetish extended over long series fallowed by a ridiculous overly pornographic movie. Save your self the agony the suspense and watch anything else that at least has the ability to tell a story, rather then seduce you into some kind mental porn movie.I have heard a lot of reviews, rants and raves about how great David Lynch. Because of his ability to define misery and and tragedy and making it into some kind of a wonderful thing. This is not life imitating art, as much as it is some sick twisted version of art doing its best to inspire complete mindless life.Do yourself a favor and avoid this garbage.
Another pretentious effort from over-rated Lynch. The series goes nowhere and all the build up is nonsense. Twin Peaks is over-rated and stiff performances make this a not very good watch for people who like good stories. There's not one episode that is entertaining. The Laura Palmer case is not worth watching, is not told well, and the series is just a riff off much better stories and films.


                
I am a big fan of David Lynch's works and had huge expectations from Twin Peaks.The story captures you at the beginning and you can feel the mystery as you expected, but afterward it turns into a circus.The problem is the storyline feels like they came up with some ideas in a night or two and started directing with the materials they put on paper.What kills the story is:Too many side stories which are going nowhereToo many filler characters and dialoguesDesire of connecting everything to each other, but forgetting this is a small town(For instance; Donna finding out the fact that her father is someone else or James is leaving the town but ends up in a criminal act which has nothing to do with the story.)David Lynch acting as an agent with hearing loss. This character was so annoying and far away from being funnyToo many mysterious cases like a fruit salad(Agent does not hear anyone but Shelly or Dale Cooper's nemesis shows up and surprisingly he is also into the mystery. Plus he has a connection with the Major and on)The characters are cool with supernatural cases and the way pieces are connected is so weak.The final statement: This is a very promising series which is not matured enough to be aired. It deserves a clean 7, but the rating is really exaggerated by the fans that I felt like I need to bring the balance. The white/black lodge thing. You know what I'm saying...
A swing and a miss in every capacity. The most misguided soundtrack I've ever heard. Jazz with detective stories is as good as it gets. Unfortunately this jazz sounds like a fourth grade swing band interrupting the show at all times, accompanied by the sappiest synth music ive ever heard and the show is unwatchable because of it. Also, David Fincher is overrated as can be.


                
Dumbest show I ever saw, and that inludes such dogs as My Mother the Car, Mr. Ed., Rosemary's Baby, The Collector, Last Tango in Paris, and Who's Afraid of Virginia Wolff.


                
