Angelo Badalamenti's sweet theme begins as smokestacks billow, and a robin assures the viewer of the presence of love in a little town located through the pines, just this side of sanity...or reality. Either way you choose to look at it (and the choice is yours), every episode of this groundbreaking television show grabbed the viewer in its seductive and destructive web... and wouldn't let go. "Twin Peaks" began a string of weird television shows in the early 90's, but, unlike those later shows, "Twin Peaks" would be beloved and remembered long after it was off the air. "Twin Peaks" has earned a spot next to "The Twilight Zone", "Night Gallery", and "Star Trek" in terms of pioneering television and in terms of a cult following deserving of conventions and fanzines. I believe that F.B.I. Special Agent Dale Cooper is one of the most enjoyable and inspiring characters in television history. His simple passions and quirky behavior was a welcomed sight in our living rooms every week during the shows very short run in the late 80's and early 90's. "Twin Peaks" started out on fire, gaining exposure during the pilot's multiple airings. The mystery of Laura Palmer's murderer practically invented conversations at the water cooler. However, the shows second season was scheduled to air on Saturday nights at 10:00, an advertiser's no-man's land. And, with the shows fan base out on the late weekend nights, the shows network decided to cancel it. David Lynch, the shows co-creator, directed a theatrically released film prequel to "Twin Peaks", showing all who missed the shows airings what really happened to Laura the week of her death, and, finally, her killer. As a huge fan of "Twin Peaks", I will tell you that the circle of events that occur within the story enable the viewer to relive the events over and over, each time around with more intensity than before. When you view the movie prequel, diving right back into the series becomes the natural path, allowing one to see things again for what they really are... or aren't. I highly recommend owning the entire series. Without a network messing up your viewing time, you can see the mystery unfold at your own pace. Viewing "Twin Peaks-Fire Walk With Me", along with the television pilot and the entire 29 episode series (about 33 hours all together), is the most fascinating and satisfying viewing experience that the entertainment industry has offered me so far. The music, costumes, editing, acting, and direction all received Emmy nominations, leading one to conclude that "Twin Peaks" not only satisfied the public, but the critics as well. An incredible achievement, "Twin Peaks" is my all-time favorite television show.


                
Possibly one of the best TV dramas ever, "Twin Peaks" managed to be a challenging and unique (not to mention intelligent) piece of television.Daring and provocative, it shattered the boundaries of most standard soap operas/TV dramas.Terrified of it by a child (and in particular by BOB) I have since returned to it on DVD, only to find myself just as terrified and intrigued by it as I was when I was twelve years old and crouching behind my late grandmother's couch.A piece of groundbreaking television history... WATCH IT


                
Nowadays it is commonly accepted that American television is becoming better than movies, with edgier stories and more complex characters, both in mainstream (CSI, 24, Lost) and cable shows (The Sopranos, Six Feet Under, Deadwood). Twenty years ago, on the other hand, such a thing was unthinkable, at least until Twin Peaks aired.Created by David Lynch and Mark Frost, the series takes its name from a small American town where a grisly murder has been committed. The victim is local beauty Laura Palmer (Sheryl Lee), a girl who seemed to have a perfectly normal life, only it turns out that's not the case: she had a lot of secrets, and in one of them lies the key to finding her killer. That assignment is given to Special FBI Agent Dale Cooper (Lynch regular Kyle MacLachlan), who quickly earns the trust and friendship of Sheriff Truman (Michael Ontkean) and the rest of Twin Peaks'inhabitants thanks to his extraordinary deductive methods and fascination for the calm and peace around him. And he is going to need all the help he can get, as Laura's murder is just one of the many odd things causing trouble in the heavenly surroundings: there's Benjamin Horne (Richard Beymer) and his dangerous connection with a casino/brothel known as One-Eyed Jack's; there's his daughter Audrey (Sherilyn Fenn), whose interest in Agent Cooper might put her in a worse situation than she thinks; there's the dispute over the Packard sawmill between Catherine Martell (Piper Laurie) and Josie Packard (Joan Chen); and there are the bizarre creatures who populate Cooper's dreams, people like The Man From Another Place (a backwards-talking dwarf, played by Michael J. Anderson) or the terrifying Bob (Frank Silva), suggesting that most of the events in Twin Peaks may not have a rational explanation.Back in 1990, a series like this had never been done before, so its success was a little unexpected (sadly, ratings dropped during the second season, leading to the show's premature cancellation). Now it can be seen as an anticipation of that great TV creation that is HBO: the dead interacting with the living (Six Feet Under), ambiguous characters and even more ambiguous relationships between them (Deadwood), a consistent balance between moving and funny, beautiful and shocking (The Sopranos), the seeds of all those elements can be found in Twin Peaks, a show that didn't hesitate when it came to playing with the format or crossing the line in terms of mature content (death, drug abuse, rape) or on-screen violence (the ending of Episode 8, where one of the villains is shown at the peak of his abilities, is still one of the most audacious scenes ever shown on mainstream television). More than any other series, it represents the seamless merger of big and small screen, a fact that is underlined by Lynch's decision to further explore the story in a feature film after the last episode had aired. Fans of the visionary filmmaker will find plenty of his recurring themes, some a direct reference to his previous works (the ugliness lying underneath the apparent perfection, as seen in Blue Velvet), others a hint of things to come (the duality of Lost Highway and Mulholland Drive, here embodied by Lee, who plays both the deceased Laura and her cousin).As always with the Eraserhead director, the acting is exceptional: MacLachlan and Lee are the standouts, the former playing his best role to date, a cunning combination of palpable vulnerability and impeccable wit, the latter shining with a double performance that should have been the beginning of a great career (alas, apart from a minor role in John Carpenter's Vampires, she hasn't done much since). The supporting cast (Ontkean, Laurie, Lara Flynn Boyle and Ray Wise in particular) adds depth and emotion, making some episodes the most affecting ever seen on a TV screen. As for the guest stars, not all of them are well known, but every single one brings something special to the series: the most notable cameos include a then unknown Heather Graham, a pre-X-Files David Duchovny (a quite funny and ironic contrast to Fox Mulder) and Lynch himself as a half-deaf FBI Regional Chief (one of the show's best characters).Those interested in American TV simply have to give Twin Peaks a look: it might be too weird or unsettling for some (but then again, that's always the case with Lynch's work), but it remains a landmark in contemporary television, and played a vital role in making the US small screen what it is today.


                
The opening credits and music grabbed me right away. That sad, cool, reflective music. The log being cut in the mill. The bird.This is a show that you know, as you are watching it, that it is special and destined to become a classic. What a wonderful memory. One of my favorite moments in the first episode is Andy crying, and later telling the girl not to tell the sheriff. It really brought humanity to Laura's death.Can't wait to one day own the whole series on DVD, and one summer night, start watching the episodes one by one.Another amazing aspect of the opening episode is the many types of characters and settings involved, just within the town of Twin Peaks. The school, the lodge, the sheriff office, the lake, the railroad tracks. It was almost as if several shows and genres were evident in one episode. Something for everyone. But it still tied together so amazingly.


                
Twin Peaks, much like David Lynch's own Mulholland Drive and Blue Velvet, among other great works of his, examines the main notion, idea and scope behind what it is meant to conventionally be. Twin Peaks is a murder-mystery show, yes, but this is not even scratching the surface as an identifying measure to say what the show is. Another explanation, as if it were possible, is that it is ABOUT mystery, and in the case of murder of life. That might seem a little too preachy or didactic, but as one goes deeper into the series, and deeper into the Black Lodge, and deeper into every single backwards-ass character on the show, a pattern emerges. Abstractions are Lynch's life blood, and even in the weirdest moments of the show he and Mark Frost, along with their writers and directors, make Twin Peaks a collection of abstractions, but at the same time making them as much as possibly within reach of human emotion. It's one of the rare times that the kind of artful penetration into what is essentially good, essentially evil, and even essentially gray-in-area in human beings that usually presides in cinema is let out, practically in each episode, like some kind of feverish worm that crawls in your mind and won't stop...Maybe it's the owls.But aside from the many, many, many layers to the show, to the dynamics between FBI Agent Cooper (Kyle MacLaughlin in his most recognizable role) and those he relates to everyday as well as in his dreams and Tibetan-inspired visions (the classic being the quintessential dream with the garbled-talking little-person), the teenagers with their own plots of neuroses and dramas and higher ambitions and darker demons, as well as those you'd least expect- the quiet ones- not to mention the ones residing on top in the little crevices we dare not usually seek out in small towns (i.e. the prostitution ring fronted by Mr. Horne), it's just a damn-well entertaining program. It's a superlative crossbreeding of the kind of inimitable melodrama that has the immediate feel of a soap-opera, but far more intelligent in the scope of acting and writing, and the classic absurdities that come up in the best of Lynch's work. Meaning that it will work, more or less, for two different audiences.Fans of Lynch's will drink it up like damn-good coffee the endless quirks that become commonplace, where characters in any other show would get little no-note roles like the secretary Lucy, or the psychologist Jacobi, or even a classic nut-bar like the Log-Lady, who has the claim that the log is really her dead husband. This, plus enough dream sequences, elaborate lighting and set-design schemes, and the outrageous characterizations make it vintage Lynch/Frost work. For the other crowd, those who don't usually watch Lynch's movies and are more of just the regular TV potatoes, the series has an appeal for its more genuine side, the one that stays true to the ideas and dramatic tensions behind the characters. Even when it gets too weird, and especially in season 2 the feeling starts to get stronger and more nagging, one can't really totally pull away from it, like as if some old man with an old storybook was reading out something almost certifiable, but intriguing all the same. Laura Palmer's death brings out what her life was all about, and really what anyone connected to her is all about; there's an appeal to find out what's behind the lives of others, especially when it balances out between light and dark tendencies.On top of this, the acting is par for the course top-notch. MacLaughlin, it seems could play this guy in his sleep after a while, and it doesn't take too long in the first season to get past his own odd-sense of awareness (and his regular reliance on dreams and visions) to get closer to solving the dreaded case of Laura Palmer. It's hard for me to think of any one performance that would be a bad one to knock-off, as even the more ludicrous ones- based on their characters- are played as believable as possible. Memorable guest appearances, however, are attributed to the likes of Michael Parks (known from the Tarantino/Rodriguez movies), David Duchovny (an excellent, far cry from Mulder) Frank Silva (as the one who, well, I won't say too much about him), and Lynch himself as the FBI regional chief who's a little hard of hearing. So much can be seen as the blackest of comedy, by turns very sudden and otherworldly and just plain strange (a signing and dancing Mr. Palmer and rows and rows of donuts just bits of what's in store), and it is often very funny. But there's also much in the way of what makes for the best TV: you want to keep watching each week, or now as is the case back to back on DVD, to see how this will turn out, however f***ed up it might get. Simply, it has something, if only in parts, for everybody/So get yourself some pie and coffee, make sure to speak backwards and forwards again, and don't underestimate the power of a giant with some clues on hand. Twin Peaks is a world of secrets unveiled, and secrets that maybe shouldn't be unveiled yet sought after, and there's enough to keep fans talking for years to come as one of the great 'cult' show in modern TV.


                
Twin Peaks... a very famous series - that really deserves all the praise it gets!The story begins as special FBI agent Dale Cooper (perfectly impersonated by Kyle MacLachlan) comes to the little town of Twin Peaks to investigate the murder of the local beauty queen, Laura Palmer.As the series proceed, Laura's killer is eventually found and the main plot line turns and twists to eventually end in a place where you would never expect it to be...Twin Peaks begins as a crime story with quite a lot of comical moments, the picturesque characters of this little town where everybody knows each other are very nicely sketched out and developed in a very interesting way, most of them having quite a lot of secrets, thus providing secondary story lines that come and go, more or less intertwined with the main one.As the story proceeds, the comical tone slowly fades away, slight touches of sci-fi and paranormal events come in and as you grow more and more fond of all those lovely people of Twin Peaks, a much darker and intriguing plot comes to the surface, dipping the whole series into an ever more and more mysterious and sometimes even scary atmosphere...And there suddenly comes the final episode. Of course, everyone expects the final episode to be something special, but no one could expect THIS! I will not get into the details of the story so as not to include any spoilers, but the final episode is a must see! It is a must see! Never ever in my life have I witnessed such an ending!!! surprising, unhappy, happy, good, bad... the ending of Twin Peaks is far beyond that. The only word I can find to describe it is ABSOLUTELY AND UTTERLY NEGATIVE, not leaving the faintest little spark of hope... I was still schocked by the end even a couple of hours after having seen it and still feel somewhat uneasy just recalling it... I admire the person (D. Lynch and M. Frost) who got the idea and - most importantly - had the guts to write a finale like that...See if you have the guts...See how far you can go...See if you can cope with Twin Peaks...A must see!
"Twin Peaks" must be the best TV series of all time, since even today, 20 years after its first run, there is still nothing like it. This is the strange little town where black coffee, cherry pie, red curtains, the smell of Douglas firs and an ancient evil presence make heaven an interesting place. And of course, "there's always music in the air"<U+0085>This truly unique blend of mystery, comedy and horror with surreal undertones and deeper layers of symbolism manages to be hilarious, touching and disturbing all together. The music, characters, dialogues and story lines, the visually arresting sequences, the unmistakable directorial approach - everything about the series is so "out of this world". Peculiar and timeless, the mysteries of "Twin Peaks" are irresistible and open to interpretation.


                
After watching this show I just had to write a review so here's my 1st one!I didn't know what to expect of this, I remember the music of this when I was a child and that was about it. In the first few minutes of the pilot with Lauras death I was thinking it was going to be a serious typical US 80s Knightrider type show. Boy was I wrong! The quirks of this show is its ability to use various styles of acting and get you gripped with its twists and plots of its storyline. The characters personalities are intriguing and you may soon start interests for them and wondering what will befall them next along with a lot of strange, exciting and twisted things that would happen, not forgetting the humour of which there is a lot of not all obvious. David Duchovny in his Denise outing was a source of a lot of fun!Two things for me I found worked effectively, I was genuinely scared of that 'Bob' character, especially in one of his introduction visions where he crawls from a door over the carpet and over the sofa to Lauras mother which was very creepy even at 27yrs! The other thing was the brilliant and very disturbing piece of acting when Maddy was being beaten/raped/killed by Leyland/Bob and the switch between the two characters when she was being attacked really turned me and made me think of the reality that there are some people like that out there that get sick pleasure out of the last few desperate moments of someones life and a glimpse of what they are actually feeling. I really felt what was being put across there and it scared me..Personally, the Laura story ended at the wrong point in the middle of the 2nd series, maybe it would have been better being a full series, apparently Frost and Lynch were forced to end it sooner than they wanted due to network pressures. Even though the rest of the episodes weren't as gripping but it still had LOADS to offer before it was snapped at its neck. Current shows that seem to regularly end after the 1st series definitely could learn something out of this wonderful piece of film.There are lots of familiar faces from contemporary acting seen here in their earlier days, I was surprised to see Don Davis (General Hammond from Stargate SG-1), David Duchovny from X-Files, Billy Zane and the lead, Kyle MacLachlan also spring to mind. Overall one of the best and most enjoyable shows I have ever watched, including some fine acting especially by Kyle MacLachlan, and God doesn't Leyland with him evil grin just make you cringe! Favourite was Nadine for purely humorous reasons! lol
Created by David Lynch(director of "Eraserhead" and "The Elephant Man") and Mark Frost, "Twin peaks" combines drama, comedy and mystery with some elements of supernatural horror in a unconventional, impressive manner.The story follows the investigations the agent Dale Cooper to solve the mysterious murder of a beautiful and beloved girl, Laura Palmer, who is seemed as a role-model by almost everyone in the town of Twin peaks. However, things aren't what it seem in "Twin Peaks" and no one is who pretends to be. Many dark secrets of almost all the characters are revealed in every episode, but always in a fascinating, intriguing way. This show caught me since the first episode, until the surprising, disturbing and impressive last episode. This is one of the most artistic TV-shows ever made. All the characters are unique and the performances are great. The music made by Angelo Badalamenti, is great as the show, giving a unique feeling. Many shows tried (like "Lost") tried to be like this one. But for me at least, it never won't be any shows like this. This is a must-see for everyone.
I have not seen the DVD so my comments are based primarily on the VHS version of the show. First off: due to way the series was released on VHS the series pilot was expanded and altered for the theatrical release, so in order to see the entire series you have to watch the two hour movie, but not be taken in by the ending. The series itself was a refreshing blast of cold air in the midst of the insipid dreck that TV programing usually presents. I am always delighted by the truly warped mind of this twisted auteur, and this show is very much why. The cast is excellent. Twin Peaks itself, the town and it's people appear at first as very ordinary, but as is the case in many small towns there is a lot hidden behind the facade. I was especially taken with Special Agent Dale Cooper (Maclachlan) who is anything but your typical Hooveristic FBI agent. Michael Ontkean is his perfect foil as Shreiff Harry S. Truman. I could go on and on, but I think it were time better sent if you were watching the series, 29 wonderful hours all told. A super cast, a story that twists and turns more than a hair pin road, and the haunting theme music make this a TV and film classic. Warning: not for small children, say under twenty. Or over sixty. (OK sixty five tops).


                
"Twin Peaks" was a fantastic show that was quite experimental for its time (1990-1991) that at it's worst was better than most everything else on TV. I wish the show could have survived longer, but with an awful second season time slot - Saturday at 10pm - it had no chance. The revelation of Laura Palmer's killer took the wind out of the sails somewhat just nine shows into the second season, but the true theme of Twin Peaks was about the evil in the woods that took the form of the killer and the seamy underbelly of what appeared to be everyday small-town life. The murder of Laura Palmer was just the surface of that. Three somewhat pointless episodes followed the one that revealed Laura's killer, but then the show bounced back with the Windham Earle storyline. Unfortunately many viewers had stopped watching the show by then. Perhaps the lasting legacy of "Twin Peaks" is that it made series with weird subplots, long story arcs, and oddball characters more acceptable to the networks. For example, I don't think that "The X-Files" could have made it to the air in 1993 had it not been for "Twin Peaks" preceding it and succeeding. After all, after a show where there is a dwarf that materializes on a bed, dances, and talks backwards, an alternate reality where clones are created and sent out to the world, and creamed corn as a symbol of suffering, the adventures of Scully and Mulder look as thematically tame as Dragnet. Highly recommended.


                
Twin Peaks is quite simply a Tour De Force. It's a term I am hesitant to use. It's a term that seems to be thrown around quite often when talking about something popular. However trust me when I say that Twin Peaks fully deserves the honor of being called a Tour De Force. The show is like nothing I have ever witnessed in my 25 years of life on this earth. I'm quite sure the experience I had watching it for the first time is a feeling I will never feel again. It's type of love that is only experienced once or twice in a life time. That one single piece of TV, book music or what ever, that completely opens the flood gates of your mind to senses you never you even knew existed. The type of feeling you will spend the rest of your life trying to feel again, even though you know you never will. That's what Twin Peaks has done to me. It captured my imagination and permanently branded it self inside my brain. It is the most bittersweet moment of TV history for me ever.Twin Peaks takes place in the sleepy logging town of<U+0085> well Twin Peaks. When The home coming queen and the towns favorite sweet heart Laura Palmer is brutally murdered Special Agent Dale Cooper of the F.B.I. is brought in to investigate and solve the crime. However, The Murder or Laura Palmer is nothing more then a vehicle for the writers of the show to explore the deepest of human emotion and intrigue. The most Purest of hearts and the most darkest of Evil. Like an Onion each layer pealed back only leads you to more tears and even more question. But at no point during the shows run do you feel like the writers are just stringing you along for the sake of making a drama. No Cliffhanger is unearned and no answers is without its consequence. Like any good story its multiple layers can be viewed from almost any angle. The core murder mystery is enough to drive any viewer forward and for those who enjoy digging and dissecting threw plot points and foreshadowing Twin Peaks will reward you with jewels and diamonds you never even knew existed.Sadly the show was canceled after only 2 seasons. do to the fact of ABC feeling uncomfortable with such an out there show like Twin Peaks. My recommendation for any first time watchers is, stick with it! The pilot can be a little slow to some and it's universe its introducing can seem down right ridiculous. However I promise by the end of episode 3 you will be doing just as I did my first time watching. Leaping out of your chair screaming "WHAT THE F**** IS GOING ON IN THIS SHOW!?" It will have you. You will want to know more and see more. It will go with you to bed at night and rise with you in the morning.In closing Twin Peaks is a amazing work of American TV. Even in the year 2010 I promise you it will be nothing like you have seen before and by the finale episode you too will be cursing the corporate god's of ABC for not allowing such a thought provoking and mesmerizing show the chance it deserved. In short<U+0085> you'll love it. Now, how about a nice hot cup of coffee?


                
If I had one vote only to select the best television serial ever this would probably be the one. Why I would do it is because Twin Peaks does not have lame moments or lame characters at all; everything just works in its own sheer weight, note perfectly. The story could be like any ordinary crime story but the twists in the plot will distort everything into something that seems weird but looks so real; it's all psychologically so catchy that you must have more of this all the time.It has already passed some time since this was seen in television but now as another young generation has probably never seen this before I can guarantee that it will make it all happen again. Even those older ones who still fragmentarily remember the events and the twists will find the serial exciting as ever. It doesn't matter even if you know the solution in the end, what is real turns into surreal and it will put you to watch this for another time.It's all scary, funny, intelligent, erotic and weird but nothing in excess. And the music. Nothing is so well balanced enjoyment as this.


                
This is crazy! Weird, it definitely is, but what else do you expect from Fincher. I just finished the episode where we find out, ostensibly i should say cause I have no idea where this is going, who the actual killer is (Laura's Father). I am seriously enjoying this and it totally holds up as one of the great TV dramas of all time. If anybody can tell me without giving anything away if all the questions are answered at the end I'd be very grateful. Frankly, in this age of never ending twists and turns I'd really like every question I have to be answered, not meaning it has to be a happy ending, just that we aren't left wondering when plot twists go nowhere (a la JJ Abrhams). Although I haven't even finished this series yet, although I'm almost done thanks to the convenience of Netflix, I would still recommend this to anyone who appreciates good TV.
I remember when Twin Peaks first aired in Belgium, I was 12 years old and couldn't watch it yet because it was on too late, but I was always listening to the music while I was in my bed and my dad was watching it in the living room. (sometimes insomnia does pay off!) It enchanted me already back then and when I finally got to watch it 3 years later, I enjoyed it as much as I'd expected.I love Lynch a lot, especially because everything he makes puts you in a different state of mind. His teamwork with Mark Frost and Angelo Badalamenti, who did the wonderful music, was fantastic, perfect for the time as there was nothing else on TV that was interesting. This series takes you away: every time I watch it (and that's at least once a year) I feel like I'm there. The atmosphere in this little town surrounded by woods is something that is quite rare in TV and even cinema. The characters have many dimensions, their good and bad sides are being shown. This is more common for series and movies nowadays, it wasn't back then. Still there is something about Twin Peaks that made it stand the test of time... 25 years old and as good as ever, probably because this show is a flawless mix of different styles: horror, parody, nostalgia, mystery, humour and more, which makes it completely original.Of course, the storyline isn't perfect and maybe some of the character plots are a bit redundant, especially in the second season, but who cares? The quality of most of the story is excellent enough to transcend that! Not to mention the perfect casting, acting, directing, editing, costume design and so on.And yes, it is really worth it to watch the second season. The final episode is the best and scariest episode of any series I've ever seen!


                
It all starts the way we remember the film, but we soon are going to be lost in translation, we are going to lose our memory and we are bound to loosen our minds into something that sounds like derangement. And we find out in the final "Lost and Found" that some lines were dropped along the way that would have made the surreal aspect even deeper, darker and bleaker.A long bloody series of killings one after the other brings a federal Special Agent, a certain Dale Cooper, into the picture of this panoramic and flabbergasting mountain-scape from upland Wasington at the very border to Canada. And we wonder why a great film director decided to become the director – and creator – of a TV series. And we do not know, and we cannot know, and the concerned director could not even know himself. He felt the impulse, he needed some extra money, or he wanted to discover some new territory. But who cares anyway.This series produced in 1990-1991 and followed by the film "Twin Peaks, Fire Walk With Me" in 1992 opened completely new territories and trails in TV art, because TV can be an art. First it completely dropped the autonomous episode syndrome and the whole series is but one story that cannot be considered as sliced up in episodes that would be autonomous one from the other. Each episode ends up with a strong at times melodramatic, most of the type pretty dramatic last touch that is supposed to create fear and to call for anxiety and expectation. And it is not simply what Stephen King recalls about the special teenage matinée films in the old days with one serial character, with one unified episode each week, and yet each one ending right in the most atrociously suspenseful event, like a cliffhanger just losing his grip two thousand feet over the firm ground at the foot of the cliff, but after concluding his business of the week just before. In the case of this series that suspenseful last touch is in fact opening a new can of worms that is an amplification of the very episode and yet forcing us to lose all our certainty about what has happened in this episode, hence throwing our minds into disbelief and doubt about the whole story line and what could come next. This suspense does not require us to suspend our disbelief. It creates in our consciousness absolute disbelief about any hypotheses or conclusion we might have come to. And sure enough from a simple detective story, a banal crime story or even a lackluster serial killer story we move to a vengeance story, a ghost story, a supernatural story, a fantastic dark fantasy of a story that never stops going beyond the margin and limits of natural circumstances.This series has had many descendants, many children and grandchildren, from "Lost" to "Supernatural" or all the mini series produced by Stephen King or other people in the same line. As such David Lynch has opened up a real can of real rodent bugs that are haunting us, gnawing at our guts and munching our vitals with teeth of steel.The present Gold Box Edition is particularly welcome because the modern definition of our screens and the wide size of these screens being what they are, this product that was done for low definition and small screens becomes magical. The editor of the set goes as far as giving us, at the very end some small scenes that were deleted, supposedly lost and miraculously retrieved, precisely in the low definition of the time and we can remember the fuzziness of these pictures, though at the time it was less visible because the screens were so small that the pixels were nearly microscopic. We thus can enjoy the rich setting slightly overcrowded with props and detail, the encumbered movements and actions that find all their power and force in today's technical conditions, all for our best enjoyment.But does it mean anything?I am afraid not. I can't really tell you the end, but let's say it is becoming common today, especially after the last volume of the "Dark Tower" series by Stephen King in which the last page of the seventh and chronologically last volume is word for word the same as the first page of the very first volume. David Lynch is a lot more complex than just repeating the first scene of the first episode in the last scene of the last episode, but altogether it is the same pattern. Life is eternal because it repeats itself. Life is deadly, fatal, lethal, because it can start all over again just after death has struck. The only deeper reflection you may get out of this series is that nature is beautiful, man, (and woman) is a dirty littering filthy polluting animal but deep deeper deepest in this world the polluter always gets it right bang in their faces. There is always a pine weasel that can bite your nose. Apart from that it is pure entertainment and story telling, even if at times the story telling is kind of twisted and far-fetched.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU
The series opens with the body of local beauty Laura Palma being discovered and one could be forgiven that this was going to be another routine murder mystery. There are the expected strange clues such as a letter hidden under the girls nails linking it to a previous crime... which might lead one to think it is a serial killer drama. The local sheriff's department call in the FBI and Agent Dale Cooper is dispatched to town; he is to become the series' protagonist. He starts out investigating the death as he would any other but it isn't long before things turn strange; he has a strange dream that is some how more than a dream and people see a strange man know as Bob. As the investigation continues we learn more about Laura's life and discover that she wasn't as innocent as people thought and was mixed up with some dangerous people; that doesn't mean it was one of them who killed her though. The series is about much more than a murder investigation; it also follows the lives of those affected by it and those around them. There are many subplots involving the personal relationships of the people and their general lives.This series deserves to be considered a cult classic; creator David Lynch does a great job bringing his strange world to the screen; nothing here is quite normal... even the things that appear to be are just slightly off; for example even though the film is set in the present (at the time it was made) it has a '50s feel to it; as though the town was somehow in the wrong time! The acting from the main cast was spot on; especially Kyle MacLachlan who plays Agent Cooper, Michael Ontkean who plays Sheriff Harry Truman and Sherilyn Fenn who played the sultry Audrey Horne, one of Laura's friends. It isn't the question of who killed Laura Palmer that makes the series so fascinating, that gets solved early in the second season; it is discovering little details about the characters as the series progresses and when it ends you will either be tearing your hair out in frustration or thinking you've just seen something great... or possibly both!


                
I was always a bit young to watch Twin Peaks back in 1990, and at 5 Years old, obviously, I wasn't too interested in it. But over the course of the past few years I have managed to get my hands on the DVD's, and after watching The second Episode of Season 1, I was glued to the TV, mainly because of the Horror part of the show, The murder of Laura Palmer, Bob, LMFAP, The Giant, Mike, and The Waiting Room were my main interest. I wished this had not ended after only 2 Seasons. The show had always been about Laura Palmer since the Pilot Episode, but gradually throughout Season 2, some story lines were just steering away from the main point of the show, which I was disappointed in. But managed to get back to the point at the last 2 episodes of the series which I was happy with.They simply don't make shows like this anymore, but had David Lynch got the rights to make a season 3 and filled in all the gaps and cleared up all those unanswered questions, Twin Peaks would have got the recognition it deserves.If you've seen this, My advice is watch the movie, "Fire Walk With Me", which was a Prequel to the series which somehow clears up most unanswered questions, but not all.Unpredictable, weird, scary, and some scenes of comedy. Twin Peaks was one of the best series I have ever seen.


                
In a time when sitcoms, cop shows and medical dramas culminated, David Lynch and Mark Frost managed to change the face of television forever with their groundbreaking cult TV show Twin Peaks.The recipe was simple. They subverted the nighttime soap opera genre, along with using elements from their own artistic sensibilities and that lead to the show's creation.Twin Peaks follows FBI Special Agent Dale Cooper (portrayed marvelously by Lynch's muse, Kyle MacLachlan) who arrives in the fictional town of Twin Peaks, Washington to investigate the murder of homecoming queen Laura Palmer. He's assisted by the town's top lawman Sheriff Harry S. Truman.Besides the main mystery, Twin Peaks explores the life in this small northwestern town and exposes the secrets of its quirky and peculiar citizens.The mix of the unsettling surrealistic tone and the supernatural elements with the campy, offbeat and melodramatic portrayal of the town, truly made Twin Peaks a singular experience.Twin Peaks is world full of possibilities and ambiguity and it stills stands as one of the towering achievements of the small screen. It also paved the way for the so called 'Golden age of TV' like no other show had done at the time.


                
Created by David Lynch("Eraserhead" and "The Elephant Man") and Mark Frost, "Twin peaks" became from a conventional drama into a combination of genres, moving to comedy to supernatural horror. The main plot follows the attempt of the agent Dale Cooper( Kyle MacLachlan, in one of his best roles) to solve the mysterious murder of a popular and respected girl, Laura Palmer, who is seemed as a role-model by almost everyone in a little town . However, while the story advances, some secrets about her past are revealed, and many strange events surround her death.One of the best things about this show, is how it manages very well to combine comedy(Twin Peaks could be seen as a spoof of a typical soap opera), romance and horror, creating a mysterious and bizarre atmosphere, not to mention the outstanding music of Angelo Badalamenti, that helps to recreate the motions of every single scene of "Twin Peaks" If you like mystery, horror and romance, "Twin Peaks" it is your show. Otherwhise, I still recommend it, because the story is fascinating enough to catch the viewer form the first episode.


                
I really love the way this drama combines doctoring and the peak district so flawlessly! The acting is so real and you can really empathise with the characters! And for those of us who live in the Peak District it brings back that all too familiar feeling of trouble on the hill. The special effects are also fantastic. And as for the award-winning theme, it's fabulous! The actors aren't bad looking either! A fine sample of the Peak District eye candy. If you want a high-tension edge of your seat medical drama with a cute dog, this is the one for you! Don't hesitate to go buy it ASAP. Thank You Peak Practice!


                
I've recently started to watch Twin Peaks for the first time and I can say it already found its place among my favorite TV shows.My highlights of the show:The characters are so real. None of them really look like they are acting.As if a mutual mystery and weirdness spell was cast on all the characters, as a result they all act in equally weird ways. I have never seen such a masterfully organized orchestration of acting in such a similar tone.At times it makes you giggle non stop, at some scenes it makes you feel like you are being tortured, a torture that gives pain but you enjoy it at the same time and don't want it to end.Every single character plays their role in their scenes as if they are the lead character, at least the scenes create such an impression on you.Twin Peaks may not seem charming to some viewers, but if you like it, you will like it a lot.


                
The first episode of "Twin Peaks" is a classic. It was one of the best films ever made in the 1990's regardless of the medium. It was something you could not take your eyes off of.Much has been made about the fact David Lynch never wanted to solve the murder of Laura Palmer. When the mystery went on & on viewers got mad and then tuned out. I stuck with the show until the end. I must say as a viewer "The public was sold on a mystery of Laura Palmer" and it was the biggest mystery since "Who Shot J.r.". As viewers We invested our time into the show. As season one winded down the mystery was not solved. 4 Months later with the season 2 premiere it still wasn't solved and that was the final straw for most people. (It also didn't help that ABC put the show on Saturdays). By the time the show solved the mystery (ABC FORCED David LYNCH TO DO SO) the show had already run out of gas. In May of 1990 on Donahue Mark Frost promised viewers that "When the death is solved it may open up Pandora's Box of other strange things). Well that didn't happen. The show had no master plan. It became a weekly exercise of weirdness after the mystery was solved. I still however enjoyed the show but I think after the murder was solved the show should of ended the season then. It would of gave them time to come up with another story-line. Instead the show kept going but had no focus until the last few episodes. It is still a show worth watching. I can't wait for the new show.


                
After hearing nothing but great things about Twin Peaks(although there were criticisms of the second season not being as good and some being underwhelmed by the ending) I finally checked out the show and the film Twin Peaks: Fire Walk With Me as somebody who appreciates David Lynch hugely and love almost all his films, and it was time well worth spent. It's true that the first season is better than the second, but that is not to knock the second season because it is still great, if not as well paced and maybe the main plot line was wrapped up a little too quickly(the only negative personally against the series), but the first season is a masterpiece and some of the best television has ever seen. There have been criticisms about the reveal of the final episode being underwhelming, initially it is a head-scratcher but I am with those who considers the episode on the whole one of the scariest episodes seen on television.Twin Peaks looks incredible, quite easily one of the best-looking TV series personally watched; the photography is so good that you have to check that it's for a television show and not a film and the costumes and sets are colourfully surreal and positively eye catching. Twin Peaks is also one of the best scored television series, the music enhances the atmosphere so well and better than a lot of other shows and it really haunts the mind, again like the visuals it can easily be mistaken for a score written for a film. The dialogue is very thought-provoking with moments of tension and a lot of hilarious humour that has David Lynch's style of humour all over it. The episodes are all compelling and multi-faceted in atmosphere, even the weakest episodes are much better than a lot of TV shows today at their best and worst, while the show tackles a very dark subject with subtle horror, genuinely disturbing scenes like the entire ending, quirky humour that at its best is side-splittingly hilarious and a real emotional wallop.The characters are not only interesting with more than one dimension to them but more than memorable as well, Agent Cooper and Ben Horne being especially so, sure a few appear, disappear and re-appear but you never forget them. Twin Peaks is superbly directed and acted throughout, with the performances Kyle MacLachlan in his most famous role(perhaps) is at his best and the same can be said for Richard Beymer. Sheryl Lee and Sherilyn Fenn are poignant, Ray Wise is much more sensitive than he is in the film and one mustn't forget the scene-stealer that is Piper Laurie nor Frank Silva as one of the most frightening characters television has ever seen. Strictly speaking the acting is outstanding all round, you'd be hard pressed to find a television series with no actor is bad and with this level of consistency. To conclude, at its best Twin Peaks really is one of the greatest television series ever. The film Twin Peaks: Fire Walk With Me is not as good but is still very good and undeservedly under-appreciated. 10/10 Bethany Cox


                
After a young girl Laura Palmer is found dead on the beach in a small town of Twin Peaks, a FBI Special Agent Dale Cooper is called to investigate her murder. Her investigation goes deeper after some mysterious events occur Twin Peaks.Without a doubt, Twin Peaks is one of the greatest TV Shows ever. It is very complex story with a great directing work. David Lynch as director gave us some of the most mind-blowing scene in the show. Cinematography is outstanding with usual red colors that Lynch uses most of the times. In first season I really enjoyed the love that show gave me for 90's, it made me feel sorry for my self that I spent my teenage in 00's. Second season was way more complex. I don't want to make any spoiler so I'm just gonna say, it's creepy, horrifying scenes, mystery and weirdness.Also it's maybe the only TV Show that I liked every single character. Acting is great especially Kyle MacLachlan, Sherilyn Fenn and Ray Wise. I'm gonna miss this TV Show and I'm gonna miss all characters. Thank god new season is coming and I can't wait for it.
