Twin Peaks is known by its mysterious nature and weird set of characters. It's one of the productions that changed our ways of thinking about TV series. And just like anything we see on the screen, it has its brilliant moments and not-so-brilliant ones.In the first season and the first half of the second season, we make a mystified journey in the town of Twin Peaks through a chain of strange events and their consequences. Being introduced with exceptional characters, we experience the towns atmosphere, inhabitants' life and their twisted relationships. They're brought us almost in a cinematic way. Not every puzzle is solved in a certain way, some instances remain open to our perception. But everything is smooth.Honestly I was a little disappointed after seeing the ninth and tenth episode of the second season. The sense of mystery partially gives place to artificiality and dullness. As some said earlier, it's like (although certainly not) the concept reached it's limits and there comes improvisation for the sake of entertainment. So expect to be disturbed by pointless conversations, unnecessarily prolonged scenes (especially when romance is involved), exaggeration, and lack of connectivity. Feeling of compulsion may last till the last few episodes of season two. And after that awaits the worse. As mentioned before, last episode leaves everything hanging. It ends prematurely and leaves a full sense of incompleteness, much like "Carnivale". But even considering these, probably you'll still find Twin Peaks enjoyable.Twin Peaks is a cult TV series that affected both TV and cinema productions. Personally I like to watch one or two episodes time to time just to feel the atmosphere of early '90s. I should add that the music in Twin Peaks is enchanting. Angelo Badalamenti really did a great job creating the unique score. But it's more than that. You'll find mystery, symbolism, references and creativity in Twin Peaks. In many ways Twin Peaks is an exceptional production and way ahead of it's time.


                
Warning: *Some spoilers are discussed*."Twin Peaks", is a surreal thriller, serialized for the TV, by acclaimed writer and director David Lynch. The show is seemingly about the murder of teenager Laura Palmer, but eventually it becomes apparent that it's about good and evil and the duality of everyone, wrapped in a paranormal way. In many ways, "Twin Peaks" is a lot like "Lost": people who are not what they seem but are interconnected, deep mysteries, and paranormal elements that drive their fans into theory frenzy! "Twin Peaks" did it first: it put people into theory mode, it's just that unfortunately for it, the Internet was not widespread at the time, and so much of the glory was lost in localized conversations (aka the "watercooler show") rather than becoming an international phenomenon.The first season was almost perfect. It was up to the point, interesting, haunting. I regard the second season being split into two phases: the Laura Palmer investigation, which is a continuation of the first season, and the aftermath after the killer is found. The first phase of the second season is not too bad, but it's apparent that things started to get a bit haywire with the writers, David Lynch having very little involvement with the show, and ABC trying to drive the project. For example, the Harold Smith outdoors-phobic and Japanese investor subplots where useless and silly. But you haven't seen silly yet.In the second phase, 90% of the plot is downright silly. From the pregnant Lucy and her two silly men, to James and rich lady subplot which had nothing to do with anything else, to James in general being portrayed like a man whore having the hots of four women in 15 days time while at the same time he's supposed to be level-headed (remember, 1 episode is 1 day in the "Twin Peaks" world), to Josie becoming a maid (what the hell?), to Ben Horne becoming crazy and then sane again, to Leo getting controlled by a dog collar (!), to Nadine and mayor's stupid subplots, to David Duchovny guest-starring and appearing in woman's dresses. I mean, the consensus is that "Twin Peaks" lost its audience because the killer was revealed, but the truth is, it's lost its audience because the show lost the plot entirely, all by itself. I could barely sit through and watch the second season's second phase. I would pause it every 10 minutes and go eat something, or check out my email. I just couldn't sit through an entire episode anymore (except the last two where Lynch came back to direct).The truth is this: "Twin Peaks" should not have had more than 16 episodes. It should have ended when the murderer is revealed, and should have replaced some unneeded subplots with some of the (rare) points found in the second phase, like the Lodges, Cooper getting possessed by BOB after Laura's murderer dies, the army's involvement & Major Biggs etc. And after the series' run, the three movies should have been created, just like Lynch wanted it. Only one movie was shot at the end, because by that time, the peaksmania had died down, exactly because of that disastrous second phase, and so the movie didn't do well in the box office. Maybe these movies should have been tele-movies.In conclusion, "Twin Peaks" failed because no one could take the step "Lost" writers took with ABC in February 2007: to give an end to the series and not let it go on and on forever like that. If Lynch was to strike such a deal with ABC before he started shooting, then "Twin Peaks" could have become the ultimate series today (both TV and cinema). It's a shame really.
Nearly every episode of "Twin Peaks" has good, or even great, moments in it. Also nearly every episode of "Twin Peaks" has about 30 to 35 minutes of filler: inconsequential scenes that do not advance the plot. If you do not adjust to this type of storytelling, you will not finish the series. So let me tell you right now: if you want the best it has to offer, you must watch the pilot, and episodes 1.3, 2.7 and 2.9; these will give you closure to the Laura Palmer murder. After episode 2.10, the series seems to lose its bearings: the main "replacement" storyline, Windom Earle as Dale Cooper's nemesis, is not nearly as interesting; comic relief, plot digressions and "guest" characters overtake the proceedings. Many of the principal characters have little to do, or are even written out. And then we have the final episode, in which David Lynch probably tries to recreate the experience of drug tripping, but basically he cannibalizes himself and gives you a bad trip. But do not despair! As I said, there are things to appreciate in every episode. The performances are amazing, especially by Kyle MacLachlan (whose Agent Dale Cooper is a unique creation in the history of TV) and Laura's killer, all the women are extremely beautiful (44-year-old Peggy Lipton may just outshine them all!), and Angelo Badalamenti's score (in all its orchestrations) is haunting and magical. *** out of 4 for the series as a whole.
I loved Twin Peaks. There has never been a show like it since or before. It's just so unique and bizarre. I loved all the characters even the minor ones. Twin Peaks is for the paranormal audience who can appreciate its dynamic creation. I long for Twin Peaks again. I would love to move somewhere like Twin Peaks, Washington. Screw the rain and the lousy weather. I would move there tomorrow if I could. Enjoy Twin Peaks the series, it was a legend of the time. Nothing beats it now. After the first season and the solving of Laura Palmer's murder, the series went in a crazy direction for it's cast. Of course, there were problems because everybody was a suspect in Laura's murder but when it was solved. It was like the end of a great mystery and you didn't want to know the truth. When the case got solved, McLachlan's character stayed around and I don't know why the FBI ever got involved in the first place. Twin Peaks is the kind of town that I would not mind moving too. It's mysterious and filled with colorful characters like the log lady, the Sheriff, and so many other great and unique characters. It was a visual experience on television that you would only get to see on film.


                
Much of the nostalgia for Twin Peaks no doubt lies in its more memorable aspects: an eclectic array of characters, a spellbinding plot (at times), and a memorable score. Though I did not watch the show in its original airing, I can safely say that this oft-discussed series is and was clearly overrated. As others have said, the first dozen or so episodes are the stuff of TV lore. Agent Cooper -- the unquestionable magnet character -- leads an excellent cast through an intriguing murder-mystery plot in a sleepy lumber town. I loved the surreal aspects of the show, the mix of deception and intuition, and the black humor that peppered the initial episodes.In the early part of the second season, some of the jokes and quirks wear thin. Nonetheless, the underlying plot of finding Laura Palmer's murderer chugs along. Though more distractions arise, there are still plenty of elements to enjoy. Then Laura Palmer's murderer is ultimately discovered...Unfortunately, at that point, the series undergoes a serious shift from absurdly entertaining to simply absurd. The episodes feel piece-mealed and reflect an inconsistent direction by the writers and multiple directors and producers. The side stories become nonstories. James makes you want to puke, Ben Horne makes you want to scream, and everything that you loved about the show disappears.We have some redemption in the final handful of episodes. And believe you me, there is a definite turning point at which you will breathe a sigh of relief as the show returns to form culminating in a thrilling and bizarre finale. In the end though, it's too little too late. And no effort by the writers or directors can make you forget the horrendous drivel that permeated the middle of the second season. Am I glad I watched the series? Yes. Much of its praise is well earned. Do I regret the seven or eight hours of lost time accounted for by the middle of the second season? Yes, I do. The series is rightfully praised overall. For those wondering what the fuss is about, I'd probably watch just the first dozen episodes and call it quits when Laura Palmer's murderer is revealed. It's mostly downhill from there. If you want the full Twin Peaks experience, you have to watch to the end. But be prepared for some pretty lame television in late season two.


                
'Twin Peaks' is an iconic TV-series, I can't deny that. At the time, I don't think I've seen much of it. Much later, a few years ago in fact, I saw the movie 'Twin Peaks: fire walk with me', and it was thoroughly creepy and good. Now, I've watched the whole series in a couple of weeks, and even if it's quite an experience, I had expected more somehow.The series often walks a thin line between gut-wrenching drama, comedy, soap, horror and sci-fi elements, and not rarely wanders off in one of those directions. This causes for great conflicts in atmosphere, which to me felt way too much off at times. Also, some story lines dragged on and on, while others could have used a lot more attention.But still, I'll be lenient. 'Twin Peaks' brings a lot to the screen (consider the time and place as well - early '90s America), and pretty much all the characters are intriguing, if not iconic. David Lynch made something that will stay in my mind for a long, long time, even if it is not perfect. And I'm already looking forward to the new 'Twin Peaks' seasons.A big 7 out of 10 for now. Now, anyone for some Ben & Jerry's ice cream?
I thought that Albert Rosenfield looked suspiciously like Jose Ferrer. Turns out it's his son Miguel. Well, I'll be.Lots of people can do horror, even TV horror, better than David Lynch (a guy who looks like Rick Wakeman after a night on the town leering out of a mirror is as scary as this series gets). Lots of people, and some nematodes, can produce more convincing plot lines and story gimmicks than David Lynch (every cheap 'n' cheerful deus ex machina is on show here, from fortuitous blows on the head to Bo-peep dresses conveniently brought along by transvestite DEA agents, from double-entry diary-keeping to "dangerous" killers considerately spelling out their name and leaving the letters tucked under fingernails, from cave drawing maps and cheesy Arthurian location names to "electric shock collars" that apparently don't need a power source beyond a couple of Mignon batteries, or perhaps they run on broadcast microwave or "pure evil", who knows). Back in the day, not a lot of people could do Just Plain Weird like David Lynch, but that was way back in the 20th century. For my money, though, Lynch is still the King of Playful. Which means there's still plenty of entertainment to be had here, as long as you remember to skip those three episodes in Series 2 where apparently the script's overseers were on vacation, and the thing morphs into a sort of Doctor Who meets the Golden Girls on the set of High School Musical.By playful I mean the easy, relaxed, brainstormed, almost Pythonesque feel of the whole thing. As someone else here pointed out, this series looks as if every passing idea or chance inspiration, no matter how inchoate or silly or trite or illogical ("he only condescends to logic", Lynch observes about himself at one point) is thrown in just for the heck of it: "hell, it's only a TV series". This contrasts oddly with the fastidious attention paid to set design, mood music, camera-work and atmospheric lighting - as if the writers and the production crew were working on separate Pacific islands, mostly at cross purposes. Some of the humour is rather observant college humour, some of it is pure slapstick (and all points in between). Some of the acting is inspired (Piper Laurie steals every scene she's in), some of it leaden. This series takes risks, experiments and staggers drunkenly from genre to genre in a way no one would be allowed to get away with these days. Mostly, Lynch tries to be ironic and knowing about his source material, cheerfully quoting from the Wizard of Oz or The Fugitive, but his style of deadpan is too easy-going and affectionate to be genuinely satirical.Take it in the spirit in which it's meant, and you're in for an enjoyable and even mildly haunting experience. Don't expect anything to be explained, though. As I said, Lynch doesn't do logical. Wiki tells us that there is "earnest moral enquiry" here. Seriously? Well, perhaps, if your idea of "evil" is somewhat along the lines of interrupting a beauty pageant with a display of strobe lightning. But I wouldn't have put it that way myself. If I want evil, I'll settle for the front page of the Daily Mail or the Guardian. The day TV drama catches on to the real evil happening in the world, it may actually become interesting again. (I'm not holding my breath.) Haunting? The little guy in the suit dancing in the Red Room did it for me. And the talking backwards. Those scenes have a place in any anthology of TV's greatest moments, rightfully earned. Don't ask me what they mean though. Should I sit through the movie to find out?
Wow, just browsing through the site and looking up Twin Peaks, I was heartily surprised at the high ratings the users gave this one. Perhaps only the fans have voted, or perhaps the people who didn't like it didn't bother to look it up.... Anyway, on to my mini review then: This series is by no means awful, but groundbreaking, it is not. What the show does real well is create a surreal, yet entirely mysterious, creepy atmosphere. This is a strong point, and possibly the only point - the characters were relatively interesting and unique, the setting and the music were absolutely fitting and brilliant.However, after watching this again last month, it seems as though the writers wrote the script down at the last minute. The script wasn't really well thought out, and throughout the whole TV series, resolutions seemed really rushed without any sense of development. I enjoyed the pilot and the first few episodes (although they weren't groundbreaking or anything) which did a great job at the introduction of this very strange town, but what this WHOLE series needed was time to think things through, it didn't.I think this show was a good change of pace from what the average viewer watched on television during the 90's, but upon scrutinisation, the flaws are just too apparent with the most important things: the writing and development.


                
When the first episode aired, I was entranced - right from the haunting music and images in the opening scene and credits. The quirky humor and offbeat characters just added to the fun. I thought we had a complex and gripping mystery on our hands. Unfortunately, as the first season progressed, Lynch kept throwing in more complexity in the form of red herrings and incomprehensible events. By the time the second season began, I felt that Lynch was just jerking the audience around for his own amusement. I gave up after two or three episodes in season 2.Perhaps some people enjoy being made fun of; that's what it felt like to me, and I didn't like it. It's too bad that the promise of the first season, especially the first couple of episodes, wasn't fulfilled (IMHO).


                
Okay, I would rate the series (as a whole) as a B+.  However, the first 7 seven episodes (as featured in the DVD release) would be an A-.  As anyone familiar with the series knows, "Twin Peaks" started strong and pretty much pooped out in its second season.  Oh well.  I still love it.  Here's my rating of each of the first seven episodes:1 = A- 2 = A 3 = A 4 = A- 5 = A- 6 = A- 7 = ANot bad for TV!  I haven't watched the commentaries yet but the quality of the episodes was incredible.  The extra stuff on the last disc is cool too.  Especially The One-Armed Man's real life description of how he lost his arm. 
A few words about the series:Special Agent Dale Cooper (Kyle MacLachlan) is just about the coolest hero every created.  Yes, that's right, I said, "HERO".  He's eminently quotable, good looking, smart, a great shot, and one of the most fundamentally decent guys you'd ever care to meet.  This is truly a character to emulate (keeping company with the likes of Atticus Finch and Frances McDormand's Sheriff Margie Gunderson).  "Twin Peaks" is special for many reasons.  It's characters are wonderful. It is hilarious and terrifying.  It's weird.  However, though often overlooked, one of the most significant things about "Twin Peaks" is its profound portrayal of grief.  Never in television/film history has one person's death been so well evinced.  Even though Laura Palmer was a bit of a black sheep, she was a human being, precious by definition.  Seeing her town (especially those close to her; James, Donna, and her father, Leland Palmer) mourn her loss is truly evocative.  Cooper expresses so well what made "Twin Peaks" (the fictional town and the series) so special as he rebukes Albert (Miguel Ferrer) for his big city disdain.  In Twin Peaks, Cooper explains, Laura's murder was never just a statistic.  It was a tragic loss and was felt by all.  Including us as we watched.


                
I've decided to start from scratch before watching the new season, and it is one of the weirdest shows I have seen. However, it is also super addictive. I can see why this has such a cult following. There are definitely some cheesy moments, but Kyle MacLachlan is a great actor. This show has just the right amount of quirkiness to keep me intrigued and wanting to know what happens next. Worth a watch.


                
This show definitely rewards you for watching it all the way through. It's a complex show, but in the world of Netflix and Hulu it fits.TV 20 years ago not so much....It's a very odd show,but it works well. I confess I almost dumped it after the 3rd episode.The Pilot episode is pretty good, but season 1 doesn't get really good until the last few episodes. They tie everything together pretty well. I was pleasantly surprised how much I wound up liking this. The main plot line is who killed Laura Palmer? The homecoming queen's a little naughty..which is predictable. They stray away from it at times, but the real treat is getting to know the odd characters in town.From the rich Asian widow trying to watch her back against a jealous sister to an abused waitress trying to escape with her lover. The main character Dale Cooper is alittle odd,but he works. The show mixes humor,drama, and some good mystery plots. It reminds me of an early version of American Horror Story or Weeds. If that makes sense.


                
"Twin Peaks" is not a show for everybody. This isn't really a criticism...more an indication that the style of the program and the plot is something that the average viewer won't like or appreciate...but many others will. This is because the show is ultra-bizarre and often surreal--with strange dreams, visions, plots that go off the deep end with oddness and more. Believe me...it's among the strangest TV shows ever made...like the later episodes of "The Prisoner"...but weirder. What did I like about it? Well, the show's music was amazingly evocative and cool...really cool. The direction was often exquisite...well crafted and distinctive. I really appreciated it from the onset. Acting was generally good, though the show had a million and one subplots apart from the murder of Laura Palmer...and a few of the characters and their stories were both unnecessary and boring (such as Bobby Briggs). All in all, a highly uneven show (later ones got a bit too weird at times) but one of the most creative ever made. Worth seeing if you have a high threshold for the ultra-odd.


                
Season one is truly legendary. An engaging mix of mystery, unique characters & odd situations. Badalamenti's music is amazing. Serial television at it's finest. Season two starts off reasonably well, buts slumps into nonsense & lame melodrama after six or seven episodes. Season three is straight up awful. Totally different feel to the previous seasons. So much pointless filler. Torturously slow. The appearance of many original characters is more of a weak novelty than a clever integration. Just stick to season one & the first third of season two. Everything else sucks.


                
When it comes to television there are many shows you can call classic. There is also shows you can call influential. Most of all there is very few shows you can call groundbreaking. "Twin Peaks" happens to be all that however its also a show that went off the rails fast. Season 1 every episode was great. There was something in every episode that was jaw dropping. Season 1 was also "Not as popular" as you think it was. The first episode was. That was the 2 hour feature length pilot. It aired on Sunday Night. The next 6 episodes aired on Thursday's at 9.It was a tough time slot. It aired opposite "Cheers". The first weeks episode was highly rated. However the next 5 weeks the show kept losing viewers. Things looked "Murky" for another Season. The last episode was moved to the 10:00 pm time slot on Wednesday! Mark Frost had to push ABC into letting him know about another season. He didn't want a cliffhanger. He was going to solve the mystery if it wasn't renewed! He was editing the final episode up to the last minute. The show was only picked up for another season because FOX (and possibly a cable channel) was interested in picking up the show. The final episode of season 1 did win its only Wednesday Night time slot. Things were looking great for the shows 2nd year. Because it won its Wednesday Night Time Slot everyone was shocked that ABC schedule the show for Saturday Night at 9:00 for the 2nd Season. Everyone thought it would play on Wednesday at 10:00. However what people seem to forget that episode still had 50% less viewers than the pilot episode. Thus the problems for season 2. When Season 2 aired each episode kept losing viewers. ABC forced the creators of the show to "Solve" the mystery of "Who Killed Laura Palmer". The show fell apart after that. The next 6 episodes were a mess! There was no longer a mystery. When the show found its footing again it was too late. A last ditch effort to save the show. ABC re-scheduled the show back to Thursdays at 9:00. However not only did "Twin Peaks" have compete with "Cheers" there was a new show on FOX that was getting the young crowd. That show was "Beverly Hills 90210". "Twin Peaks" ended up being the lowest rated show ever (up to that time) in that time slot. ABC canceled the show. The final 2 episodes aired as a movie on Monday Night after the television season was over.The show was great in Season 2 until they solved the mystery. After that it was just another soap and not a very good one at that. The final episode (Directed by David Lynch) was great. However it did end on a cliffhanger. That cliffhanger was left unsolved until 2017. In all if you have never seen the show you should. Watch the television shows then "Fire Walk With Me". I loved "Fire Walk With ME". To me that was much better than any of the season 2 episodes!Don't get me wrong season 2 is still good television. Its far better than the shows that ABC puts on today. Its just that the 2nd season had to compete with the 1st season. Even 26 years later Season 3 of "Twin Peaks" is still competing with season 1


                
