"For A Few Dollars More" sees the return of the Stranger, the Man With No Name, but this time he has a defined profession, as a bounty hunter<U+0085> He is searching for a drug-addicted murderer, known as El Indio<U+0085> The film opens with another bounty hunter, Colonel Mortimer (Lee Van Cleef) arriving in the town of Tucumcari and with great coolness and precision killing one of his list of wanted men as the suspect attempts to flee<U+0085> Mortimer then goes to the saloon where he encounters No Name, who is calmly dispatching four men at a saloon<U+0085> No Name walks, in a leisurely manner, to the sheriff's office to collect the bounty on their heads<U+0085> Having established their mutual aims and equal talents, the two men decide to team up in pursuit of El Indio<U+0085> The murderer is portrayed as infinitely more evil than the two conscience-free professionals: he has a positive relish for killing<U+0085>EI Indio is planning to rob the bank at El Paso, so the bounty hunters meet up there in order to waylay him<U+0085> During the discussion that leads up to the showdown, it is revealed in flashback that Mortimer has a personal score to settle with the villain<U+0085> Nothing is revealed about No Name's past in this conversation, and typically in keeping with the characterization, No Name infiltrates El Indio's gang<U+0085> This continuing challenge to the Western myth of the perfect hero and the irredeemably evil villain was spelled out in words at the beginning of the film: 'Where life had no value, death, sometimes, had its price.' Within this mayhem, Leone tried to stick to his new morality. 'I wanted to show that most heroes do what they do for money. I also wanted to prove that bad guys can sometimes have their good side. Al Capone, for instance, had a certain kind of humanity.'
Sergio Leone's sophomore film in his Spaghetti Western trilogy and is a major step up from A Fistful of Dollars. This was a film that didn't appeal to me, the first time I have watched it but as I watch it more and more along with others within the trilogy, I start to see the great things about this film. For A Few Dollars More is much more bigger and a much more better written film than it's predecessor.For A Few Dollars More was written by both Leone and Luciano Vincenzoni. Both have written a story that is engaging and this is due to a plot with much bigger stakes, and rewards, and also much better written characters. This film fleshes out the characters much more than it's predecessors, taking it's time to show each person's agenda and their personalities, yet Leone and Vincenzoni still has kept the unpredictability that was found in the first film. Oddly enough, even though Eastwood's character is the main star, the film's emotional significance was much more apparent on Mortimer and El Indio. Their back story is the reason that I care about these characters, it tells us why they are who they are. For A Few Dollars More's script has it's humor pumped up in comparison to the first film and I felt that this work. It actually gives the film much more character and helps not make the tone of the film too negative.Sergio Leone has created a film that is much more cinematic and traditional in comparison to the first film but at the same time not trading off the uniqueness of the first film, which was the slow building tension and the close ups of people's faces focusing on their reactions and the emotional facial acting by the actors. This film does increase the beat of the film, with editing that moves the film along at a pace that keeps us on our toes. Leone has definitely have gained much more confidence going towards this film as the film doesn't feel as indulgent as the first and seemed to show much more enjoyment with the story than the first film. This film's budget was much higher than the first film which allowed him to create settings that feel real and lively.Massimo Dallamano is back as the cinematographer of this film. The film looks much better than the first film and this may be due to the increase in budget and shot at better locations or it could be due to Dallamano and Leone has a much better understanding of what they want for this film. The film still retains that style from the first film with close ups that take it's time to move things along but it's much more improved here as they have used different angles and techniques in constructing these shots, allowing them to feel fresh. Dallamano has the camera move in this film much more than the first. The first film has it's shots set up in a way that doesn't require the camera to move or zoom into anything. This movement makes the film move faster and exciting.Ennio Morricone comes back to do the score for this film and it's just as great as the first one. The score here sounds much more fuller and dramatic, this may be due to a much larger story and much more characters focused on. Morricone's score here may not be as memorable as the first or third film but it definitely fits with what is shown on screen and it doesn't feel recycled. The film's score feels fast and upbeat, which sound great in moments of the film that have characters riding their horses on the beautiful backdrops. Morricone also has a much lighter and smaller track that plays during the build up of climax, the music that comes from the lockets. It sounds beautiful and it connects with the emotional weight during these situations.The film's cast is much bigger in this film and the film is now shared with three characters rather than a main focus on Eastwood. Clint Eastwood is great here as expected but not as memorable as A Fistful of Dollars. Lee Van Cleef brings something different to the film which gives the film much more personality. Leone loves to have actors banter in his films and it's definitely apparent here with the focus on the friendship on both Eastwood and Cleef's characters. Both actors work well together and it's a shame that this isn't the case for the next film. Gian Maria Volonte is back for this film as the antagonist, this time his character is much better written and his acting is much more effective but it may not appeal to everyone as he has increased the dramatics in this film in comparison to the first film.For A Few Dollars More is a much better constructed film than A Fistful of Dollars with a bigger and better story and improvements on the acting and photography. The film is great to watch on its own and does not require to watch the first or third film to understand but if you have seen the other films you get to pick up on the small things that Leone has put in this film.


                
For his follow up to spaghetti western classic A Fistful of Dollars, director Sergio Leone serves up more of the same, with lots of squinty eyed heroics, cigar chomping and twitchy trigger fingers. This time around, Clint Eastwood's impossibly cool 'man with no name' teams up with fellow bounty killer Col. Douglas Mortimer (Lee Van Cleef) to claim the money on the head of despicable outlaw El Indio (Gian Maria Volontè) and his gang (whose number include Klaus Kinski as an ornery hunchback), who are planning to rob the bank of El Paso.With every frame carefully considered, For A Few Dollars More is visually stylish throughout, and boasts an impressive score by the ever reliable Ennio Morricone, making the film a treat for both eyes and ears. The pacing, however, lets the movie down somewhat: at well over two hours, the rather slight story tends to drag at times—not quite as much as Leone's next two over-rated movies perhaps, but enough for my mind to start wandering at times.6.5/10, rounded up to 7 for IMDb.


                
In this 1965, mostly Italian produced, movie filmed in Spain, and dubbed in English, two show-offish bounty hunters in the American Southwest set their sights on a ruthless "bandolero". I consider this film to be a spoof of traditional villains from 1940's and 50's westerns.The dudes in this film are tough hombres. They smoke. They spit. They sneer. They sling their guns. They strut their macho stuff. But mostly, they just stare at each other and look mean.The story is melodramatic and the characters swagger to the max. But the scenery here is absolutely majestic. The expansive and lonesome badlands are beautiful in their stark desolation. And in some scenes the bleak desert images combine with one of the most hauntingly poetic musical scores in film history, to create an expression of true cinematic art."For A Few Dollars More" is one of those films that appeals to me more for the music and the cinematography than for the story.


                
This is another iconic spaghetti western so popular in the mid-'60s due to Sergio Leone's direction of CLINT EASTWOOD and LEE VAN CLEEF, two mesmerizing actors in another western scored by the talented Ennio Morricone.This time the two men are bounty hunters, presumably hunting guilty men for the same reason--except that one of them has a special mission. Without giving any plot points away, let's just say that the pocket watch bit is a clever ploy in leading to one of the more important gunfights.All the usual ingredients to make this an Eastwood hit are present, but this time it's LEE VAN CLEEF who makes the strongest impression in a role that is laced with some biting humor and sarcasm, tough but clever and clearly the more interesting of the two. Nevertheless, Eastwood is in fine form and the two men make the best buddy team since "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid".The Morricone score will stick in your mind--and so will the overall impression the film makes as a tough spaghetti western.


                
Every things in this movie was fine! like good story, good artists selection and Excellent music! But something about blood! Yeah, I think there's not enough blood in killing and firing shots! But after all I've give it 7 and I enjoy it. thanks Your review is not yet ready for submission.By submitting this review you are agreeing to the terms laid out in our Copyright Statement. Your submission must be your own original work. Your review will normally be posted on the site within 2-3 business days. Reviews that do not meet the guidelines will not be posted. Please write in English only. HTML or boards mark-up is not supported though paragraph breaks will be inserted if you leave a blank line between paragraph.


                
The opportunity for greatness in the cinema in this period arose out of a simple, but central paradigm shift: the displacement of white hat vs. black hat with irony, ambiguity and self-examination.This had unique possibilities within westerns, because of the innate advantage of large settings, and larger than life, archetypal characters.Whereas Kurosawa did this with Japanese craft, Leone's m.o. is Italian expressionist excess. So Van Cleef has not just one weapon, but an arsenal...Volonte doesn't just escape prison, he kills the lawman who put him there AND his family, AND any temporary ally that suits him...Eastwood doesn't just off the bad guys, he carts away fourteen at once, limbs in all directions.There's a brilliant scene that has all three interested parties counting out the guards' steps around El Paso bank, combining mastery of the style, camera perspectives and ambiguity.Where it gets dicey is the attempt to leverage story ironies -- the questions of who trusts who, and for what reasons. Leone attempts to give El Indio an ironic edge with the conflation of memory, rape, guilt and honor triggered by the pocket watch chimes (expanding into a Fugue). But I don't think this is a real success -- Volonte is still a single-minded villain who just wants a 'larger share of dollars'. As it turns out, Eastwood and Van Cleef are essentially single-minded good guys too, the plot twist at the end notwithstanding.What would have propped this up more effectively is some framing device; say for example, a character within who discovers and documents the narrative -- the kind of device hinted at in "Unforgiven".


                
Monco (Clint Eastwood) is a bounty killer chasing El Indio (Gian Maria Volonté) and his gang. During his hunting, he meets Col. Douglas Mortimer (Lee Van Cleef), another bounty killer, and they decide to make a partnership, chase the bad guys together and split the reward. During their enterprise, there will be lots of bullets and funny situations. In the end, one of the bounty hunters shows the real intention of his hunting. This is another great western movie from Sergio Leone, with Clint Eastwood and Lee Van Cleef, and soundtrack of Enio Morricone. The fans of this genre of film will have a great entertainment. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil): "Por Uns Dólares a Mais" ("For a Few More Dolars")


                
In this sequel, a tale of two bounty hunters who reluctantly join forces to try and bring down the most vicious criminal on the frontier, the production values far outstrip those of "A Fistful of Dollars", yet the story doesn't rise to the level of the original.But "For a Few Dollars More" -- which would become the second part of a Sergio Leone's so-called "Man With No Name" trilogy -- is not to be missed by anyone with even a passing interest in offbeat Westerns.
The obvious difference in the quality of the script is surely due to the fact that Leone was working without Kurosawa's mastery as a guide. ("Fistful," along with several other films in recent memory, is derived from the Japanese director's 'lone samurai' tale, "Yojimbo.")
But if Leone cannot compete with Kurosawa's storytelling genius (who himself had help from Ryuzo Kikushima and Dashiel Hammett) he was carving out his own unique niche in cinematic history.Here, the basic, irresistible elements of the "Spaghetti Western" -- Ennio Morricone's spare, knowing and highly dramatic score, Clint Eastwood's inscrutable half-eyed glare, the nearly comic circus-show gunplay -- familiar as a worn-in pair of boots to the great majority of American Sunday afternoon TV viewers, are solidified and put on full display.And they are unquestionably entertaining.By now parodied, emulated, and simply ripped off for decades, Leone, at the time, had managed to breathe new life (and death) into a genre that was fading at the hands of cinematic oversaturation -- just how many times could the same tale be told? -- and the advent of half-hour Western "teleplays".
Eastwood's performance is essentially perfect, his presence as distinct as the noon sun over the desert sky, and Lee Van Cleef is a worthy foil. Gian Maria Volonté, the Italian actor who appears as the main (but different) villain in "Fistful," is a greasy, psychotic sadist who the scenery chewing maniacs in modern films seem to owe a debt to.   The rest of the characters are drawn with similar wide strokes. (While Eastwood's "heroes" are often called amoral -- an assertion that doesn't really hold up under close scrutiny -- the supporting players are either pointing a gun at you, or with you.  Look for Klaus Kinski as the "hunchback.")The dialogue, although it appears to have been filmed in English, is poorly re-dubbed, but nonetheless witty and terse, punctuated by some stunning heat-baked photography.  (If after you learn that these films were not shot in the States it becomes impossible for you to see anything but the parched sands of Spain, surely you will agree that the territory lends a powerfully sinister feel to the film.  Leone's greatest strength may have been that he seemed to set his Westerns on a slightly different planet than our own.)
The film's main flaw -- and I can already hear the noir enthusiasts moaning -- is that there are a few too many twists and turns down the dusty trails, and slightly weary viewers may lose the satisfaction when the inevitable "moment of reckoning" arrives at the end of the film.
Overall, this is a very good film -- fans of more modern films might liken the differences between "Fistful" and "A Few Dollars More" to those between Robert Rodriguez's low-budget debut "El Mariachi," and his Hollywood remake, "Desperado."  Both are worthy films, but the grit of the original is more satisfying.It is important to note that Leone hit both marks -- realism and big-budget spectacle -- with the incredible "Once Upon A Time In The West."


                
Watching 'For a Few Dollars More (1965)' is a bit like experiencing vertigo, the camera zooming in and pulling back at the same time. Sergio Leone's explosive Spaghetti Western debut 'A Fistful of Dollars (1964)' was produced on a shoestring budget, and, though the financial restraints are easily noticeable in the final cut, the film has such a unique visual style that it didn't really matter. For his follow-up, Leone had a considerably-larger budget with which to toil, and the result is a more coherent and assured editing style, the work of consummate professional. However, at the same time, this creative progression has a simultaneous detrimental effect. Leone, in attempting to craft a (slightly) more conventional picture, was now less inclined to indulge in the unashamedly erratic editing <U+0096> such as instant cuts from vast landscapes to sweat-soaked eyes <U+0096> that had made his previous film so utterly unique. Nevertheless, great film-making is about finding that ideal balance, and it's reassuring to note that the director did eventually strike it with his next picture, 'The Good, the Bad and the Ugly (1966).'In a decade when the Western was beginning to fall out of favour, many Italian directors decided to attempt their own interpretations of the genre, none more successfully than Sergio Leone. These "Spaghetti Westerns" dispensed with all respectability that the genre had once possessed, saturating the cinema screen with sweat, blood and smoke. His films are not particularly intellectual, but generations of audiences have delighted in the director's sheer enthusiasm for providing entertainment, and his "Dollars" trilogy is now regarded as a classic. 'For a Few Dollars More' was produced second in the loose trilogy, but, chronologically, its storyline is the last to take place. Clint Eastwood returned from his previous star-making performance as the enigmatic "Man With No Name" {though he does, in fact, go by the title Monco}, and Gian Maria Volontè is deliciously-evil as the ultimate bad guy, El Indio. Though I had fully expected Lee Van Cleef to be also playing a villain, Douglas Mortimer, a respected colonel-turned-bounty hunter, turned out to be a highly-reputable figure, and his performance is marked by a subtle humour that contrasts well with Eastwood's "straight man."The film opens with an ominous intertitle: "where life had no value, death, sometimes, had its price. That is why the bounty killers appeared." These bounty-hunters turn out to be the film's heroes, and we can only watch in awe as Manco and Mortimer expertly go about their daily profession, tracking down wanted fugitives, swiftly murdering them (typically after offering an opportunity to defend themselves) and claiming the hefty reward. Beyond their grizzled exterior, each man has a very definite reason for their chosen line of work: Monco wishes to amass enough money to retire somewhere quiet, and Mortimer is out to avenge the rape and death of his sister. But what happens when the two professional killers set their sights on the same target, perhaps the most lucrative prize of all? Will they decide to cooperate, or will they end up shooting each other in the back? There is a wonderful sequence where the two bounty-hunters match wits, progressively humiliating each other in a bizarre ritual that involves shooting the other man's hat. Also watch out for Klaus Kinski, in that "psycho" mode that only he could play to perfection.


                
Eastwood for me is wooden and surpassed in acting quality of Van Cleef - in fact I think the film would have been better if only one bounty hunter took on El Indio - i.e Eastwood isn't needed. The film is slicker - more money was obviously poured into this production - than Fistful. But in that film Eastwood is clever, the plot and twists are satisfying and the bad guys' characters are well developed but just as nasty. Still, it's a fun film and the gun fights are exciting. I have yet to see The Good, The Bad and The Ugly and cannot wait until I do. If it contains the intelligent plot of Fistful with the beauty and intense nature of Once Upon A Time in the West, then it'll be a winner in my book. If, however, it is solely about gun fights and dilutes the main characters' impact by having too many of them as in A Few Dollars, then I'd likely give it the same mark - 7/10.


                
After leaving commercials and the dull portrayal of Rowdie Yates, Eastwood finally got into something that I still enjoy watching - spaghetti westerns. Often corny and poorly acted I nevertheless sat thoroughly entranced as this seemingly heartless gunslinger hammered his way through a troop of vulgar, totally Satanic bandits who were intent on heaping as much destruction on the world as they were able to before their sorry lives burned out or stopped at the end of a smoking barrel. Which was the case here, of course; the point of the entire picture in fact. Van Cleef as Colonel Mortimer turned in one of his better performances as the revengeful reaper. Fortunately, in many cases anyway, this evil looking character actor went on to starring in many pasta movies of his own.


                
Although not a sequel the title seems to indicate it being a sequel to A Fistful of Dollars. This Clint Eastwood starred western was nearly as creative as A Fistful of Dollars though not quite. Again, Gian Maria Volonte plays a bad guy which he seems very adept at doing. Clint Eastwood remains the cigar smoking, man-of-few-words gunslinger that he became known for. Very entertaining.


                
The Man With no Name Trilogy is considered to be the single best collection of Western movies. I haven't seen that many but in tone it seems to blend in what works and what maybe seen by today's audiences as slightly over-the-top without losing said tone. That and you can watch them in any order and still have an idea what's going on while also telling pretty good stories. This is no exception.The Man With No Name and another badass bounty hunter on the same level of skill as The Man With No Name both find out about each other through them both seeing a leader of a gang escape with a reward of $10,000. Rather then the town not being big enough for the both of them or something like that they find out that they could use each-others skills to take him and his gang of 14 down together. Knowing no matter how fast The Man With No Name can shoot or how far away the other one can shoot the target they know they can't take on all 14 head-on so they decide to take out the gang from within by having The Man With No Name join and the other one observes. This is where things get complicated.Eastwood shines in this movie as does Lee Van Cleef. The Cinematography is also pretty good and I like the soundtrack. If there is any complaint it's that there are moments like in all westerns where 2 stare each other down. This movie does it a few times and each it's done a little too cheesy.So to round off what I think of the trilogy. I'd suggest if you do see it to not watch Yojimbo first. I don't know, when I watched A Fistful Of Dollars I thought it was done much better all-round with Yojimbo despite both being really good. Either way, my opinion of all three remains the same. They're really good westerns and I recommend them, the best one in the series being The Good, The Bad and The Ugly for going the extra mile and making a statement about The Civil War.


                
Two rival bounty hunters, "Monco" (Clint Eastwood) and "Colonel Douglas Mortimer" (Lee Van Cleef) find themselves after the same bandit who goes by the name of "El Indio" (Gian Maria Volante). Realizing that El Indio has surrounded himself with so many other bandits, both of them enter into an uneasy alliance with each other. In the meantime, El Indio and his men have decided to rob the Bank of El Paso which raises the stakes for everyone. At any rate, this film is the second of the "spaghetti westerns" which followed the highly successful "A Fistful of Dollars". And although it isn't a sequel, it has several actors who starred in both films, most notably Clint Eastwood, Gian Maria Volante and Mario Brega (as the bandit, "Nino"). And like the first movie, these three performed similar roles in a superb manner. But what really distinguishes this film from the previous one is the presence of Lee Van Cleef who, in my opinion, was just as good as Clint Eastwood. In any case, this film is just as good as its predecessor and those who enjoy this style of western are sure to appreciate this one as well.


                
I enjoyed the swagger of A Fistful of Dollars, but had some reservations about the quality of its script. This second installment in the "Dollars Trilogy" thematic series had all the swagger of Fistful, including awesome music and sick camera work, but also improved in the quality of script. It seemed that this story was more thought out, including plot twists and better character development, whereas Fistful's story appeared to be put in place merely to set up cool tag lines and posturing between Eastwood and Volonté. There was pretty heavy action in this second film, too: the total kill count was 30.Eastwood continued to show the world why he would eventually be regarded as one of the baddest mofos to ever grace the silver screen. Volonté was crazier and more ruthless in this film than he was in the first, and I loved it! Last but not least, Van Cleef may have stolen the show as the man in black, veteran bounty hunter Col. Douglas Mortimer<U+0085>it wasn't clear who the bigger badass was. In fact, Van Cleef claimed to be faster on the draw than Eastwood. He only took three frames of film (one eighth of a second) to draw, cock and fire! All in all, this film is a classic, and a great representative of what the spaghetti Western has to offer. About midway through, the pace dramatically slowed to an almost boring pace (although my perception may have been a bit clouded by beer-induced sleepiness), but it soon picked back up again, and the movie ended very strongly. I recommend that you set aside some time to watch this flick at some point, preferably with some alcohol and a friend that enjoys spaghetti Westerns, B movies, or campy films. I can't wait to see The Good, the Bad and the Ugly.For more reviews and a kickass podcast, check out www.livemancave.com


                
Beautiful sequel that greatly continues the Spaghetti westerns, starring the man himself once again, Clint Eastwood, or in this movie, Monco. A year later from a Fistful, fresh off and ready for more, Eastwood continues his amazing performances of gunning down bandits and being awesome as ever!The man with no name returns in this film as Monco, who forms an alliance with a bounty hunter named Douglas Mortimer, (Lee Van Cleef) to kill a bounty, along with his entire gang, and split the $10,000 prize between the two.Clever story combined with great characters, including the villains, make this a worthy sequel. Though it can tend to drag on just a tiny bit, and doesn't have as strong action as the other one did, though it is replaced with solid key build up moments, along with entertaining conflicts and situations. Clint and Lee make a great team. When one is in trouble, the other arrives just in time to save them.The film in general is just a big great sequel. It could maybe stand out as a film on its own. It doesn't have too many references to the first, but it still continues the legend of the man with no name, and continues to show us the awesomeness that is Clint Eastwood! Followed by The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly.


                
"For a Few Dollars More" is the second part of Sergio Leone's "Dollars" trilogy, the films which made an international star of Clint Eastwood and introduced American audiences to the concept of the "spaghetti western". As in the other two instalments, Eastwood portrays the "Man with No Name", a mysterious gunman distinguished by his brown poncho, cigar and stubbly beard, more mercenary morally ambiguous than the traditional Western hero. In this episode the Man with No Name is a bounty hunter in pursuit of a ruthless bandit known as "El Indio".The film also introduced a second iconic Western star, Lee Van Cleef. Van Cleef was five years older than Eastwood, but his career had stalled after he was injured in a serious car accident in 1958. Here he plays character known as the "Man in Black", who is also in pursuit of El Indio. Like Eastwood's character, Van Cleef's is calm, deliberate and laconic and a lethal gunfighter. In other respects, however, the two men are very different. For a start, the Man in Black has a name and a past. We learn that his name is Colonel Douglas Mortimer and that he was originally a Southern gentleman from the Carolinas. In keeping with his gentlemanly status he is always smartly dressed in a black suit. He seems to be a bounty hunter- early in the film we see him killing an outlaw named Guy Calloway for the bounty of $1000- but towards the end we learn that he may have other, personal, reasons for wanting El Indio dead.Of the first two instalments of the trilogy I prefer "For a Few Dollars More" to "A Fistful of Dollars". (I have not seen "The Good, The Bad and The Ugly" for many years, so I will wait until I have seen it again before I decide which of the three is my favourite). Despite being very influential when it came out, the first film can seem today like little more than a run-of-the-mill Western. "For a Few Dollars More" is more than that. There are some effective touches, such as the strange quasi-duel where Mortimer shows off his skill with a gun by shooting at the "Man with No Name"'s hat, and the recurring motif of a musical pocket watch. (El Indio has such a watch that he plays before engaging in duels). Leone makes effective use of the contrasting styles of his two heroes- I call them that, despite their apparent amorality, because we are clearly intended to root for them against the brutal sadism of El Indio and his gang- and handles the action well, leading up to an enthralling climax. (The action in "A Fistful of Dollars", by contrast, can sometimes be confusing). Overall this is a cool, stylish Western. 7/10


                
The film has some great characters and a great idea, but there is so much going against it. First bad thing about the film: the editing. I can't name every single example, but there is one scene in particular in the beginning (the saloon scene, if you've scene it) where Clint gets off his horse and is crouched, and the next shot he is upright. Then, during a fistfight, he throws punches three feet away from his victim. Second bad thing about the film: unrealistic violence. First of all, nobody bleeds. One Mexican bleeds at the end, that's about it. Secondly, I know Mortimer and TMWNN are the best shots in the west, but in one scene Mortimer blindly shoots at someone and barely clips him in the neck, as a warning shot. I thought it was cool when I saw it, but in retrospect, it's cheesy. Third bad thing about this film: the dialog. It's just too unrealistic. It's entertaining, however, in a campy way. For example, listen to Clint Eastwood's quote: "Tell me, isn't sheriff supposed to be courageous, loyal and, above all, honest?" It made me smile, but cringe at the same time. The rest of the film is great. There is great Western-looking sets. The characters are great and interesting, and the plot has many twists to it, so it keeps you intrigued.Overall, I give this film a B.


                
Life is cheap out in the Old West, unless you're a bounty hunter, in which case it's a profitable way to make a living. With so many roustabouts getting up to no good it was inevitable that Indio, the biggest and baddest of all, would attract the attention of two men with very different motives.Colonel Mortimer (Lee Van Cleef) and Monco (Eastwood) eventually cross paths and form a tenuous partnership to catch Indio, who has just been broken out of jail by his loyal men and is planning a big bank robbery. Mortimer and Monco work together, and against each other, in order to bring him in, and all his men, to maximize their rewards.It's a long film, but it has enough time to indulge in over-the-top moments. I especially like Clint and Van Cleef squaring up to each other by shooting hats. It's ridiculous, but good. Some of the widescreen photography is particularly memorable. It's all grainy, gritty stuff but it's a rough edge you just don't get anymore, which is a loss to modern movie which all just look too slick.Ennio Morricone also provides a wonderful score that's utterly timeless and turns many scenes into an overblown opera.I'm in the mood for Spaghetti now.


                
'Per qualche dollaro in più' AKA 'For A Few Dollars More' bears the curse of a middle sibling, overlooked while Sergio Leone's 'Fistful of Dollars' and mammoth-sized 'The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly' draw wider attention. This is not necessarily a bad thing, since anyone who watches 'For A Few Dollars More' with lower expectations has a chance of being surprised. Realizing the success of his original film, Leone put considerably more work into his script and direction this time around. 'For A Few Dollars More,' co-written mainly by Leone and Luciano Vincenzoni, develops its characters to a fuller extent, is based on a more expansive scale, and uses technical aspects such as editing, music, and sound to form a more cohesive, almost symphonic plot line.Once again, Leone does not specify a time for the action but names places in New Mexico and Texas. The story opens in Tucumcari, a small New Mexican town, where the Man With No Name (Clint Eastwood, called 'Monco' in this film) and former colonel Douglas Mortimer (Lee Van Cleef) arrive separately to ply their trade as bounty hunters. The men find wanted posters of El Indio (Gian Maria Volontè), a psychotic robber who is busted out of prison by his gang. Eastwood and Mortimer realize that the odds of a single man finishing off Indio's gang are slim; the men decide to work together and split $20,000 in reward money, should they walk away from the killings. Their plan to nab Indio at the central bank in El Paso fails, allowing him to get away with thousands of dollars and considerably upping the reward for his head. Eastwood and Mortimer lock horns as matters unfold, but wisely respect and depend upon each other's skills. We also learn that one of the bounty hunters carries a second and deeper-lying reason for tracking Indio down.While Eastwood remains a solid presence as the Man With No Name, Lee Van Cleef is superb as Mortimer, a refined, dapper individual who can gunsling with the best of them. Mortimer puts Eastwood's character in striking relief, undoing much of the superhero element that impels 'Fistful of Dollars.' He forms a rugged pair with Eastwood and reminds us that even the best fighters can use some help. Gian Maria Volontè has the thankless job of dying in back-to-back films but gives excellent character work as a rogue who has surrendered to inner demons and holds no sanctity for human life. Other actors return from 'Fistful of Dollars,' including Joseph Egger (as Old Prophet), Benito Stefanelli (Luke), and Aldo Sambrell (Cuccillo). Cult icon Klaus Kinski also has a role as gang member Wild the Hunchback.After shoe-stringing 'Fistful of Dollars,' Leone had a visibly larger budget in the second film. Again recorded in the Andalucía region of Spain, 'For A Few Dollars More' uses expansive outdoor settings and wide interiors while employing a larger cast and numerous extras. There is simply more room to work with and more things are going on, all presented in Leone's unique style. Leone shows greater confidence with his material, employing closeup, flashback, and deceptive angles quite liberally. The superior production values could only help cinematographer Massimo Dallamano, whose lens captured every nuance of the 'southwestern' heat. Ennio Morricone has great moments in 'Fistful of Dollars,' but the famed orchestrations come into their own during this sequel. By intermingling a large orchestra and chorus with aspects of the plot (especially the chimes of a stolen pocket watch), Morricone's score becomes a fourth main character who offers psychological insight.Admittedly, 'For A Few Dollars More' is pure gold for those who love errors - there are obvious goofs such as playing cards that look too new for the 19th century, missing teeth that reappear, and ignored historical facts (Tucumcari, New Mexico, didn't exist until 1901). The dubbing is just as bad as in 'Fistful of Dollars,' if not worse; Eastwood's own voice is out of sync at times and the dubbing of non-English actors is terrible. However, these problems do nothing to spoil Leone's overlying effort. 'For A Few Dollars More' is an absorbing experience in the western genre, rivaled only by his 'The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly' and 'Once Upon a Time in the West.' There are actually a large number of fans and critics who rate 'For A Few Dollars More' over 'The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly' because of its shorter running time (131 minutes) and more concentrated development.Western fans had a long stretch before the advent of DVD, when full frame VHS tapes and TV broadcasts robbed 'For A Few Dollars More' of its sharpness. MGM, who holds first rights to United Artists' library, released a DVD in 1998 that is closer to Leone's original vision. The disc, which is offered both individually and as part of a 'Man With No Name' boxed set, presents 'For A Few' in letterbox format (2.35:1) with Dolby enhancement of the original mono track; French 'dubbing' is offered with subtitles in English, French, and Spanish. 'For A Few Dollars More' has respectable print quality with only occasional grain and speckling; sound quality is very good, balancing dialogue, effects such as gunshots, and Morricone's ever-important score. The only extra is For A Few's trailer, which points out anglicized names taken by Volontè and Leone in 'Fistful of Dollars.' MGM has since released a two-DVD special edition with major restorations and supplements as part of the Sergio Leone Anthology. Either way, the film is highly recommended and a must for collectors.*** out of 4Roving Reviewer - www.geocities.com/paul_johnr
Clint Eastwood made several of these Italian westerns and they made him famous. His acting in the first was terrible, but it's actually better in this film. I believe the presence of a "known", Lee Van Cleef, caused the acting in this one to be a vast improvement over the first film. The score still stinks, but at least the acting is better in this, his second spaghetti western. Overall, a career improver for Clint Eastwood. Can't say it did much for Lee Van Cleef and his career.


                
Clint Eastwood is pretty much the king of westerns. And when the western is being directed by Sergio Leone, you know it good spaghetti-western entertainment. However, this one seemed a little repetitive and predictable. At times it seemed to repeat itself endlessly. Either talking or shooting, none of them moving the plot forward or getting any further with the movie. It just seemed to much like filler. The plot is OK, but seems too much like an excuse to put Clint and Lee Van Cleef in some scenes where they could show off their icy stares and their poker-faces. The acting is good enough for a western. The soundtrack is not as good as in "The good, the bad and the ugly", but almost. The action seemed a little too repetitive, and lacked the ingenuity of "The good, the bad and the ugly". Overall, a pretty good western, but just not as good as the next part of the trilogy(The good, the bad and the ugly). I haven't seen the first part, "A fistful of dollars" yet, but I'll see it as soon as I get a chance, so I can find out which part is the best. I recommend this movie to fans of spaghetti-westerns, Clint Eastwood and Sergio Leone. 7/10


                
in my opinion For a Few Dollars More is the weakest of the trilogy of dollars of Sergio Leone, even more so is a good movie, Sergio Leone this very well, the action scenes are very good, the picture is excellent, the costumes are great, very good cast, Clint Eastwood too and as always, the soundtrack is very good, all movies trilogy of dollars had good soundtrack, the pace is good, the movie goes fast, the script has some problems, had unnecessary scenes, some dialogues which in my opinion should not have, even more so the film goes fast, For a Few Dollars More is a good movie, good action scenes and beautiful photography. Note 7.7


                
