Just forced myself to watch this film again for the third time thinking maybe I had some Natural Born Killer prejudice against this movie, which I kicked, but after painfully sitting through this thing again for the last time all I can say is I'm tired, depressed, and befuddled at the high praise for this darkly disturbing film. Or maybe that's the alure for some people. If you look at the votes for this thing people either love it or hate it. I'm mostly indifferent. The problem I have with Taxi Driver is that there are too many unanswered questions about Travis' background, experience in the Marine Corp, etc. We know he was discharged while Vietnam was winding down but we don't have a clue what the source of his "instability" is! Are we to assume that he had suffered some sort of trauma during the war...did he ever see any action...was he really discharged because of his instability? In fact, the guy seems perfectly normal other than a slightly obsessive compulsive complex which 70% of society is sporting, and he can't sleep. Awwww, poor thing. Well neither can I, and a lot of people can't sleep at nights. Does that alone make Travis a candidate for the nuthouse? Nope. The truth is, we don't know what his problems stem from and that is a major problem with this movie. His descent is so spontaneous when Betsy reacts about being dragged to an adult film, and he just snaps, we don't know why?!? (spoiler alert) Next thing you know the guy is buying guns like there's no tomorrow to feed his all-of-a-sudden John Wayne complex that springs from a source we can't as an audience connect with. Good performances overall don't salvage the many holes that litter the canvas of this highly overrated drama. And somebody please explain to me all this talk about Travis searching for "redemption", from WHAT>?>? Jeez! The final shootout is a little too reminiscent of the Wild Bunch where spurting blood and bad editing wooed critics all around. Amazing. 6/10
The plot is OK, but the movie is too slow and the there is a lot of drift. The message should have been stronger. With a plot like this, an amazing crew could have been put to better effect.if there is a lot of scum around bickie why does he find pleasure sitting in porno movies at nights (he even took the girl he was seeing there). he might have his opinions about the society, but going to a theater to watch porn is no way to clean that up.otherwise the movie is OK, talks about the how someone gets vexed with the dirt the society around him has. he sees how politicians swindle votes and promise anything needed to win and don't care for the public after that.but way too over rated.


                
*spoiler alert*Perhaps I missed something, but to my mind this was just a very boring movie. I totally couldn't identify with any of the characters. I think the taxi driver (Robert DeNiro) was just an uninteresting dumb, socially inapt guy who gets alienated from society. The more crazy he became, the less I understood why. You don't start playing with guns and shooting people, just because you see crime on the streets... Or perhaps you do, and slowly evolve into doing this, but then I would have liked to see him evolve emotionally. Instead we see a guy, uncapable of expressing his emotions and we are puzzled by what really goes on in his head.Furthermore it was unclear to me what message the movies was trying to convey... It was probably about how rotten society is and about how society can drive a man crazy, but was he a hero, a victim, or just part of this crazy society? I haven't got a clue.Anyway, this film didn't touch me emotionally whatsoever. I give it 4/10.
Reaching the end of the film - on reflection of the journey i'd been through!... I wouldn't say that i'd wasted my time - I enjoyed the nostalgic visit back to the 70's, I was in awe of Sybil Shepherd's beauty - in fact I quite enjoyed the film up until Travis took Betsy to the cinema. (Oh and whilst i'm talking about his short relationship with her, couldn't he have been more charming! I'm sure the chemistry was there.) What happened after that? I think the film went somewhat downhill.Wouldn't the film have been more entertaining if Travis had turned into a Charles Bronson type character from Deathwish .. meating out his own version of justice on the streets instead of focusing on a single low down pimp? If the film had to end the way it did! couldn't he have at least got back with Betsy.
Finally, I saw the "You Talking' To Me" movie.Was I impressed? Did I need to see it back in 1976 (uh, when I was two) to appreciate it? I think I just answered the first question.Taxi Driver was so random and bland and yet, it was watchable. It wasn't the startling film I expected. It wasn't the dark, deep and moving picture I imagined. Perhaps, yeah, I would have needed to see it back in the 1970s to understand where it was coming from because it sure as Hades didn't hold up for me in today's standards.Travis Bickle is not fickle about structure and what both New York City and women should be. So, with his insomnia, he opts to drive a taxi and stalk a woman who's volunteering to aid the "next" President of the United States. When that doesn't work out, why not try and rescue a preteen prostitute he's seen a few times?Let's throw in some odd friends, a guns purchase, politics, a rescue and revenge. Suffice to say, this movie, while extremely well directed and Jodie Foster does a decent job, is so incredibly random aside from the fact that Bickle's not getting better. He's getting worse and watch out.Supposedly, he's a hero, but I'm not sure who would ever call him one in today's times. Perhaps 37 years ago, ignorance would proclaim him one. Such unaware times.For original fans only.
Travis Bickle (Robert De Niro) is a Vietnam war veteran who drives a cab in NYC. NYC is shown as an utter hellhole--full of unpleasant characters and events. He tries to romance classy rich Betsy (Cybill Shepherd) but shocks her instead. He meets 12 year old prostitute Iris (Jodie Foster) and decides to save her from her sadistic pimp (Harvey Keitel).I've seen this multiple times over the years and it's always escaped me why people find this a masterpiece. It's slow, boring and pointless. I mean really--what was Scorsese trying to show or tell us with this movie? We just spend two hours watching a sick pathetic man and his final explosion of violence. And the point is...? There are credibility gaps galore--when he first takes out Betsy he takes her to see a porno movie! No way is he so dumb that he's take a classy woman like her to that. He shoots four (I believe) guys dead to "save" Iris yet is never punished for the crime. And just why was he trying to save her? She didn't ask him. Why not just report it to the police? This deserves just one star but the acting of Keitel and especially De Niro and Foster adds some points. Only for those who enjoy wallowing in sick unpleasant situations and characters for no good reason for two hours.
The movie was ok, deniro was ok and all his method acting is impressive but that doesn't mean the awful saxophone in the background is excusable and just because he kills some people he is then celebrated


                
