Scorsese's best.  Not too many hyper-critical reviews of this film have anything near as intelligent to say about what the director and the screenwriter had in mind when they created this American gem.To those people that have seen it and thought it was "slow" or the pacing was sub par, they don't know what they're talking about; "Taxi Driver" is about the gradual and eventual take-over of insanity, and not about violence, action-shoot-'em-up 'slash' car chase... or whatever they expected from it.  The modern audience today is expecting everything--comedy, drama, unbearable suspense, spfx--all rolled-up into one-stop entertainment... and no, I'm not anybody's grandfather, or here to tell you that movies were great in my day, but, viewers, lighten up already.De Niro, and the rest of the cast, do a serviceable job in this micro-cosmic window into the life of Travis Bickle--a Vietnam vet--who, true, writes mind-numbing entries in his diary, leads a, for the most part, dull existance as a cabbie, and strikes out with a female political campaigner who, after Travis becomes a hero, discovers she is indeed attracted to unstable, sometimes violent chauffeurs.The rest of this movie's story is for the less initiated viewer; decide whether you've truly become desensitized to sexual and violent content in today's films...  Ah, forget it!  You have to have lived at least some of which goes on in "Taxi Driver," or you've just been plain lucky in this life so far.


                
A truly disturbing movie. Travis Bickle (Robert DeNiro), great name, falls into a mood of brooding, amorphous rage and is frustrated in his attempts to murder a politician. So he wipes out a couple of low-life pimps instead.The story tracks him through his descent into insanity. Interesting folks are encountered along the way but have less impact than rubber bumpers have on a pinball. Cybill Shepherd and Peter Boyle, for instance. Boyle is one of a handful of taxi drivers, like DeNiro, who gather at a certain café to shoot the breeze on breaks. He's particularly funny in his working-class disinclination to think things through. "Them queers" have to get married and divorced in California, he says wonderingly. I saw this in the Castro Theater in San Francisco and the audience erupted in laughter. When DeNiro asks for advice and gets nonsense in response, Boyle asks, "What do you want, Bertrand Russell?" The film is unusual for Martin Scorsese. His most successful work has been with solidary groups, like small time hoods and the Mafia, in which there is an agreed-upon set of rules, and everyone knows everyone else. This one digs into urban anomie. "Anomi" is a concept developed by the French sociologist Emile Durkheim and it means, essentially, "without rules." It's the kind of thing you experience when you drive into a vast strip mall parking lot and all the yellow lines guiding traffic have been erased. What do I do NOW, Ma? Scorsese is examining a social world that, as an Italian Catholic, he really has had little contact with. The film was written by Paul Schrader who, as an ex-Calvinist, is a little more familiar with this sort of ontological anxiety. It crops up in the production design. When DeNiro makes his unfulfilling meeting with Jody Foster, the twelve-year-old whore, it collapses in misunderstanding but in the background there are a multitude of Catholic candles. The climactic scene has a voice reading a letter to DeNiro from Foster's square Midwestern parents, congratulating him for an act that was ancillary to his own agenda, which was evidently to bring the world down around his ears.A film of the 1970s, it resonates less with audiences today. The racial troubles that were so headline-grabbing at the time show up less often in the news today. Not that the problem of race is solved, but the categorical thinking that divided us into two warring tribes has less relevance. The resentment simmers but has been cut off at the ankles, partly by our recent election of an African-American to the highest office in the nation. At the same time we have to admit that, as a nation, we are pustular with hatred for each other and for other countries that may not behave the way we want them to. Our leading presidential candidate has made it clear that he will go to war with Iran if Iran doesn't give up its nuclear ambitions. These attitudes come from the same place as Travis Bickle's. Most powerful shot in the movie: the camera slowly moves in on a bubbling glass of Alka Seltzer on the table in front of Robert DeNiro. All that fizzing is but one step removed from the explosion that is to follow.
Travis Bickle is the sort of person you wouldn't even see if you encountered him on the street -- and if you did take note of him, you would make a point to ignore him. He is a non-entity. In his role as a cabbie, you would be aware of him only in the same way you would notice the color of the upholstery or be aware of a strange smell inside the cab. On the rare occasion that Travis might make his presence felt, you would tolerate his existence -- maybe even graciously acknowledge him with a smile or a noncommittal comment. You would only remember Travis if he said or did something particularly rude or offensive or bizarre; and then only as long as you might remember what you had for lunch or what your horoscope said.There is no reason to remember, or to feel bad about not remembering, a Travis Bickle because he has no real effect on your life. He does a job, he fills a space; just like millions of other anonymous everyday workers. But the sad thing about Travis is that he has no real effect on anyone. Most people have a life -- family, friends, interests, a purpose beyond being part of the machinery. Travis only has a job. You would not notice Travis, but Travis might notice you. And judge you: He might decide that you are part of what makes life worth tolerating, but more likely he might see you as part of what makes the world an unbearable hell. It is the nature of film that when it casts an eye toward the "little guy," the attempt is to show that the ordinary man has something extraordinary about him that society is missing -- even if that is just an everyday niceness. This being a Martin Scorsese film, written by Paul Schrader, filmmakers with a near-suicidal view of mankind, the point of TAXI DRIVER is just the opposite. If Travis Bickle is a remarkable person in any sense, it is in a negative way. Travis is not a good man; he is petty and mean-spirited and bigoted and self-absorbed and judgmental. He views the world with contempt; he has to, he has to have more hate for the world than he has for himself. TAXI DRIVER is the story of a man living the proverbial life of quite desperation. In self-imposed isolation, Travis is mentally unstable, and probably was long before the film starts. The film supposedly is loosely based on THE SEARCHERS, but it has much more in common with PSYCHO. Travis, like Norman Bates hides his insanity behind a facade of banality and nurses it with his loneliness. Insignificant men with a significant amount of pent up anger. The main difference -- and it is a telling difference -- is that we don't see Norman's rage until the end, it takes us by surprise; while we never doubt that Travis has inner demons. What Travis does is a foregone conclusion. Paul Schrader's dark, oppressive script pointedly refers to Travis as a walking contradiction, often at the cost of the story's credibility. He's not particularly bright and at times almost shockingly slow, but his journal entries are surprisingly articulate. He declares a woman to be "an angel," but is dismayed that she is offended by being taken to a porno film. He claims to have an honorable discharge from the marines, yet he seems to have been born yesterday, not even knowing the meaning of a common phrase like "moonlighting." Schrader's superficial screenplay is long on obscenities and racial slurs, but short on simple logic. The shortcomings of the script are offset to a great degree by solid performances and Scorsese's stylish direction. As Travis, Robert DeNiro is in virtually every scene and even though the screenplay falters at various times, DeNiro holds the film together with a consistency of tone and insight. Forgoing his usual bombastic method posturing (during most of the film), DeNiro plays Travis with a compassion that makes this otherwise horrid little man pitiable, if not sympathetic. He makes us care for Travis, even though the story offers us no real reason to. Jodie Foster, playing the child prostitute to whom Travis hopes to play savior, still has the youthful freshness and wise innocence that made her a treasure as a child actress. (Though I have trouble respecting Scorsese for casting a 13-year-old child, even one as mature and worldly as Foster, in a part that is so squalid and degrading.) Scorsese sees in Travis' New York City a teeming cesspool, but with cinematographer Michael Chapman, he makes it the most photogenic cesspool imaginable. He doesn't romanticize New York, but he does romanticize Travis' seething hatred of the city. However, he does wisely counterpoint Travis grubby view of the world with a sense of a real world, where friends and coworkers joke and talk and, well, exist. Unlike RAGING BULL, GOODFELLAS and CASINO, Scorsese films where psychotic characters exist in closed worlds where their lunatic behavior seems the norm, TAXI DRIVER underscores Travis' outsider status by giving us a realistic world that he is isolated from. As such, TAXI DRIVER has an honesty that his other violent epics lack.But Scorsese provides us with at least two scenes that ring utterly false. His own gratuitous cameo as a passenger graphically boasting of his plans to murder his wife seems to be Scorsese's way of showing that there are people who are even crazier than Travis. Why? To suggest that Travis is justified in his paranoia? Also the final climatic bloodbath provided only a cheap shock at the time and now seems like a tiresome cliché of special effects gore. Such over the top mayhem doesn't underscore the brutality of the violence, it trivializes the rest of the film. TAXI DRIVER, like DeNiro's performances, is best in its still moments of quiet desperation.The irony of the violence is that it eventually makes Travis famous, though it could have just as easily have made him infamous. The bullets that kill the pimp could have killed the politician. In Travis' mind they are pretty much the same. Unfortunately, I don't think some people get that. Travis, in the end, is not a hero, he is a murder. He is not purged of his demons; they are just temporarily placated. The famed "you talking' to me?" scene has reached iconic status, symbolic of tough-guy cool -- not unlike Dirty Harry's "Make my day." But both Travis and Harry are dangerous icons; filmgoers delude themselves into accepting their insane displays of violence because the right make-believe characters get killed. They are protected by the fantasy of film; in the real world they would eventually be revealed to be the monsters. To his credit, Scorsese at least suggests that in the end Travis Bickle is still insane, and armed and dangerous. Even so, the ending is uncomfortably ambiguous: I don't think that Scorsese is as afraid of Travis' insanity as he is in awe of it.


                
Spoilers herein.Readers of my other comments know that I believe that there are different types of films, depending on whether the skeleton is the writer's, the actor's, or the camera's. The more I use it, the more confidence I have that in general, one drives out the other. Just before reseeing this, I worked on `One-Eyed Jacks,' which is probably the touchstone of the actor driving out the eye.But here, we have a happy accident of three talents that don't step on each other: DeNiro, Schrader and Scorsese. Of these, Schrader is the strongest and every deviation from his vision weakens the fabric. The one main example is Keitel's dance with Jodie.The key device here is that the narrator is Bickle. Everything is/must be something he personally witnesses (until his death) and reports to us. The idea is far from novel. Why it works here is Scorsese's intuition to play the camera OFF of Bickle, while De Niro works to keep the attention on him. That tension (which Schrader intended) is what makes this work.But this is not perfect. Keitel, like De Niro doesn't get this dynamic; we don't want De Niro to, that would ruin the main device because we want him to pull to himself against the camera. But when Keitel does his stuff, it has a negative effect because there is no narrative countermeasure..Foster's presence was good enough when this film was new because the very idea of a 12 year old whore was enough. But seeing it a quarter century later, you can see her thinness compared to the rest of the cast. They really understand their characters and crawl into them. She has no idea, none at all.Another problem is the cab metaphor. Paul didn't quite center that one. He did get it right later with the ambulance in `Bringing Out the Dead,' which used the same energy of selfish actor pulling one way and camera pulling another way. But that time, they fought over the vehicle at the same time they fought in your mind. And of course that had De Palma's eye.Finally, the camera we see here has energy, but far less than what Scorsese's buddy De Palma was doing at this time. Imagine what De Palma (or Hitchcock) would have done with that angel shot after the massacre.
My brother commented that is was the weirdest movie he'd seen in a while and I have to admit it is definitely odd but strangely entertaining. DeNiro plays Travis Bickle, a disillusioned Vietnam Vet who goes to work as a Taxi Driver in NYC because he has nothing else to do. He comes into contact with some strange people which is OK as he is very strange himself. He meets a beautiful woman (Cybill Shepard) who is working to elect a Senator to the Presidency and he messes it up big time. He meets a extremely young girl (Jodie Foster) who works as a prostitute and works to save her from her predicament. You as the viewer watch Bickle lose himself and apparently his sanity minute by minute and somehow he pulls it together and you're simply amazed by the transformation. Scorsese and DeNiro are currently negotiating for a long overdue sequel and I hope they are able to do it. I know many fans have been wanting one for decades.


                
A taxi driver (Robert DeNiro) grows sick of the filth he sees in society, or at least New York. Attracted to a political campaign volunteer (Cybil Shepherd), he tries to find some redeeming qualities in life... but his brief hope in politics is dashed and he realizes the only way to clean up New York is with his own hands.I am unsure how I feel about "Taxi Driver". I liked it. Martin Scorsese and Robert DeNiro are a great team, and the gritty violence of this film really is portrayed in a way that captures the viewer in a death grip. Jodie Foster is amazing, especially considering her age, and the historical place this movie has (given the Reagan shooting and all) makes it timeless regardless of the film's merits.But it has its flaws. The film quality is grainy (though, as i say, this adds to the gritty feeling). Harvey Keitel, despite being a great actor, is in the wrong role. And compared to some of Scorsese's other work, this doesn't come across to me as some of his better material. His more recent contributions -- "The Departed" and "Gangs of New York", for example -- are vastly superior in pretty much every way. While "Taxi Driver" is not a bad film, it is easily overshadowed by the other Scorsese offerings.If you haven't seen it, I would recommend you do. If for no other reason than giving Scorsese a fair chance, this is worth checking out. The man has been sidelined for too long and someday critics and other people will look back and see his body of work as powerful and influential art.


                
The former marine Travis Bickle (Robert DeNiro) is insomniac and decides to work as taxi driver in the night shift. Travis is a lonely uneducated man that spends his leisure time watching porn films in the theaters. When Travis sees the gorgeous Betsy (Cybill Shepherd) working as a volunteer in the campaign for president of Senator Charles Palantine (Leonard Harris), he has a crush on her. He invites Betsy to drink coffee with him and later he dates her. However he takes her to see a porn Swedish movie and she feels offended and leaves him. Travis unsuccessfully sends flowers for her but she rejects him. Travis meets the young prostitute Iris (Jodie Foster) that is trying to flee from her pimp Sport (Harvey Keitel) in his taxi but Sport takes her from the car. Travis also buys several weapons from a dealer and practices shooting. When he meets Iris again, he is resolute to help her. Will Travis succeed in his intent?"Taxi Driver" is a bleak and depressive film directed by Martin Scorsese about lowlifes and losers in New York. The lead character is an unstable taxi driver poorly educated and capable to bring his date to watch porn film since he does not know any other genre. Robert DeNiro has magnificent performance and Jodie Foster is amazing in the role of a twelve year-old prostitute. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil): "Taxi Driver"


                
This movie is Scorsese's masterpiece; it is a realistic portrayal of one mans reaction to seeing the very extreme nightlife of New York: pushers, psychos, whores, the list goes on. After seeing the movie 4-5 times, I still have to admit, there are some scenes which I don't fully understand, but I can still somewhat appreciate them. Robert DeNiro's acting is superb, as is Cybill Shepherds, and Jodie Fosters. All of them play their respective character convincingly. All of the minor characters are also interesting; most of them are either a psycho, racist or just plain despicable, in some way or another. The transformation that DeNiro's character undertakes, from being a nice, gentle guy, to being a gun-toting self-help psycho, is amazing. It's got some slow scenes, but overall, I recommend this to anyone who likes a psychological drama, or any hardcore DeNiro fan. 8/10.


                
Taxi Driver is perhaps the masterpiece of Martin Scorsese , is a very good movie , the cast is very good, Robert De Niro in one of his best performances , Travis Bickle is perhaps his most memorable character , Jodie Foster still new , this well , etc. I liked the soundtrack, most not much enjoyed the music theme , I found pretty boring , the film is too violent, and has good doses of humor, the script is good, and the pace at times is slow plus the whole is good , the film has some unnecessary dialogues and scenes that in my opinion should not have , Taxi Driver for many was wronged in the Oscar for many this movie was better than Rocky , I think both great movies, more I choose Rocky, Rocky think more film, more Taxi Driver is a great movie with great moments , and excellent acting by Robert De Niro. Note 8.6


                
An awesome crime flick as always by the great Scorsese filled with beautiful music and emotions .Robert Di Niro as Travis was just phenomenal .A must watch for everybody


                
I don't like violent or depressing films, but even I could see greatness in Taxi Driver. For example, it wouldn't have been as great without the music, which gave it a very noir feeling at times, without beating the noir idea to death. And some of the 'atmospheric' shots, like the taxi driving through steam billowing out of a manhole, were really excellent - but only because the music was appropriate. And the final scene, where we view Betsy symbolically fading into the darkness, was pure noir ending to me. 'Maybe next time, Baby, if you're good.' But speaking of that scene, I was confused. When shot-up Travis was leaning back on the couch, I looked closely, wondering 'Is he dying, or isn't he?' And incidentally I wondered why the policeman didn't shoot Travis, since he was holding a gun, but then maybe policemen weren't quite as trigger-happy in those days. When the movie picked up after the excellent crime scene street view zoom-out, showing Travis talking to his buddies, I thought 'Hey, what's going on here? Isn't he dead?' And then when Betsy (Cybill Shepard) shows up, and she acts like maybe she regrets rejecting Travis, I'm thinking, wait a minute, this is seriously not likely! So then I had to Google 'What's with the ending to Taxi Driver?', and find that some think it's Travis's dying dream sequence, while Scorsese says it shows that people viewed Travis as a hero for shooting gangsters. To me that would be his way of emphasizing how screwed up things were. And supposedly the final bit where Travis reacts to something in his rear view mirror suggests that he may flip out again. So which is it? Dead, or alive? I'm pretty sure the answer is 'both'. I think Scorsese was hedging his bets, very cleverly (and incidentally leaving open the possibility of a sequel). First, Travis could have been dying after the shootout, but it wasn't clear - which I think was intentional. Those who feel Travis should die in the gun battle he started can believe the ending is a dream sequence (especially since it plays out like a dream sequence), while those who like the idea of instant justice can believe it's not. Sometimes ambiguity is just what you need.
By Taxi Driver's release both De Niro and Scorsese were already well regarded by film fans and this film- which wasn't a huge hit upon release- is now considered one of their de factor movies along with Mean Streets, Raging Bull and Goodfellas. Travis Bickle has become a legend for many lost young men all around the world and De Niro is so good you can't help but feel for him even though he is socially clueless and probably a sociopath. Jodie Foster is excellent as the young prostitute and this is an indication of how great an actress she was even as a 12 year old. Taxi Driver has become a staple for the anarchist, lost youth and you owe it to yourself to see the reason why.


                
Taxi Driver is an American drama directed by Martin Scorsese and written by Paul Schrader inspired from 1956 John Ford film 'The Searchers'. The screenplay is crafted so artistically by Paul showcasing a raw, nerve- wrecking and powerful look at depression and solitude. The film has the capability to become an altogether successful venture when the actor-director synergy can make astonishing wonders happen. De Niro and Scorsese happen to be one such example. The collaboration between these two has given us some of the really extravagant films. The movie starts with a Taxi moving in a slow motion as it leaves a foggy smoke behind as credit starts appearing in the cloud of smoke giving a more artistic feel to the beginning of the movie. Travis Bickle an ex-Marine officer suffering from chronic insomnia returns to Manhattan, New York after the Vietnam War. A person having no real life experience in flesh-and-blood human relationships gets alienated in the city of aflame and enthusiastic people. Travis takes up a job as a taxi driver on a night duty travelling around the city watching the night- life and prowlers that rule the streets of NY after nightfall. He is a person who tries to mimic the interactions he sees on the streets and goes horribly wrong, watches dirty movie in a porno theater, falls for a girl working in the Senator Palantine's campaign, takes her for a porn movie making her feel awkward and terribly angry. His small acts highlight his lack of human touch and his unstable mind. The director had pivoted the confused notions of the protagonist successfully as the audience was meant to assume him to be a psycho. Travis in the latter half of the movie, fails in repeated attempts to get his love back and finally makes up his mind to assassinate the Senator only to flaunt his prejudice. After a failed Palantine assassination, Travis freeds himself from frustration as he guns down three men who he holds responsible for corrupting a girl's youth in a brothel to rescue a 12 year old prostitute named Iris in an unsurpassed bloodbath. Scorsese proved himself a creative genius through Taxi driver. Only part remains undisclosed in movie is the reason Iris chose to run away from home only to become a prostitute at an age where she ought to be going to school, giving an uneasy feeling to the viewers. Like all the Scorsese directed films, redemption is the soul of the film. The audience, terrified and overwhelmed by urban crime will readily respond to any film about heroic vigilantism in future. Courtesy: Martin Scorsese. The review title pertaining to a stupidly cracked joke by Travis in the film, the drama is one of the most organized and a soulful drama made in the history of Hollywood.


                
To fairly review a movie from the 1970's, one must separate elements of that often ridiculed decade, such as fashion, hairstyles, technology, and jargon, from the story and the performances. S/he can't allow the plaid pants; broad-collared shirts; contrived sounding street talk; over-the-ears, less than natural, post-hippie era hair; or even the absence of I-pods and cell phones to keep him/her from directing his/her judgments only at the believability of the movie's plot and the acting.So... keeping the popular culture of that time in perspective, I think Taxi Driver deserves high marks in part because it helped to make people aware that a soldier usually returns from war (Viet Nam or any other) troubled, not simply relieved that he is no longer experiencing horror and motivated to transfer his work ethic to the home front. The movie reveals, too, that a veteran may not have caring parents and friends and a comfortable home to ease his transition (though the difference between the memories of explosions and screams and the calm of an office or store creates its own special stress); he may have to find his way alone.Taxi Driver succeeds, too, because of the acting. Robert De Niro, Cybill Shepherd, Jody Foster, Peter Boyle, and Harvey Keitel perform convincingly as the victims, degenerates, and survivors of a depraved New York City subculture. Only the FBI agents come across as a little typed.Taxi Driver doesn't score high in all areas, however. While the cast impresses, this starkly realistic story actually lacks in realism. In the climatic scene When Travis (Robert De Niro) rescues Iris (Jody Foster), by gunning down the miscreants who exploit her, he has carried out a rehearsed plan (he had purchased several firearms) motivated by an overpowering and unrelated rage as much as he has valiantly acted on his concern for this once innocent girl. The writers, as they should, make Sport (Harvey Keitel) and his buddies look like low-lifes, but when these men rebound growling and screaming from 38-caliber pistol blasts from point blank range they behave like zombies, not humans. During the outcome phase the less-than-likely events continue. Newspaper recognition of Travis Bickle's act seems plenty appropriate, but a police officer, FBI agent, or common citizen would have probably seen and commented on the similarity between the man in the newspaper photo and the mohawked character who drew attention to himself when he conspicuously fled the plaza where he had considered -- he pulled out a gun for many to see -- killing a senatorial candidate as he spoke to an audience of 500+.And not long after the newspaper makes the public aware of Bickle's courageous deed, he receives a letter from Iris's parents thanking him for saving their daughter. Like the newspaper story aspects of the letter rate it low on the probability scale. I can understand that such a letter would include the parents' gratitude and feelings of indebtedness toward the person who made possible the girl's return home. I don't accept, though, that the parents would also tell of their daughter's successful readjustment to her school routine and renewal of friendships. After the abuse that Iris weathered and the violence that she witnessed, she would suffer post traumatic stress that would rival that of the Viet Nam veteran's.


                
Martin Scorsese's cult favorite 'Taxi Driver' has it's own class, it has it's own aura, it has it's place. Like mentioned from this writer's headline, a motion picture which is a Legend of it's own! Suprsingly, Scorsese won the Academy Award for Best Director 30 years after 'Taxi Driver' released. Now, that's injustice! De Niro didn't win the Academy Award for Best Actor for his work in here either? 'Taxi Driver' is a milestone, no praise can justify it's talent & respect.This is a story of lonely man, 'be aware', it doesn't cater to any age group, it's for them who understand Cinema & understand the depth of 'Taxi Driver', this is not an entertainer, it's like a haunting tune.Scorsese's direction "O My God', so so amazing. Paul Schrader's writing, flawless. Performances, De Niro is a legend, an astounding performance. Foster has been pretty since then, her performance, simply superb. Harvey Keitel, another fine performance. Others are apt.'Taxi Driver' is a film that belongs to people like me, who understand talent & repay them respect for their body of work, which is "legendary' is every department.


                
This picture has been recognised as Scorcese's first masterpiece. It's not his first really great film <U+0096> that would be Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore (which I actually prefer to Taxi Driver) <U+0096> but it's his first work as a really mature director. He'd shown talent before this, but there's just so much detail and control on display here.Taxi driver is a film about two worlds as seen by Travis <U+0096> the low-down, dirty underworld and the clean, respectable, "normal" world. Travis desperately wants to be part of the normal world but isn't equipped to break out of the low world. Scorcese's camera roves around in prowling point-of-view shots, to show us Travis' wandering mind. He makes great use of colour to create the two different worlds <U+0096> grimy greys and greens for the low world, clean whites and reds for the high world. There are plenty of little details that add extra layers <U+0096> for example the two guys arguing in the background during the opening scene.Scorcese is often thought of as a modern director, part of a new wave. But actually Scorcese and this new wave were extremely retrospective. In Taxi Driver you can see shades of Hitchcock in the way he puts the audience inside the character's state of mind. He is like Kurosawa in the way he tailors his shooting style for different moods <U+0096> particularly that director's High and Low. The character of Travis and the seedy world he inhabits also occasionally reminds me of Michael Powell's Peeping Tom as well. In terms of style Taxi Driver could have been made by any of these, by this time, elderly directors. It's only really the frankness of the sex and violence that mark it as the work of a young director.Travis is the first of Scorcese's loser heroes. Like Rupert Pupkin in The King of Comedy, he does the "wrong" thing to achieve his aims, but ends up succeeding anyway. This is the most modern thing about Taxi Driver <U+0096> it's the very opposite of Hollywood's old code of "no crime without punishment".Like a lot of American cinema of this era, the Vietnam war casts its shadow over Taxi Driver. It's subtle <U+0096> Travis is an ex-marine, and it's fairly clear his wartime experiences have contributed to his current state of mind. During the war there were plenty of heavy-handed allegorical films, and later there would be lots of heavy-handed films dealing with the war itself, but coming in between this is perhaps the harshest depiction of the Vietnam generation.So yes, Taxi Driver is expertly constructed in terms of its direction. It's also brilliantly acted and scored (perhaps Bernard Hermann's best score). It's extremely bleak and difficult to watch though. While it's possible to sympathise with and understand Travis the picture lacks the humanity of Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore, Raging Bull or King of Comedy, and it's never really spoken to me as deeply as any of those films.


                
It's quite difficult to write something new about this film.Taxi Driver is really a great film.The performance of Robert de Niro is extraordinary, but Hervey Keitel and the young Jodie Foster are remarkable.Therefore Taxi Driver is one of the most memorable film of the Seventies in the United States.


                
An immense experience which can be felt in every second ...eventhough the climax didn't surprise me that much ,this movie still remains in my mind


                
The dark and gritty tale of a mentally unstable taxi cab driver, this is a dark and unhappy movie one that either makes you lose or gain faith in humanity. its a dark and dirty story about a Vietnam veteran who attempts to destroy a presidential candidate and rescue a 12 year old prostitute, a simple plot but nonetheless effective
The film is a classic, it has so much character and De Niro's unsettling presence will make sure you never forget it. I think it's a bit overrated though, not quite as excellent as the work De Niro and Scorsese would later collaborate on. Don't get me wrong it's excellent and Travis Bickle is probably my favorite Martin Scorsese character, just maybe not the greatest film of all time.
Strong 8/10


                
Not much to comment here since all that has been commented here appears to cover just about everything. Except that the writer's name, Paul Shrader, coincidentally has one more letter to his name than Paul Shrade, who was shot after R. F. Kennedy was assassinated.


                
'Taxi Driver (1976)' is an interesting, subversive and unflinching character-study, an amalgamation of genres that provides unexpectedly effecting results. You'd expect it to be a thriller, but it is actually more of a slow and methodical drama - despite all of its violence and otherwise seedy elements. As with most of Scorsese's work, the picture isn't interested in judging any of its characters or mindsets, no matter how deplorable they might be. Rather, it depicts its events with a candid honesty and asks us, the audience, to make up our own minds about them. This could sometimes be misconstrued as glamorisation, especially in its sequences involving guns and the 'cool' portrayal of 'masculinity' surrounding them, but I don't think this is the case. By portraying every scene in the same 'flat' way, the feature opens itself up to analysis, which is necessary on the part of every viewer - or at least those willing to think, and invites interpretation and critique, not of itself but of the choices of its characters. Speaking of characters, this features some of the most deplorable characters in any of Scorsese's work. These mostly arise in the latter movement of the piece, surrounding Jodie Foster's child prostitute character, and the moments including them are uncomfortable to say the least. As is the implication that more of them exist within the city, unseen but ready to crawl from beneath the surface or having just scuttled back down below. The feature is disturbing, especially in these harsher sequences, but it never crosses the line. It just maintains its method of being as candid as possible, portraying its seedy situations and asking us to do the judging for it. These moments don't make it hard to understand our protagonist's mindset that the city is filled with scum, though. Speaking of our protagonist, 'Travis Bickle' is easily one of the most unique and well-realised characters ever put to film. He certainly isn't a hero, he isn't even an anti-hero, but he also isn't a villain. He's just a man struggling, alone, to cope with his mental-illness and otherwise keep himself afloat. His deterioration from lonely and despondent to angry and disturbed, ultimately homicidal, is a compelling and engaging one. You like him and want him to be okay, but the events of the film weigh down on his already damaged psyche and turn his disillusion to all-out rage. The delusion that his violence could be motivated by pseudo altruism, a need to save - or 'clean' - his city, is one that only serves his need to justify his actions. He needs to act out his newfound impulses for no-one other than himself. Whether his first attempt fails due to extenuating circumstances as it appears or if it is due to his conscience is up for debate, as is if he wants to 'save' anyone at all. What isn't, is that he needs to act out his urges on someone, and he just so happens to do it on the right people. That's the only way he could ever be labelled a 'hero', and dangerously so. The 'downward spiral' arc isn't often done, though, and that, along with the fact it is done so deftly, is why it is so captivating to watch. The structure of the overall piece is unconventional, too, with a dream-like feel compounding its sort of 'aimed aimless' vibe. The performances and writing are excellent, both combining to make one of the most nuanced characters in film history. For me, this is the definitive Robert De Niro role. He should have won an Oscar for his work here. The two-handed score is phenomenal, as well. It combines flashes of our lead's possibly traumatic past with another character's certainly traumatic present, foreshadowing their fateful meeting. The direction is great, too, and serves to add to the effect that we are peeking into a man's life, a man who could be living next door. That makes the film quite scary. It's also sublime. A fantastic piece of work that's subversive, unconventional, uncomfortable and deeply effecting. 8/10


                
I love De Niro and I love Scorsese! Taxi driver is one of the older classics that seems a little overrated in the first half, but is busy building toward a climatic eruption.It's pretty amazing to know just how young Jodie Fister was in her role considering what and who she was portraying.Does it still feel like an iconic film? I feel it was a film that represented the place and the time, it's pretty offensive to everyone, but also very perceptive for its time in terms of the escalation of Travis Bickle.Psychotic or hero? Conspiracist or truth seeker? Crime stopper or crime creator?


                
Good movie, shows the true horrors of war and what the desire for justice and the urge to help people does to the minds of soldiers coming back from war. it shows a darker side of how soldiers feel justice should be appropriated in their minds. it does all this while truly delivering a suspenseful and riveting psychological thriller that sucks in the viewer to find out what happens next.


                
Landmark neo-noir story about how a modern society of declining moral standards chips away at the sensibilities of the righteous and vulnerable with unpredictable results.


                
