Mr. Rogers did what few artists have done in the history of mankind - strengthened and supported his audience so profoundly and so generously that he became a transformative force in their lives. I feel fortunate to have learned from him. In all too many homes, Mr. Rogers was and is the only voice of understanding, gentleness and positive reinforcement. Imagine how different our world would be if more young people could be exposed to his philosophy of acceptance and love.There are so many children who never hear their parents say the words "I love you" - not once, not ever. And then they hear Mr. Rogers sing of all the ways people say "I love you," like "the cooking way" and "the eating way," and it's a comfort and reassurance beyond words. No other public figure provides this kind of life-changing insight to the people most in need.On behalf of everyone you helped, of all the souls you touched in a badly damaged world, Mr. Rogers - we thank you, and we love you.


                
Like many kids of the early 70's, I used to watch the PBS trinity. Sesame Street taught us about letters and numbers while The Electric Company taught us about reading. Mr. Rogers had the hardest job of all though; he taught us about feelings, socialization and the adult world.Everything about the show was crafted to be warm and friendly without being boring or patronizing. Mr. Roger's tools were puppets, videos and original music, all of which were used to great effect. Even so, the show was about how people feel and relate, and for that it needed a Human element. Mr. Rogers and his neighbors were that element, and they were expert teachers.As the focal-point of the show ("star" just doesn't seem right), Mr. Rogers always spoke directly to the camera, as if speaking directly to the children who were watching. His manner was always calm and inviting, unlike a certain purple dinosaur whose hyperactive manner almost demands that you like him. More importantly, Mr. Rogers always conveyed an air of dignity. Contrast that with many modern shows that tend to portray adults as fools. That may be good for a cheap laugh, but kids know that adults are in charge. Who wants a fool to be in charge? Kids shows will come and go, but there will never be another Mr. Rogers. He didn't want to sell the kids things, he didn't expect them to be "cool," and he didn't want to replace their parents. he just wanted to be their neighbor.


                
At age 52, I have fond memories of watching Mr. Rogers' Neighborhood when public television was in its infancy. Fred Rogers not only talked about feelings, but he also addressed young people in a way that respected us as intelligent people in our own right. Sure, he had the Neighborhood of Make Believe, and the entity he referred to as his "television house." The best part is that on one episode he addressed us and said, "Here's why you won't see me in the neighborhood of make believe" and went on to describe how he works with the puppets behind the scenes. In another episode, he shows the studio and how they put the show together.One memorable episode dealt with Mr. Rogers getting a traffic ticket and going before the judge - he's human, too.Mr. Rogers always made it clear that it is good to play and to pretend. I strive to be the kind person that Mr. Rogers was - I want to have that same calm demeanor.Long live Fred Rogers in our hearts. I wish I could have met the man.


                
Never have I seen something that sincere. Never have I thought there's something that could make me cry so hard. Never have I felt so much love from the other side of the TV screen.A pure kindness.


                
I really do not know how your start loving someone you never met in person.I would watch his show on and off all through the years. I loved his trips to the factory they were my favorite. I loved his smile and the way he spoke to you like he cared. My parents raised me and my brother and sisters the best way they knew how, at the time, but they raised us like we were plants, Children are seen and not heard. Mr.Rodgers was different. It took me awhile to really know he was for real. I never knew someone that caring and concerned for kids. Through the years he never changed. He was genuine and truly cared for children. I always wanted him to update his puppet shows, they were boring to me. I tried to like it. Mr. Rodgers I'm sorry I was so hard on you. Thank you for being so loving and kind and for caring about US kids. Thank you for listening to us. For showing the world that we need kind words,loving words,instruction and fun things to do. We need someone to help us out in this world. You did a great job. Thank you for loving us.Thank your for caring about our feelings and views.Somehow, Mr Rodgers you grew on me. You made a difference in my life and heart. When you died I cried. It hurts to feel the loss of someone you love.I know I'll see you in Heaven Mr. Rodgers you knew the key, loving God means loving your neighbor. You remind me of Jesus how He liked kids too. You welcomed us just like He did. I love you Mr. Rodgers. You were a good and faithful servant. Much love and affection. I am 45 years old and I am proud to say I love Mr. Rodgers. I guess I was the one who changed.


                
Mister Rogers' Neighborhood in my opinion has been the best children's TV show on earth! I watch it sometimes on PBS during summer and holidays. My brothers like the show, too. The neighborhood of make-believe is fantastic in this awesome show. Mister Rogers' Neighborhood has been of the best excuses of this children's TV show. **** out of **** stars and 10 out of 10 stars overall.


                
I learn lots from watching Mister Rogers it was always so good. Wish they would have re runs so the little kids of today could watch them.


                
Mister Rogers was a lot of things to me as a child. Reassuring. Calming. Most of all, I felt safe in the midst of abuse. I would wish to be magically swept away and placed into Mister Rogers' Neighborhood.As an adult, watching the show brings back so many bittersweet memories and moments I cannot help but break down and cry. That man and his show meant that much to me, and still does.Thank you so much Mister Rogers for "being there" when I felt alone and scared. Most of all, thank you for giving me the inspiration to love, care, and be there for my own children.Mister Rogers will never be replaced. Many miss him, but his legacy is legendary.


                
THOUGHTFUL AND GENTLE, the main theme of Mister Rogers' Neighborhood was reminding all, both young and old alike, that we are all creatures of value. Although his name was never mentioned, GOD is very much in evidence here. There certainly could be no reference to the Almighty over the Public Broadcasting System (or PBS); which seems to act more like the "Pollit Bureau System". (our opinion) WE DO KNOW that the Creator/Host, Fred McFeely Rogers was an ordained Presbyterian Minister; as well as being a teacher, author, children's' advocate and even an (very) amateur singer. His getting involved in the creation of meaningful programming for the toddler crowd started in his native Greater Pittsburgh's WQED TV, a PBS affiliate. This followed a stint with NBC TV in New York.THE ESSENTIAL PARTS of the show were simply constructed, yet brilliantly assembled into a most comprehensible and pleasingly rendered overall effect. It is a great example of the sum of the parts equaling much more than the individuals considered separately or something like that).MUSIC, Miniature TOWN scenes and the set of an imaginary house in the imaginary TV neighborhood. Easy on the eyes, yet bright and attractive to young intellects, the show was a total success in captivating a youngsters loyalty.ONE OF THE truly genius innovations was the use of a "Neighborhood of Make Believe". In it the emphasis is on serialized story as performed by puppet players; such as, King Friday XIII, Daniel Tiger and Lady somebody or other. A most brilliant segue-way was introduced in the use of a miniature electric train that would travel one direction to bring us to this make believe land. At puppet segment's end, the train reversed its course.AS FOR OUR own experience with the show, we well recall our young daughters' being faithful viewers. As a fine, unsolicited endorsement of Fred Rogers' abilities as a communicator, we offer this observation. When "Mr.Rogers" asked a question of his audience, young Jennifer and Michelle Ryan would respond with a nod of the head,or some such other appropriate gesture.NOW SCHULTZ, CAN you say "interactive?"


                
It has been ten years since Mr Rodgers left us from earth and went straight into TV heaven. As he has such a great legacy from the past, present, and even future generations to come.For he shows us kindness and how to treat others. Rather than the other way around. Also he did not explain things on tech style or with CGI stuff as he did it the old fashioned way.Love the make believe stories but rather it just being a make believe story. It was stories with moral to the stories and done with it compassion. You just do not see that on TV these days.Mr Rodgers we need you and wished that you will still here. Ten years later can't believe you are still gone.RIP Fred Rodgers!
There are an awful lot of shows with the message "look at me look at me look at me" and with the purpose of making money.Amongst all of programming, there are very few shows with a Real Message, serving a Real Purpose. But Mister Roger's Neighborhood is definitely one.The purpose and message of the show was to be an integral part of the upbringing of people. The FACT that so many teenagers and adults were so drawn to it shows how basic and necessary it was.Add to that the fact that the target audience includes each and every small child that comes along, and the show would, and did, continually regenerate itself and abide with us.The show kept it real. It was a "television visit" with a normal, nice grownup, who called the viewer a "television neighbor" or "television friend". When the time came for some puppets and make believe, Rogers would refer to it as "make believe". Sometimes he would show the puppets without the hands in them, and explain and show how the real people would work the puppets and make the voices.Even with the puppets and make believe and costumes and purple pandas, Fred managed to keep it more real and more grounded than you'd guess -- the themes were such that, when you saw what he was getting at, you wouldn't -think- "hey that's interesting!" ... instead, you would -feel- the recognition down in your stomach.On one show a goat was stealing, stealing food. Later, Mr. Rogers asked the viewer "Did you ever think about doing something bad, something that would hurt the ones you love? That is a lonely feeling, isn't it?" And by asking the audience to search for that, deep inside, he made the connection. Not a 'suspension of disbelief'. Instead, an examination of what's real.Mr. Rogers ALWAYS kept it real.


                
When you think society has gone out the window, watching one episode of this show will give you a guidline how to live and share your life.


                
Oh how I wish I would have watched Mister Rogers Neighborhood more when I was a kid! I wish my kids would have been raised on it. This movie was excellent in content and storyline. What an inspiration. I work with little kids daily and will commit to treating them more like Mr Rogers!


                
When I was 2-6, this show was my childhood! I loved it! Me, my grandma, and my grandpa would record and watch every episode that came on! Now, today is my birthday and I'm turning 14. Time to watch some Mr. Rogers...


                
