Let me begin by saying I am a huge Cowboy Bebop fan. Spike Spiegel is my hero, okay? So as much as I was dying to see this new work from the mind of Shinichiro Watanabe, I was apprehensive from the standpoint that I didn't want to see any subsequent work destroy any luster or afterglow that Bebop left behind in its wake. I was downright scared, I mean, how can you mix samurai action with hip-hop? I know Bebop's atmosphere of 1940's noir and 2071 spaceships didn't seem possible at first, but I was proved wrong by that. Maybe Watanabe-san had stepped too far outside the box this time.I'll just come right out and say it: Shinichiro Watanabe can make anything he dreams up work. ANYTHING.Samurai Champloo is one of the absolute coolest series I have ever seen. And by ever I mean live-action, animated, whatever. "Ever" ever. If you like anime, this is required watching, a new classic for the medium. If you don't like anime, watch this and you just might start to.The story centers around two rogue samurai and the girl they're somewhat assigned to protect. Fuu, the young damsel who always seems to get in and out of distress; Jin, the serious samurai, and Mugen, the samurai who's seriously un-serious. The three travel around Edo-period Japan in search of the mysterious "Sunflower Samurai". And if I told you any more than that, I'd ruin so much of it for you. Just know this - the first episode will hook you like Tyrone Biggums to crack.If you're a fan of anime or Cowboy Bebop or just really bad-ass shows/movies in general, you owe it to yourself to check this one out. You can pick up the DVDs or just check it out Saturday nights on Adult Swim.Oh, and if you watch Adult Swim regularly and haven't caught Samurai Champloo yet, shame on you. You should know better.


                
Samurai Champloo is the long-awaited next project from Cowboy Bebop director Shinichiro Watanabe. His two short films in the Animatrix compilation (Kid's Story and Detective Story) give American audiences a sneak peek at the phenomenal art style of this series, but they barely hint at the jaw-dropping action and unorthodox blend of history and music contained therein. The similarities with Bebop end at the fact that the series has three protagonists: the vagrant swordsman Mugen, the rogue samurai Jin, and the tea-shop waitress Fuu. This unlikely and volatile trio begin a road journey through post-shogunate Japan (ca. 1780), brought together by circumstances best seen to be believed. "Champloo" means mixed-up or stir-fry, and that's what this series is: a stylish blend of old school values and situations, meshed with more modern sensibilities, fighting styles, and visual design. Over the lush, dynamic art, a soundtrack of some of the best hip-hop from modern Japan plays. Though it's a noticeable device in the first few episodes, it doesn't take long before the music feels like second nature despite the anachronism.Champloo is many things: a mature drama, an action series, an uproariously funny comedy and a visual feast. Watanabe-san demonstrates here that the success of Cowboy Bebop was uniquely his, and no fluke - fans of that series will not be disappointed, despite how radically different the two story lines are from one another. As the title card of the first episode of Samurai Champloo says, "Just shut up and watch."


                
I was at Best Buy one time checking out the anime section, there I found Samurai Champloo for sale. I am a big fan of samurai anime so I took a look at it. Two things made me want to buy it: the dream team of director Shinchiro Watanabe (Cowboy Bebop & The Animatrix), designers Kazuto Nakazawa (Kill Bill Vol. 1: Chapter 3: The Origin of O-Ren), and Mahiro Maeda (Last Exile & Blue Submarine No. 6), and an awesome, hard-hitting hip hop soundtrack! There aren't many animes that have rap soundtracks, so I had to check this out. Samurai Champloo is one of the best new animes. Brilliant animation, memorable characters, laid-back kinetic atmosphere, great music, and kick-ass Hong Kong, Akira Kurosawa style fight sequences. The story revolves around two highly skilled ronins and a girl: Mugen, a violent, buck wild swordsman whose style emphasizes one hand kendo and Capoeira. Jin, a mysterious, calm gentleman swordsman that masters traditional, straight-forward Japanese Swordsmanship. And Fuu, a young, beautiful ditzy waitress. After Fuu saves them from being executed, Mugen and Jin agree to temporarily set aside their differences and help her in her quest to find the "samurai who smells of sunflowers. Jin and Mugen are the perfect examples of the yin-yang concept. These unstoppable, independent warriors are complete opposites, but their skills are equal to each other. Fuu plays a perfect mediator between the two. This series has strong ties to Watanabe's previous classic, Cowboy Bebop: same style action and atmosphere, but with a hip-hop soundtrack instead of Jazz. And Mugen, Jin, and Fuu could be compared to Spike, Jet, and Faye. But what makes this series original is the hybrid combination of a feudal Japan setting and philosophy with modern fighting, urban street flavor personality, and off-beat comedy, hence the title "Champloo", meaning stir-fry. The verbal exchanges between the three heroes are amusing and great to watch. They series also utilize rap DJ record style scratching to switch between scenes perfectly. Overall, Samurai Champloo is an anime bond to be a classic, and raises the level for anime. If you are a major anime fan, check this out, it will be an excellent addition to a collection.***** (5 stars) Ryojin20 favorite!


                
With 1998's "Cowboy Bebop", one of the most acclaimed anime TV series ever (go read the comments index for it here on IMDb if you don't believe me!), Shinichiro Watanabe became a creative force to watch out for. The innovative energy, drama and beauty of "Bebop" are carried forward in his second original series, "Samurai Champloo". Fans have been quick to look for similarities between "Bebop" and "Champloo" (even the titles have clear parallels), and it's true there are some: the assembly-of-rootless-loners cast of characters, the dramatic and cinematic visual style, and especially the importance and integration of music into the storytelling mix--in SC's case, everything from hip-hop beatboxing to Ainu and Okinawan folksong. But "Champloo"'s differences from "Bebop" are much more interesting than its likenesses. "Bebop" is drenched in melancholy and regret, dreams of the lost past and the future that couldn't be. "Champloo" is all about facing the future, the wave of change, the onrush of history that can't be stopped, and how three kids from widely diverse backgrounds--not even friends when they set out-- find themselves right on the crest of that wave. We're in Edo Period Japan; since 1638 the Tokugawa Shogunate has banned contact with all countries except China and Japan, a ban that lasted two centuries. The outside world can't be kept outside forever. Even the long-respected samurai class is losing its power, and there's restlessness in the land plus accompanying pressure from the Shogunate on all sides. Through this uneasy landscape (rendered in lushly beautiful watercolors that might remind you of Miyazaki) wander our cast of characters: outlaw ronin Jin, a gifted swordsman, stoic, disciplined and heartbreakingly gorgeous, devoted to the bushido code but exiled for killing his sensei; Okinawan wild-boy Mugen, orphan, former pirate and brilliant innovator, whose fighting style mixes everything from Brazilian capoeira to break-dancing, and whose feral-child innocence faces the toughest tests in the series; and teahouse waitress Fuu, spunky, compassionate and packing a lot of secrets, who rescues the two swordsmen from the executioner's block and enlists them on her quest to avenge her mother's death. On their long walk from Edo to Nagasaki they'll see a lot, face a lot of trials, starve, quarrel, save each other's lives, break up, re-bond, and become inseparable. Except that Jin and Mugen still swear they'll fight to the death one day, and no one (not even Fuu) is saying anything about the Sunflower Samurai, the object of Fuu's quest.Have I made this sound like a straight historical drama? I ought to mention that it can be hysterically funny as well as vividly bloody, contains knockout fight scenes and anachronisms by the carload (the aforementioned break dancing and beatboxing, Jin's Armani glasses, the appearance of landmarks not built till the 1900s...), has made me cry more times than any anime since "Bebop", and has sharp things to say about the heavy hand of authority and tradition on groups as diverse as gay men, married women, foreigners, aboriginal natives and illegal aliens. It's unfailingly beautiful to look at (well, 95% unfailingly) and listen to, delectably well-written, and simply brilliant. When it gets to America, go find it.


                
Mugen is a fairly dim, self-taught swordsman who doesn't know how to hold back, Jin is the perfect samurai: cold, calculating, every move flawless. They could be no more different, and in fact one would gladly kill the other with the chance, but they are both reluctantly recruited by the ditsy teahouse waitress Fuu after she saves them from execution.Samurai champloo is the story of Mugen, Jin and Fuu, as they journey across Japan trying to find "The samurai who smells of sunflowers." All the way they meet all sorts of people, get into trouble, and try to make money. As the show progresses, the mysteries of the characters pasts are slowly revealed.Samurai champloo is an excellent series from the people who made Cowboy Bebop, the animated sequence in Kill Bill, and a few sequences in the Animatrix. The music is good, offering a wide variety of genres, the animation is excellent, and the dialog is kept to a bare minimum. Oh, and the comedy is great, too.If you liked Cowboy Bebop, you will probably like Samurai Champloo. One's set in the future and has a lot of jazz music, the other's set long ago in Japan and has a lot of rap in the scene transitions. But the character types in both are pretty much the same, and in both the characters must come to terms with themselves. I recommend it to fans of this genre of anime.


                
Samurai Champloo is directed by Shinichiro Watanabe and its sensational! This story is about kick ass warriors Mugen and Jin and a funny female Fuu on a journey to the find the samurai "who smells of sunflowers" the catch is Mugen and Jin don't really like each other very much but made a deal with Fuu that they would not fight each other till they find the samurai "who smells of sunflowers" This is what sets up the show to be very entertaining the show is often hilarious and than thrilling with kick ass sword fights etc. I'm not a huge hip-hop fan but damn it works its outstanding for this show the music is awesome...Overall this is a must own DVD go buy it right now it is worth every cent I can't wait to get this whole set! 10/10


                
first of all, you have to understand that samurai champloo was done by Shinchiro Watanabe, creator of Cowboy Bebop. now that it's outta of the way, u can obviously tell this show will have hip-hop fusion along with great animation. Watanabe has done it again. This time, he heads toward the samurai-era with 3 wonderful characters. Jin(the passive, quiet, stern and traditional samurai master), Mugen (the hyperactive(jumps a lot), violent, and agile criminal/samurai), and Fuu(the calculating, crafty, and often persistent girl). Fuu saves Jin and Mugen's life and as a debt, they have to help her find a "samurai who smells like sunflower". it may sound average but believe me, this show is extraordinary. the fights are animated so fluidly(Kill-Bill-animation), the story is funny a s hell, and the music is "interesting"(rap opening). There's even beat-boxing in one ep. WATCH THIS SHOW!!! YOU WILL NEVER REGRET IT


                
The story is about Jin a traditional very skilled samurai, Mugen a innovative equally skilled samurai, and Fuu a girl who worked at a tea house. When Jin and Mugen get caught and are about to be executed, Fuu saves their lives and in return she makes them promise to help her find the Samurai Who Smells Like Sunflowers. It may sound stupid but trust me its not.The animation. The animation on this show is Bebop quality. The animation is just incredible. The fight scenes are kick ass, beautiful and often times bloody. The backgrounds are very lush and detailed. You will be amazed and how good everything looks.Now on to the best part, the music. When I first heard about Samurai Champloo the first thing that came to mind was "Well its made by the same dude that did Cowboy Bebop so its got to be good." ,the next thing was "Well what does a Japanese man know about hip hop?". Even though I'm still wondering about the second question, it doesn't matter because all the music works great. Just like with Bebop the series wouldn't be half as good if it didn't have the great music that it does. The opening theme song to Samurai Champloo is a "rap" song. I put rap in quotation because none of the lyrics rhyme so its not a true rap song, but its still great.Bottom line. If you are a fan of Cowboy Bebop you have to see this. In fact if your a anime fan at all you need to see this. This will go down in history as one of the greats along with Cowboy Bebop.


                
"Samurai Champloo" is perhaps one of the best shows in the animé genre that I've ever seen. It is the masterpiece born from the artistic mind of Shinichirô Watanabe (famous for his work in "Cowboy Beepbop"), Kazuto Nakazawa, and Mahiro Maeda.Set in Japan's Samurai Era (1200's-1800's), this show tells the tale of three people: Jin, Mugen, and Fuu. Jin is a ronin (wandering samurai). Calm, cool, and skilled in the art of the sword. Mugen is hot-tempered and has a short temper, the exact opposite of Jin. When these two warriors are nearly executed, they are saved by a tea shop waitress named Fuu. In return for her help, the two warriors promise to help her find "the samurai with the smell of sunflowers." The two agree with Fuu, and they go on this journey, beginning an exciting adventure as well as long and fateful friendship."Samurai Camploo" is one of the best animations taking place in Japan of olden times, not to mention among the best in its genre. The animation is gorgeous. The lightning and shading is mesmerizing. Also, the painted backgrounds are lush and draws the viewer in. Watanabe really shows his skill as an animator in this one. The animation is one of the best features in this show. It has one of the best stylizations in anime. The atmosphere rocks.The story lines, too, are great. Set in feudal Japan, this show does a great job of showing the life and times of ronin samurai at that time. From the the peasants, to the prostitutes, to the gangsters, to just about everyone, this show has a graphic depiction of Japan during its Samurai Era, when the warrior was the dominant force in everyone's lives. The show even goes to show what type of clothes they wore, what houses they lived in, and what food they all -- all accurately. Only the Japanese know how to portray their history graphically.Speaking of graphic, this show in realistic in terms of real. It includes some profanity (although minor) and goes deep into the underground world of the brothels. In Japan, animation is for everyone, not just kids, and this show in very mature. Its story lines are very complicated. Its issues are deep and meaningful. At times, some episodes are dark, even showing death scenes and bloodshed, but this is exactly what makes this show cool.Now, the soundtrack. "Samurai Champloo" features a hip hop and RnB soundtrack and incorporates some traditional songs. What makes "Champloo" so unique in anime is that it combines the modern with the olden, and this is why the show is cool. The hip hop beats in this period piece are nice to listen to and blends in with the Fuedal Japan setting. The word "Champloo" means mix, and this anime mixes the modern with the olden, from Jin having glasses, to the language of the characters; the people here (in the English version) speak in modern American slang and vernacular. And rather than downplaying the ancient feel of this show, this show still retains its olden times aspects."Samurai Champloo" is a must-see for all fans of this genre and animation in general.


                
This anime tells the obscure story of 2 samurai bound to a girl on a quest for a samurai who smells of sunflowers. She constantly conceals her motiviation for doing so.The comedy element in this anime is excellent. A deliberate pairing comparable to Spike and Jet in cowboy beebop exists with one vagabond samurai and one honorable samurai. Both samurai have a completely contrasting fighting style which makes for great action scenes and simultaneous plots (where one is fighting on one side of a city and another is fighting on the other).Similar plot style to cowboy beebop, via meetings with people from their past, both characters pasts are slowly revealed with a clear direction toward finding the samurai who smells of sunflowers. There's a constant struggle to find the basic necessities like food and a real feel to the plot as opposed to anime where you're left wondering if they've gone six months without a shower or a bath.As i said, best anime i've ever scene, hilarious :D


                
I finished this anime in two days and my only regret is that i didn't watch it earlier. im a new anime fan as i just recently got into it but still i have watched the big ones such as death note, fullmetal alchemist, one punch man etc.. but i never really heard of samurai champloo until i stumbled on it when i finished cowboy bebop (same creators). let me just say..IT IS SO AMAZING. the plot. the visiuals. the MUSIC. the characters. just about everyting. i loved watching fuu, mugen and jins journey to finding the samurai who smells of sunflowers.. just pure enjoyment. never had a dull moment. you really grow attached to the characters and its so nostalgic once you finish the show knowing you won't get to be with them anymore.. anyway if you are like me and usually read reviews before watching a series then im here to tell you: DO IT. samurai champloo is WORTH IT and so much more. now that ive finished it i cant wait to rewatch it again. your fellow anime comrade


                
Well, I've been an anime fan for -say 10 yrs?- a long time. And none of the series got a hold on me like this one. All the characters in this anime are well-thought and placed. The animations are WONDROUS I might add, and you can see the characteristic "samurai ID" slip away into the hands of sensitive (altough never shows it) Jin and "'Nevermind'er" Mugen. These two guys (one a Ronin, the other a criminal) are the characters I added without a thought to my "best characters ever!" list. The anime contains both funny and sad scenes without disturbing the ambiance of it. And the last episodes are so dramatic and tense that they will keep you on your fingertips until the end. I'm telling you. You DEFINITELY should see this one.
This is a anime unlike any other after cowboy bebop every one couldn't wait for Shinichiro Watanabe's next anime. What this anime has in common with his other works is the blend of music and action. Like cowboy bebop music plays a big part in this anime.1980s/1990s hip hop plays a big part of this anime for example the samurai Mugen's sword-style is a mix break dancing and aggressive swordplay.Much like the fact the blues of the 1940s and 1950s played a big part in cowboy bebop. From beginning to end this series will make you watch it again and again which is something you can always expect from Shinichiro Watanabe.This is an anime you will definitely want to want to pick up!!


                
i don't see where all this "best anime ever"-style praise comes from. to be sure, "samurai champloo" is an enjoyable piece of lightweight entertainment, but its also seriously flawed.the good thing about the series is, of course, the animation, which is just gorgeous. especially the fight scenes are flawless and its worth watching the series for those alone. the character designs are quite cool too, with sexy mugen stealing the show. the sets and backgrounds are beautiful, too. the show is one amazing eye-candy.but the story is rather weak and slow. every episode has a little adventure or mystery which is enough to carry the episode itself, but those little adventures never have anything to do with the overall plot. and said overall plot, the search for the samurai who smells of sunflowers, is not only rather boring, but doesn't seem to progress at all. therefore, there is no suspense or momentum, no sign that the series is headed anywhere.so, is "samurai champloo" worth watching? it sure is - its pretty and its fun. but i don't think its the masterpiece everyone seems to have seen.


                
I absolutely LOVED Cowboy Bebop. When I found out that Samurai Champloo was from Watanabe as well, I had to watch. HAD to. And I was not disappointed in the least! The artwork: stylish, lavish, colorful, detailed, and beautiful! As in Cowboy Bebop, this show isn't full of hot-bodied women with ridiculously childish features, cut-and-paste still frame fight scene accentuated with speed lines as in Yuyu Hakusho (I still love that show, however); it had a very realistic, emphatic feel about it. Another poster commented on the well-done fight scenes, and I wholeheartedly agree! As a participant in kendo and iaido classes, I recognized that almost every move in the fights were accurate and practical, true to real sword fighting.Characters: every single character was original, endearing! They each had their funny little quirks, their own personal issues that really makes you empathize with the characters. The voice acting is superb, both in English and Japanese.Overall: I love the way Samurai Champloo employs modern day hip-hop beats and certain personalities, entwining them with a feudal era Japan. While the storyline seems a bit flimsy and is peppered with perhaps 1 too many filler episodes, the compelling, gorgeous, artistic components of the show are like a slap in the face: it's fresh, it's funky, it's Samurai Champloo!


                
When I decided to watch this Japanese animation series I had read that it mixed the art of samurai and hip hop. So as a guy who love hip hop and anime I got excited when I watched the first episode of this stylish samurai hip hoping series. I fell in love with the Characters. Especially I loved the laid back pirate, Mugen, but I also liked Jin the silent guy and the energetic Fuu and their journey to find the "samurai who smells of sunflowers.". On the way they get in a lot of weird situations everything from to playing baseball to pay for a restaurant bill and fighting villains. I also like the way the series use things from hip hop such as Tagging, beat boxing and rapping. I think this is the best mixing of hip hop and samurai stuff since the underrated film Ghost Dog: Way of the Samurai. I think this series is much better than shows like Naruto and Inu Yasha, the reason that I like Champloo better is that it doesn't go on forever and it is something that ends and the characters got more feelings in Champloo and the show is not that childish, but don't get me wrong I love this types of anime to, but Champloo is so darn stylish and I have not seen any anime series this awesome. So hip hop hooray for Samurai Champloo.


                
Most people come into Samurai Champloo thinking it's going to be another Cowboy Bebop-esquire anime. But while it has many similar elements, the story line, character direction and over-all feel of the show are completely different from that of Shinichiro Watanabe's masterpiece.Samurai Champloo, despite its few serious tones, is fairly light-hearted and very comical. We follow Mugen, Jin and Fuu from Edo to Nagasaki, encountering several prominent figures not only from the Feudal Era of Japan, but also popular Japanese television (Episode 8, for instance). Unlike Cowboy Bebop, the show centers around the three main characters rather equally, and the episodes do not dwell so much on their individual histories so much as their progress.Perhaps the most stunning element of the series is their sometimes subtle and sometimes not so subtle incorporation of hip hop culture into the music and themes of each episode. From Mugen's break-dancing style of fighting to beat-boxing heralds to old-school tagging, it's not only comical but engaging to see something so culturally diverse blend seamlessly (and very, very humorously) with the Edo Period.All in all, the series is very enjoyable, kind of a joyride or breath of fresh air in its uniqueness and ingenuity. The characters are fun and energetic, the music...well, don't even get me started on the music, and the animation, like its cousin, is flawless. Highly recommended on this end. Nine out of ten.
Samurai Champloo is vastly overrated.The plot is thinner than soup. Character development is weak. We don't get to know Mugen's past until episode 13. For Jin, I think it started around episode 6, and Fuu, I don't even know - hers is very fragmented; little bit of here and there. Mugen was a potentially interesting character though stereotypical. Even they tried to expand on his past, it still didn't answer what I thought any reasonable viewer would wonder: how did Mugen pick up his unique fighting style? Jin has the best back story of the 3 and I have to say Fuu's past is the most vague or maybe she was too young and there was not much happening, she was only 15. Since there's little character development, I don't feel compel to root for any of them and that's why it makes the show less engaging. The show is also inconsistent in term of material quality. Some episodes are good, some are just plain silly, and others just had me stare blankly. Here are some bad examples:Eps.12 - The Disorder Diaries: the whole episode is a recap from eps.2- 10. I could skip this entirely and miss absolutely nothing.Eps.18 – War of the Words: two thugs compete in graffiti in order to pet Fuu's flying squirrel.Eps.22 – Cosmic Collisions: Zombies digging for treasure. And their only diet is wasabi. What?Basically, one episode is very loosely related to the next (except for the multiple part ones). You can literally watch just the first episode and then jump around randomly without missing too much.I feel like some romance in the end would have made it more satisfying. Mugen should have gotten together with that sexy undercover cop and Jin should get with Shino. Wait then what about Fuu? Never mind, I take that back. No romance is probably better.So enough about its downsides, here's why I still enjoy Samurai ChamplooThe show has a distinctive style and I like the hip-hop fusion. I also appreciate the producers' effort in incorporating real period of time and some historical events in the series. The soundtrack is dope (get it? hip-hop talk). The animation is good and the fighting scenes are quiet well choreographed. It's comical - Mugen sometimes made me genuinely LOL. The last 3 episodes were very good and they totally redeemed the whole show.Overall, Samurai Champloo is highly stylized and it has entertainment value despite some flaws. Most people will either love it or hate it.
First some disclaimers. I came to anime late in life, not completely understanding the power of this art form in the right hands. I have since compensated for this untoward behaviour by watching about 50 of the genre, both full length and series, sequentially, in a very short period of time. Like, days. I am currently not sure what year it is, or what country I am living in, but I know for a fact that anime is no less an art form than the stuff you stand in line for at the museums. Second disclaimer, after watching this series, I made a beeline for Cowboy Beebop -- oops sorry for the pun -- but could not get past the first in the series. (This may or may not lend credibility to the other IMDb reviewers who maintain the two series are as different as they are similar?) Disclaimers aside, this is a wonderful treat, fun, action-packed, great music, fascinating themes, and a lot hidden irony (and other treats) buried deep in the dialog for those with very sharp ears. The characters, who form a brilliant ensemble cast, are as good anything in mainstream media. MAKE SURE YOU GET THE English AUDIO. The hip-hop sub-theme is fun, never too distracting. Highly recommended. FOOTNOTES: After watching a highly concentrated mix of Japanese and American anime, my conclusion is that the Japanese product is better crafted to an entirely higher order of magnitude. My favorite so far is APPLESEED, which, no coincidence, had, I believe, the strongest story line and script to support the wonderful animation. My criticism of Japanese anime generally is that the stories tend to be considerably weaker than the animation, leaving the viewer with an "A/V high" that last for a few hours, and then you forget why you liked the product in the first place. (oops) American product is better written, period. I consider the LAST AIRBENDER series, and the feature OVER THE HEDGE, to be two of the best productions ever done in America, regardless of genre.


                
What I liked about this anime is how it reflects modern day Japan. The main plot is simple. There are 3 main characters to this story. Fuu, Mugen and Jin. These 3 characters met by fate and they all agreed to journey together throughout the whole of Japan in search of 'the samurai who smells like sunflowers'. It is the characters that interest me the most, especially the 2 samurais Jin and Mugen. And it is them that are representation of modern Japan. Before I begin to describe the 2 characters you need to understand what Shinichiro Watanabe is trying to tell us. Modern Japan as you know it is now technologically advance. And Watanabe feels that it is because of this new change in era and society that is slowly replacing old traditional Japan. And this is what the 2 characters are here for.Jin represents the old traditional Japan where he behaves in an orderly fashion and speaks in a professional manner. He is the enigmatic type, quiet most of the time and thinks things through carefully and with fair judgement. In a way this is describing old Japan as a peaceful society. His fighting style also matches his image as he prefers sticking to the rules of combat. His knowledge of sword fighting is masterful knowing when and when not to attack. His actual appearance is very formal. He dresses normally and does not look out of place. He tries to avoid contact as much as possible. Mugen on the other hand is the exact opposite of him. He represents the new Japan, the modern day era where rules do not apply to him. In a way he is like one of those punks in Japan who do not give a damn about the laws and let things flow as they go along. His appearance looks much different from everybody else. Its as if he customised his own clothes. The way he talks is different as well and prefers to be laid back most of the time. He is rude to most people and is a womaniser. His fighting style reflects his image. He does not go by the traditional rules of combat engagement, instead his attacks are wild unlike Jin's. Some have said that his fighting style incorporates a bit of the Brazilian martial art Capoeira and break dancing. Its not only these 2 characters that actually show representation of Japan. In fact there are some episodes which shows how new Japan is replacing the old. For example Mugen takes Jin's swords as an entrance fee to a food eating competition. During that time it would have been disrespectful to take another Samurai's swords away from them. This shows how old Japan is deteriorating. The character Fuu does not really interest me as much as the other 2 characters does however she does play a pivotal role in this series and the main plot is actually based around her. Shes the bridge between the 2 samurai characters. It is because of her that these 2 samurais aren't killing each other. In a way she holds the group together. The title of the anime series 'Samurai Champloo' is called that for a reason. The word 'Champloo' means to mix or mixture and it perfectly describes this whole anime series. Throughout the episodes you will notice how things are out of place. Like an Anachronism. There are things that are there which shouldn't be. For example Mugen's arm motion. He spreads his arm out as if it were a plane and screams out 'Vooooommm'. Planes did not even exist at the time either (and we're talking about during the Edo period of Japan). Champloo is a fitting name for this series as it incorporates a lot of things that are new into the old. The music is also a representation of Japan. This is a change to music compared to Cowboy Bebop's Jazz theme, this incorporates a more hip hop theme and this actually bolds well with the theme of the story. It is easy to understand that hip hop is a new age kind of music so it is to no one's surprise that Watanabe would use it in this anime. The music is particularly well done even though hip hop is not my kind of music and it mixes well with the story.Animation-wise this has got to be the best looking anime around especially with the fight scenes. As the viewer you could literally see the fluid motions of the character's fighting style and their attack moves. Unlike many action oriented anime series where you see speed lines behind the characters, this actually shows us in depth fighting. Every part of their body actually moves accordingly. There is no long jumping and screaming, no repetitive speed lines as seen in DBZ. It actually shows them fighting properly, bit by bit and that is what impresses me the most. I've seen many other Samurai anime series and none of them come close to brilliance as this does in terms of animation. However I recently watched it again and noticed how their swords hardly collide with each other. Most of the time the fighting involves them avoiding each other's swords. So there was no real clash to it, nothing was really gritty about it. But in the end, if I was to compare this anime to another in terms of animation then this beats it easily. Overall this is a brilliant anime series with great animations. It doesn't have an intelligent plot, nothing that will keep you on the edge but the presentation is great. Characters are fantastic, it mixes comedy, drama, romance and action all into one. The music is also great as well. This is one of the best anime series around.
since hip-hop's beginnings, there has always been a deep respect within the rap community for Asian culture, specifically that of the samurai, this is evident in the music of The Wu Tang Clan, shows like Kung Faux, and films like Ghost Dog.now the table is turned with Shinichiro Watanabe's new venture, Samurai Champloo, this is a fine example of the mutual embrace of cultures between American hip-hop and Japanese samurai fiction.the plot is pretty basic and remarkably none-convoluted for an anime: a tea-shop worker named Fuu falls into the company of two warriors, a samurai named Jin, and a slacker named Mugen, they go on a journey to find someone known as "the samurai who smells of sunflowers." pretty standard fair, right? well not always true, for instance, these three are not necessarily friends, in fact Mugen and Jin are both determined to kill each other at some point. for samurai fiction, there's a lot of wink and nudge at the audience. this show never takes itself too seriously, but that doesn't stop us from caring about the characters and the events they are put in.like Watanabe's previous effort, Cowboy Bebop, the mood of the show is incredibly eclectic, one episode can contain moments of heart-wrenching drama and the next moment, pure hilarity.as previously mentioned, this show is an amalgamation of Japanese storytelling and American hip-hop, the shows theme song is a strange but very cool rap by Emcee Fat Jon, and the show itself features many scratch-instances, usually used to shift the plot in another direction for a moment. hip-hop also reigns as a pacer for many of the extremely cool fight-scenes. Jin's rote and clean shogun style is a great counterpart for Mugen's wild Capoera and break dancing moves, and all the battles are bloody, excessive, and a riot to watch. even the little text blurbs and notes that constantly pass across the screen are written in graffiti and often include ironic slang messages.the animation is reminiscent of Watanabe's work on Kill Bill, however it is less sketchy, more cleanly defined and colored.if you're looking for another Eva clone, with a deep and continuous plot, then you're sh*t out of luck here, however if you just want a good time, that is immediately palatable and easy to get into, then look no further.


                
"Samurai Champloo" may not have the same ring to it as "Cowboy Bebop," yet it is a title that has a similar function: to illustrate a combination of multicultural pulp fiction sensibility. Where Cowboy Bebop was a past + future fusion of jazz, rock, and blues, spaghetti western, kung fu, and noir cinema genres, and a setting equating outer space to the great frontier, Samurai Champloo is a more wildly anachronistic mélange of Edo-period history and contemporary hip-hop and bohemian culture. "Champloo" itself comes from the word "chanpuru," Okinawan for "something mixed," and a source of Okinawa's pride in multicultural acceptance. Cowboy Bebop was a trend-setting marriage of anime traditions and Tarantino- inspired cultural hodgepodge — it could be said that Pulp Fiction influenced Cowboy Bebop as much as Cowboy Bebop influenced Kill Bill — and Samurai Champloo continues in this meta style, taking it even further.Of course, Cowboy Bebop was not Shinichiro Watanabe's first foray into resonant crossover in anime: Macross Plus was a monolithic amalgamation of Top Gun's hot-headed romantic drama and sci-fi tropes including a pop-idol hologram version of 2001: A Space Odyssey's HAL, in turn influencing the famous cyberpunk writer William Gibson to write Idoru, a novel about a Japanese virtual idol and her marriage to a real- life rock star. Of course, all of this was before the invention of the Vocaloid, though I suppose the future imagined by Watanabe and Gibson was, in a way, not so far off.Anyhow, now that I've finished my little history lesson — which I feel is relevant, as having such a perspective may deepen your enjoyment of Samurai Champloo as much as it did for me — let's continue on to the review. In light of all the prescient futurism found in Watanabe's other works, it's rather interesting that he decided to shift his focus to the past and present. Of course, the world's future is always in its past... and what we have here is, in a nutshell, Edo-period Japan: the remix. Baseball, tagging/graffiti, Van Gogh, zombies, and Catholicism are tossed into the "chanpuru" with a whole lot of revised Japanese pseudo-history. As such the medley of influences and tangential tale-spinning occasionally smacks of filler, but one would do well to understand that this show is simply all /about/ the filler — and this is all for the better, because Samurai Champloo is at its freshest and most hilarious when it's veering off the rails. It even has the single most entertaining recap episode I've ever seen. Even with all this episodic improv, Fuu's journey in search of a "samurai who smells like sunflowers" provides a compelling core to the story, much like a steady hip-hop beat giving structure to the mix of samples and freestyle verses. Her ronin traveling companions Mugen and Jin mingle like oil and water, and there we have the perfect cast for hilarity and drama.Samurai Champloo is one good-looking show, with its thick linework giving an impression of manga blended with graffiti style. One episode even takes a quick trip into the psychedelic, with a sudden burst of colorful hallucination, Mind Game style — courtesy of episode key animator Masaaki Yuasa, of course. A wide variety of such notable animators were brought on board and thus the style occasionally varies slightly from episode to episode or even scene to scene, but it's always pleasing and completely in tune with the show's theme. Rural Japan has never looked so urban; almost any given scene in Samurai Champloo would be right at home spray-painted on the side of a city building or underpass.The music, likewise, blends hip-hop, rhythm & blues, and traditional Japanese shamisen. Music often plays second fiddle to the look and quality of the animation when it comes to my enjoyment of anime, but in some cases it becomes just as important. This is one such anime, where the music contributes so greatly to the feel of it that it defines it and sets it apart from other anime — much like the soundtrack by Yoko Kanno and the Seatbelts did for Cowboy Bebop. It's also worth mentioning that rap and beatboxing sometimes enter the dialogue, and it's always amusing. Admittedly, most younger people these days are far more familiar with hip-hop than they are with the jazz, blues, and big band genres; nonetheless, in the realm of anime this feels a bit groundbreaking, especially with the theme songs featuring Japanese rap lyrics. The world is getting bigger and smaller every day.Samurai Champloo is a show for everyone. Plenty of great sword- slashing action, clever comedy, and a good share of moments that will tug at your heartstrings — often all at once. If you enjoy anime, this is one you can't miss. show less
I wouldn't really consider myself a big fan of anime, having only seen about 50 titles to date (mostly theatrical films). I have enjoyed a majority of the ones I've seen (especially the Studio Ghibli line), but most of them haven't blown me away. I'm one of those blasphemous fiends who finds great enjoyment in anime that *real* fans of anime don't like very much. You know, stuff like "Vexille" (2007), "Appleseed" (2004), and "Final Fantasy VII: Advent Children" (2005) – movies that everyone likes to rip apart even though they're far more entertaining than most of the artsy fartsy stuff that finds its way onto everyones top lists. I've also disliked and even hated a number of highly acclaimed titles. You know, stuff like "Akira" (1987), "Neon Genesis Evangelion" (1995), "Grave of the Fireflies" (1998), and "Princess Mononoke" (1997) – titles that get endless reverence for reasons that I simply do not understand. For myself personally, anime is like a mine field because I really have no idea whether or not I'm gonna hit a pretentous, irritating mess.This past weekend I had no Asian dvds to watch, which is a rarity. So I did some online research and came across a series by the name of "Samurai Champloo" (2004). Like every other anime series, it got really high ratings and everyone went on and on about how awesome it was – yada yada yada. I rolled my eyes. Then I noticed that it was created by the same team that brought us "Cowboy Bebop" (1998), an anime that I recently finished and enjoyed very much. On that fact alone I decided to take a chance. I purchased the Complete DVD collection at a local store, and ended up finishing the entire series (a 10 hour project) in one day.Fuu, a waitress who works in a teahouse, rescues two master swordsmen, Mugen and Jin, from their execution to help her find the "samurai who smells of sunflowers." Along the way they meet a lot of people and get involved in various conflicts. This is one of the few anime that I've seen that exhibits superior quality in every single aspect of film-making. The animation itself is stunning, with incredibly beautiful environments on constant display, and the Japanese voiceacting is top notch. The two biggest positives, however, are the character development and the swordfights.With regards to the former, I must give some serious props to the scriptwriter, who crafts some fantastic characters here with very distinct, engaging histories. These are expertly developed characters who come to life. As much as I enjoyed "Ghost in the Shell: Stand Alone Complex GIG 1 & 2" (2002, 2004), I always felt that the characters were too dry and textbook. Not so in "Samurai Champloo", which introduces its characters in a very warm, endearing manner while using a hefty amount of witty comedy that bonds them with the viewer as well as each other. It was also an excellent decision to have a very slow, methodical bonding process that basically takes the entire runtime before culminating in a family-type relationship. This makes perfect sense given their cynical histories, and comes off as entirely convincing. By the end the viewer will have no choice but to be emotionally invested in their lives, which maximizes the impact of the final 6 or 7 episodes when they confront some formidable opponents.That brings us to the swordfighting scenes, which are without question the greatest I've ever seen in an animated film or show. The quality of the action choreography is high throughout, but the last 6 or 7 episodes will completely blow you away. We're talking multiple showdowns with bad guys who are so intimidating that one questions the well-being of the protagonists, who are considerably talented in their own right. What results is what I call "superlative awesomeness" that will have the viewer on the edge of their seat for virtually every single second. If you thought the swordfights in "Ninja Scroll" (1993) were good, you've GOT to see this! A truly magnificent, exhilarating experience.I still have much to see in the realm of anime, but it's gonna be tough to top "Samurai Champloo." I'm completely and whole-heartedly in love with this the same way I'm in love with "My Sassy Girl" (2001, South Korea) as a romantic comedy or "Kairo" (2001, Japan) as a horror movie. A must see by any common definition of the term.10/10


                
I'm not a big fan of anime and this kind of music that is played too. But this is such a great symbiosis of these two types. The story is also very funny. The two fighters want to kill each other but at least they always fighting together against the evil. It's very interesting which hints are given about the present in the Japanese historical fighting scene - the change from historical culture to modern lifestyle - however the style of "Samurai champloo" is very ancient. And I don't remember in such a good kind of end that makes you feel to watch the next episode and after that the next and the next... Well done! I don't know if there are better animes. Maybe. But this series makes you addicted. So to anybody who's sceptical about anime and hip-hop (south-american kind in this one I think)...********* go try and watch it!!! *********


                
I'm not really drawn in by many animes, they all seem (no offense, anime lovers) a bit nerdy, however i really liked Cowboy Bebop and Hellsing. Life after Shinichiro Watanabe after Cowbow Bebop? Samurai Champloo. Samurai Champloo follows the distraught, weird and sometimes tragic lives of Mugen, Jin and Fuu. What instantly makes you take a liking to these characters is their styles, Mugen , the crazy, dirt-mouthed warrior, Jin the master samurai and Fuu, the annoying girl. The series is full of twists and turns as Fuu struggles to find a samurai who smells of sunflower and Mugen and Jin's blurry past, which is slowly revealed throughout the series, which brings me to another plus; the story. I found this story to be one of the most progressive stories ever, keeping you on your toes and revealing a little bit about the character every episode.The animation style is great, it's got violence, humor and a nice hip hop soundtrack to go along with it. A must for all (except the kids)!


                
