I finished this anime in two days and my only regret is that i didn't watch it earlier. im a new anime fan as i just recently got into it but still i have watched the big ones such as death note, fullmetal alchemist, one punch man etc.. but i never really heard of samurai champloo until i stumbled on it when i finished cowboy bebop (same creators). let me just say..IT IS SO AMAZING. the plot. the visiuals. the MUSIC. the characters. just about everyting. i loved watching fuu, mugen and jins journey to finding the samurai who smells of sunflowers.. just pure enjoyment. never had a dull moment. you really grow attached to the characters and its so nostalgic once you finish the show knowing you won't get to be with them anymore.. anyway if you are like me and usually read reviews before watching a series then im here to tell you: DO IT. samurai champloo is WORTH IT and so much more. now that ive finished it i cant wait to rewatch it again. your fellow anime comrade


                
I absolutely LOVED Cowboy Bebop. When I found out that Samurai Champloo was from Watanabe as well, I had to watch. HAD to. And I was not disappointed in the least! The artwork: stylish, lavish, colorful, detailed, and beautiful! As in Cowboy Bebop, this show isn't full of hot-bodied women with ridiculously childish features, cut-and-paste still frame fight scene accentuated with speed lines as in Yuyu Hakusho (I still love that show, however); it had a very realistic, emphatic feel about it. Another poster commented on the well-done fight scenes, and I wholeheartedly agree! As a participant in kendo and iaido classes, I recognized that almost every move in the fights were accurate and practical, true to real sword fighting.Characters: every single character was original, endearing! They each had their funny little quirks, their own personal issues that really makes you empathize with the characters. The voice acting is superb, both in English and Japanese.Overall: I love the way Samurai Champloo employs modern day hip-hop beats and certain personalities, entwining them with a feudal era Japan. While the storyline seems a bit flimsy and is peppered with perhaps 1 too many filler episodes, the compelling, gorgeous, artistic components of the show are like a slap in the face: it's fresh, it's funky, it's Samurai Champloo!


                
When I decided to watch this Japanese animation series I had read that it mixed the art of samurai and hip hop. So as a guy who love hip hop and anime I got excited when I watched the first episode of this stylish samurai hip hoping series. I fell in love with the Characters. Especially I loved the laid back pirate, Mugen, but I also liked Jin the silent guy and the energetic Fuu and their journey to find the "samurai who smells of sunflowers.". On the way they get in a lot of weird situations everything from to playing baseball to pay for a restaurant bill and fighting villains. I also like the way the series use things from hip hop such as Tagging, beat boxing and rapping. I think this is the best mixing of hip hop and samurai stuff since the underrated film Ghost Dog: Way of the Samurai. I think this series is much better than shows like Naruto and Inu Yasha, the reason that I like Champloo better is that it doesn't go on forever and it is something that ends and the characters got more feelings in Champloo and the show is not that childish, but don't get me wrong I love this types of anime to, but Champloo is so darn stylish and I have not seen any anime series this awesome. So hip hop hooray for Samurai Champloo.


                
First some disclaimers. I came to anime late in life, not completely understanding the power of this art form in the right hands. I have since compensated for this untoward behaviour by watching about 50 of the genre, both full length and series, sequentially, in a very short period of time. Like, days. I am currently not sure what year it is, or what country I am living in, but I know for a fact that anime is no less an art form than the stuff you stand in line for at the museums. Second disclaimer, after watching this series, I made a beeline for Cowboy Beebop -- oops sorry for the pun -- but could not get past the first in the series. (This may or may not lend credibility to the other IMDb reviewers who maintain the two series are as different as they are similar?) Disclaimers aside, this is a wonderful treat, fun, action-packed, great music, fascinating themes, and a lot hidden irony (and other treats) buried deep in the dialog for those with very sharp ears. The characters, who form a brilliant ensemble cast, are as good anything in mainstream media. MAKE SURE YOU GET THE English AUDIO. The hip-hop sub-theme is fun, never too distracting. Highly recommended. FOOTNOTES: After watching a highly concentrated mix of Japanese and American anime, my conclusion is that the Japanese product is better crafted to an entirely higher order of magnitude. My favorite so far is APPLESEED, which, no coincidence, had, I believe, the strongest story line and script to support the wonderful animation. My criticism of Japanese anime generally is that the stories tend to be considerably weaker than the animation, leaving the viewer with an "A/V high" that last for a few hours, and then you forget why you liked the product in the first place. (oops) American product is better written, period. I consider the LAST AIRBENDER series, and the feature OVER THE HEDGE, to be two of the best productions ever done in America, regardless of genre.


                
"Samurai Champloo" may not have the same ring to it as "Cowboy Bebop," yet it is a title that has a similar function: to illustrate a combination of multicultural pulp fiction sensibility. Where Cowboy Bebop was a past + future fusion of jazz, rock, and blues, spaghetti western, kung fu, and noir cinema genres, and a setting equating outer space to the great frontier, Samurai Champloo is a more wildly anachronistic mélange of Edo-period history and contemporary hip-hop and bohemian culture. "Champloo" itself comes from the word "chanpuru," Okinawan for "something mixed," and a source of Okinawa's pride in multicultural acceptance. Cowboy Bebop was a trend-setting marriage of anime traditions and Tarantino- inspired cultural hodgepodge — it could be said that Pulp Fiction influenced Cowboy Bebop as much as Cowboy Bebop influenced Kill Bill — and Samurai Champloo continues in this meta style, taking it even further.Of course, Cowboy Bebop was not Shinichiro Watanabe's first foray into resonant crossover in anime: Macross Plus was a monolithic amalgamation of Top Gun's hot-headed romantic drama and sci-fi tropes including a pop-idol hologram version of 2001: A Space Odyssey's HAL, in turn influencing the famous cyberpunk writer William Gibson to write Idoru, a novel about a Japanese virtual idol and her marriage to a real- life rock star. Of course, all of this was before the invention of the Vocaloid, though I suppose the future imagined by Watanabe and Gibson was, in a way, not so far off.Anyhow, now that I've finished my little history lesson — which I feel is relevant, as having such a perspective may deepen your enjoyment of Samurai Champloo as much as it did for me — let's continue on to the review. In light of all the prescient futurism found in Watanabe's other works, it's rather interesting that he decided to shift his focus to the past and present. Of course, the world's future is always in its past... and what we have here is, in a nutshell, Edo-period Japan: the remix. Baseball, tagging/graffiti, Van Gogh, zombies, and Catholicism are tossed into the "chanpuru" with a whole lot of revised Japanese pseudo-history. As such the medley of influences and tangential tale-spinning occasionally smacks of filler, but one would do well to understand that this show is simply all /about/ the filler — and this is all for the better, because Samurai Champloo is at its freshest and most hilarious when it's veering off the rails. It even has the single most entertaining recap episode I've ever seen. Even with all this episodic improv, Fuu's journey in search of a "samurai who smells like sunflowers" provides a compelling core to the story, much like a steady hip-hop beat giving structure to the mix of samples and freestyle verses. Her ronin traveling companions Mugen and Jin mingle like oil and water, and there we have the perfect cast for hilarity and drama.Samurai Champloo is one good-looking show, with its thick linework giving an impression of manga blended with graffiti style. One episode even takes a quick trip into the psychedelic, with a sudden burst of colorful hallucination, Mind Game style — courtesy of episode key animator Masaaki Yuasa, of course. A wide variety of such notable animators were brought on board and thus the style occasionally varies slightly from episode to episode or even scene to scene, but it's always pleasing and completely in tune with the show's theme. Rural Japan has never looked so urban; almost any given scene in Samurai Champloo would be right at home spray-painted on the side of a city building or underpass.The music, likewise, blends hip-hop, rhythm & blues, and traditional Japanese shamisen. Music often plays second fiddle to the look and quality of the animation when it comes to my enjoyment of anime, but in some cases it becomes just as important. This is one such anime, where the music contributes so greatly to the feel of it that it defines it and sets it apart from other anime — much like the soundtrack by Yoko Kanno and the Seatbelts did for Cowboy Bebop. It's also worth mentioning that rap and beatboxing sometimes enter the dialogue, and it's always amusing. Admittedly, most younger people these days are far more familiar with hip-hop than they are with the jazz, blues, and big band genres; nonetheless, in the realm of anime this feels a bit groundbreaking, especially with the theme songs featuring Japanese rap lyrics. The world is getting bigger and smaller every day.Samurai Champloo is a show for everyone. Plenty of great sword- slashing action, clever comedy, and a good share of moments that will tug at your heartstrings — often all at once. If you enjoy anime, this is one you can't miss. show less
I wouldn't really consider myself a big fan of anime, having only seen about 50 titles to date (mostly theatrical films). I have enjoyed a majority of the ones I've seen (especially the Studio Ghibli line), but most of them haven't blown me away. I'm one of those blasphemous fiends who finds great enjoyment in anime that *real* fans of anime don't like very much. You know, stuff like "Vexille" (2007), "Appleseed" (2004), and "Final Fantasy VII: Advent Children" (2005) – movies that everyone likes to rip apart even though they're far more entertaining than most of the artsy fartsy stuff that finds its way onto everyones top lists. I've also disliked and even hated a number of highly acclaimed titles. You know, stuff like "Akira" (1987), "Neon Genesis Evangelion" (1995), "Grave of the Fireflies" (1998), and "Princess Mononoke" (1997) – titles that get endless reverence for reasons that I simply do not understand. For myself personally, anime is like a mine field because I really have no idea whether or not I'm gonna hit a pretentous, irritating mess.This past weekend I had no Asian dvds to watch, which is a rarity. So I did some online research and came across a series by the name of "Samurai Champloo" (2004). Like every other anime series, it got really high ratings and everyone went on and on about how awesome it was – yada yada yada. I rolled my eyes. Then I noticed that it was created by the same team that brought us "Cowboy Bebop" (1998), an anime that I recently finished and enjoyed very much. On that fact alone I decided to take a chance. I purchased the Complete DVD collection at a local store, and ended up finishing the entire series (a 10 hour project) in one day.Fuu, a waitress who works in a teahouse, rescues two master swordsmen, Mugen and Jin, from their execution to help her find the "samurai who smells of sunflowers." Along the way they meet a lot of people and get involved in various conflicts. This is one of the few anime that I've seen that exhibits superior quality in every single aspect of film-making. The animation itself is stunning, with incredibly beautiful environments on constant display, and the Japanese voiceacting is top notch. The two biggest positives, however, are the character development and the swordfights.With regards to the former, I must give some serious props to the scriptwriter, who crafts some fantastic characters here with very distinct, engaging histories. These are expertly developed characters who come to life. As much as I enjoyed "Ghost in the Shell: Stand Alone Complex GIG 1 & 2" (2002, 2004), I always felt that the characters were too dry and textbook. Not so in "Samurai Champloo", which introduces its characters in a very warm, endearing manner while using a hefty amount of witty comedy that bonds them with the viewer as well as each other. It was also an excellent decision to have a very slow, methodical bonding process that basically takes the entire runtime before culminating in a family-type relationship. This makes perfect sense given their cynical histories, and comes off as entirely convincing. By the end the viewer will have no choice but to be emotionally invested in their lives, which maximizes the impact of the final 6 or 7 episodes when they confront some formidable opponents.That brings us to the swordfighting scenes, which are without question the greatest I've ever seen in an animated film or show. The quality of the action choreography is high throughout, but the last 6 or 7 episodes will completely blow you away. We're talking multiple showdowns with bad guys who are so intimidating that one questions the well-being of the protagonists, who are considerably talented in their own right. What results is what I call "superlative awesomeness" that will have the viewer on the edge of their seat for virtually every single second. If you thought the swordfights in "Ninja Scroll" (1993) were good, you've GOT to see this! A truly magnificent, exhilarating experience.I still have much to see in the realm of anime, but it's gonna be tough to top "Samurai Champloo." I'm completely and whole-heartedly in love with this the same way I'm in love with "My Sassy Girl" (2001, South Korea) as a romantic comedy or "Kairo" (2001, Japan) as a horror movie. A must see by any common definition of the term.10/10


                
I'm not really drawn in by many animes, they all seem (no offense, anime lovers) a bit nerdy, however i really liked Cowboy Bebop and Hellsing. Life after Shinichiro Watanabe after Cowbow Bebop? Samurai Champloo. Samurai Champloo follows the distraught, weird and sometimes tragic lives of Mugen, Jin and Fuu. What instantly makes you take a liking to these characters is their styles, Mugen , the crazy, dirt-mouthed warrior, Jin the master samurai and Fuu, the annoying girl. The series is full of twists and turns as Fuu struggles to find a samurai who smells of sunflower and Mugen and Jin's blurry past, which is slowly revealed throughout the series, which brings me to another plus; the story. I found this story to be one of the most progressive stories ever, keeping you on your toes and revealing a little bit about the character every episode.The animation style is great, it's got violence, humor and a nice hip hop soundtrack to go along with it. A must for all (except the kids)!


                
doesn't have a whole lot of story with mostly filler episodes but has the most entertaining fights and one of the rare anime that ends somewhat happy with slim to none main character death... an anime that stirs up your emotions has to be good... actually left completely open for a sequel or ova or something... a must watch series with an amazing soundtrack.. i believe this show is done by the same people who did cowboy bebop and wolfs rain.. two other shows i would almost love as much if they didn't get unbelievably depressing right towards the finale. has some comedic elements to the episodes as well that make me chuckle...
ABSOLUTE BRILLIANT!One of the best anime out there, it is different, original and kind of have it's own quirk.For anyone who has watched Cowboy Bebop, for sure that director Shinichiro Watanabe loves blending completely quirk elements together and create his original Interesting storyline, transitions, and edits into the screen.


                
This animeee...this anime is something else i like i never skipped the intro, chacarters love them badas* ninja and hip hop, what else do you want more?Also funny cute graphycs...it warms my heart the soundtrack i still listen..Rip Nujabes


                
Cowboy Bebop - Samurai/Edo Era editionMini-adventure series following two bored ronin hired by a lady to find "the samurai who smells of sunflowers"Hip-Hop Influenced9.5/10


                
"Samurai Champloo" takes a background where the Japanese still have the imperial system and the ages of the samurai. "Samurai Champloo," tells about of two samurais named Mugen (Kazuya Nakai) and Jin (Ginpei Sato) and a girl named Fuu (Ayako Kawasumi) made a very long journey in search of a sun-like samurai. At first, the three of them didn't know each other. The three of them were met as Mugen and Jin fought inside the cafe where Fuu worked. Later, Mugen and Jin were arrested by the police. Fuu who saw it helped both of them to escape. After they escaped, they discuss for a moment and Fuu throws a coin. Mugen and Jin were forced to follow Fuu's desire to accompany him to find samurai with sunflower. The three of them began to follow the wind blowing direction to find the samurai even though they only capitalize determination.Although "Samurai Champloo" plot is simple, "Samurai Champloo" features a unique soundtrack and a great character introduction. Typically, samurai-themed anime will present traditional music or Japanese orchestra. But, unlike this anime. This anime presents a blend of samurai and hip-hop. It's sort of weird and funny when samurai and hip-hop meet. But, that's what makes this anime so unique. One of them is the transitions of sound effects using disc jockey. Nujabes is one of the musicians who fill this anime soundtrack. Nujabes managed to create a musical composition that brings Jazz and Hip-Hop to perfection. In addition to Nujabes, Fat Jon, Tsutchie, and Force of Nature also fill some of these anime soundtracks as well.Little by little, the introduction of his character was introduced gradually. Starting from the tragic story of the three characters to how he became like that. The plot of the story "Samurai Champloo" is deeply neatly tied up because every episode is tucked away by some Plot-Twists that amaze the audience even ending-nor should it be underestimated. "Samurai Champloo" also presents some modern cultural references that have blended with the Japanese lifestyle such as beatbox, rap, graffiti, baseball, and others.Overall, "Samurai Champloo" has a story and a balanced character that each episode isn't bored to watch. Starting from the soundtrack to the plot, everything is equally balanced. We can also learn a bit of Japanese culture and history in the Edo period. The anime is also slipped several comedies that make the audience laugh. Samurai Champloo is very suitable to watch by some anime fans and who are not anime fans.


                
It doesn't take more than 2 episodes to realize that Samurai Champloo is going to be another Watanabe episodic classic. Typical of Shinichiro, he brings in all elements of funk and style, but it's the way it's all incorporated in 18th-century Japan, well I loved the setting(and the badass animation of course) a lot. Plus, the action shown is simply awesome, makes you believe in a samurai's skill and all the effort that he/she is putting in. You watch each episode for that one episode only, but still get a mysterious back-story to follow. Again, all the main characters have stark differences and have a story of their own, connected by a completely fateful(rather random) turn of events. All Cowboy Bebop fans will recognize this and expect a similar touch, but this anime gives you a fresh take on the relationship between complete strangers who help each other in their unique ways. A 10/10 from my side, you won't get a better action-adventure-funk anime, each episode different from the previous one filled with completely random stories but coming together in an epic way in the end.


                
All I can say about this anime is: 1.Great soundtrack 2.Great characters 3.Great story 4.Great artwork This is one title that I've managed to get nearly all of my friends and family to watch, and all of them loved it. It is a must watch! It's only 26 episodes but by the end you will find yourself attached to the characters and upset that it's ending. If you love chilled out/hip hop/jazzy beats mixed with cool fight scenes then this is definitely for you. I can't recommend this anime any more. There's a big contrast between Mugen and Jin, yet somehow they work together well. No anime list is complete without Samurai Champloo.


                
If you like samurais, rap beats, and adventures this would be for yousome may say the story is point less but from my time watching this you see it is a short story that makes sense a girl wants to find someone while two people are in her debt with fire and ice personalities they continue until like how most wanders are until something is done, arises their own interests, or dies. But that is not unreal its very realAnd for who ever said "that this story is all about hunger and food" well he ain't never been hungry before to the point of nothing in the world is more important and I know how bad hungry is its not nothing when you travel on foot you will eventually get hungry so thereO and the soundtrack is raw and soothing at times something to remember
Before, "Afro Samurai", was released. Shinichiro Watanabe (Creator of, "Cowboy Bebop") created a show called, "Samurai Champloo".The story is about a girl named, Fuu, who saves two swordsmen named, Jin and Mugen, from getting executed. After when Fuu saves them, Jin and Mugen travel with her so they can find the "Samurai who smells of Sunflowers". Along the way, they encounter many obstacles.Pro's: This show was really funny. Mostly because when they arrive at a town, Mugen and Jin leave Fuu and get into trouble. The animation was great because it capture's what the Edo period was like in Japan. The film also has some good voice acting mostly from Steve Blum as Mugen. The music in this show was also good because it had some old Japanese music and Hip-Hop Music.Con's: Nothing Overall, "Samurai Champloo", is a great anime show that blend's good action, good hip-hop music, and a sense of humor.
Take a rude crude breakdance-fighting dude with a bad attitude, a stoic "by-the-book" ronin and a spunky young waitress who happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time. Throw them together into the sizzling wok of a world where ancient meets modern and stir in a wide array of other interesting characters.The entire structure of Samurai Champloo's setting, characters and story mirrors that of the Okinawan stir fry dish the show is named after. Mugen (the breakdance-fighting dude) and Jin (the ronin) are recruited by Fuu(the waitress), after she saves them from execution. Together they must journey through this intriguing new world of a stylized Edo Period on a quest to seek out a mysterious samurai who smells of sunflowers. The narrative follows more along the style of American TV series; episodes are largely stand-alone but with an overarching storyline to tie one episode to the next. Each episode gives a glimpse into this unique world as envisioned by director Shinichiro Watanabe while developing our 3 main characters' back-stories.On their own, each ingredient tastes great; each character has their own unique charm that really grows on you within the first episode alone. But it is their interactions with each other and the different situations they are thrown into what this "dish" is really about. The marvelous script weaves the 3 different personalities together in and out from one misadventure to the next, making for a wide mix of funny lighthearted moments with darker and even sad ones. The voice actors bring such chemistry to the the characters that it is easy to lose oneself in this show.(this is one of those few anime where the English dub actually sounded better than the Japanese voice track).To complete the dish, Shinichiro Watanabe garnishes Samurai Champloo with some of the most awesome animation, stunning action sequences and artwork seen in an anime series. Though not up to the standards of a animated movie, Samurai Champloo's animation is along the lines of a high budgeted OVA; fluid, smooth and with almost no reliance on the usual animation "short-cuts". A stunning achievement for the new anime studio "Manglobe". The artwork combines modern anime aesthetics with a style similar to the traditional Japanese paintings. A few action scenes look a little "flat" thanks to the stylized minimalist shading, but they do not detract from the overall enjoyment of the show.So once again, master "chef" Shinichiro Watanabe managed to produce one delectable delicacy of an anime series. A lip smacking blend of old and new, funny and serious; there is something to satisfy everyone in this series. A true spiritual successor to his 90s hit "Cowboy bebop" and easily a time honored classic in the making. This is a "must have" for any anime fan with a taste for great stories.


                
Samurai Champloo is simply a masterpiece. From the makers of 'Cowboy Bebop' this superbly animated world with perhaps one of the best soundtracks for any show on television courtesy the late Jun Seba a.k.a. Nujabes, has endearing characters and a fusion of the ancient world tradition with modern era attitude. There are three chief protagonists-two guys and a girl, and that would in most anime be a cheesy recipe for disaster, but the makers of Samurai Champloo succeed where so many other anime fell victim- the incredible resolve by withholding a Japanese animator greatest inclination- the elimination of romance between main characters.The fight sequences are wonderful and Samurai Champloo sticks to a more realistic point of these fights portrayal . No demi-gods, no magic, no runes and ejusdem generis.. Just plain and simple steel for steel, blood for blood duels. The two men protagonists display different styles of fighting which make for interesting and very enjoyable bitter sweet camaraderie while the lead female character is insane mix of childishness and stoic maturity. Samurai Champloo is crisp with only 26 episodes making the experience of the watching this series memorable and exciting. In opinion, this the best animated series I have ever seen. Period.


                
What really made me love "Cowboy Bebop" was how it was able to mix genre, culture, style, and music that seemed almost like an unlikely mix but turned out to hit the right notes. It's done the second time around but directed this time toward the samurai genre and hip hop music, which on a side note I'm not a fan of either one but this show is one of the exceptions I make. And this is also another of my personal favorite anime TV shows.Unlike "Cowboy Bebop" this show actually does have a plot but isn't entirely concerned about it since it's really more of a motivation device. This is a show where style over tops substance.It's just great seeing an alternate version on ancient Japan which is a blend of both old and current customs making it all the more interesting and humorous. The hip hop soundtrack is awesome it really blends in well with the action and what currently happens as the show progresses. But of course as usual it's the characters and what they do that really drive it, their colorful and three dimensional enough for us to actually care about them.Mugen whom looks like he could be an ancestor of Spike Spegel is basically reckless, irresponsible, arrogant, tough, rough, not altogether bright, a rebel without a cause and has a bit of an inflated ego complex where he at times he brags he's killed lots of people though I highly doubt it is really everything he builds it up to be. Deep down though his heart is in the right place, he is capable of doing what is right whether he wants to or not. He sort of represents a more modern western school of action since his style of fighting is sort of your conventional swordplay mixed with break dancing.Jin who looks like actor Christian Bale is sort of the passive aggressive type. A man of very few words, he really doesn't say much in the show sometimes and when he does talk it's a very soft even voice. He's a silent rebel, doesn't bend to anyone and does the right thing when needed. He's represents the old school type of action since his style is based on the martial art Bushido, his moves are more precise but always quick as lighting.Fuu is naive in a good or bad way, worst of all seems to be a magnet for trouble even though she's not looking for it. She of course is sort of the mediator for the two, but whenever she turns her back both of them tend to duke it out. She's very sweet, feminine, smart'clever making her at times one step ahead as well as helpful or unhelpful for the two.The dynamic between all of them is sort of like any buddy buddy/buddy cop film, a road trip movie, or heck even a noir film since all three of them have hidden motives that we see as the show progresses. It's just fun and funny seeing the interplay between them all, despite their disagreements and grief they give one another subconsciously they are all close friends. Indeed it does show since despite the time both Jim and Mugen fight they never land one blow on one another as well as get untimely interrupted (may'be that's fate's way of telling them something). Both always work together to rescue Fuu whenever she's in trouble even though they didn't have to. All three of them seem to hold more conversations then the other people they talk to, but most of all they can trust one another the most. These characters really don't have anyone else in their lives which is why they mix; most of the people in their past or even present either have used them or betrayed them in some way.Dance to this Samurai Beat.Rating: 4 stars


                
This anime series follows Mugan and Jin; two very different samurai, who join Fuu; a young woman on a quest to find the 'samurai who spells of sunflowers. Mugan is a somewhat wild character with a brilliant but unconventional fighting style while Jin is the epitome of what a reserved samurai should be; these two unlikely travelling companions are travelling with Fuu because she saves them from execution in episode one. Their quest takes them through Edo era Japan and on their way they come across many interesting characters and various dangerous situations. It may come as a surprise but most of these encounters are also very funny.Coming from the creator of 'Cowboy Bebop' I should have expected something special but I was a little unsure if hip-hop in the time of the samurai would be anything other than silly<U+0085> as it turns out there isn't too much of that and what there is is frequently hilarious! The three protagonists are each great and distinctive characters. There is a fair amount of action; some of it fairly bloody and as the series approaches its conclusion there is an increased sense that the characters are in real danger. There are plenty of laughs to be had; usually due to amusing situations rather than gags and one-liners you might expect in a sitcom. There is a small amount of swearing, some of it in English, but not enough to spoil the series for older viewers<U+0085> the bloodshed already means the series isn't really suitable for youngsters to watch! The animation looks great with good character designs and backgrounds that seem to capture the feeling of the era. Overall I think this is a great series and heartily recommend it to anybody who enjoys anime; in fact I suspect even people who aren't usually anime fans may enjoy this.These comments are based on watching the series in Japanese with English subtitles.
In my top 5 of favorite anime productions. The style and anachronistic music with the time period is perfect. The characters fit like a glove. The adventures bring you along like a monkey on a shoulder. You become very close to the characters. I was able to identify with both Mugen and Jin. They are very different like Ying and Yang. Fuu is the flow that holds them together throughout the whole story. Fuu becomes surprisingly plump every time she eats her fill. You are able to catch the end of the samurai period before the introduction of gunpowder. This makes the story even more intense and inviting for future historical investigation into that period. A must watch. You should be watching.


                
Shinichiro Watanabe, the creator of the acclaimed jazzy masterpiece Cowboy Bebop, has added another irresistible treat to his portfolio. Samurai Champloo is a fast-paced, groovy, and character-driven grindhouse of an anime--'grindhouse', in the sense that it doesn't take itself too seriously (and it's bloody as hell). It tells a story about an unlikely pair of ronin swordsmen, Mugen and Jin, brought together by a common debt they owe to the lovely young teahouse waitress Fuu. Animes all have a distinct art style. Champloo's animation is fluid, it's character design is innovative, it's choreography is spot-on realistic, and the landscapes are lush and gorgeous. Fight scenes are seamless and for the most part true to samurai styles, with the exception of Mugen's style, which establishes the overarching theme of the show... Mugen is essentially the link between the edo period and hip-hop culture in Champloo. Without his badass break dancing fighting style jiving to the soundtrack of the show, it would be a rather meaningless mixture. This is not to say that the other characters don't stand alone in their strengths and principles. Jin's devotion to the traditional style of swordplay shows in every single slash of his sword. While Mugen's style is wide open and reckless, Jin's style is rooted in the stoic, closed nature of the bushido style of swordsmanship, focusing more on finding an opening. Sidenote: It's important to know that this anime is not another "who's the strongest?" anime like Dragon Ball Z or Bleach. The significance of the edo-period setting is shown in Mugen and Jin's struggles as samurai. The rise of the Tokugawa Shogunate coincided with the fall of the Samurai's military status, and this setting is established extremely well--It really is Mugen and Jin against the world. Fuu is the leading lady, and convinces the rival warriors to accompany her on her quest to find 'the samurai who smells of sunflowers'. With her spunky attitude, strong will, girlish charm, and a dark past to boot, this fifteen-year old teahouse waitress is well beyond her years. Each character in the trio is so different than the last. That dynamic between the characters is an entertaining trademark of Watanabe's animes. Each misadventure of the 26-episode epic brings them closer together, revealing more interesting aspects of their personalities, and ultimately brings them closer to Fuu's mysterious samurai. There's a lot to be said about what the characters say, and how they say it. English voice- overs in anime often prove to be laughable and annoying, but in Samurai Champloo, the instances where voiceovers and dialogue grate on your nerves are few and far between. The dialogue plays a huge role in character and story development, and there are very few words used in excess. Anime fans will hear some familiar voices (Steve Blum, Kari Wahlgren, Kirk Thornton), and the fact that they have starred in many other animes is an afterthought. In Cowboy bebop, old-school Jazz was mixed with a futuristic outer space setting. This show is a 'champloo' of feudal japan and some pretty snappy hip-hop--yet another unlikely pair, but needless to say, it works. I guess I'm with Jin on this one--when it comes to Watanabe and his storytelling prowess, he clearly doesn't understand the meaning of 'restraint'. 5/5


                
