I am not one to watch lengthy part series - not at all!! This one just grabbed me and held me tight. The Danes and Sweedish do quality TV, especially in casting and character direction. Compared to many US productions, where characters are often like cardboard cut-outs, this series gave us believable real live human people. Brilliant photography and beautiful direction.The story too was very well crafted, looking deep into human behaviour, morals and ethics in power, and the consequences of actions taken.It is a series I will watch again in the future, if just to enjoy the rich texture.I highly commend the production team and recommend this excellent series.


                
This is a review of Seasons One and Two (20 episodes). Season Three will commence transmission on Danish Television on March 1, 2013, so we all have a long time to wait for the continued episodes. The first thing that needs to be said is that Season Two is far more powerful, intense, and dramatic than Season One in terms of the personal stories of the main characters. These become incredibly harrowing and tragic, so that this series continues to deepen and become more profound as it goes along. This series exceeds the brilliance and captivating character of both THE KILLING and MAD MEN (see my reviews), so that Danish TV drama seems to be reaching a pinnacle of such excellence one can barely conceive of anything higher than this. The performances, the direction, the ingenious, bold and confrontational scripts, the cinematography, the editing, the production values, are all so superb that criticism of them is impossible. The characters are all played with such force and fervour, such intimacy and conviction, that I fear Danish actors have surpassed the British, who until now were the best in the world. The most sensitive and wide-ranging performance is by the young Danish actor Pilou Asbaek, who plays the Prime Minister's 'spin doctor' (yes, the Danes use that English phrase). Asbaek's acting is a miracle of perfection. His range of moods, his expressiveness, his eyes, his face, his changes of voice, go far beyond anything ever imagined by Lee Strasberg, and could be described perhaps as 'hyper-Method'. Nearly at the same level of perfection as Asbaek are the stunning and brilliant performances of the two female leads, Sidse Knudsen as the Prime Minister and Birgitte Sorensen as Katrine the journalist. These three should all win International Oscars if there were any justice in the world and such awards existed. There is never one instant in the approximately 20 hours of this series when any of these three is anything other than mesmeric. They come alive as characters with such vivacity and conviction that one has to have a cold shower and calm down before facing the sad fact that one does not really know them and that they are really fictitious characters played by actors. One night my wife lay awake worrying about them, because of their personal problems. That is how it gets you! I don't believe I have ever seen a television series of this total intensity in my lifetime. What is so extraordinary is the well-rounded nature of the characters, who are seen from all sides and in all moods. This is as far from cardboard cutouts as it is possible to get on screen. The borderline between television and reality is obliterated by this magnificent series. The scripts are so clever that there is not a second's peace, one is swept along as by a raging torrent of events. The camera-work, with lots of travelling shots following frantic people as they move from one crisis to another like rabbits running from a farmer's gun, is electric. Many desperate political issues are faced head-on with the confrontational insistence which goes way beyond 'in your face' and reaches the level of 'seared into your brain'. Nothing and no one is spared. Politicians are killed, resign, are annihilated, commit suicide, are humiliated and their reputations obliterated with the rapidity and relentlessness of soldiers in the World War One trenches. In this series, politics is war to such an extent that one marvels that Denmark still exists and has not disappeared from the map of the world due to all that strife. If ever there were an advertisement for avoiding proportional representation at all costs, this series is it. This shows coalition politics from the inside with all its viciousness, betrayal, immoral compromises, back room horse-trading, duplicity, insane ambition, and ruthless destruction of people. No American or British series would have dared go this far. The Danes will seemingly stop at nothing to show a kind of hyper-reality on screen, and they have entered some kind of higher dimension of truth. This is not drama, this is war. You name a controversial political issue or international dilemma, and it is there. (For instance, there is a double episode dealing with the Sudan situation, which in the series is called North and South Karhuna.) The things which are said on screen about Greenland are astounding, and in Britain would surely have led to libel, abuse, or other legal actions for years to come. This is so no-holds-barred that the absence of any referee means everybody gets it in the eye. Sidse Knudsen rises above all this violent melée as a kind of lonely, triumphant goddess. As Prime Minister she portrays decency more convincingly than anyone since Gregory Peck. Her horribly narcissistic and loathsome husband, who abandons her out of wounded vanity, is one of the most hateful screen characters in years. He is played with despicable, self-pitying candour by Mikael Birkkjaer. Their teenage daughter, who goes to pieces mentally under the strain, is brilliantly played by the young actress Freja Riemann. The little son is touching and perfect, played with enormous, soulful eyes by child actor Emil Poulsen. Soren Malling, the police partner of Sophie Grabol in THE KILLING, brilliantly plays the TV-1 News editor. One of the most poignant performances is by Lars Knutzon as Bent Sejro, the Prime Minister's mentor. The revolting political villain Laugesen is played with such gusto by Peter Mygind that one wants to wring his neck. But the most watchable, delightful, naughty, impish, ruthless, pathetic, adorable, hateful, chameleon-like character of all is the compulsively magnetic and beautiful Birgitte Sorensen. 'Borgen' is the nickname of the Danish Parliament building (Christiansborg), just as Americans call Congress 'the Hill' and the British call Parliament 'Westminster'. This series is about courage and conviction carried to their ultimate limits, just as the production itself is drama carried to its ultimate perfection.


                
We all know a great TV show when we see one and this one is a great one. I am so tired of American drama that seems to all be written by one crew and all has one plot of killing a person then trying to figure out who did it. Borgen has gripping dramatic plots that is accentuated by great acting. The acting is intense and spectacular, and you have to see it to believe it. The dialogue is well written and the scenes are addictive and gripping. And no commercials or loud sickening music that is needed to keep the audience watching most of the cheesy American TV series. All the characters have there own personalities and show a sense of individualism that is so very refreshing.


                
It is just impossible for me to find the words to describe this Danish television series. It gives an incredible in-depth (and probably honest) view of politics, one you have never experienced before. After watching the first season of this show, one is already deeply impressed by the acting and the story line. Guess what: season two even beats season one. The private life of prime minister Birgitte Nyborg gets a more important part. Young actress Freja Riemann is magnificent as her daughter Laura. Also the other actors are of extremely high standards. To mention a few: of course there are Sidse Babett Knudsen (as Birgitte Nyborg), Johan Philip Asbæk (as Kasper Juul) and Birgitte Hjort Sørensen (as Katrine Fønsmark) in the leading roles, but smaller roles - showing great acting - are played by Ole Thestrup (as right wing politician Svend Åge Saltum) and Peter Mygind (as the chief of the tabloid - low quality - newspaper Ekspress). Television can not get much better than this. I'll be looking forward to the third season as I've never been looking forward to any television series' next season before. This series is an absolute must- see!


                
I didn't watch the West Wings (Sorkin's style annoys me), so understandably I feel equally lukewarm towards the ADHD fast-talk-fest of Newsroom. I can't stand House of Card's format with Spacey talking at the audience. I find Veep funny but repetitious. All of which my wonky other half watch with glee. I watch Scandal, yes, but Scandal is not a pure political drama, but a fast-paced raunchy fashion show soap opera with spin-doctoring toppings. So basically, a political drama has to be really exceptional to keep me.Borgen, is close to being a PERFECT work of its genre, AND as a dramatic piece of work. All the right ingredients - the casting, the framing, the setting-up, the tension, the exposition of complicated back stories, the pacing, the editing, the continuity, the humanity, the suspense, the humor, the angst... Sleek, non-preachy, lots of culturally-specific yet totally relate-able pains and joy, just the right depth, just the right amount, to keep the interest, to surprise one later on. Lots of reference to US political history, edu-taining snippets of where Denmark is in the scheme of European politics. But also enough heart-breaking yet un-sentimentalized domestic drama and complicated yet un-cheesy romantic entanglement to allow for intimate connection with the key characters. My only complaint is (I'm only at 2nd season start) the obviously alpha-female leading lady is emotionally too wimpy when dealing with matters of the heart, and the improbability of a head of state of a rich nation having no government-paid nanny or private tutor for her kids. But overall, delivery and the cast performance is as sleek and smooth as the spin doctoring in the story, qualities this genre calls for.I just heard American TV (HBO?) is looking into adaptation. But of course. I hope this adaptation will be as good and 'true' as my current most favorite US TV show, another adaptation - of the Swedish work, The Killing. What's with these Scandinavians. They write exceptionally effective TV shows. Congrats, anyhow, the Danes. Highly recommended, for the political/ legal/ media drama sort. Totally worth the extra step of reading English subtitles.


                
I have seen series one (i.e. episodes 1-10).This drama portrays the parallel developments in the formation of a new government in Denmark, and the activities of the major TV company TV1 where we see the newsroom. In each case there is a strong female lead seeking to balance the demands of ethics and principle, against the realities of their day-to-day working lives. There is also considerable coverage of how the demands of politics affects the home life of the first female prime minister.The spin doctor character provides a direct link between these two worlds (as the PM's adviser, and as the ex-boyfriend of the journalist).The writing was very sharp (perhaps particularly in the first half of the series). I don't think the political elements are as unrealistic as some seem to be claiming, but neither is it a documentary and clearly some aspects ring more true than others. The episode concerning Greenland I know had many people reaching for information about that topic.Appointment viewing for the 5 weeks over which it was shown in the UK.


                
I have so enjoyed "The Wire", "The Sopranos" and "The Killing" to name a few, that I absolutely had to post this, my first review. Borgen is totally absorbing.The human characterisation is immense and is simply the best (in my opinion) series, film, broadcast I have ever seen. Thank goodness for subtitles!It is a fascinating insight into how government works in a democratic society and how it "maybe" deals with so many issues that affect us all. If you hate politics and politicians, this series will temper your feelings. My scepticism and my cynicism towards government will not be as entrenched as it has been having seen this production.Superb acting by all the cast. Brilliant! Brilliant! Brilliant!


                
Borgen is a political drama about a female party leader Birgette Nyborg who becomes Denmark's prime minister. This show is quite different from top political TV shows like House of cards and VEEP. I love VEEP and HOC, but both of them give a very cynical view of political players. Politicians in Borgen are not just power hungry individuals who just want to grab more power. They push policies for the good of the Danes and according to their party's ideologies. Birgette Nyborg is a principled politician with shrewd political craftsmanship. She is an idealist and tries to hold on to her ethical value as long as she can. Borgen brilliantly captures the alienation at the top and the personal cost of power. Politics is one part of the script, personal life of prime minister is another. Focus on personal issues adds another layer to the brilliant drama. In HOC power corrupts and corrupts, in Borgen power isolates and isolates. Underwoods don't have children, so they don't have much to worry about their family. Birgette has a family with young children. But finding time for family when you are running a country is difficult. Slowly idealist Birgette not only gets isolated in the parliament, but in her home too. A situation perfectly summed up by her friend and close aide Bent Serjo : "It's a terrible contradiction. In parliament we fight for the modern family where both parents work. But for a MP's marriage to work, the spouse has to stay home." "A government pursues policies necessary for its survival."-Lars Hesselboe, Birgette's predecessor. Borgen is a show about politics and policies which brings out the nuances of multi party politics. It depicts how difficult it is to achieve political consensus for passing a policy. Birgette grows into the role of prime ministers. Amidst all the politics, she keeps in sight the need of Danes and keeps pushing the policies in which she believes. She works hard to handle the political tightrope of coalition government. Different parties have different agendas which are usually polar opposite of each other. Ministries are allotted to different coalition members, who keep fighting for more influential posts. Voting on key issues becomes complex. Sometimes coalition members don't support and Birgette has to cut a deal with the opposition. Opposition does not let go any chance to twist government's arm to slip their own agendas into policies.Denmark has a grueling media which includes sleazy tabloids and investigative journalists who bring out the "real news". Birgette has got Kasper Juul , her spin doctor to manage the media. She makes the policies and he sells them. Borgen has its share of political thrills. Both are always working overtime to save the government from being outvoted in parliament. Sometimes Kasper feeds information to his ex-girlfriend Katrine Fonsmark. Like Birgitte , she is an idealist . She tries to strike a balance between ethics of journalism and demands of TV executives. The biggest strength of this show is the impeccable script. Every single episode has something different to offer. Dialogues are good. Political intricacies and intricacy of ethics is exceptionally handled. In 10 episodes, it covers variety of political issues like immigration, foreign intervention, autonomy to states, security issues, corruption in defense projects, etc. We get to see dirty tricks like smear campaign, power bluff, and wheeling dealings. Halfway through the season, focus shifts from office to home of the prime minister. There is a different mood from there on. As series moves towards its final episodes, more information about characters personal lives are revealed. From political issues to personal, a lot has to be covered in one hour episode. The way script handles all of these plots and subplots is brilliant. The incredible script is complimented by the brilliant performances from the cast, specially Sidse Babett Knudsen (Birgette Nyborg), Birgitte Hjort Sorenson (Kristine ) and Johan Philip Asbek (Kasper).Borgen is a work of fiction. It is not real and it is not supposed to be. But it is definitely more realistic than any other political TV series. If you are into political dramas, do yourself a favour and watch it. An exquisite political drama with a multi-layered script. 10/10


                
The Title Says It All!It is one of the best TV-dramas and it's sure the best political drama of all times!It is sadly only 30 episodes (10 per season) but it's still one of the best.I don't want to spoil anything so i tell you only this:It's the story of politician Birgitte Nyborg who unexpectedly becomes the first female Prime Minister of DenmarkThat's all you need to know before watching this!Borgen takes a far subtler and more beguiling view of people and political relationships, even though it is shown with subtitles and is almost impossible to find on screen...


                
Having devoted two weekends to immersing myself in Borgen, I can only echo the pervasive sentiment here that this is the best political and media drama series ever made. No need for political rivals to be shoved under subway trains to sustain dramatic tension. No one-dimensional heroes and villains. Borgen achieves the almost inconceivable (at least from an American vantage point) by taking complex (Sudan) and even arcane (pig farming?!) political issues and presenting them with as much nuance as a 1-hour TV episode can allow.The degree to which Borgen can interweave politics, journalism (TV and newspaper) and human drama is extraordinary. The characters are all complex, all flawed (as we all are) and almost all sympathetic, even when they are at their worst. The writing is sophisticated, leavened by the right amount of humour.And the acting is uniformly first rate. It is unfair to single out just one from an extraordinary cast, but Sidse Babett Knudsen, as Birgitte Nyborg, really does merit some kind of lifetime achievement award for her role. I'm not damning with faint praise when I say that she is the most believable politician that I have ever seen portrayed on screen.By the end of the third season I was genuinely saddened to think that we'll never see these immensely interesting characters again.


                
I was impressed with this show. I could not get enough of it. I felt like it was so well done and I learned about politics and a political system I knew nothing about before. There is something thrilling to me to watch a show from another country and know nothing about the actors and also having never seen any of them before. It made it very enjoyable to me. I feel like in America we have this shallow culture of fame which includes no talent people who just chase notoriety. Then when they think they are famous they start telling us how to live our life and vote or what to eat and drive etc.. Please keep your personal beliefs and personal life to yourself so I can enjoy your acting. It feels like in other smaller countries or countries where the government pays for the shows, the actors are just working actors vs.fame chasing. The downside is often shows I like from other countries never get more than one season. Anyway I would love to see the lead actress, Sidse Babett Knudsen in more things. She is great in this and charismatic to watch. I was bummed out when the show ended. I felt like it could of gone on a few more seasons. Very very good show.


                
I've seen many good movies and TV series - good acting, good stories that are emotionally moving. But, I must say that the Danish series, BORGAN, sets a whole new level of storytelling and acting for me - where our human condition, with all its joy, cracks and pain is set against the political, with all its power, corruption and failure. The series is Shakespearean in its breadth, telling a human story supported by actors who never fail. Hollywood - TAKE NOTE - The Danes have nailed it! Tonight's second season, episode 16 had me in tears. And I shed them sparingly, I assure you. Simply Brilliant!


                
..a very real achievement.. as close to perfect programming as one might hope to find... it will not be for everyone.. but for those realizing what is going on in the world today.. and want to watch an extremely well done, intelligent production, you cannot do any better than watching Borgen.. I liked the two female leads before for some of their other works.. now I'm totally infatuated with both of them... every one of the entire cast is superb....when you come across anything this good, of course you do not want for it to come to an end.. but having these three marvelous ten episode seasons to enjoy over again is at least some consolation.. if I were to be giving out awards for best everything.. Borgen would blow the competition away in every instance.. it truly has no parallel.. all involved in any way with this one of a kind TV experience should be immensely proud..


                
If you like the American House of Cards, then you will like Borgen (Government) which is a kind of European equivalent but much more realistic.The acting is utterly superb as the action follows Birgitte Nyeborg, who is a consummate politician and tactician. Around her are subordinate characters, but who are also of equal interest ranging from Kristina, a TV1 journalist and news presenter who ends up becoming her political spin doctor for the New Democrats, Kasper Juul who is at the centre of series 1 and 2 in his role as her spin doctor whilst PM for the Moderate Party and various politicians, of whom particularly Svent Age Saltup - the leader of the Freedom party and Bent, Birgitte's Moderate Party colleague and mentor - are particularly good.Along side the drama in Borgen is the drama taking place at TV1 with Torsten Friis and his team of political journalists. Their lives are intertwined with the politicians and, like them, they suffer the same highs and lows.Mixed in with the political drama is the personal drama of the characters as we see the impact that the high pressure political circus can have on individuals' private lives.By the same Danish producer as 'The Killing', DRpraesenterer, this is a not-to-be-missed series.


                
I'm old enough to have been a fan of "West Wing" and "Borgen" satisfies my lust for quickly-paced, tightly-written and well-acted political theater. For U.S. viewers the mechanisms of a parliamentary democracy system takes a little getting used to, but what a great way to get a quick course in comparative politics! I've only watched the first two episodes, but all of the characters seem to have plenty of potential for development, and their political and personal relationships are wonderfully complicated and dynamic. U.S. political dramas are now mostly lurid, dark, and removed from the actual issues of the day (House of Cards, Scandal), not unlike U.S. politics. Borgen makes me nostalgic for the time when it was possible to be entertained by good theater that was intended to shine a light on the real world, rather than being designed to distract us from it.


                
