Nine o'clock on Saturday night has become European drama night on BBC4; until now that means murder mysteries; a genre that works in any language. Borgen, the latest offering in this slot is different though; it is a political drama set in a system quite different to that which I am used to so I was initially sceptical about how interesting it would be. Thankfully the dramatic elements didn't require an understanding of the Danish political system and the political elements weren't hard to follow even though no time was wasted explaining the system. The series opens with an election where the surprise winner is Birgitte Nyborg Christensen, potentially Denmark's first female Prime Minister. She doesn't have an outright majority though so must deal with the various other parties to form a coalition. She does this but her majority is slim so when anything goes wrong her government is in danger. The series doesn't just deal with the parliamentary aspects of politics; the media also plays a large part of the series. For the media side of the story we follow reporter and newsreader Katrine Fønsmark, who conveniently used to be in a relationship with the PM's spin doctor Kasper Juul. Once Birgitte is PM the series is fairly episodic with each episode dealing with a different problem; there are some ongoing background stories and occasionally something we thought was dealt with earlier on comes back to effect characters; although as the series progresses her work begins to affect her marriage.Having watched the first series I was surprised at just how much I enjoyed it and look forward to the inevitable screening of further series. The stories are fairly engrossing and the main characters are all believable and interesting to watch; I was so engrossed that I forgot that I was watching a subtitled programme in a language I have no knowledge of. Sidse Babett Knudsen, Birgitte Hjort Sørensen and Johan Philip Asbæk who play lead characters Birgitte, Katrine and Kasper put in great performances and are ably supported the cast of quality secondary characters. I can't comment on how accurately the political system is portrayed but this certainly works as a drama for somebody that doesn't know the Danish system.
I've always liked Danish cinema: the properly written stories, the superb acting and the well developed turns which yet do not seem unbelievable. Having been curios whether the quality I got used to can be attainable in a television show I decided to give Borgen a chance. Now I wish I didn't : I unfortunately became addicted. :) Since others wrote so many things about the first 20 episodes I wish just to continue focusing on the last 10.I have to admit that I was really afraid of watching the third season. Having read unfavorable opinions I just did not want to spoil the satisfaction which I felt on finishing the second one. But seemingly against all odds I got deeply impressed again. Surely, politics and real world problems occupy sometimes a too big stake with questions getting debated on at a speed one can not easily follow, but the characters remained likable, flesh and blood, and the screenplay do not let them down. Sidse Babett Knudsen's performance is impeccable as always and Brigitte's way towards inventing herself again in politics as well as in personal life provides enough fuel for the story. I can imagine that Danish viewers find some detail exaggerated or too shallow, the presented relations or roles too embellished compared to the reality and the style on some places preaching but I just live in a country where the quality of the politics and the media is extremely low, the people vested with high positions can hardly be revered and the decisions made on governmental level are too often arbitrary. It was therefore interesting to see that there are places where this sector can be approached without any chance of laughter coming from the other side.


                
At last, a TV drama worth watching. I came to "Borgen" on the back of good advance word and in the wake of other Scadinavian successes like "The Killing" and "Wallander" and wasn't disappointed. Excellently written and with a universal relevance and resonance in the political story lines (sleaze, corruption, foreign intrigue, political in-fighting etc), particularly considering Britain's own current coalition government took office about the same time the series was first produced. It all seemed real to me, the sets, the dialogue, the story lines as well as the portrayal of the different characters. Spread over 10 hour-long episodes afforded ample opportunity to get inside the skin of these characters and follow their development. Yes, one or two of the plot developments have the faint whiff of contrivance (the child abuse of spin-doctor Marcus, the marital problems of the Prime Minister and the rebelliousness of investigative reporter Kirsten) but the clever plotting and idiomatic dialogue keep it grounded. Each episode is different but linked thematically which invites continuity. The acting is superb, especially the three leads mentioned above. Good titles and theme music too!
The Danish TV series Borgen describes the professional and personal lives of the ministers in a Danish cabinet, with a heavy focus on the prime minister Birgitte Nyborg. The theme fascinates me, since I am a political (unpaid, of course apart from the personal satisfaction) activist myself. It is easy to empathize with the main characters, since the political system and culture in Denmark and the Netherlands (my native land, located in the northwest of Europe, in the immediate vicinity of Denmark) are comparable. Be aware that the cultural aspect may pose some problems for viewers, who are used to the presidential system. The role of a prime minister in a coalition is significantly different from the role of for instance the American or French president. Borgen is made for the patient ones. With ten episodes of 55 minutes each you need to invest a full nine hours of your precious own time. Personally I enjoyed every minute of it. The reason is twofold. First, although to many people politics may seem to be boring, it is actually a world of fantasy and suspense. Beneath the efforts of the politicians to look just like common people lie professional skills of bonding, representing, managing, and yes especially competing. Outsiders who enter this world, even when they come from a business environment, are often amazed at the shallowness of the personal relations. It is a battle - with the annotation that the winners and losers are not really persons, but cliques. The leader of each clique is powerful, but also the instrument of his clique. He or she needs to be exceptionally dedicated and focused. In the end the leader considers himself (not the program of his clique) to be the solution to the political questions. This is the topic of the series Borgen: the transformation of a fairly warmhearted woman (Nyborg) into a hard-hearted prime minister. Power is addicting. During the process she even accepts the disintegration of her own family. It makes her mad, but her personality has become too self-centered to leave room for doubt. The second reason for my appreciation of Borgen is the high credibility of all of the events in the script. Each of the ten episodes has its own little tale of an urgent political affair. I consider myself to have a good insight into political life, and can find essentially no faults in each of the tales. They concentrate on the management of the affairs by the cabinet, in particular by the prime minister. Therefore much attention is paid to the contacts with the media. To sum up just a few of the affairs: a bugging scandal (sounds familiar to you?), blackmail by a foreign dictator, allegations of corruption, conflicts with the business community, violation of human rights (...?). This series is truly above-average. Since I find critique always more interesting than praise, here are some comments. Episode 2: I find the speech of Nyborg at the final election debate futile and childish. Episode 6: the cabinet almost succumbs to the threat of a dictator to cancel a large industrial order by a dictator. Why? Politicians will always give the highest priority to their own reputation, and an industrial backlash does them little harm. Episode 9: Nyborg forces her husband to resign from a job, that might damage her reputation. Of course this is thinkable, but here we surpass the limits of humanity. Episode 10: Because of opinion polls Nyborg decides to change the distribution of ministers in her cabinet. In reality politicians attach little value to polls. If you like stories such as this one, consider reading my other reviews.
The international success of Danish political-crime thriller 'The Killing' perhaps played a major part in the UK screening of 'Borgen', a drama set entirely within the Danish parliament. And the two shows have something in common, in their relatively unhysterical portrayal of political life (and for U.K. viewers, an intriguing insight into how a political system might evolve when locked in a state of permanent minority or coalition government). I loved the wheeling and dealing in both series, but (aside from the lack of a killing alongside the politics in 'Borgen') there are differences. In short, Borgen, with its fantasy liberal prime minister, beautiful people, and stories wrapped up in self-contained episodes, is just a little bit slicker than 'The Killing' was; and I don't mean that as a compliment. But this is comparing it to a very high standard. There's still some good acting, some clever scripting, and a subtle portrayal of the increasing loneliness of life at the top: you can imagine that this is the way that government really is run (although perhaps the programme also tells us something about how the Danes would like to perceive themselves: 'The Thick of It' could not have been more different but also rang true, and I can't believe that Danish government is so utterly different from that in the UK). It's still riveting entertainment; and moreover, seems to have anticipated the actual outcome of the recent Danish election.


                
After watching the sixth episode of this series, I continue to be impressed with the political drama with its impact on family and personal relationships and excellent script. As a close political observer, I can totally sympathize with the prime minister whose personal integrity shines; however, she has to balance the policies of her left of centre party with the realities of government. No easy chore, given the nature of coalition politics that she must navigate. It is set in Denmark, but the uneasy alliance is typical of minority Parliaments we have seen in Canada as well as the standoffs in the United States between Presidents and Congress. Denmark is a nation committed to democracy so the conflicts and characters ring familiar but the drama is every bit as evident as The West Wing or Madam Secretary. The language transmits well with the captioning of the wit and repartee that is a strong part of the script. The prime minister's aide is a political spin artist who creates the talking points for every controversial decision. In the meantime, he is caught up in a serious relationship with one of the nation's leading television journalists, a sub-plot that is also fraught with personal pitfalls and the need for objectivity. The relationship of the prime minister with her family is very moving and the viewer realizes the sacrifices that are part of being a public figure and how family and public life are on a constant collision course. She manages her personal life very well, just as she manages the political fallout from being in a position of power. The prime minister has amazing wisdom and grace but one can imagine how gruelling the life can be. Her husband is as committed to her and her politics as any man could be. It takes a toll however. For example, having to sell his shares in a wind energy investment that is about to take a big jump on news that the government is on the verge of a major breakthrough. He and the Prime Minister are able to make the compromises necessary to ensure their marriage. When her father comes to visit, and lonely after a recent divorce, she is the one who has to let him know when it's time to leave. All in all, this classic television show highlights in a realistic and entertaining way the management of political and personal conflict and the daily drama of the people caught up in a life in politics.


                
Just finished watching season one of Borgen. I previously watched Bron/Broen and was captivated by the quality of script, acting and production. I thought I would give Borgen a try but was nearly put off by the political theme which I thought would be less gripping than murder as a focus. I need not have worried. Fortunately the same standards of script and production and maybe even better acting continue. I was particularly impressed by Sidse Babett Knudsen in the role of Prime Minister who can convey such deep emotion with mere facial expressions. I really felt her joys and her sadnesses and began to forget that this is a fictional character. I highly recommend this series which would be unmissable for her performance alone but which is a must see for so many other reasons too.
It's too bad that Americans seem to shun shows with subtitles because there is a lot of engaging TV being done in other countries and Borgen is a fine example. The series explores familiar themes about power--it corrupts, it has unintended consequences, it changes everything--but is does so with a cast of excellent actors and well crafted plots. This is not 24 and I suspect nothing like the new, and as yet unseen by me Téa Leoni series, Madam Secretary. It is a series rich in character development as "real" people work their way through political and personal problems that are not extraordinary nor requiring all sorts of astonishing and unbelievable uses/abuses of power; but tend to focus on the mundane events that have consequences in politics as in life. Some plots work through employees who have lied on their resumes; or explore what does a leader do who has found themselves out of their depth on an issue they are supposed to understand; or trying to figure who you can trust. There is no dispatching of super secret envoys to change the political landscape of the world; rather it is having a secretary who unknown to you picks up gifts for your children when you forgot. Hardly earth shaking but an action that adds to the dimensionally of a minor character and reminds you that you can be pleasantly surprised by people. Not that this series isn't short of drama; it's just the drama of situation involving characters the viewer comes to know well and cares about. Definitely worth a view and read (subtitles remember). This in not a Sorkin style political drama with quick, clever dialogue. Just a look at what goes on, maybe, in political maneuvering and in private lives.
