Charlie Chaplin's boldest film for its willingness to take on Adolf Hitler before nearly anyone else, "The Great Dictator" was also Chaplin taking on sound 11 years after everyone else. If it had to be the end of cinema's greatest Silent Clown, he did what he could to take down history's greatest monster in the process.There are two reasons to like "The Great Dictator." One is that Chaplin was on the side of the angels, at no small risk given his target's ambitions. The other is he didn't forget to make it funny.Essentially a Prince And The Pauper remake, "Dictator" presents Chaplin as both Adenoid Hynkel, the cruel if inept "Phooey" (a. k. a. "Führer") of Tomainia, and a Jewish World War I veteran, poignantly left unnamed as a nod to the Common Man, who only wants to work in peace at his barber shop. While Hynkel struggles with his two great passions, hating Jews and loving war, the barber finds love and a cause to believe in.The comedy here can be categorized into the great and the good, with most of the former featuring Chaplin as Hynkel. He's simply much funnier here as the bad guy, whether playing it broad (jumping secretaries, delivering speeches in hate-choked gobbledegook) or subtle (after shooting dead a man who claims to have "perfected" a bullet-proof suit, Hynkel simply turns and walks away with a three-word critique: "Far from perfect.")Hynkel is a character who solves Chaplin's legendary problem with sound, whether dressing down his blubbering subordinate Herring (Billy Gilbert) or struggling to keep his composure when fellow dictator Napaloni (Jack Oakie) rebuffs his attempts at intimidation. Told by his right-hand man Garbitsch (Henry Daniell) that the people are objecting to sawdust in the bread, he huffs: "What more do they want? It's from the finest lumber our mills can supply!"The comedy around the barber gets more labored. Maybe it's because much of it turns on the oppression of the Jews, though Chaplin here is trying to establish them as underdogs and rooting interest. It's here the film becomes tricky, not because he is mocking the unmockable but because the characters we meet, including the Barber, are fairly bland and the humor patchy. There is some very funny material here, but excessive bits too where people get klonked with pans or splattered with whitewash. At least Chaplin avoided setting a pie fight in a starving ghetto.The famous last scene is a great divider for many; in it Chaplin steps out of character to address us the audience about...what? The world needs more love and less hate, I guess. It's a philosophically strangled message, both anti-fascist and oddly pacifistic at a time when Hitler's legions were swallowing Europe, with Chaplin warning of "machine men with machine minds" as if he was still making "Modern Times" and punching the sky at times for lame effect.To me it's a crass way to end a good comedy, if perhaps necessary given the stakes involved. Hitler was real, and calling him out for what he was had real value in terms of rallying those called upon to defeat him. If it doesn't transcend time as well as it could, "The Great Dictator" is still a fine comedy that delivers strong laughs and stronger historical resonances.


                
THE GREAT DICTATOR is well-regarded as Charlie Chaplin's best movie and it's easy to see why. This is the film in which he mercilessly satirises Adolf Hitler, then at the peak of his ascendancy, while also exploring the persecution of the Jews under the Nazi regime. It's all disguised as another country and regime but we know it's Hitler that Chaplin is taking the mickey out of. It's a broad, character-based comedy all right, but deals with huge and pressing themes, and Chaplin deserves kudos for being the little man who stood up to a tyrant.
Having previously seen this film only once and really enjoying it. I was very pleased at the opportunity of a second viewing. I was however disappointed and the film was not as good as I remember it being. It however is still a classic and good film.I think that Charlie Chaplin was possibly the greatest slapstick comedian of all time. In some of his earlier pictures this is displayed more effectively than in The Great Dictator. The Gold Rush springs to mind, and Chaplin should perhaps be viewed in this picture if you want to see him at his absolute best.That's not to say there are not sublime moments in Great Dictator, the classic scene with the giant beach ball of the world being paticualy brilliant. I also really enjoy the opening sequence in the first world war. It is perhaps the finest part of the film, with a paticualy good scene being the flight in the aeroplane.I also think the satire and the obvious rubbishing of Nazi Germany are brilliant. It really shows how the Nazis were a ridiculous group of individuals. The fact that Hitler saw the film twice, is testament to Chaplins brilliance and magnetism on screen.You can tell that it is Chaplins first talkie. As he is clearly not totally comfortable with the concept of a film of this kind. Some of the strongest scenes are those which remain silent. Chaplins strengths were never in verbal comedy and it is unfortunate in some respects that the spirit of the times forced him to adopt it.Still it is a very good and very well made film. As I have said, not his greatest picture, but then perhaps his most important and influential. I think without it we certainly wouldn't have a lot of the satire which is around today. It is definitely a benchmark and the starting point of modern satire on the big screenI was originally going to score this an 8. However I think a 7 is more appropriate for what is a great, but somewhat flawed film.7/10
One of the greatest cinema speeches of all time. Flat out fantastic. Some old tramp scenes in the beginning were satisfying to see and Chaplin is genius as ever and finds a balance and engrossing personality between both characters.


                
A great movie as it is. But to think of when this was made and the subject matter makes it such an important piece of film


                
Being quite a fan of Charlie Chaplin following good vibes after seeing first 'The Gold Rush' and then 'City Lights', I was eager to see 'The Great Dictator' as I had been told this was, arguably, his best film. I was also intrigued at the fact it was a talkie; my first one, Chaplin-wise.The start is typical Chaplin and blatant proof that when it comes to sound, Chaplain can cut it whilst not solely relying on music to set mood and to do the talking; it's funny, well timed and the elements of slapstick such as falling off an anti-aircraft gun are well tied in with the jokes. It was good to draw the viewer in with this 'classic Chaplin' opening and at the same time, kick start the narrative of characters getting to know one another. What was also well done was the way in which Hitler is spoofed. Any scene involving Hitler or 'Hynkel' in this film, was funny and even now; makes you think back as you know exactly who he's spoofing and does create an internal reaction of some kind. The way in which English in mixed in with the mock German during the dialogue scenes is further proof of the way Chaplin managed to adapt to the talkie era. My favourite joke was the five minute speech Hynkel gave, only for the English translator to translate it into a mere few words; making you think back to footage of Hitler you may have seen giving a speech at some point in your life and, indeed, laugh at him.Historically, the film got a few things right as well. Hynkel is seen getting his photograph taken with children; something Hitler did for recognition as he manipulated the media but here, Hynkel is seen to yawn and act bored; stabbing at Hitler's underhand technique of winning over the German public through sympathy (Oh, he hugs and kisses children. He must be OK!). The film is also given a fantastic premise of a Jewish civilian reinstalled into the ghetto amongst all the travesties going on but with the catch that he is oblivious. Films such as 'The Pianist' and 'Come and See' are two good examples of Nazi cruelty towards 'inferior' people which nowadays, we can all look back on and shake our heads at whereas back in the late 1930's when this was filmed, the fact he had the cruelty going on and was exploiting it makes it even more an astounding achievement. Chaplin has managed to replace guns and truncheons for tomatoes and saucepans and still pulls it off.What I didn't like about the film, however, was the fact it settled into an actual narrative after the opening. This slowed the film up and this is very noticeable as the foot was taken off the gas somewhat. The film started to hint at stories and sub-stories. These included the barber and the female neighbour falling in love and the supposed destruction of Hynkel's palace whereas none of these were actually developed. The 'giving a woman a shave' and the 'whoever has the coin in their pudding does the deed' gags were hinting at these plot paths but in the end, just materialised into nothing but excuses for drawn out, unfunny gags which was disappointing.During the final straight, The Great Dictator gets a boost from the fact the Italian dictator is introduced who adds some much needed life and excuse for comedy to the film. It works a treat as we see them argue and more underhand tactics are exploited when Hynkel attempts to 'overpower' his Italian counterpart through a series of dirty tricks (although, they are humorously foiled). Despite a few weaknesses in pacing during the middle segment and the fact I felt the message at the end was a little forced down my throat, The Great Dictator holds up for viewing today but that's only because he took the gamble of exploiting things nobody else really knew were there.


                
Easy to sneer now - but think 1940.Chaplin's three-minute sermon at the end of this film can sound like every brotherly-love cliché rolled into one, as well as being technically dubious - bolted-on, rather than crafted into the action, and implausible anyway, coming from the lips of a humble barber.But unlike any other, 1940 was a year full of despair for the world, and an appeal for optimism from the Little Tramp, never downhearted for long, must have provided a ray of hope for millions, when it was most needed. "The hate of men will pass." Dare to believe it...Mistaken identity is not exactly the most original storyline either, but Chaplin makes good use of it in his dual role as Hynkel (Hitler) and an unnamed Jewish barber in the ghetto.The action starts in 1918, with the collapse of the Tomanian (German) army, and the barber saving the life of a wounded pilot, but losing his own memory through concussion.Fast-forward twenty years, and the barber escapes from his care-home, to return to the ghetto, now governed by stormtroopers reporting to... none other than the ex-pilot, who is secretly planning a resistance movement.The political background is the Anschluss (invasion of Austria) where Hynkel is competing for influence with an obvious Mussolini figure, played with gusto by Jack Oakie.Owing to some fairly contrived twists, the barber and the pilot find themselves pursued by the law, and happen to arrive at the Austrian border in uniform, just as Hynkel, out duck-shooting in civilian clothes, gets arrested in error. So a huge parade, waiting to be addressed by Hynkel, gets the barber's speech instead, and they all cheer the message of peace.This was only Chaplin's first talkie, and some of its best scenes owe much to silent technique, such as his dance with an inflatable globe, and other sequences that are almost mime with music.Work had started on this film in 1937, and Britain and America were both planning to boycott it, for the sake of their neutrality. It is to Chaplin's credit that he risked his career, as well as his own capital, in pressing ahead with such a vast commitment. But his political naivety always showed, as when someone suggested he should make a similar film about Stalin. "It is hard to play a man who has no faults", came the astonishing reply.Finally, no report on The Great Dictator is complete without some verdict about Hitler's own rumoured screening of it (as a one-time Chaplin fan). Two prints were acquired from Portugal and delivered to the Führer's private cinema. Albert Speer declared that Hitler never saw the film - but he couldn't strictly have known. Some say he watched it twice in total silence and made no reaction. Chaplin said he would give anything to know what he thought of it.
This must have been one of Chaplin's most ambitious projects; he throws in virtually everything, from visual gags and blackout comedy sketches to social relevance, romance, even some violence. The mixture is challenging and intriguing, and the film has many entertaining and clever sequences (like the one where Chaplin and four other guys try to avoid finding a coin that will order their self-sacrifice), but the ingredients don't always click together, and the mix (and tone) seem kind of disharmonious. As for the famous final speech, though undeniably honest, it also seems a bit naive today, with its allusions to "a better world where man will overcome his hate and brutality, and his soul will fly".   Great perfornmances by Jack Oakie and the beautiful Paulette Goddard.     (***)


                
Written, produced and directed by Charlie Chaplin, this is the great actor's anti-Nazi propaganda piece, skewering Adolf Hitler.Chaplin plays Adenoid Hynckel, the dictator of Tomania, as well as  a Jewish barber who is Hynckel's spitting image. His parody of Hitler is brilliant. Anyone who has ever seen newsreels of Hitler speaking will recognize the eerie resemblance of the caricature. I thought the movie got off to a slow start with some typical Chaplin slap-stick focussing on the First World War adventures of the Jewish barber. Having never seen it before I must confess that after the first 20 minutes or so I was wondering what all the fuss was about. But the movie picks up steam quickly. There are some very funny moments, and enough emphasis on the anti-Jewish nature of "Hynckel-ism" to make the propaganda point. The climax of the film is a brilliant anti-Nazi speech given by Chaplin at the end of the movie.As good as Chaplin is in this movie, though, I thought the whole thing was stolen by Jack Oakie, playing the dictator of "Bacteria" - "Benzino Napaloni." Our first look at Oakie shows how well he had studied his subject - he had Mussolini's arrogant posturing down pat. The scenes in which Hynckel and Napaloni negotiate over the fate of "Osterlich" had me in stitches.This was a very good movie, and well worth watching.


                
Most of this film is an alternately hilarious and brutal satire on Nazism and Fascism, made at the height of those movements' success.Sadly, in the final moments of the film, Chaplin abandons all pretense of making art (not to mention comedy) and switches completely to propaganda. And not anti-Nazi propaganda, either, but some of the most mawkish and idiotic "progressive" propaganda ever to ooze out of Hollywood.
Never mind that nothing we have seen so far indicates that the barber is even capable of giving the speech we see him give (delivered, ironically, with a disturbing wild-eyed fanaticism); such trivialities must not be permitted to interfere with The Message.
Charles Chaplin was one of the first and one of the greatest actors directing himself. "The Great Dictator", which he also wrote, premiered in 1940 while Hitler was growing stronger and stronger in Europe. Looking back, it's hard to imagine a movie more current. Not surprisingly, it was banned in Germany until 1958. The speech in the end of movie has, rightly so, long since reached a level of immortality.


                
The Great Dictator is the third Charlie Chaplin film I've seen after Modern Times and City Lights. I also think it is the best Chaplin film I have seen. Chaplin portrayed his comedic talent in vocal, as well as visual comedy. At times, this film was hilarious. I was also surprised at the darker tone that the film took. Obviously since it is satirising the Holocaust, it is only expected that it will be dark, but still it took me by surprise. I also loved seeing Charlie Chaplin's more serious side. The speech ending the film is one of the greatest that I have ever seen. It is a brilliant speech. Even if you don't watch the film, listen to the speech.Read my full review here: http://goo.gl/sk1dvW


                
The first all-talkie, all-sound film from Charlie Chaplin is also the most controversial work of his filmmaking career that presents the revered icon making fun of all things fascism and is a blatant parody of Adolf Hitler & his propaganda. An overly political film from Chaplin, The Great Dictator is considered a classic today but of all the feature-length films that I've seen of his so far, it's also the weakest.Set 20 years after the First World War in the fictional country of Tomainia which was on the losing side, The Great Dictator follows two story lines; first concerning a Jewish barber who suffered memory loss during his service in the war & finds himself under a new oppression after returning home while the other storyline concerns Tomainia's ruthless dictator who is trying to expand his empire.Written, produced, directed & scored by Charlie Chaplin, The Great Dictator marks his first stint with sound cinema yet Chaplin shows a great level of comfort in what's an unfamiliar territory for him. The timeless elements of his silent classics are present in this picture but Chaplin also employs sound in a manner that adds more weight to his already unparalleled slapstick humour, as evident in Hynkel's speech.The film is usually at its best when there is no dialogue needed or when the spoken words don't make any sense. Chaplin absolutely nails the character of Adenoid Hynkel; the Dictator of Tomainia, and whatever gibberish comes out of his mouth is pure gold. And he's excellently supported by Jack Oakie, who plays Benzino Napaloni (a parody of Benito Mussolini) & they together provide the viewers with the film's finest moments.The technical aspects are refined to the smallest of details, as always the case in most films by Chaplin. The sets are impressive to look at, Camera-work is expertly carried out with long takes, controlled movements & sharp focus. Editing is a slight mishap for some sequences linger on for too long or become repetitive. Humour carries Chaplin's unique trademark but there are a few empty stretches in between. As for the soundtrack, it simply fits.Chaplin also plays the Jewish barber in addition to the dictator and is excellent in that part as well. While the barber character does borrow a few elements from The Little Tramp, it's Hynkel where Chaplin really shines this time. However, what brings the film down for me is what was absent from his earlier features; the voice-over, as Chaplin's narration is annoying & intruding at times, especially when he tries to explain what Hynkel is saying in his gibberish speech.On an overall scale, The Great Dictator may not be as remarkable as Chaplin's finest films but it nonetheless works as an audacious piece of political satire that's superbly filmed & outstandingly performed. It offers an enjoyable ride for the most part, features plenty of amusing moments but lacks the smooth flow & closely-knitted structure of his usual works and although the universal message of the final speech does transcend all races, borders & boundaries, it can also feel a bit preachy. Either way, The Great Dictator comes recommended.


                
This Film Is Very Thoughtful Makes You Think And What A Great Comeback It Was To Change Everything That Hitler Said It Was Made To Bring Hope I Guess What A Great Performance From The Late And Great Man Himself Charlie Chaplin As The Great Dictator AKA Adolf Hitler Well Pretending To Be Always Makes Me Feel Emotional In Ways Every time I Have Watched The Speech He Made This Film Always Seems To Stay With Me But I Vote This 7 Cause This Is Not The Best Film Ever Made But A Still Brilliant Film Success Of Its Time Watch The Speech On Youtube With The Inception Theme Applied To It And It Is Way More Emotional And Moving Than The Original Watched A Couple Times Over Now Gets Me Almost Every Single Time.
Great comedy from Charlie Chaplin.  I've seen Chaplin's 4 major films (Gold Rush, City Lights, Modern Times, and The Great Dictator), and I think it is easily the funniest of the four.  This movie had me laughing more than almost any other I've ever seen.  From the very opening disclaimer ("Any similarity between the Great Dictator and the barber shop owner is purely coincidental") the movie is a laugh-a-minute with a blend of wonderful slapstick and verbal humor.  And at the same time, Chaplin manages to portray the evils of totalitarian persecution.  Maybe a little short on the ending and the lasting timeliness of the subject matter, but easily a 9 out of 10 for me.


                
Bumbling Jewish soldier (Charlie Chaplin) was lucky to survive WWI. He leaves the hospital years later suffering memory lost thinking he's gone for only a few weeks. Ruthless dictator Adenoid Hynkel (Charlie Chaplin) has taken over the nation of Tomainia. The Jewish soldier returns to his barbershop in the ghettos. He gets into a fight with the storm troopers and earns the heart of the defiant washer woman Hannah (Paulette Goddard). He's about to be hung on a lamp post, but is rescue by Commander Schultz whom he saved during WWI. Then Hynkel loosens the reins on the Jews to attract a loan from a Jewish banker.I appreciate the attempt, but like 9/11, there were attempted jokes right after that was too soon. It's also too on-the-nose. Chaplin is playing the Jewish barber as the tramp lite. The story just doesn't quite have the comedy or the heart. Standing up to the storm troopers is the most compelling for the barber. Meanwhile dictator Hynkel is more weird than funny. It's how I feel about playing with the balloon globe. It's quirky weird but I would never laugh at it. Napaloni is a funnier dictator. Then there is the big final speech. Chaplin puts all his heart into it. Again I appreciate the attempt. It was probably more compelling back in the day. For all the appreciation at the political statement, I'm giving it a good score but not for any comedy.


                
Something about this picture made it somewhat uncomfortable to watch for me. I'm not sure if Adolph Hitler and Nazi atrocities are the kind of topics that lend well to humorous parody. In what I've read about Chaplin's coming to understand how evil the Nazis really were, it seems he might have second guessed himself as well.With that brief preface, I'll concede that Chaplin achieved a moderate success with this picture, seeing how he took a courageous stand prior to America's entry into World War II. The scene that's most memorable as I now reflect on the story was Adenoid Hynkel's juggling act with the planet hanging in the balance. An appropriate metaphor that went a long way to illustrate Hitler's desire to conquer the entire world. Along with the German language gibberish, Chaplin used clever puns to name his characters, Herr Garbitsch (garbage), General Schmeloffel (smell awful), and Napoloni (takeoff on Napoleon, though the character being parodied was Mussolini). There's also the inventive bit with the upside down plane and the reverse gravity effect that went with it, nice creative touch.Since I'm not a student of Chaplin's work, one of the things that surprised me here was the eclectic collection of actors who appeared in the picture. Contemporary Jack Oakie was entertaining as Napoloni, with enough energy to overpower Chaplin in most of the scenes in which they appeared together. Paulette Goddard transformed radiantly from the poor peasant girl following the barber's makeover. And could it be, aside from his appearances with the Bowery Boys, I don't think I've ever seen Bernard Gorcey in a single other picture, and playing a straight character at that. That was an unexpected treat.Of course, Chaplin's impassioned speech at the end of the story is what makes the two hour viewing time worth waiting for. It suddenly pivots the entire tone of the story on a dime, and was almost jolting to this viewer. Forceful and well reasoned, I found it surprising that elements of his speech aren't well known enough to be quoted present day. "We want to live by each other's happiness, not by each other's misery". With his closing remarks, Chaplin not only cemented his reputation as a great writer and director, but as a visionary who could move beyond the foibles of greedy men and nations to champion a cause for a world of freedom and democracy.
Sir Charlie Chaplin made a long career out of silent comedy films, and there was question as to whether he could go into sound pictures, and this his first proved he could. Basically it is the last days of the First World War, and military pilot Schultz (Reginald Gardiner) has his life saved by a clumsy soldier (Chaplin, also directing), who crashing the plane loses his memory, and goes back to his job as a Jewish Barber. In Tomania meanwhile, dictator Adenoid Hynkel (also Chaplin), who unintentionally looks very similar to the barber, is gripping the country. He is discriminating the Jewish people, but the barber's territory is untouched when Schultz recognises the man who saved him, and Hynkel needs someone to take the blame for when his plans go downhill. Schultz is arrested for being a friend to the Jews, where they are all placed into Concentration Camps, and Hynkel's next plan is to march his army into Osterlich to show up Napaloni - Dictator of Bacteria (Oscar nominated Jack Oakie). Schultz and the also captured barber manage to escape the camp in disguises, and when Hynkel is mixed up for the barber while fishing, the barber, posing as Hynkel, gets his once in a lifetime chance to end the tyranny with all of Osterlich and Tomania listening. Also starring Henry Daniell as Garbitsch, Billy Gilbert as Herring, Grace Hayle as Madame Napaloni and Carter DeHaven as Bacterian Ambassador. The best moments of the film for me are Hynkel's hand being raised to silence to crowd immediately, and of course the ballet like dancing with the balloon globe of the world, bouncing on his hands and bum. The critics are entitled to their opinion, but I personally don't think it's quite worthy of five stars, but from what I id laugh at, it is certainly a good first sound picture from Chaplin, and an amusing wartime satire comedy. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Picture, Best Music for Meredith Willson and Best Writing, Original Screenplay for Chaplin. Sir Charlie Chaplin was number 50 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, he was number 24 on The 50 Greatest British Actors, he was number 10 on 100 Years, 100 Stars - Men, he was number 38 on The World's Greatest Actor, and he was number 67 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, the film was number 70 on The Ultimate Film, and it was number 37 on 100 Years, 100 Laughs. Very good!
A good, but not great film, "The Great Dictator" is Chaplin's first talkie. It's a good effort, and at times a remarkable satire on Hitler, but unfortunately the moments of Chaplin brilliance on offer here are let down by a tendency to use too much unnecessary dialogue. Yes, Chaplin, the silent screen master, just uses too many words in this film, and his tendency towards writing long speeches and extraneous passages of dialogue would carry over into his other talkie films, such as (better) "Limelight". Still, Chaplin was extremely daring in even making this film and his performance in dual roles is certainly memorable. Paulette Goddard doesn't have the glow she did in "Modern Times" (her off-screen affair with Chaplin was cooling at the time), but she is always worth seeing, and Jack Oakie just about steals the show as a rival dictator to Chaplin's famous creation Hynkel.
"In this land of the crazy the sane are mad", wrote Edmund Cooper. This 1940 Chaplin classic is as great an example of that phenomenon as you will find. Yes, it is indeed strange that Chaplin's Adenoid Hynkel should pull spaghetti apart in frustration, whilst arguing with his dictatorial rival in the shape of Jack Oakie's Napoloni; but how much stranger, darker and ultimately madder were the hatreds engendered, crimes committed and murders perpetrated during the run up to, and through the course of, WW2? A satire has to contain recognisable human characteristics, instincts and foibles - when this was made it was known how bad Nazism was, but not the extent of the persecution, death camps and ethnic cleansing. A quite extraordinary line in the film about the discovery of a wonder poison gas, acutely and poignantly envisages the ultimate madness, the gas chambers.The delightful scene in which Hynkel plays footie with an inflated globe, bouncing it twice on his buttocks, before finding it burst in his grasp, is a great metaphor for Hitler's megalomania; and the touching Paulette Goddard, who plays Hannah, is both willing to take on the stormtroopers and go out with an amnesia suffering, older Jewish barber, living below her parents rooms - boy, if I could achieve such social success, I'd grab the scissors right now and forget all things good, bad or indifferent beforehand.Chaplin's final soliloquy may be deemed somewhat pretentious, but his condemnation of anti-semitism and call for racial tolerance amongst black and white, all classes, races and creeds, should be pinned to the wall of every UN representative's office, right now. 21st Century audiences can learn as much from this film as 20th Century ones. Hynkel and Napoloni may be buffoons, but this acerbic classic is as potent now as it was then. Buffoonery can sometimes, just sometimes, be evil.


                
This was Chaplin's first all-talking picture, and the results are mixed. The movie is a biting satire of Hitler and Mussolini, their henchmen and their fanatical way of life, especially regarding the persecution of the Jews. It was daring and forward for 1940 and must have made a lot of people squirm.When compared to Chaplin's earlier works, this is quite pale in comparison. The sweet, funny style of his silents, in my opinion, is far superior to his first talkie. There are lots of meaningless bits that drag on. If this was a silent, it probably would not have happened.I find one of the funniest moments to be the musical barber moment and the globe dance. One of the most touching moments is, obviously, the speech at the end.The Great Dictator is an effective and at times moving film that is a very big part of both Chaplin's history and movie history. It is flawed, but Chaplin is in great form.


                
