After years of more intimate British films and just discovering the joys of location shooting with 1955's "Summertime", master director David Lean made his first actual widescreen epic with 1957's "The Bridge on the River Kwai", an acknowledged classic that deserves attention from a new generation of viewers and another visit from the rest of us who love perfectly executed films by an unparalleled craftsman. Recently, this movie has been overshadowed by his 1962 follow-up epic, the comparatively more elaborate "Lawrence of Arabia", but this richly textured WWII-set adventure is special enough on its own terms. While it has its share of action and suspense presented in exacting detail, the film is even more resonant as a psychological drama about the test of wills between mission-driven officers amid the perils of wartime survival.The plot takes place in 1943 when after surrendering in Singapore, Col. Nicholson marches his ragged British company into a Japanese prisoner work camp in the Burmese jungle (this is where the famous whistling of "Colonel Bogey March" is first heard). The erudite Col. Saito runs the camp and demands that the new prisoners build a massive railway bridge, a critical juncture between Rangoon and Malaysia. In a classic stand-off, Nicholson finally forces Saito to respect Geneva Convention and not allow his officers to do manual labor on the construction. Upon his ironic Pyrrhic victory, Nicholson slowly descends into the madness of seeing the completed bridge as a potential morale booster for his battle-weary men. Meanwhile, shortly after Nicholson's arrival, U.S. Navy Cmdr. Shears escapes from the camp only to be later blackmailed into joining a British commando mission led by do-or-die Maj. Warden and hesitant Lt. Joyce with the sole goal of blowing up the bridge. Through Peter Taylor's thoughtful film editing, the movie breathlessly alternates between the parallel story lines of the bridge construction and the jungle commando mission until the exciting climax.Lean's accomplishments are many with this memorable film - the authenticity of the Burmese jungle locations (filmed in Sri Lanka), the seamless integration of the two story lines, the masterful handing of the final scenes, and in particular, the gradual metamorphosis of Nicholson from a by-the-book British officer to Saito's willing collaborator. A frequent participant in Lean's films, Alec Guinness gives his career-best performance as Nicholson providing all sorts of unexpected shades to his complex characterization. As Shears, William Holden does what he did best in the 1950's, concurrently exude natural bravado and a conflicted soul and then added a layer of cynicism that dares to challenge the viewer to support him. The 68-year old Sessue Hayakawa came out of retirement to play Saito and delivers a subtle performance of unbending discipline and pained humiliation. Jack Hawkins and Geoffrey Horne lend sturdy support as Warden and Joyce respectively. With the same expert eye he lent to "Summertime", Jack Hildyard provides the superbly expressive and composed cinematography. Michael Wilson and Carl Foreman, both blacklisted at the time, wrote the brilliantly developed screenplay. This is essential viewing.The two-disc 2000 Limited Edition DVD set has a pristine print transfer with great sound making the entire experience feel surprisingly fresh upon viewing. There is a nearly hour-long documentary on Disc Two, "The Making of The Bridge on the River Kwai", produced for the DVD and full of intriguing insight into the production logistics. There are a couple of shorter featurettes produced around the time of the film's original release, the first is a black-and-white teaser for the film itself and the second a rather pedestrian lesson in Film 101 produced by USC grad students and introduced by Holden. Director John Milius provides a respectful tribute to the film in another short.


                
Within the Conflict that was World War II, there were many more smaller, more personal conflicts which, when added up, made a significant impact on the outcome of the War; though trying to explain them, or war in general, is like attempting to decipher the indecipherable.  In `The Bridge On the River Kwai,' director David Lean takes you deep into the Burmese jungle to examine some of these deeper conflicts, and the effects of extraordinary circumstances on some ordinary men:  British Colonel Nicholson (Alec Guinness) is a man of rigid principles and ideals, to whom acquiescence in any quarter is not an option; Japanese Colonel Saito (Sessue Hayakawa) lives by an inflexible code of conduct and is adamant in his adherence to it, through which he maintains his dignity and honor; American Navy Commander Shears (William Holden) just wants to make it through the war alive and get back home.  	As an integral part of their war effort, the Japanese have ordered a strategic bridge to be built across the Kwai River to facilitate the transport of troops and equipment.  This monumental task has been given to Saito, the commandant of an allied prisoners-of-war camp; and not only must he build it, it must be completed by a specific date.  And time is short. Toward that end, Saito has pressed into service every prisoner, including officers, whom according to the Geneva Convention of 1864 (which established rules for the humane treatment of prisoners of war), are to be excluded from any manual labor.  When a fresh contingent of British prisoners arrives to bolster his complement of workers, Saito finds himself up against a formidable opponent, Nicholson, who immediately informs Saito that his officers will not work, in accordance with the rules of the Geneva Convention.  And it's the beginning of another war-- a war of wills-- between two men determined to win at any cost.  To Saito, this is more than just another assignment, it's an obligation, and failure is not an option. If he does not succeed in having the bridge built-- and on time-- he will be forced to take his own life, in accordance with his own moral code. Nicholson, on the other hand, is unyielding to the point of madness, and will die before he accedes to Saito's demands.	Meanwhile Shears has managed by some miracle to escape and has made his way back to Ceylon.  And he's home free-- after some recuperation time at Mount Lavinia Hospital, he'll be on his way back to the states.  Or so he thinks. But unbeknownst to him, the British are aware of the bridge being built on the Kwai, and are planning a commando raid to destroy it.  And Shears has something they need:  First hand knowledge of the precise location, and of the jungle through which he made his miraculous escape.  Subsequently, the Navy agrees to `loan' Shears to the British, to aid them with their mission. So instead of a ticket home, Shears is faced with another arduous trek through an uncompromising jungle, all for a mission of which the odds against success are nearly incalculable.  	From the beginning of the film to it's spectacular climax, Lean builds and maintains a subtle tension that underscores the drama, which makes this a compelling, unforgettable motion picture.  Lean is the Master of epic films such as this, filling them with sweeping visuals while integrating them with the emotional involvement of his characters perfectly.  Lean knows what he wants and how to get it, and he takes a terrific story (and this definitely is one) and tells it by using every bit of space--visually and audibly-- at this disposal.  And most importantly, he knows how to get the kind of performances from his actors to put it all across so convincingly and believably.	Alec Guinness deservedly received the Oscar for Best Actor for his role of Nicholson, whom he embodies from the inside out, disappearing so utterly into the character that the actor is forgotten, leaving nothing but the real man in his stead.  It's a superlative piece of acting from one of the truly great actors of all times.  Holden, as well, delivers an outstanding performance as Shears, capturing that somewhat embittered, off-handed sarcasm and resignation of a man trapped by circumstances beyond his control, who nevertheless does what he can to make the most of it, while awaiting the first opportunity for escape that affords itself.  Holden's work here is Award-worthy, as well, but was destined to forever remain in the shadows of what is probably the definitive Guinness performance.  And what a rare treat, having two performances of this caliber in a single film.	Other notable performances include Hayakawa, entirely convincing as the tormented Saito, and Jack Hawkins, as demolition expert Major Warden, the absolute personification of the undaunted British stiff-upper-lip.	The supporting cast includes James Donald (Clipton), Geoffrey Horne (Joyce), Percy Herbert (Grogan), Ann Sears (Nurse) and Andre Morell (Green). Beautifully filmed and expertly crafted and delivered, `The Bridge On the River Kwai' is one of David Lean's masterpieces.  It's an emotionally involving, dramatic action/adventure that offers some real insight into the determination and tenacity of the human spirit.  This film (especially the ending) is one you will never forget; a classic in every sense of the word, it exemplifies the magic of the movies.  I rate this one 10/10.


                
I recently saw The Bridge on the River Kwai at the Cinerama Dome, and it was quite spectacular.  Unlike some of today's grand adventure films, you get to know the characters along with seeing great scenes of acting and cinematography.  Alec Guinness is at the top of his form as the single minded Colonel Nicholson.  The scene between Nicholson and Saito in Saito's hut is remarkable.  Nicholson still will not concede defeat, he even takes offense that other officers of different armies gave in and worked alongside the enlisted men.  Saito can't understand Nicholson's acceptance of his punishment, and it drives him crazy.  The film's plot has two stories that are beautifully intertwined.  Shears' return to the bridge is his only way to escape the bridge.  In the film's final act, the tension is turned up as the British commandos try to blow up the bridge, and a train, and only then does Nicholson realise what the bridge really is.  The Bridge on the River Kwai is one film that is hard to top, the only film able to do that is Lawrence of Arabia, both directed by the meticulous eye of David Lean.  One director who could put intimacy in epic circumstances.


                
I heard a film critic once say that there really aren't "war movies"; there are only "anti-war" movies.  I'm still not sure what I think of that claim, but having seen - The Bridge on the River Kwai- enough times in the past several years, I think I'm persuaded that it's at least half right.  -Kwai-, I believe, is both a "war" and "anti-war" movie, and, in my view, it succeeds admirably at both.There is almost no element of -Kwai- that is not praise-worthy.  David Lean's direction is tight and evocative.  The cinematography is great (even though the color seems increasingly drained in film versions that I have seen).  The acting is top-notch.  I honestly believe that this is Alec Guiness's best performance, and Sessue Hayakawa is also highly sympathetic and believable.  William Holden and Jack Hawkins round out the cast nicely.The musical score is also right on.  Simply put, -Kwai- is an excellently constructed film made by people who obviously cared a great deal about it. As a result, the viewer comes to care a great deal about it as well.Clearly -Kwai- is an anti-war film.  There is no glorification here.  War is brutal, period.  It's brutality is not captured here in terms of gory carnage or senseless battles.  Instead, the psychological dimension of brutality comes across clearly.  Yet, -Kwai- also shows the resilience of the human spirit as well as its complexity.  One is left wondering if participation in World War II not only psychologically brutalized the characters played by Guiness, Hayakawa, and Holden but also if it simultaneously uplifted them.  The paradox is striking to me each time I view this film.  War can act both as a positive and negative catalyst, and it can do both of these things at the same instant.So, is -The Bridge on the River Kwai- a war movie or an anti-war movie?  I think Lean clearly preferred the latter, but the subject matter and his approach to it may have landed somewhere in between.Regardless,  -Kwai- is a fantastic film experience and is not to be missed. It is, simply put, my very favorite film--bar none.


                
Of all war movies this is the one with the best idea behind it.  Think how easy it is to make a bad war movie.  A group of people must blow up a bridge, and this is the story of their quest ...  Actually, that DID serve as the premise for a film: it was called `Force Ten from Navarone', and it was dire.  Or how about this one: we see close up the brutalities of war. (Then we see them again.  Then we see some more of the brutalities of war. Then we see the credits.)  Or how about this: a humble American soldier, with the pragmatism native to his breed, rejects his superiors' highfalutin talk of honour and glory and asserts his basic humanity in trying to stay alive.  Or this one: we see English prisoners of war maintain their dignity in the face of Japanese brutality.They're all present, in a sort of a way: but ALSO present is a magnificent, long, suspenseful, tight story, around which these apparent clichés wrap naturally.  If the clichés don't wrap naturally then they, not the story, are bent out of shape.  Just when we think that the American pragmatist will turn out to be the hero, we see him cut a rather shabby figure, and it seems that there really WAS something to that highfalutin talk of honour and glory, after all.  But then we discover that he has standards of his own, and they appear to be better ones.  But THEN it seems that ...  I could go on indefinitely, since there are many people here with something to be said for them, and it requires some thought to see who has the most to be said for him in the end.There's almost no need to mention the excellent performances, photography and music.  The only thing one might have qualms about is historical accuracy.  Nothing like this ever happened.  Still, that makes the movie much less dishonest than those that base themselves on historical events, and then proceed to get them all wrong.  You can only be misled by `The Bridge on the River Kwai' if you don't know that it's pure fiction.  Well - you know now.


                
Let's face it - war is organized madness, and although the stakes in World War II were tremendous for whichever side lost, the individual effects of the war on the men and nations involved caused madness on several levels.Pierre Boule's short novel brilliantly discusses the madness in the crazy situation that sweeps up Colonels Nicholson and Saito. Under normal circumstances, the two men might never had been friends but they might have had a degree of respect for each other. Both come from nations that have long histories and traditions, and whose officer corps prided themselves on leadership and withstanding privations. The Japanese formalized these traditions in the code of Bushido (which was twisted, unfortunately, in World War II). It included sharing privation with one's men and was similar to the concept of noblesse oblige that the aristocratic officers of Britain's army tried to maintain. Nicholson's stoicism when put into the isolation box was as much in his tradition as Saito's tradition would have included willingly reducing his own share of his rations for the benefit of his men in a siege.The situation that develops is a racial rivalry. The Japanese, in 1943, have won so many of the campaigns, and witnessed the surrender of Allied (i.e. Western - American, British, French, Dutch troops) that they really have a contempt for them. As we now know was true, the Japanese soldiers frequently fought to the last man (think of Saipan and Okinawa in the last stages of the war, where flame throwers were frequently used to force Japanese soldiers and civilians out into the open). Westerners could do this too, but traditionally the western states saw no shame in surrendering after putting up a hard fight. Not so the Japanese military.Saito is identifying with this tradition. In the novel, he is also disappointed that he is in charge of a prisoner of war camp - he'd prefer to be back in the fighting. But they need the prisoners to build the railroads throughout the new Japanese empire (as mentioned on another comment, the "Greater East Asiatic Co-Prosperity Sphere") that can have men and material race from one end of the empire to the other.In reality this frequently ended up more like slave labor than what Boule arranges (or what Saito probably had in mind). Nicholson insists on treatment under the Geneva convention for P.O.W.s, but Saito thinks it's typically Western and wimpish. As punishment for his presumption he puts Nicholson in a hellish underground cell in solitary. But Nicholson's men refuse to cooperate until he's released, and when he is he sneers at the Japanese engineers and their mistakes, and insists on the English army engineers taking control of the building - and this works well for the Japanese Army but not for Saito, who seriously feels like he has lost face and should commit suicide.Director David Lean wisely shot the film on location, capturing the heat and disorientation of a humid jungle war front. His wide screen film manages to make the locale of the prison camp and the Kwai River (and the bridge) look like it is the entire world, and that escape is impossible from it (indeed the one man who escapes - Holden - has to return eventually). The novel does not include the character played by William Holden, one of his typically laconic Americans who retain a clear sightedness when compared to the British. Holden's "Shears" sees the prison camp as a massive graveyard (he's on the burial detail) and hates it to the point of escaping. He reaches safety in a recovery hospital in Ceylon, but he's forced by Jack Hawkins to return to the campsite to destroy the bridge.Hawkins' too seems a realist - he is trying to destroy an enemy target that is nearly completed, and will make the enemy's war effort far easier. But his resolve to do this involves blackmailing Holden into assisting him, and forcing himself to continue on his mission after being seriously injured. At the end the mission kills hundreds of men. Hawkins has succeeded, but the local natives who assisted him look at him like he is a mass murderer.Guinness' Nicholson is one of the most myopic soldiers in film (or fiction for that matter) totally forgetting the purpose of himself and his soldiers even in a P.O.W. situation but thinking solely in terms of oneupmanship and morale. It was a splendid performance. One might make a case that he behaved like a man who was hallucinating after an illness, and indeed he does (accidentally) get back to reality at the eleventh hour - too late to save himself, but in time to save his military honor.Sessue Hayakawa had a film career in Hollywood that went back to the silent period (even appearing opposite Gloria Swanson in a Cecil B. DeMille movie), but the coming of sound and the deterioration of Japanese-American relations caused him to leave American movies. Like Swanson's sound comeback in Wilder's SUNSET BLVD., Hayakawa's appearance as Saito, a harsh foe but ultimately sympathetic given his code of behavior and how he is humiliated, brought him belated recognition and an Oscar nomination.Finally there is James Douglas, a highly useful, plain looking British actor who frequently brought dollops of common sense to his films. His P.O.W. Major Clipton tries to rouse Nicholson's sense of reality, but fails (in fact he soon sees that Nicholson's unreality is far more catching with the rest of the British P.O.W.s than he imagined). He sees natural foes, British and Japanese, joining together building a bridge of friendship in a time of war. And the final result is just destruction, confusion and death from that war. Is it any wonder that at the end, he mutters the two words in the "Summary Line" as the story's conclusion.
SPOILER: This film is long (161 minutes), is almost 40 years old, and yet still is terrific, still holds up and will forever, I suspect, be considered one of the greatest war movies ever made.'Kwai' is particularly amazing in that there is very little action in it, yet it consistently entertains - during the actual movie and no matter when you see it. It entertained me when I saw in the theater as a 12- year-old as years later as a 50-something-year-old seeing it on DVD. I say this to encourage younger people to check this film out, and give it a chance. Anyone who is fascinated with character studies might find this particularly interesting with Alec Guiness' role in here as Colonel Nicholson. He was mesmerizing in his role. William Holden, Sessue Hayakawan, Jack Hawkins and the rest of the cast are all excellent, with the four mentioned above perhaps playing the roles of their lives.The gorgeous countryside of Ceylon is photographed beautifully. David Lean, one of the all-time great directors, did this film, too, so it certainly has good credentials. A winner of seven Oscars, this great movie has stood the test of time.
Man, 1957! What a year of great films: 12 ANGRY MEN, PATHS OF GLORY, SWEET SMELL OF SUCCESS, GUNFIGHT AT THE OK CORRAL, and this film, THE BRIDGE ON THE RIVER KWAI. Sometimes, I think that 1957 gets forgotten as being one of the great years of films and that's a shame. BRIDGE won Best Picture in this year, one of the very few in film history that I think is at least deserving. That said, PATHS OF GLORY is amongst the top 10 films of all time as far as I'm concerned, but I don't think it was released immediately in the U.S. in 1957, so I can forgive the Academy that one!This film is about a band of British POWs at a Japanese internment camp in the Burmese jungle during mid-WWII. They are led by career military man Colonel Nicholson (Best Actor Oscar winner Sir Alec Guiness) and the camp's Commander Saito forces Nicholson and his men to build a railroad bridge which trains will be able to cross to transport enemy troops and dignitaries, and to get supplies to enemy forces. Nicholson, ever the 'loyal' British officer, agrees to build a quality bridge in exchange for Saito treating his men in accordance with the Geneva Convention. Some of his officers question Nicholson's collusion with Saito and wonder about his patriotism. Also questioning Nicholson's motives are an American POW Shears (William Holden, who actually has top billing in this film and gives a terrific performance in his own right). Shears escapes the camp, only to be drafted by Major Warden (2nd billed Jack Hawkins) to be part of a team of Allied soldiers to return to the camp to destroy the bridge. Shears is necessary to lead the expedition since he was at the camp and could lead them the quickest route to get there.The film speaks a lot about the duality of man: on the one hand as 'prisoners' of war, Nicholson wanted he and his men to be treated accordingly to the Geneva convention, but he knew that to get this treatment, he had to make compromises with Saito; on the other hand, they were prisoners of 'war' and Saito is the enemy and it is unspoken rule that you should never collude with the enemy, even if it means mistreatment and taking uncalled for punishment. Nicholson is very prideful, prim, and proper and let these properties shine through. In his mind, he was doing his duty as a 'British' soldier, but in the end realized that what he was really doing was betraying the core values of what it really meant to be a British 'soldier'.The film is also very watchable, even today. You get completely enthralled by the story and characters. It never seems dated. The climactic bridge-destroying scene at the end always blows me away (no pun intended). And the last line in the film is one I've never forgotten and sums up the point of the whole film. A true classic.
"The Bridge on the River Kwai" is neither an anti-war, nor a pro-war (if there is such a thing) film. I'm not really sure just what such designations actually mean. "Bridge ..." is richer and more personal than a simple depiction of epic events. In "Bridge ...", the epic supports the intimate. If you miss this, you miss a lot. "Bridge ..." is about the human heart first, and war second.After 47 years, it remains a powerful illustration of our failed hopes as human beings. (something sorely lacking in the more technically pre-occupied action films of today.) Oddly, it's an able companion to the less cinematic "A Streetcar Named Desire", or "Cat On a Hot Tin Roof" -- full of irony -- brilliant, subtle, and ultimately believable because we've all, in one way or another, experienced the feelings and the fears of the principals.You can't miss, entirely, this interpretation if you watch the film carefully, and open your senses to the quieter moments: Saito weeping alone having lost the battle of wills, or sending a letter home (Even a brutal camp warden can do that -- nation, race, codes of honor notwithstanding); Saito's confession to Nicholson that he had wanted to be an artist but that his father thought he "belonged in the army"; the scene on the completed bridge, which Saito begins, looking at the sunset and quietly declaring - "beautiful!", with a detached Nicholson attributing the observation to the bridge (his obsession); Nicholson, in turn, speaking of his thoughtful realization that he is "nearer the end than the beginning", and wondering, aloud, what the sum total of his life has meant "to anyone or anything". . . Rescued by the bridge, Nicholson, at last, has something of value to leave behind.. . . Neither, are the supporting characters free of the ironies of our existence. Shears yearns for a world in which there's no place for war, but who's final act is the ultimate act of war -- killing the enemy close-up, with a knife, and ending his own life in the same cause as did the prisoner he buried, and who's name he could not recall. Joyce, the recruit, who's pre-war occupation consisted of checking and re-checking columns of figures, wants the challenge of "thinking". The denouement of his aspiration nearly costs Warden his life and, ultimately, costs him his own.The climactic irony (Shakespearian to be sure) comes with Nicholson's realization that he has been living in "his own" and not "the world's" reality. A "friendly fire" mortar round, exploded behind him, shakes him back to "the way things are". . . "What have I done?", he asks before he falls on the plunger that will explode his own -- his only -- "beautiful creation" (ironically, again, his enemy's confirmation).We all strive to create, or just contribute to, a world in which our dreams can flourish. This includes the powerful, who approve the wars, and the powerless, who fight them. But, often, we find the realities of that world make the dreams of our part in it impossible to realize: The "madness" which, above the carnage, Clipton desperately verbalizes."The Bridge on the River Kwai" is a true classic because it can be so many things to so many people -- and it is timeless: The kids and many adults will enjoy the action, the historians will enjoy critiquing its accuracy, veterans will re-visit the comradeship of the "trenches", and film buffs will revel in the picture's rhythm, drama, and well-executed technical elements.In the final analysis, the settings, costumes, historicity, etc. are only "helpers" (however beautifully provided by Lean and company). Its bigger theme -- the aspirations of the human heart, and the painful surrendering of those aspirations -- are what we are most urgently invited to experience in this extraordinary film. 10 out of 10.
One of the absolute best. I first saw this movie about half a year ago, in October last year, when I saw the ending; I decided that I was going to rewatch it for a very long time


                
The Bridge on the River Kwai is about a culture clash of two different races going to war and how they view each other. It's also about a British colonel's concern for the morale of his men and observation of the rules of war that it blinds him to the situation he's in.I like to compare The Bridge on the River Kwai with The Great Escape. Though the prisoners in the former are in a far worse predicament than those in that 'escape proof' stalag in the latter, note the differences in how they view their captivity. No one in The Great Escape ever forgets that they are at war and who the enemy. Their morale is kept very high with the diabolical escape plan they devise.Alec Guinness who is a stickler for protocol reminds us that escape might not be justified under the rules because they were ordered to surrender. But as prisoners he will not be denied the rank and privileges of being an officer. So he gets the sweat box until the commandant, Sessue Hayakawa, gives in for his own reasons.His reasons involve the building of a bridge on a railway the Japanese are constructing from Bangkok to Rangoon, part of their Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity scheme. Hayakawa reminds us that his code of honor is Bushido, the Samurai code which does not entertain surrender. The British to him are an inferior people for doing that and not fighting until the last man.That's not going to sit well with Guinness who's going to show the Japanese who's inferior. He notes that the bridge being built is not sound structurally and he determines that to combat the idleness of the men and the bad effect on morale, he'll build a bridge that will show Hayakawa who's inferior. And Hayakawa loses control of his own bridge construction to the enemy and breaks down because of it.The Bridge on the River Kwai as a film wouldn't work at all if it were not for Alec Guinness. He's clearly not kept his eye on the ball to use an American baseball term, forgotten that two countries are at war, that it's not a private spat between him and Hayakawa. Yet his concern for his men is genuine and he must have been a pretty good commander in a combat situation to retain the affection his men have for him. Executing the complexity of Colonel Nicholson won him the Academy Award and it carries the film.Taking a different view of the perks of being an officer is William Holden. His role is not in the original novel by Pierre Boule, but was created to justify a big American box office name for the USA market. But it was a good thing because Holden as an American does bring a different perspective to the events. Holden having won his Oscar in Stalag 17 as a prisoner of war brings his former role of Sefton to this film. That's not as flip as it sounds because Sefton in Stalag 17 did remark about escaping and then being sent to the Pacific and getting captured and doing time in a Japanese prison. Of course he'd have had to have changed branches of the service. And we never do learn Holden's real name.Seems as though when his ship went down, Holden the survivor exchanges uniform and dog tags with a Navy commander named Shears. It doesn't get him quite the perks he thought he'd get, but he's resourceful enough.It took me several viewings of The Bridge on the River Kwai to figure out why Holden didn't go back to his real name and rank after he escaped and after he arrived in the British hospital in Sri Lanka. It's the reason why Ann Sears has a small, but critical role as the WREN that Holden enjoys a little romantic idyll with. She might not have given him the time of day if he was a seaman first class instead of a Lieutenant Commander. But the British get on to Holden's charade and Jack Hawkins blackjacks him into going on a mission to destroy the bridge that British Intelligence has found out the Japanese are building. If Guinness has forgotten what side he's on, Hawkins sure hasn't. Jack Hawkins's role tends to get overshadowed by Guinness and he never gets the credit due him for this film, but he does well as the determined man on a mission.One other part worthy mentioning is James Donald as the medical officer of Guinness's battalion. He has great affection for Guinness, but apparently he's the only one in the POW camp that sees the implication of what the British prisoners are being ordered to do by their commander and also who'll tell Guinness ever so gently.And Donald puts the final coda on The Bridge on the River Kwai with his words that end this great film achievement.


                
I don't know why, but every time I ask somebody what their favorite David Lean movie is, I always get the same answer, "Lawrence of Arabia".  Well mine is "The bridge on the river Kwai".  I think that the roles in this movie were much harder to play than in "Lawrence of Arabia".  Another thing I don't understand is that when most people I know refer to "The bridge on the river Kwai", they only talk about the script and naturally, Lean's directing and Guinness's performance.  I think that it is William Holden who steals the show and he didn't even get a nomination in it.  His performance as Shears is absolutely incredible and totally convincing.  The movie begins with an English platoon giving in to a Japanese prison camp in WWII on a Japanese island.  When they arrive to the camp, their leader, Colonel Nicholson (Guinness) asks to see the chief of the camp.  He is presented to Colonel Saito (Sessue Hayakawa) and announces to him that his platoon is surrendering.  Colonel Saito tells Colonel Nicholson that his men will have to work hard to build a bridge that goes from one side to another of the river Kwai.  Saito also tells him that if the men work hard, they will be treated well.    This whole conversation takes place right before the American grave-digger, Shears (Holden), held prisoner by the Japanese.  He also witnesses a little scene where Nicholson comes incredibly close to getting shot and so he understands just how hard-headed he is.  But Shears's only goal is to escape and that he does.    After his escape, Shears accidentally hooks up with Major Warden (Jack Hawkins) who he doesn't know.  However, Warden, with the help of Nicholson's private work in the prison camp, knows a lot about Shears.  He explains to Shears that Nicholson is one of his men and that his platoon surrendered because that's what Warden had ordered Nicholson to do.  He also tells Shears that he gave that order because he knew about Saito's plan to build a bridge and that Nicholson's mission was to (WARNING: SPOILER) blow-up the bridge when the Japanese train which contains the ammunitions and weapons is passing on it.  And since Shears was able to escape from the camp, Warden convinces him to help him get close to the prison camp to set-up the explosives.  "The bridge on the river Kwai" is a gripping, flawless movie and even though I said that Holden nearly steals the show with his performance as Shears, Guinness's performance is excellent as well.  Hawkins delivers a great performance as well and Lean's directing is nothing else than perfect. He seems to have that touch of being able to make three to four hours long movies without boring the viewer.  "The bridge on the river Kwai" was ranked #13 on AFI's list of their 100 all-time best movies which is exactly the rank it deserved.  It is really exceptional.
One of my Top Ten films.  This film was remarkable in 1957 because it followed a long line of "war movies" after World War 2 which glorified war and the soldiers who fought.  This film displays the absurdity of war, and the corresponding absurdities of humanity, and toys with the notion that the two are firmly linked.  Many may compare it to the more recent Saving Private Ryan, but the two films have completely different lessons.  Bridge is about the absurdity of war and the irrationality of those who fight, whereas Ryan is about the way in which brave men deal with the horrors of war, and the debt owed by all of us for their sacrifice.This film shares many of the same undercurrents as another one of my personal Top Ten motion pictures,  Planet of the Apes (1968).  I was surprised to recently learn that both films are based on novels by the same French writer, Pierre Boulle.  The screenplay for Planet of the Apes was written by Rod Serling (TV's Twilight Zone) and bears his unique style. If you have not seen either of these films, and like films that make you think, watch Bridge first, then Planet, and note the similarities.


                
What does it mean to be a solider versus a prisoner? How about the meaning of a Colonel's duty, pride, and everything in a male-centric view in times of war? And really, what everything seems to come down to- in the case of The Bridge on the River Kwai- is that priorities end up being eschewed with moral ambiguity and heroism in the oddest circumstances. David's Lean's masterpiece takes a compelling look at men who wont give in, and when they do they somehow lose a piece of themselves in the process- a big part really depending on point of view &/or country- and how being ultra-tough and stubborn and headstrong may get you killed for the wrong reasons. Colonel Nicholson (Sir Alec Guiness in a very well deserved Oscar winning turn) and Colonel Saito (Sessue Hayakawa, who is actually a really great actor as well) both don't want to give in when Nicholson arrives at Saito's camp, and refuses adamantly to work alongside the fellow soldiers on the bridge- he sees it's against the Geneva conventions, and makes it a point of principle not to do it. He's put away for a while, but then finally Saito can't take the stubbornness any more- as he knows he's been evenly matched perhaps- and has no choice (ala seppuku if not achieved) but to let him direct the building of the bridge. But what this turns into for Nicholson, as a further elongation of the principle of the matter for his men and the situation, into a really mad situation.So in this there is also the other main section of the story, where the idea of what it is to have principles starts to pick up via 'Major' Shears (William Holden, the conventional 'star' who grows more interesting in the second half). He's not really a major, but he's done in a quasi-cowardly quasi-pragmatic move to take a major's place when taken prisoner in the camp. When he achieves escape, however, he's caught between a rock and a hard place when he has to go with Major Warden (also a headstrong, 'war is a game' character played by Jack Hawkins), otherwise he'll be dishonorably discharged as an impersonator, already with a criminal record. There's a pivotal scene when he and Warden are on their way to the bridge, which undercuts the whole bond between Nicholson and Saito, when Warden wants to be left for dead after injuring his foot. Does it make more sense to hold one's own sense of duty to a mission, or to one's self, or not? What becomes Shears's gain- a sense of obligation as opposed to being a 'have no choice' scenario- becomes Nicholson's loss. The bridge to Nicholson becomes something abstracted from what is really going on, and his original ideal of not giving in to being a prisoner becomes muddled, leading up to that incredibly tense, maddening climax where his final words punctuate it all: "what have I done?" But it's not all completely a serious endeavor, and what's so brilliant about Lean's approach to Boulle's material is that it's also a grand old entertainment, where the characters are rich and fully engrossing (albeit with Shears's/Holden given an obligatory "I'm the star" scene with a blond on a beach that seems from a different movie), and with a scope and direction that is just as ambitious in its own right as Lawrence of Arabia. Lean occasionally lets some visual metaphors in that do work very well (the huge flock of birds flying around, and the bridge itself being a metaphor in itself of colonial interests). But for the most part he lets the atmosphere of a war-time adventure work by itself, with the cinematography and editing sometimes working in ultra-suspenseful ways (particularly with the setting up of the wires around the bridge, and 'go time'), and in a traditional way of solid storytelling. He lets the themes work through the characters, which gives the actors a lot more to work with than with pushing it down the viewer's throat. There's a sense that the boundaries of the typical POW/war movie, particularly from a British viewpoint, are stretched and expanded, questioning the means of the main characters while still showing them, in spurts, to have great merit.And if for nothing else, the acting's really what stands out, especially in the subtle notes and turns that seem over-the-top like with Hayakawa but are really nuanced too (he, especially, has a crux to deal with in suddenly losing his own sense of duty to country as a Brit takes over his job essentially). Guiness, meanwhile, gives something extraordinary in practically every scene, when he's either reserved or having to finally break down and show emotion (it's not the first bridge he's over-seen, hence the extra amount of pride that it'll be a "British-built" bridge). As Shears notes, there's something dangerous to a man like Nicholson who wont give in, and Guiness undercuts this dangerous quality with the elegance that he's perfect at, and then lets it become full-circle when he meets his all-too-ironic end. Holden, by the way, is also quite good here, if sort of given the almost thankless role of the star who's typically cocky, and only when finally on the mission is there some opening up in relation to Hawkins's Warden; his speech to Warden is especially engrossing.Featuring the catchiest of all whistling in the movies, and a dynamite cast and graceful and distinctively superlative directorial vision, this is one of those rare films about war where character takes precedence over action (compared to the common war movies of the period, it's only sporadic and more suggestive in the violence), not to mention in big-budget splendor, and ends up truly memorable.


                
Although I heard several times the quality of The Bridge on the River Kwai, no review can prepare you for the sheer jaw-dropping, absolute perfection that this movie is.The movie, set in World War II, begins with a pan down to a batallion of British soldiers whistling a very recognizable tune, and marching in step into a Japanese POW camp in the jungles of modern-day Burma.  The camp is run by Colonel Saito, played by Sessue Hayakowa, a part-time artist and wine connoisseur, and full-time prison warden and sadist.  Colonel Saito tells his captives, members of the Royal Armed Corps of Engineers, that they must build a rail bridge over the Kwai River, or be executed "without honor".  He also orders the officers of the corps, led by Colonel Nicholson, played by Sir Alec Guiness, to assist in the manual labor.  Colonel Nicholson resists, citing a book of the rules of warfare written by the League of Nations forbiding captured officers to serve manual labor.  In honorable protest, they stand at full attention in a hunger strike for a full 24 hours until Colonel Saito relents.Colonel Nicholson goes to the construction site and realizes that the bridge should be built on more solid ground further downstream.  He convinces Colonel Saito that they should build in another site.  If his men are being forced to work, Nicholson argues, they will work to build the best possible construction.  During the second construction, an American soldier Shears escapes the camp and ends up in Ceylon, a British Territory at the time. His British liberators use him and his knowledge of the project, and they assemble a small team to go back to the bridge to destroy it.And therein lies the conflict.  In most movies, there is a person or group that you can "root" for without conviction, like the Americans in Saving Private Ryan.  If you root for Shears and his team, they are destroying something that their countrymen slaved hard labor to build.  Rooting for Nicholson means you are upholding the Japanese in their goal of expansion. Even Saito, although very brutal, is honorable.  He fights and does what he does for his country, not his own glory.  Honor is usually a virtue, but here it is a fatal flaw.  The pointlessness of war becomes completely apparent.  Pardon the cliche, but there are no winners in this movie, or in war, just degrees of losing.  Two points drive this home.  The first is Shears's exclaimation "...you're all worrying about the proper way to die, when you should be worrying about the proper way to live!"  The second is after the bridge is completed, Colonel Nicholson gives a final lookover and sets a placard on the bridge that states that although it is under a Japanese flag, it was build by the hard work of the Royal Armed Corps of Engineers.  The final end sequence is totally gripping, and one that you will never forget.This movie won 7 Oscars, and it deserved every one.  Every element, the plot, acting, characterization, editing, is stunning.  The cinematography of the jungle and the bridge itself is among the best ever, and is a real treat in widescreen.  It's 2:45 running time will amaze you when you realize it after you are over, because it doesn't seem the least bit overlong.  Even the visual effects do not seem dated, and it was made over 40 years ago. I don't give out 10's very often, but this movie more than earns it.  There are absolutely no flaws in this movie, and is director David Lean's (Dr. Zhivago,  Lawrence of Arabia) masterpiece and is truly timeless.  A perfect movie that marries blockbuster entertainment with cinematic artistry, this should not be missed.  And you'll be whistling that tune for days after seeing it.


                
What could one possibly add to the accolades this film has had heaped upon it. The fact that it may not be historically accurate is of no consequence, as it was made for the theater, not the History Channel. David Lean's master piece showing the madness of war stands the test of time.It swept the Oscars in 1958, winning Best Picture, Best Director for Lean, Best Actor for Alec Guinness in the role that defines him, and a Best Supporting Actor nomination for Sessue Hayakawa. It also took the awards for Writing. Music, Editing and Cinematography.Guinness was a perfect example of British pride. If you are going to do a job, then do it right. In that, he managed to take care of his men at the same time.William Holden was a perfect example of a soldier who just wanted to go home, as I am sure was the feeling of most. He recognized the madness of war long before the good doctor.This is a film that you can watch year after year and never get tired of it.


                
"The Bridge on the River Kwai" is, as others have said, an anti-war film. It concerns the struggle between a British officer, Colonel Nicholson (Alec Guinness), who is confined with his men in a Japanese POW camp, and the Japanese commander, Colonel Saito (Sessue Hayakawa), who has orders to finish a section of railroad using prisoner labor.The conditions in the camp are brutal. The tropical sun makes for punishing working conditions, especially for men whose health has been compromised by injuries, punishment and jungle diseases. Despite the hardships, Nicholson is dedicated to proving the superiority of the British will. He is an admirable figure, but he has one fatal flaw.The other major character is Shears, an American naval officer whose knack for self-preservation helped him survive Saito and the sun before Nicholson's men ever marched into the prison camp. Shears is a cynic who is dedicated not to military rules and regulations but to his own welfare. He views Saito and Nicholson from the sidelines. Like Puck, he seems to say "Lord what fools these mortals be."Shears is the most complex character in the film. He makes decisions that might appear contrary to his basic nature. As such, the role of Shears can be viewed as a companion to William Holden's performance as Sefton in "Stalag 17". Sefton is a prisoner in a German POW camp. Like Shears, he is cynical and pragmatic. Viewers might find elements of heroism in the behaviors of Nicholson, Shears or Saito, depending upon their points of view. Regardless, the story of "The Bridge on the River Kwai"--from the novel by Pierre Boulle-- is fascinating. David Lean's direction pays attention to so many details, creating a vivid world that envelopes the characters and makes the jungle a significant character itself. His framing of the final scenes (and some brilliant editing) create an ending filled with suspense and blinding insight.


                
So many great things about this movie that I've watched many times, so I will just limit my thoughts to the brilliant and thrilling climax, IMO the greatest ever in an action movie. So many things going on as Colonel Nicholson and Saito contemplate the completion of the bridge and what may lie ahead for both of them, while the commando group of Warden, Shears and Joyce have realized that the explosives they have set to blow up the bridge are likely to be discovered as the river depth has receded. Which will require them to set off the charges by hand, hopefully to as blow up as Japenese troop train as it crosses the bridge. It's a scene that lasts for about .15 suspenseful minutes Bill Holden becomes a reluctant hero and Alec Guinness realizes his obsession with building the bridge for the Japanese army is indeed treasonous. "MADNESS"
The Bridge on the River Kwai is a war movie that is often very entertaining, but it sets itself apart from other war movies. Unlike those other movies, this particular film is a provocative film that asks complex questions, but doesn't answer them easily. It is all up to the audience to believe what happened and why it happened. Of course, everyone may have different opinions and the movie seems to ask for that. Usually in war movies, they are concerned about the bigger picture such as who wins or who loses, which is all very fair questions. But the reason this film works more than most war films is because it poses questions that are deeper than the winner or loser. The movie talks about individualism. It's not all about who wins or loses the war, but who is in that war and how does war affect the individual.This film takes place in 1943, at a Japanese POW camp during the middle of World War Two. The Japanese have captured British soldiers, led by Colonel Nicholson. Nicholson and his soldiers are ordered to build a bridge to accommodate a railway. Nicholson convinces his soldiers to build the bridge for British morality and to show the Japanese what they stand for. But over time, Nicholson develops an obsessive disorder with completing the bridge, which is being seen as collaborating with the enemy. Unknowingly to Nicholson or Saito, there is a plot to destroy the bridge. An American named Shears, a former POW who escaped the camp, is part of the team that is tasked with blowing up the bridge.If you put the movie on about three-quarters into it, you would be forgiven if you thought Saito and Nicholson were allies. But the a good portion of the beginning of the film, it was quite the opposite. The film opens with Nicholson and his troops being led into the camp and being introduced to Saito. It became clear right away that each man's morale opposed each other. It also became clear that Nicholson possessed a brave spirit. He endured torture for the sake of his beliefs, and he risked the chance of being killed. One of my favorite scenes in the movie was when Nicholson took out a copy of the Geneva Convention out of his pocket (to prove to Saito that officers don't have to work on the bridge) and gave it to Saito, in which Saito used it to slap Nicholson across the face drawing blood. Then, he was dragged to "The Oven," a hut that stands in the fierce sun. But once Nicholson was released, that is when the two men began to work together, drawing up some interesting questions.My favorite sections of the movie was when Nicholson, played wonderfully by Alec Guinness was on screen. However, the other half of the film is based on the plot trying to destroy the bridge. Shears was a former POW, but as an escapee and at a local hospital imitating an officer, he is coerced into the plot so his imitation as an officer wont become public. I liked the slow, grueling pace of these scenes, attempting to reach the bridge because it shows what it would be like in reality. It certainly was no picnic. It's not nearly as convincing as the scenes in the jungle, but it's good enough.This film was the film that gave Alec Guinness his Oscar. He gave such an intense performance as the colonel who slowly begins a moral descent, perhaps the only thing that kept him alive. Guinness deserved his Oscar for his powerful performance. William Holden does an expert job in playing a typical American, Shears. He likes the booze and the women, but also is compelled by adventure even if the outcome seems a little murky. I also liked the performance of Sessue Hayakawa, as the strict Japanese commandant. He was actually one of the first Asian stars in Hollywood, from the era of silent film. So it was nice for the film to harken back to its beginning. Finally, the movie boasts excellent supporting turns by Jack Hawkins, as the leader of the crew headed to destroy the bridge and James Donald, the doctor of the camp and the man who questions the sanity of Colonel Nicholson. His expression on his face in the scene where Nicholson recruits sick and injured soldiers to help with the bridge was yet another powerful moment in the film.The film is directed by David Lean, who excels at directing these kind of big, explosive films. Lean is famously hard to work with. It is on record that Guinness and Lean did not like each other during filming, but somehow Guinness was still able to deliver a powerhouse performance. Despite his personality, Lean is experienced in such films. He delivered a film that is entertaining, but still was able to put important themes and messages in the movie such as what it takes to stay alive under times of duress (such as this war).Overall, The Bridge on the River Kwai is an incredibly powerful, expertly-made war film that shows how war can make people mad. From start to finish, I was glued to the movie taking in all the excellent performances and a excellent story thanks to the Oscar-winning screenplay by Carl Foreman and Michael Wilson. One note to mention is this film is not based on historical truth. It's a fictional story, despite a similar event that actually happened. The only thing that is real is the harsh treatment of the soldiers in the POW camp. Everything about the film: the acting, directing, cinematography, score, and story just screams perfection. This is one of my all-time favorite war movies.My Grade: A+


                
I pulled a "Knope and Swanson" and showed this to my dad for his birthday (along with good steaks for the both of us). We both really enjoyed the acting, the choreography, the effects, and the plot.


                
If you watch The Bridge on the River Kwai and find yourself simultaneously admiring the spirit, the cheer, and the competence of the English, and finding it strangely insufferable, you are meant to do just that -- because this is a movie ultimately about the strange contradictions in the human heart. Alec Guinness is beyond superb, and I choose the word "beyond" advisedly: You cheer for him as he outlasts the hapless Japanese commandant, and yet it is all for what to the Japanese must seem a frivolous rule, a distinction between officers and men that should not have any purchase upon ragged soldiers in such a sweltering malarial hole as the valley of the Kwai. And the bridge, which is meant to transport Japanese supplies in occupied southeast Asia, the bridge, quite an impressive little feat of engineering, is built. Why? What is it for?All the principals in the film are at their peak: Guinness, the overmatched but deeply human commandant (Sessue Hayakawa, who won an Oscar for his role and deserved every gilded ounce of it), William Holden as the cynical American who detests Guinness more than he does Hayakawa, Jack Hawkins as an English don with a taste for explosives, and the young Gregory Horne as the all-in English schoolboy; and that's not to mention the beautiful and haunting-eyed Burmese women who lead Hawkins, Holden, and Horne through the jungle back to the Kwai.I'm an admirer of David Lean's films. This one has all the broad grandeur of Lawrence of Arabia, without the latter's occasional lunge into the baroque. "My God, what have I done?" Mr. Lean, what you have done is create a nearly flawless movie about some of the most important existential questions in human life.


                
Of David Lean's three most celebrated films -- "Lawrence of Arabia," "Dr. Zhivago," and "Bridge" -- this is probably the most entertaining. But it is also a marvelous bit of film making. Alec Guiness made a lot of movies, several of them with Lean. He's unbelievably good here. I always liked William Holden, but he's completely outclassed in Guiness' company. Jack Hawkins, who rarely got the credit he deserved, holds up his end pretty well. Critics usually put "Lawrence" and "Zhivago" ahead of "Bridge" on their all-time lists, and I don't quarrel with that. But "Bridge" ain't too shabby -- and, as noted above, it's a lot more fun. Although the outcome is predictable, I was on the edge of my seat the first time I saw this movie, and I find that it is still remarkably effective in generating suspense, even after you know what's coming. "Bridge" is definitely a 10. Okay, maybe "Lawrence" and "Zhivago" deserve 11s.


                
The bridge is the main character of the film. The entire film revolves around the building of this bridge. A lot of responsibility falls on the performance of the bridge.Now I must admit that at first I didn't really notice, but as the picture wore on it became really obvious. The bridge was giving a wooden performance. There is nothing that ruins a film more than a wooden performance. I'm sorry but its true. Take the Godfather for instance, part I and part II sucked. Totally sucked. There is no way around it. But part III was a masterpiece.Part III had everything you could ask for and more. Except one fatal flaw. Francis ford Coppola casted a wooden performer. His own Daughter! What was he thinking! She completely ruined the movie! As does any wooden performer.David Lean has done the same thing here with this bridge. I haven't seen a more wooden performance since Geppetto gave birth to Pinocchio! However that wooden performance mellowed out half way through. Unfortunately there was nothing mellow about this film. If anything the bridge got more wooden as the film wore on. In fact once it started sharing scenes with Obi One the bridge looked more wooden than ever! He really nailed the scenes. Brought out the wood in the bridge and vice versa. Which is often the case when you have two bad performers sharing a scene.The ending was also terrible. Besides the wooden performers the film really had a bad ending. It was like watching the phantom of the opera or something Chaplin directed. The final scene is just absurd. I kept expecting the camera to speed up and bring us back to that time before talkies; where circus acrobatics took center stage. Because thats exactly what happens in the last segment. A complete side show!


                
OK! Lets get it out there right away, for historical facts of the real Bridge on the River Kwai story, one should research elsewhere, this film is a fictionalised account of the said events. Sadly there are those out there who simply refuse to judge this purely as a piece of cinematic art - and cinematic art it is.A squad of British soldiers are held in a Japanese POW camp in the Burmese jungle. The respective Japanese and British leaders clash but an understanding is finally reached to build a bridge across the River Kwai. The importance of which could prove crucial in more ways than one...It won 7 Academy Awards and 4 BAFTAS, and it was the film that saw the great David Lean enter his epic period. And what a start it is. Kwai is a masterful piece of cinema, it has a magnificently intelligent and complex screenplay - with tough edged dialogue in the script, is bursting at the seams with high quality performances, and beautifully photographed (filmed in Ceylon). Thematically it's about the folly and psychological madness of war, which in turn is ensconced in sub - plots of genuine worth. It all builds to a tremendous finale, where everything we have witnessed is realised with a deftness of talent from across the board. 10/10


                
