I had an uncle (since deceased) who survived the horrors of the "Bridge". He talked to me (with some persuasion needed, and not a little difficulty on his part) about his experiences, and I've also had the opportunity (and the honour) of talking to other men who had undergone a similar fate. I also met up with POWs of the Japanese who worked on, not just the bridge, but the actual railway, and some on different projects entirely. They all said the same things about this movie. It was an utter travesty, and a diabolical insult not only to the men that died, but also the survivors. And I have to agree with them.Those people who think this film is a true reflection of what really went on, should seriously consider a brain scan, and/or maybe several visits to a psychiatrist, or three. They could however begin their return to the real world by watching the "History Channel" on digital TV, and start learning the true facts.I don't intend to list everything that is wrong in (and about) this totally inaccurate movie, I would be writing all day, and probably get steamed up in the process. Besides, other anti-BOTRK reviewers have already done it, and probably better than I could. As for the actual film itself, I couldn't really watch it as a piece of "art", or even entertainment. I couldn't do anything but see the film for what it really was. Absolute hogwash from start to finish. And to think that at the time of it's release, David Lean (and others) made a hell of a lot of cash out of it, whilst the true heroes of the "bridge" and the "railway of death" still had to live with the hell... and got damn all. I suppose if the true horrors of it had been filmed, instead of the twaddle that was produced, probably no one would have adored the movie as much as most people seem to. It would have been too awful to watch, then no-one would have made any money.I had a great admiration for Lean as a director, but with regard to BOTRK, I think he should have put his head in his hands, and said to himself, "Did I really make this garbage?"


                
I'm pretty tepid about David Lean's epics. Yes, they're some sort of cinematic development, but the best are a zero sum game (Laurence of Arabia) and others are just unfathomable (Zhivago, Passage to India, this). It's just not enough to go on location and get some pretty footage into a camera. Terence Malick has probably worn out a few copies of this.What to make of a movie where an hour is killed in a non-cinematic protest about using war prisoners as a workers, only to toss that hard-won development out the window so the movie can actually get rolling..? It's a twist so corny they don't even acknowledge it; and it doesn't result in any decent debate. Everyone here who has an opinion, just takes some half-understood, poorly-argued stance, for which the movie itself offers no supporting evidence. All I take away from it, is that the British are a bizarre race of people; more concerned about afternoon tea than figuring out a coherent moral viewpoint. William Holden's discomfort with the obtuse British is a proxy for my own. They might as well be aliens. Do we really need a British film to demonize the British? Isn't that Hollywood's fulltime job? The movie has already emasculated the soldiers, symbolically by the time it puts one of them in drag in it's hideously belabored last hour.Every conceivable piece of footage is tossed in to delay the end from arriving. When it finally does arrive ("Oh, give me a break!"), I was imagining about 20 more legitimate ways to structure a movie that needed to get to that big finale, which is the movies sole reason for being. Don't kid yourselves. There is nothing to think about in this movie. Structurally it's mush, making it excruciatingly tedious to sit through. I couldn't even be bothered to look up from my work every once in a while after hour two, to watch the exciting (snooze) mining of the bridge The DVD format is very odd. The movie eats up all its chapters in an hour and half, then it starts 22 more chapters on its own. Have mercy David Lean... or better still, have a point!I haven't outright hated a movie this much in a long time. This is a giant pile of B.S.
I finally got to watch this movie a few days ago and I must say it was a bit disappointing. First, we have Alec Guinness who would rather suffocate in a small, hot room than allow his officers to build a bridge. when finally released and realizes the bridge won't be finished in time for the enemy's use, he allows his officers to work on it and even the men that are wounded to work on it.THen... at the end of the film, he shows the enemy that there is a bomb under the bridge and almost messes up the entire thing.What officer in the US army would do this? Doesn't make much sense to me. The film had its moments but one of the all-time best? no.
