Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade (1989) is an Action Classic adventure better film than Temple of Doom , is still the best follow up in the trilogy and clever. It is also the greatest sequel of all time. It is one of my personal favorite adventure movies of all time. I love this movie to death. I loved it as a child and I still love it. After the dark middle chapter it was time for Indy to return to form and more lighthearted fair. Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade was the answer. Not to mention that bringing in Bond aka Sean Connery as Indy's dad was perfect casting. Connery adds his own whit & charm along with Indy's usual counterparts who where missed in The Temple of Doom. Last Crusade also bookends the trilogy well since the artifact he is after is related to God. While "Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade" isn't by any means what I would consider a stellar film, it was still an enjoyable and memorable theatrical experience, and in my opinion, easily ranks as the best sequel in the series. For all its faults and shortcomings (perhaps most of all, River Phoenix' laughably terrible haircut as the young Indy), the film succeeds in hitting the key notes at the proper moments, thus drumming up enough of the right combination of story and thematic elements, action and humor to make it worthwhile. Nevertheless, the bottom line is that it still pales in comparison to the level of across-the-board excellence that was achieved in the original 1981 movie. Still though, fans of this one will definitely want to pick up this excellent release, of which, throughout the entire presentation, I only came across a handful of things I thought could possibly be improved upon technically.This is probably the best installment of the Indiana Jones series. Raiders is a spectacular introduction to Dr. Jones and his style, Temple of Doom is an awesome Action, Adventure flick! Last Crusade rights the ship again with a go-for-broke production. Everything about it is huge- Jones is saving the planet from the Nazis for the second time. The budget was in place and off went Spielberg to make an epic, successfully. The film is bookended by two of the best things to appear in any of Spielberg's output: A young Indiana "beginning" his archaeological career, losing his treasure- just like the opening of Raiders- and being told by the man in his trademark hat "You lost today kid, but that doesn't mean you have to like it." and at the end, riding off into the sunset, literally. Such a conclusion could be seen as contrived but it works so well here. Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade has lots of hand-to-hand combat, action-filled chases, and gun fights. Main characters are in near-constant peril, and one is shot point blank and almost bleeds to death. Minor characters are killed in somewhat gruesome ways, including beheading; a bad guy meets his end in a fairly disturbing scene. There's a bit of kissing/banter, and it's implied that two men have slept with the same woman. Language is mild, and there's ultimately a strong message about the importance of the father-son relationship.Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade is a 1989 American adventure film directed by Steven Spielberg, from a story co-written by executive producer George Lucas. It is the third installment in the Indiana Jones franchise. A cult film, still one of my favorite films in the series and the last good Indiana Jones movie we didn't need another sequel after third release. There's nothing more exciting than trying to keep up with the Joneses in Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade. Indy's Nazi enemies are back and have kidnapped his father, Professor Henry Jones Sr. (Sean Connery), in their effort to locate the sacred Holy Grail. Following a trail from America to Venice to the deserts of the Middle East, it's up to Indy (Harrison Ford) to save his father, save the Grail and save the day in this non-stop, action-packed adventure the whole family will treasure.The chemistry between Sean Connery and Harrison Ford makes this movie a stand out from the rest of the series. The story of their father and son relationship wrapped in the search for the holy grail is what makes this spectacular Indy movie, a more meaningful adventure. 10/10 Bad Ass Seal Of Approval


                
Rating: **** out of ****My opinion of Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade could be deemed slightly biased. It is the first film I ever saw in theaters and it's also the first movie I purchased on video. I even own the same, worn-down, beat-up copy (and look upon it even more fondly than the widescreen edition, for sentimental reasons, of course) (but nothing beats the pristine quality DVD). I think it's fair to say it's this movie that cemented my love of cinema, the high regard I hold for great escapism, which is sorely lacking from today's cinema; movies that should be fun now drag or bludgeon themselves with relentlessly awful scripts or MTV-style direction that turns relatively simple scenes into chaotic blurs. The Last Crusade may only be thirteen years old, but I think I can safely say they don't make them like they used to.The film stars, of course, Harrison Ford as Indy Jones, the archaeologist/adventurer who's on yet another quest, this time to find his father, who'd been searching for the Holy Grail. Said Dad is played by none other than Sean Connery, whose highly charismatic performance is quick to place this film, acting-wise, above the others in the trilogy by giving Ford a genuine acting equal (let me put it this way, he's only half a notch below Harrison Ford/Indy in charisma and appeal if that tells you anything). The rest of the film focuses on this ongoing journey between father and son (eventually joined along by Sallah and Marcus Brody), complete with amazing action and stunt sequences, clever humor, and nasty (but fun) surprises.The script, by Jeffrey Boam, takes a few cues from Raiders of the Lost Ark, but actually improves upon that story by paying more attention to characterization. The delightful opening scene (all three movies really open with a bang, don't they?); which details how young Indy got his scar, whip, hat, and fear of snakes; makes for a better prequel than Temple of Doom (and any of The Adventure of Young Indiana Jones, for that matter).The story is engrossing because there's a lot of fun clues offered towards the location of the Grail and, thus, there's a lot of engaging little discoveries (love the "X marks the spot" scene). I'm quite certain, like with Raiders of the Lost Ark, the plot has a few holes, but they're fairly hard to notice, and I've seen this movie quite a few times, but maybe it's just my enjoyment of the film clouding that up. Either way, it speaks volumes in favor of Spielberg's direction and the performances.Given that action and adventure is the series' selling point, you can expect the thrills and wondrous delight of discovery delivered in spades. The action scenes are terrific (and matched well with John Williams' rousing, memorable score, also the best of the trilogy), the best being a fantastic ten-minute chase sequence on board (and in) a tank, possibly the best action sequence of Spielberg's career. I also loved the motorcycle chase and the Zeppelin setpiece, where the heroes go about dispatching of two enemy fighters in unexpected, but quite hilarious, fashion. The climax, complete with frightening booby traps, is a suspenseful venture into the unknown.The Last Crusade is far more humor-oriented than its predecessors, but part of the movie's effectiveness is that it's able to deliver belly laughs without defusing the tension during the action sequences. Some of the jokes are just brilliant, including one with Indy armed with a Luger in confrontation with a trio of Nazis on board a tank that's even funnier than the swordsman scene in Raiders (well, to me, at least).The supporting cast is all-around superb; John Rhys-Davies is back as Sallah, wonderful as ever and displaying a bit more enthusiasm searching for the Grail than he did digging up the Ark of the Covenant. The late Denholm Elliot also returns as Marcus Brody, the most lovable goof of a museum curator. Alison Doody is interesting as Elsa, the blonde historian whom Indy falls for; a twist involving her character and her actions towards the climax make her not as one-dimensional as she may initially appear. Julian Glover is the best of the main Indy villains, he's far more menacing than Paul Freeman's Belloq and less over-the-top but equally enjoyable as Amrish Pruri's Mola Ram. I also enjoyed Michael Byrne's performance as the Jones hating Colonel Vogel, who relishes in torturing Indy and his father. When it comes to pure delightfully nasty villainy, Byrne is even more fun to watch than Glover.Harrison Ford delivers his best Indy performance (maybe even his best performance, period) in this particular adventure. With the addition of Connery as his father, it reveals a personal side to Indy we haven't seen before. It's his rapport with Connery that separates this film from the rest of the genre. They craft an uncannily touching, funny, and genuine bond. That, coupled with the superb action and thrills, solidifies The Last Crusade as the pinnacle of high adventure summer entertainment.


                
One thing you gotta say for this series: it isn't boring.And "Last Crusade" has enough thrills, chills and spills to fill up a few dozen old Saturday afternoon serials.  Right down the line, everything about this film is superb.  Ford and Connery do the father and son routine superbly.  Rhys-Davies returns as Sallah, as does Elliott who plays Brody with as much befuddlement as Connery does his role.  And who can blame him? And the FX: there's so many you lose count.  But don't bother, just sit back, relax and get swept up in the moment.  You can't help yourself but to get into this "Crusade".Ten stars.  A classic Ford with a bright Sean.


                
Everything clicks in this action-packed cliffhanger. In his third (and what for years what thought to be his last) adventure, Indy is on the hunt for that ultimate treasure, the Holy Grail. Along the way he must contend with Nazis, a secret brotherhood and, of course, snakes. Sean Connery is a wonderful addition as Indy's father, and the chemistry between he and star Harrison Ford may just be one of the best in film history. The movie is a true rarity in that its attempts to outdo each preceding chase sequence succeed. Though children might have trouble interpreting the plot, this crusade is one people of all ages will enjoy.


                
"Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade" was supposed to be the final movie in the "Indiana Jones" series. At least that's what director Steven Spielberg and producer George Lucas said at the time this film hit theaters. But now they've said there will be a fourth "Indiana Jones" film. I really don't know if that's a good idea, because the "Last Crusade" was a fitting end to a great movie series. Harrison Ford returns for his third go around as swashbuckling hero Indiana Jones, this time accompanied by Sean Connery as Indy's father, Dr. Henry Jones. These two actors work beautifully together as they fight off the Nazis in search for the Holy Grail. Two actors from "Raiders of the Lost Ark" reprise their roles to great effect in "Last Crusade": Denholm Elliott as Marcus Brody and John Rhys-Davies as Sallah. Alison Doody is the heroine (good or bad?); Julian Glover is the villain; River Phoenix portrays a young Indy at the beginning to see how this character really got his start. "Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade" not only has great characters, it also has a decent story (taking place in 1938), plus exciting action scenes and special effects. It's better than the second film "Temple of Doom" and comes very close to topping the first film "Raiders". The "Indiana Jones" series should stay right where it is with the "Last Crusade" as the finale. Unless Spielberg, Lucas, and Ford can prove us wrong and make a really good fourth film in the series, we shall see. I loved all three movies in the "Indiana Jones" series. If the fourth film does gets made, I hope it'll be equally as good as the first three.**** (out of four)


                
Indiana Jones, the man, the legend, the whip. Everyone I know has seen at least one of the Indiana Jones movies and usually Raiders of the Lost Ark is their favorite. Now I loved Raiders of the Lost Ark, I also really loved Temple of Doom even though it gets a lot of hate for it's darkness. But The Last Crusade is my favorite of the trilogy and the strongest in my opinion. For goodness's sake we have Sean Connery as Indiana's father, how could we get any better than that? I love his way of saying "Junior!", always gets me in a good chuckle. Harrison Ford still has that same Indy charm that swoons the ladies, the adventure that captivates the guys and takes us on an incredible journey that we'll never forget.In 1938, Indiana finally recovers the Cross and donates it to his friend Marcus Brody's museum. Indiana is later taken to the residence of wealthy businessman Walter Donovan, who informs him that his father has vanished while searching for the Holy Grail, leaving behind partial directions from an incomplete stone tablet along with his diary containing his life's work on the Grail. Indiana and Marcus travel to Venice to investigate Henry's disappearance, meeting up with his colleague Elsa Schneider. Discovering catacombs beneath the library where Henry was last seen, Indiana and Elsa find the tomb of Sir Richard, a knight of the First Crusade who is buried with a complete version of the tablet. Indiana finds his father, only to be betrayed by Elsa, who reveals that she and Donovan are working with the Nazis to find the Grail. The Nazis steal the Grail diary and capture Marcus in Iskenderun, where he was sent with pages from the diary to seek the protection of Sallah. The Joneses manage to escape the castle and follow the Nazis to Berlin, where they recover the diary from Elsa. The Joneses, Marcus and Sallah arrive to find that the Nazis are unable to pass through three "trials" of God. After Indy's father gets shot, he doesn't have much of a choice as to pass the trials and choose the correct cup to save his father's life.Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade is one of my favorite movies of all time, it's just a flawless movie that will always be timeless. My future kids will watch these movies, they're just a lot of fun. Who said archeology can't be fun? This also has one of the most exciting chase scenes of all time, Indiana is trying to rescue his father and a friend from a Nazi tank and he is on a horse, a brutal fight ensues and was just so exciting to watch. I've watched this movie since I was a little girl and I still watch it with pleasure today, even with my friends we love watching Indiana and his adventures. They're an absolute blast and if you haven't seen Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade, please take the first opportunity you have to watch it, it's a great movie.10/10


                
This was an amazing movie, my personal favorite in the Indy series. Has good plot, a lot of humor, and some emotion too. not to mention plot twists


                
It's a perfect action-adventure, with elements of fantasy. The best part is the coming together of Sean Connery and Harrison Ford. One is a field agent and the other is strictly an academician.Some films are timeless. This is one of them. No modern adventure film comes close to this.
The second sequel to Raiders of the Lost Ark is an awesome, beautifully crafted film, and arguably the best of the Indiana Jones trilogy. The film is funnier, classier and far more laid back than the other two woody story lines, mostly because of the introduction of the excellent Sean Connery as Indy's eccentric father. Spielberg and Lucas get back on track after their off the rails first sequel in which to many peoples' horror had none of the Nazis or characters that made Raiders so unique, however, what Spielberg does to make this film a classic is the use of historical data with the swashbuckling storyline of adventure and action. Not to mention that this may well be the greatest feel good film ever made...


                
This movie had meant more to me than just about any other. Enjoy.


                
The Last Crusade is as fine as a finale as you'll ever have. The inclusion of Sean Connery as Indy's stern father makes the chemistry and quips perfect, with another Nazi bound adventure, this time for the Holy Grail. Yes, it may seem like a re-tread or re-hash of the first movie, but its keep the entertainment factor to the maximum, and the film's real star is the relationship between father and son. Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade is easily one of the best films of all time.
By the time of this writing, Blockbuster Inc. stores probably have all but vanished. Each with a sign that indicates that it's "just this store" that's closing. Sad, but that's how the story goes. Remember the Beta Video stores?When I was a kid, and we got our very first VCR – man, that was like the invention of television for those around my age – and I was able to save up enough money to buy two previously viewed movies. And get this: I had to actually pre-order previously viewed VCR tapes and they were incredibly $19.95 apiece!No matter; I really wanted both Lethal Weapon 2 and Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade. And bad.They were like gold for me. And they, along with a birthday gift of the original Batman, certainly earned their weight. I must've watched those three – my only movies – fifty times each.So, you can see: I am very familiar with Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade. Every inch, score number and frame. I love this movie.Later, I would contest and readily agree, Raiders of the Lost Ark is both a masterpiece and better film, but that doesn't deter on how<U+0085>much<U+0085>FUN this third installment is. And I'm not even mentioning the dreadful part two: Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom. In my mind, there's only Indy 1 and 3. You can even forget the (yawn) Young Indiana Jones (so-called) Adventures.Everything worked in this movie: suburb acting, hilarious and fun dialogue – mostly from the chemistry (or banter) of the two Jones's, extreme adventure, exciting action, fantastic characters, nostalgia – for fans of Raiders and great twists. And one of the best aspects is also a spoiler, – sorry, but if you haven't seen this 22-year-old epic, that's your fault – it has one of the best endings in the history of cinema: they actually ride off into the sunset. Brilliant and beautiful ending to the series!** - that is until they ruined it with the overkill: Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull. Best advice? Think of this as the actual LAST adventure and forget that wretched sequel.Heck, I can't really pinpoint many, if any, faults or flaws in Last Crusade. Pooossssibly, the over-long opening segment with the original "Young Indiana" played by the late and great River Phoenix? Even that was entertaining, fun and had an awesome score track. So, technically, it's not a setback, but perhaps needed a little more editing.Indiana Jones (Harrison Ford) is overwhelmed at school, but is more so when his father, Henry Jones, Sr. (Sean Connery – in, Literally one of his best on-screen performances) is listed as missing. Indy is tempted with the prospect of finding the mystical Holy Grail, even though he, himself, doesn't believe it. He does set off on a mission to find his father, but we all know, he'd equally like to find this "Lost Cup of Jesus Christ."He meets up with (what I grew up referring to as "the blonde") the beautiful and seductive dame Dr. Elsa Schneider (Alison Doody) and they quest to find daddy Jones and ward off Nazis. Not so much a spoiler, but he does rescue Henry Jones, Sr. and the race for the Grail is on between the Jones's and the Nazis.I left out a lot, but that's the basic, BASIC, premise. Seriously, if you have not seen this, or have even, see it (again, if you have) and learn to enjoy the film that frankly defines adventure. And a movie that captures the heart of the original, the atmosphere of the serials of before most of our times and how movies were really made: pre-CGI.On a related note: while some people are anti-3D, I am boarder-line anti-CGI. Sure it's a cheaper way of filmmaking, but I feel it's just that: cheap. Rarely will it be believable in my sight, for the most part it's all-but a cartoon and extremely laughable. That said, it can work<U+0085>sometimes. The recent 2010 Alice in Wonderland film is a perfect example of how it can really work and impress me. But, 80% of the time, it's just plain corny, distracting and again, CHEAP. My favorite action/adventures films are how they used to be made: with both inventiveness and heart. Like this one. Heck, I'll take a blue/green screen any day over a computer telling me what's "real" looking.But, I digress. I hesitate in calling this a masterpiece (in filmmaking, at least) but in my mind it is. And seeing that this is an opinion piece, I will go on record: it doesn't get much better than this.I remember some of the promotional shots on the late night shows from Harrison Ford, et al, that casually admitted Temple of Doom was a disaster – I AGREE – and this was a make-up movie. It sure the heck was! This was thee number one redemption movie of all time.Note to Hollywood: continue the redemption. Make movies like this, verses the CGI-laced, no-script films of the last decade or so. Remember what it's like to have this much fun in the movie going experience. I remember. I recall 1989 when this was released as my all-time favorite year in films released. Too bad, they haven't come close to '89 in 22 years.And Hollywood won't listen. I ask that you do. Support and watch movies like Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade. Remember what it was like to have fun in the theatre, what it was like when real special-effect crews did real work on the fields and not in the office and remember what it was like to be a kid again. See this movie!
The first time I saw this was 1989 at the cinema with my dad in 1989 I thought this as brilliant, a great ending to the trilogy. He was only 4o.
Tonight I'm in a different place. I am 40 with my kids watching it on the bbc at Xmas with me. The magic and adventure is still as good as back in 1989. Ok the effects are a little dated from time to time but in genaral it still holds up.Not as goods as raiders of the lost ark but a very good and entertaining to a saga.A true classic in every sly sense which has and will stand the test of time.


                
Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade is set two years after Raiders of the Lost Ark, and three years after Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom. Indie (Harrison Ford) and his father, Professor Henry Jones (Sean Connery), find themselves in a globe-trotting adventure to find the Holy Grail before the Nazis can get their hands on it.
The film is quite exciting and very funny. It had a much lighter tone and lower violence than the previous films. It's also funnier than the others.
The actors do a good job, especially Sean Connery. He provides such humour to both his role and the film. Many people criticise the Indie-Henry relationship in the film. I think it's the best damn relationship/interaction in the whole series!
The Last Crusade is in my opinion the equal of Raiders.


                
Movie Review: "Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade" (1989)Director Steven Spielberg exceeds himself with this Adventure story of a son namely "Indiana Jones" in search for his father "Henry Jones Sr.", portrayed to Harrison Ford match-making Sean Connery, at age-turning 58, never been better in wits, charms and moments of superior hands-on live-action scenes in 1950s screwball comedy timings, stretching sequences from an U.S. western scenario over boats chasing in the watered channels of Venice, Italy to Northern African, near-orient-splendoring "Alexandria" desert locations with Turkish-owned World-War-One tank vehicle's accelerating through open range territory, pursuing "Indiana Jones" getting his hands dirty in mud and dust to find the "Holy Grail" for a rich all-too-remote business man, performed visciously, double-cross-playing by actor Julian Glover, when Spielberg retrieves high-pitch excellence beat work from a perfecty-received Hollywood movie screenplay by Jeffrey Boam (1946-2000).Where "The Last Crusade" wins, is not only in the pre-flashing twelve minutes of an young reckless 15-year-old "Indy", given face by star-making struggled acting-youngster River Pheonix (1970-1993), already known for thought-provoking performance in Rob Reiner directed "Stand By Me" (1986), but decisively as well with the elders' humor-inhabited and ease-stroke supporting cast Denholm Elliott (1922-1992) and John Rhys-Davies as reprising Sallah from the original "Indy" story "Raiders of the Lost Ark" (1981), when the third installment of "Indiana Jones" hits U.S. American theatres on May 24th 1989 to a fulminate success with the audiences of just being the ultimate Hollywood adventure movie even after thirty years in perfect balance between state of the art visual effects, acting wheels of splendor throughout any scene, also-thanks to actress Alison Doody, who just matches out Harrison Ford himself with an already infamous "scream-squeeze-quote" in short-lived Berlin visits of the leading cast, when director Steven Spielberg manages in all the entertaining splendor to fill-in a not of Hitchcockian ultra-suspense hostility between "Holy Grail" racing contenders to a movie finish of career-defining "Indiana Jones" challenges between life and death before releasing the audience from a stranglehold of breathtaking thrills."Indiana Jones" finds his peak performance with "The Last Crusade", suitable for any entertainment-loving audience around the world; a movie that surprisingly remains an constant-classic through the ages from now Disney-owned production company Lucasfilm Ltd with George Lucas & Frank Marshall executive producing to let this motion picture become one of Spielberg's greatest achievements in filmmaking.Copyright 2018 Cinemajesty Entertainments LLC


                
Classic adventure story by Steven Spielberg. 10 out of 10. Pure Gold. Spielberg made the mold with this bristling ruptuous vivacious excuberunt quest for the wholy grail.Joyous from beginning to end. Victorious. And hilarously funny. Everything, young or old, could wish for in an adventure story."The Last Crusade" is straightforward simple but made so incredibly well: the acting is superb, the stunts are over the top, the story is what childdreams are made of, the photography is gorgeous, the soundtrack by John Willliams is heavenly.The Last Crusade has stood the test of time: it is to this very day by far one of the very best adventure stories ever made!


                
There are loads of "action-adventure" films out there. There are just a select few that combine history and intrigue. Then there are the greats - the ones that combine all of the above, and Nazi bad-guys. And they are called the Indiana Jones Trilogy. Raiders of the Lost Ark is a fantastic film. Temple of Doom is disappointing at best (although there are some great comedic moments - it just isn't in line with the other two films). The best, in my opinion, is Last Crusade. It isn't just that Harrison Ford and Sean Connery have such excellent on-screen chemistry as father and son. Or that the comedy bits are so fun. Nor the brilliant ending... No - what makes it so fantastic is that no film made since has even come close to being as good as this film in any respect. It is the pinnacle of "scholarly" action-adventure films. Sorry "National Treasure" and "Sahara" - you just don't stack up. "DiVinci Code" won't either. Take my advice - Netflix the Indiana Jones Trilogy and see for yourself.


                
Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade was an action packed, adventurous movie. The character costumes and the settings for the scenes were all appropriate for the 1930's. Early on in the movie, Henry "Indiana" Jones Jr., played by Harrison Ford, learns from Walter Donovan that his father Henry Jones, played by Sean Connery, has gone missing while searching for the Grail. One day, Indy receives in the mail his father's diary of all his research and soon realizes that he would not send this to Indy unless something was wrong. The theme throughout this movie shows how a father and sons relationships can be so strong with one mission in common; finding the Holy Grail. Another film that demonstrates a father son's relationship is Field of Dreams starring Kevin Costner. Indy and a local museum owner Marcus Brody, played by Denholm Elliott, travel to Venice in search of Henry. After countless fights, battles, and struggles, Indy is reunited with his father. One thing that I found frustrating with this movie was that the action scenes were so loud and was constantly having to turn the TV down. When it was a calm scene with just the characters talking, I could barely hear them and had to turn the TV back up. This may have been just my version on the movie but I was constantly turning the volume up and down. Indy is told before he leaves for Venice not to trust anyone and learns that very quickly. Indy and his father have to fight to find the Grail themselves with a small amount of help from a few pals. They soon find the temple that holds the Grail after following Henry's clues and research from his diary. As they enter the temple, they find Donovan and Dr. Schneider, who were supposed to be working with Henry as a team to find the Grail. Donovan uses Indy as a chance to get the Grail for himself and use it for his immortality. Donovan shoots Henry and tells Indy that the only way to save his father is to go through the traps and find the Grail. Knowing that his father's diary gave tips and keys to defeat the traps, Indy makes his way through the traps and reaches the Grail chamber successfully. He must choose wisely among a room filled of ancient artifacts as there is only one correct cup. Dr. Schneider chooses one of the cups and gives it to Donovan, fills it with water, and drinks from this ancient cup and soon ages to death. Indy finds the correct one and takes it to his father. Indy pours the water on Henry's wounds and makes him drink some of the water. Henry's wounds are healed. After a quake breaks out, the Grail is lost in a crack and Henry insists on leaving it behind. Indy, Henry and his other two pals ride off into the sunset.Overall, this was a very good movie and I would highly recommend it to everyone. I honestly didn't think I was going to like it and have never seen any of the Indiana Jones. I am glad that I watched this movie. Through the power and importance of a father and a son's bond and love, anything can be accomplished and by sticking together through hard times, it builds a relationship and can make it stronger.
The third part of the Indiana Jones series, The Last Crusade, is a wonderful Jones film. It has everything. It has excitement, humor, and lots of fun. Harrison Ford returns as Indiana Jones. This time, he must go on a search for his father, who was kidnapped looking for a passage way in a library in Venice. For years, Jones's father(Sean Connery) has kept a grail diary, and has gone looking for the Holy Grail. Jones teams up with his friend Marcus(Denholm Elliot)and Elsa(Allison Doody) to find his father. But once he finds his father, other things start to happen. Marcus is kidnapped and people aren't who they seem. Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade is a fantastic experience. It's in second place for the Indiana Jones films. The Indiana Jones films are wonderful experiences. Like the original ,which, like this one, is one of my favorites, it mixes Adventure, religion, and, well, not quite romance all in one film. Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade is an awesome film that doesn't disappoint. It's inventive, smart, entertaining, fun, and funny. I loved Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade very much.
Third Times A Charm!! 19 December 2005 Author:littlehammer16787 from TexasA great Indy prequel that is prehaps second best.Brave adventurer Indiana Jones teams up with his father and go after the holy grail.Ford is gold as always playing fearless hero Indiana Jones.Sean Connery is his bookish, cantankerous father Henry Jones.Denholm Elliott portrays zany,but highly intelligent Marcus Brody.Davies returns as Indy's loyal,virtuous Egyptian friend Sallah. Allison Doody plays the double-edged role of the devious female villain Elsa Schneider.Julian Glover plays the corrupt art dealer Walter Donovan. A truly great prequel that delivers another ancient,religious discovery thriller.


                
Harrison Ford has become one of my favorite actors, and this is yet another movie where he shines. In this third (and possibly final) installment in the Indiana Jones series, Jones (Ford) has been invited to an associates house to translate an ancient tablet. When he translates it, he finds that it is a key to finding the holy grail; that's when he learns that his father (Sean Connery) has already begun the search. Throughout his quest to find his father, and then the grail, Jones encounters unforgettable villains, evil Nazis, and lovable allies, and when you add in lots of adventure, great dialogue, and the bonding between Indie and his dad, you have one of the greatest adventure movies of all time. I would highly recommend it to anyone who has seen Raiders of the Lost Ark, or anyone who loves a great adventure movie with a strong plot, or for anyone who just loves Harrsion Ford.10 out of 10.


                
Steven Spielberg did it again, Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade is not only the Best Indiana Jones film, it's also one of the best films ever made. Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade stars Harrison Ford and Sean Connery (don't worry I'll get to Sean Connery later) These two were casted perfectly, if you don't know who they are you might think that they are father and son, that's how good the chemistry is between them. The acting is brilliant in the film, and usually Indy would be the scene stealer like the first two, but no Indy's father Henry Jones steals every scene that they are in, Sean Connery did a spectacular performance, literally his second best Performance of his career (right behind James Bond of Course), he is hilarious resourceful and truthfully he deserved an Oscar Nomination for his performance in this film it's that good. The Villain in this film Walter Donovan is the second best Villain in the Trilogy (not counting Kingdom of the Crystal Skull) right behind Rene Belloq, and that is awesome, the story in Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade is incredible, and finally the soundtrack is amazing. Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade is not Only the Best Indiana Jones film, but one of my Favorite films of all time #6 to be precise. If you haven't seen The Last Crusade yet, go watch it NOW!!!!+ Great Acting+ Amazing Story+ Sean Connery+ Harrison Ford's and Sean Connery's chemistry as Father and Son+ Great Villain+ Awesome Rewatchability+ Amazing Intro+ Amazing Outro+ Great Soundtrack+ CompellingFinal Score 10/10 Legendary!!! Epic Win :)
In his third film, Indiana Jones continues to hunt down artifacts and fight bad guys. This flick easily has as much action as the last outings, with plenty of fights and chases to entertain. The setpieces are quite ambitious as Indy outruns villains on a moving train, infiltrates a castle, and takes on a tank on horseback, among other brilliant sequences. And the comedy is probably the best in this film; the dialogue and interplay between characters are often quite witty.The story for this is strong and ambitious as Indy goes out to find the holiest artifact of them all: the Holy Grail. The story is tightly-paced and well planned-out as mysteries unravel and turncoats are revealed as the adventure presses on. But what really propels this story to greatness are the characters; they receive their strongest treatment here as Indy struggles to reconcile things with his dad (not to mention, the opening flashback reveals a lot about their characters).The film is still competently made, with quality photography. Acting is great; Harrison Ford is still perfect as the main hero, Sean Connery is perfectly cast as Indy's father, Alison Doody is appealing, John Rhys-Davies is still the man, Julian Glover is decent as the villain, and River Phoenix was perfect in his role. Writing is good, production value is high, and the music is awesome.Recommended! 5/5 (Entertainment: Very Good | Story: Perfect | Film: Perfect)


                
A+ The Indiana Jones original trilogy, before it became an anthology with its blundered fourth film, is one of the rare treats in cinema. Here you have a great setup, and it is followed thru for the vast majority of the sequels. In saying so I might as well mention that in my opinion the most perfect trilogies in all of movie history are the Toy Story films, the original Star Wars, and my beloved Evil Dead series. It's debatable whether one likes "Return of the Jedi", "Temple of Doom", or "Army of Darkness", but either way none of those films caused the respective series to crash and burn like "Batman Forever"."The Last Crusade" is an epic success on so many levels it could very well be the best of all three. First off, you get to see Indiana Jones as a kid which was just an awesome sequence. Secondly, it's such an incredibly strong cast. Harrison ford and Sean Connery play off each other so well the father-son concept is both comedic yet emotional. I just never tire of their scenes together. Returning are both Denholm Elliott as Marcus Brody and John Rhys Davies as Sallah, contributing nicely. Alison Doody may be my favorite actress of the three. Karen Allen was pretty awesome, I never really cared for Kate Capshaw, but Doody has a sexy charm to her that appeals the most to me because she pulls of the role of the villainess so well. The joke of how promiscuous she is never gets old. Michael Byrne was pretty menacing, and I really liked the character played by Kevork Malikyan. After all the titular quote is uttered by him.The story is well written, just like the others paying homage to the 30s serial heroes. It's often sophisticated yet always fun, and the awe-inspiring action scenes are some of the best out of frankly all four. The score by John Williams is amazing, adding to the mystic quite nicely. "The Last Crusade" is arguably one of Steven Spielberg's and George Lucas' best works.


                
I thought the film was great. It really blew me away! It is just a bit like the first film. I loved every bit of this film. I thought when Indy had to fight off the Nazis again, I was like hell yeah! I just like to see bad guys get their butts kicked by good guys. I loved every bit of this film, especially all of the scenes with Indy and his dad in them. I thought that it seemed like Indy and his dad were like younger to me when they were fighting and arguing over something. I hope there is an Indy 4 film! I just hope that Indy's dad isn't in it. If your going to see these films, don't walk run to see it because these films are popular and will be remembered throughout the years to come.
