When RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK was released, my high school buddy and I were the first one in line. We had no idea what the film was about but we wanted to see something fun and spectacular. Well, we weren't disappointed. I remember this experience fondly.So when I saw INDIANA JONES AND THE LAST CRUSADE when it was released at the movies, I couldn't believe how terrible and pathetic it was from beginning (trite flashback to Indy's youth) to miserable end (sexist death of the sole female character in the whole film).Let's start with the beginning. Then again, maybe not. River Phoenix was totally miscast as the young Indiana Jones. He just doesn't look like he's having fun at all. And to have Indy go through a number of incidents that took place at one time that explains Indy's fear of snakes, his hat, his whip, etc, was so bleeding obvious and badly conceived that I thought it was a parody. But it's not. It's played straight. After seeing that beginning, I knew I was going to suffer much more. And suffer, I did.Practically every aspect of what made the first film so fun and memorable was ruined by the terrible screenplay by Jeffrey Boam. The film is just a collection of crude in-jokes, a boat-load of silly coincidences, badly conceived action scenes (most of them echoing and relying on those from the first film), a story filled with so many mistakes and gargantuan plot-holes, sprinkled with forced comedy bits and all wrapped up in a neat package that made Paramount happy. The fact is, this was a stinker, and they knew it. The series, only after three movies, had already ran out of steam and it ended after this one. Everything felt forced in LAST CRUSADE. Harrison Ford looked bored. Like Phoenix, Sean Connery was miscast as Indy's father. The only reason they hired Connery was to make a link with the Indy series and the James Bond series. Nothing else. Connery added nothing to the series. But the worst aspect of this turkey was its only female character. In the first Indiana Jones, Marion was an equal to Indy. She was spunky, tough and cute. In LAST CRUSADE, Alison Doody plays Elsa, an unpleasant blond NAZI bitch who dies a miserable death at the end. Pretty sad when you think about it.The action throughout the movie was as compelling as a Tom & Jerry cartoon. Case in point, when Connery scares the birds on the beach and makes them fly directly in front of a plane, in order to bring the plane down. Not only is this scene stupid but it's really crass re: the birds' welfare. The coincidences were so moronic and such groaners (Indy bumping into Hitler) that I've never done so much eye rolling during the viewing of of a single film. Had this been the first Indiana Jones film, it would have flopped because it relies so much on RAIDERS' coat tails that if you haven't seen the first one, it wouldn't make much sense. After the bad experience that was TEMPLE OF DOOM, INDIANA JONES & THE LAST CRUSADE was the last straw and my enthusiasm for this "series" completely evaporated. That was 18 years ago. Now I hear they're doing an Indy 4. They shouldn't bother with it. Put a fork in it. It's done.
Indiana Jones's movies are considered classics from some people but personally I'm not so sure. The character is iconic but the movies them selves I don't think they can challenge our times...I saw this back in 1989 and I generally liked it. Especially the presence of Sean Connery as the father of Indiana Jones. I saw it again recently and it looked too cartoon-ish for my liking.The plot is simple and so are the riddles which took ...40 years to be solved in the search of the holly grail. A boy scout kid could have solved them with ease.Is it entertaining? Well I guess, but maybe in a nostalgic way. It was a commercial success too, but more because of the hype. What I know is that I stopped watching it halfway something that I wont watching a timeless classic movie....


                
An embarrassingly bad conclusion to the Indiana Jones trilogy.  The over-the-top silliness makes it impossible to really get into the story.  A 500 year old knight?  Give me a break!  This was even worse than Temple of Doom, and that's saying a lot!


                
Being a fan of the first film and finding the second installment an enjoyable escapade I had high hopes for the third film in the trilogy.Sadly, 'Last Crusade' falls short in so many ways I could not even bring myself to enjoy it.Tedious is not the word to describe such an experience. There wasn't a single character in the whole movie that expressed any appeal to me, including Indy.The film, being far too long and short of the usual humour found in the previous two films ends up being a mediocre adventure flick which manages to lose the magic of the Indiana Jones legacy.2/10


                
While not nearly so bad as Temple of Doom (which showed that the real genius of Raiders of the Lost Ark was Philip Kaufman and/or Lawrence Kasdan, not Spielberg, much as Batman Returns showed that the real genius of Batman was Sam Hamm, not Tim Burton), this film just drips ignorance. To give just one example, the name "Iehovah" (or "Jehovah") for God arose as a confusion in the Renaissance; Knights Templar would not have made this mistake because they predated it, and God would not have made this mistake because He doesn't get confused -- especially not about His own name! Now, such things may seem like mere pedantry to those unfamiliar with the history of the Grail myths and so forth, but the fact is that the real story of the Templars is much more fascinating than the weak plot of this movie, and decent pulp fantasy informed by the real story would have been just awesome. A waste of very fine actors and of wonderful special effects.


                
If you've seen the previous 2 movies, you've seen better versions of this. Whatever parts of this that aren't recycled from "Raiders", are just bad comedy. I'm talking bad comedy on par with "The Force Awakens". This obvious, no punch line, misunderstanding humor that I despise. In fact, a lot of this reminds me of the dumpster fire known as "The Force Awakens". Reused plot points, wasted cast, overdone action scenes that all feel the same, terrible humor, and a complete waste of time. The only thing keeping me from giving this a 1 is the scene where Indy accidentally gets Hitler's autograph. They made Sean Connery annoying, Marcus is annoying, the plot's predictable, the action scenes have been done better in previous movies, and the villains are the exact same as "Raiders". What's the point of having 3 movies when all of them are the same and only connected by references? If it was a connected trilogy like Star Wars, then I could get behind it, but they're all episodic. Except now you get to see how Indy got his hat. Thanks for that Steve and George. At least "Temple of Doom" had good action sequences and a good balance of comedy. At least "Raiders" had the bad guy's faces melting off. This has boring action scenes that have been done a million times, terrible comedy, and Hitler's autograph.
