The addition of Sean Connery was presumably intended to add depth to Indy's character. It really just led to tedious "humorous" interplay between the two, generally dragging the plot to a thudding stop. This, plus Alison Doody - easily the least distinguished leading lady of the series - and an incoherent plot that veers all over Europe and the Middle East with little dramatic gain, leaves a forgettable film. "Raiders" evokes images of 1930s and '40s-era adventure films - only with better production values. "Temple of Doom" is like a carnival ride - even to the point of including a runaway mine train! "Last Crusade"? Ultimately forgettable.


                
I loved the first two films of the Indiana Jones trilogy and was extremely disappointed with this one when it first came out, for several reasons. First of all, the opening is one of the most contrived and unbelievable things I've ever seen.  It's as if the producers said, "Okay, we need a way for young I.J. to find his hat, his whip, the scar on his chin, the way he dresses, his fear of snakes, and his search for adventure all in ten minutes!"Some of the special effects in this film are horrible--there is no explanation for the pathetic giant B-movie snake that opens its mouth and attacks young Indy.  Sometimes the camera angles aren't wide enough, either. The fake-looking rhino that rams it's horn into the roof is shot way too close.  This is also true of some of the scenes inside the tank, later. The angles are so tight you can only get a  vague idea of what's going on.In accordance with the first two films, I don't buy the relationship with Indy and his father.  He never mentions his father in the other films (because the writers hadn't thought of him yet) and in "Raiders," Indy mentions his mother to Marcus.  It is stated in this movie that she died while Indy was young.  Indy's character seems slightly different in this movie as opposed to the other films.  Marcus Brody, an intelligent and interesting (although short on screen time) character in "Raiders" is reduced to a goof-ball who clowns around and gets into trouble for humor's sake.My biggest complaint with "Last Crusade" is its lack of punch as a supposed thrill-packed adventure film.  It is extremely lacking in almost every aspect.  Every action scene is over almost as quickly as it had started. Indy and his father get out of everything way too easily, whether it be landing a plane, boat chases, correctly selecting the right grail, or escaping Nazi-war planes.  The tank battle sequence is the most impressive of the movie, although it is lackluster compared to anything in "Raiders" or "Temple of Doom."  Vogel makes a pretty nasty Nazi, but the rest of the villains are boring.  Donovan is just another traitorous man in a suit, strait out of a television murder mystery.  Ilsa isn't very vicious as a villain, or charismatic as a love interest.  Kazim just spouts prophecies at Indy on the brink of death.  Where are great villains like Belloq, Toht, or Mola Ram when you need them?The movie does insult your intelligence more than the other two.  For example, why does Vogel fire a pistol at Indy while he's inside a TANK? Why does Donovan drink from the first grail before anyone else does, without testing it on anyone first, and why does he take Ilsa's word?  "Shooting ME won't get you anywhere," Indy contrivedly tells Donovan, giving the villain the opportunity to shoot his father.  While both of the first films had magic and supernatural elements, the scene at the end with the 1000 year old crusader really pushes it.I recently watched this film with a close friend, a fan of the first two who hadn't seen "Crusade" yet.  Halfway through it, he turned to me and said, "Let's watch one of the other ones."  That would have been a good idea.


                
Basically this is a remake of "Raiders Of The Lost Ark": Indiana Jones must beat the Nazis to obtaining the holy relic. The main differences are a lack of strong villains, and the inclusion of Indy's father in the story. Unfortunately Sean Connery and Harrison Ford are not convincing as father and son.The original film was an exciting roller-coaster ride, a remake of 1930's- style exotic adventures. This is the same without the excitement, or any good characters. Even the sword fight which takes place here to make up for the lack of one in the original (because rumor has it that Harrison Ford was too ill at the time to perform it) is tired and unexciting, as is the rest of the movie.The only good thing I can say about it is that it was better than the hideous "Temple Of Doom"-but that is a weak compliment indeed.
Why this unrealistic poorly done movie is in the top 250, I'll never know. Sean Connery is an annoying distraction and the ending is the worst. There is a reason why this and Temple of Doom are hardly ever televised.  They are both a disgrace to the awesome Raiders.  Awful.


                
It took me over two weeks to finish watching the video of this childish, vaudevillian movie. Having enjoyed immensely Raiders of the Lost Ark, I came to viewing this with great expectations especially with the added attraction of Sean Connery. Oh boy, what a disappointment! Every situation - and the entire film comes across as a series of set sketches - is so childish, bereft of any reality whatsoever. "Just camp it up" must have been the advice from the director. Any chance of building tension or excitement is thwarted by the simplistic attempts at humour.What an anti-climax this movie proved to be. At no stage either did the father/son relationship between Connery and Harrison seem remotely credible.Give this very silly movie a wide berth.


                
As mentioned by other reviewers, this movie is just a money-making machine, milking Indy's fans. It follow step by step the paper-thin plot of the first adventure, with the nasty Nazis as main enemies and a mythical, religious relic as the object of a frantic search.However, this installment is further ruined by the presence of Sean Connery as Indy's dad. Connery is a fine actor and I guess the idea was to have a dynamic duo of attractive actors. Unfortunately, dad and son spend most of their time bickering and sounding silly.The final indignity is the disappearance of the only strong female character - the spunky Marion - replaced by a blonde bimbo who cannot act and seems to be in the cast only to provide minimal sexual friction.The search is the usual jumping from place to place, around the world, while punching and getting punched by the Nazis in overlong scenes - inclusive of the compulsory chase and the overbearing musical score.


                
