"Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade" was the third and final instalment in the original Indiana Jones trilogy. Whereas "Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom" was a prequel to "Raiders of the Lost Ark", "Last Crusade" is a true sequel. Apart from an opening scene relating an adventure of the teenage Indy as a Boy Scout in 1912, the action takes place in 1938, two years after "Raiders". (In this opening scene we learn how the hero got his nickname; Indiana is not, as I had always assumed, his home state, but a name borrowed from his pet dog).Whereas "Raiders" was a great commercial and critical success, "Temple of Doom" received considerable criticism, both on account of its dark, gloomy atmosphere and its racist treatment of Indian characters. Steven Spielberg, therefore, was determined to make the third film lighter in tone, closer in spirit to "Raiders". Once again the villains are the Nazis, once again the plot involves the search for a legendary relic with mystical powers (in this case the Holy Grail which caused such excitement among King Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table) and once again much of the action takes place in the Middle East. (This must be the only Hollywood film ever to be set- ostensibly- in the short-lived Republic of Hatay, formerly part of French Syria and today part of southern Turkey, which enjoyed a brief independence for several months in 1938/9. Most of the "Hatay" scenes, however, were shot in Spain, with the ruins of Petra, actually in Jordan, standing in for the temple in which the Grail is housed).The film also introduces us to Indy's father, Henry Jones, Sr. The James Bond films were undoubtedly one of the inspirations for this franchise, and it was possibly in their homage that Sean Connery was cast as the elder Jones, even though he is only twelve years older than Harrison Ford. (That speedboat chase along the Venetian canals also seems to be homage to Bond). Like his son, Henry senior is an academic archaeologist and has gone missing while seeking the Holy Grail. Indy believes that his father is in danger and sets out to find him, a quest that will take him to Venice, Germany and ultimately Hatay. The main female character is Henry's colleague, Dr. Elsa Schneider, a glamorous Austrian blonde whose loyalties are ambiguous.There is more stress on character development here than in other episodes of the franchise, with emphasis being placed on the father-son relationship. The film is not just about the search for the physical Holy Grail. Even in the Arthurian legend the Grail was as much a symbol as a physical object, and today the phrase "holy grail" is used metaphorically for anything which is desirable and much sought-after. The film is also about Indiana's search for his lost father and their efforts to re-establish a relationship which in the past has often been strained- the story's metaphorical Holy Grail. Ford and Connery are both good at bringing out this aspect of the story. There are also good contributions from Denholm Elliott as Indiana's bumbling colleague Marcus Brody and Alison Doody as the treacherous, seductively sinister Elsa.After the awful "Temple of Doom", "Last Crusade" represents a welcome return to form, both for Spielberg and for Ford, who seemed ill at ease in the earlier film but here is back to his old ebullient self. The film contains a better balance of suspense and humour than did its predecessor, much of the humour being at the expense of the hapless Marcus. There are some excellent action scenes, such as the train sequence in the opening scene, the escape from the Zeppelin and the tank chase though the desert. "Last Crusade" is a very enjoyable adventure film in the same tradition as "Raiders". 7/10


                
If it wasn't for dumb luck, Indian Jones would have no luck. Indiana, played by Harrison Ford, seems to always end up in the wrong place at the right time. The same is true of the previous 2 installments of this trilogy, we don't talk about the 4th Indiana Jones. The editing in the film is spot on along with the use of the camera to signal the end of a scene and the movie to the next. As is the tradition in all of the films in the trilogy during times of travel a map is used and the stops highlighted with the flight path and the change of direction. This serves well to set the tone that the film will take place in some far way place. I believe that the Indiana Jones trilogy served well to be recreated in the new century as "National Treasure". The plot and the character development is the same, right down to the dad who's just not as quick as the main character.
Overall, the film was good. It's a predicable story that is a good blend of fact and fiction. It's the best kind of story, one that blends the fiction elements with the fact and makes it hard to tell the difference.


                
1st watched 4/6/2002 - 7 out of 10(Dir-Steven Spielberg): Fun action and witty dialogue abound in this final(we think...) episode in the Indiana Jones three-some.  What this movie lacked as far as special effects it didn't lack in the witty charm brought to the screen by the pairing of Connery & Ford.  From the very beginning to the end it's hard to keep your eyes of the screen following these outrageous adventures and that's the allure of this series.  This film actually tried to put some serious spiritiual overtones into the storyline by searching for the Holy Grail(the cup that Jesus drank from at the last supper) and the myth that it would give everlasting life to those who drank from it.  There are the usual puzzles and hoops that Indiana has to go through to finish this journey(which make no sense from a realistic perspective), but it's obvious from the very beginning that we're watching an un-realistic hero in a movie and that's okay.  All in all this one is a fun ride for the movie-goer which is the ultimate purpose in this one by the ever-entertaining Steven Spielberg.


                
Summer 1989. I was 8 years old. I only managed 2 movies that summer, one being Ghostbusters 2 (which blew my eager young mind at the time) and Last Crusade (which also blew my mind). I don't think I could have asked for two bigger blockbusters to choose from. Having been a rabid child fan of Raiders and Temple of Doom all things Indy were fresh in my mind and even as an 8-year-old I truly 'got' Last Crusade.Set 2 years after Raiders, and 3 years after Temple of Doom, Last Crusade opens with a flashback to Indy's youth and an aggravating cameo by River Phoenix in the role. His anachronistic hair, androgynous physiognomy, and that fact that he looks absolutely nothing like Harrison Ford take me out of the film every time, and spoils the long opening scene for me. The opening does nothing apart from establish all of Indy's trademarks (the hat, the whip, the scar, the fear of snakes), which he apparently all got within five minutes. Luckily the film soon jumps forward to 1938 and the opening quickly is forgotten about as shady antique collector Walter Donovan encourages Indy to go after the Holy Grail.With Der Fuhrer also after the sacred chalice Indy must once again face off against the despicable Nazis, rescue his bumbling father (Sean Connery, having the time of his life), and keep one step ahead of Donovan with Sallah and Brody tagging along.There is loads of inventive, exciting action in many exotic, breath-taking locations and all of it is immaculately photographed by Douglas Slocombe in lovely anamorphic Panavision. Even with today's many advancements in movie camera technology you'll rarely see a film as beautifully photographed as this. All very high-key, mind you, the polar opposite of the dark, subterranean Temple of Doom.Now, herein lies my only gripe with Last Crusade (other than River Phoenix) is the fact that it's just too light-hearted. Spielberg expressed regret over the fact that he made Temple of Doom very dark and mean-spirited (which I don't agree with as it is my personal favorite) so he compensated by making Last Crusade more cheerful and bright. It's not an annoying shift in tone, but it could have been balanced out with a bit more blood and gore.Last Crusade makes the perfect end to the real Indiana Jones trilogy. Spielberg really should have left it as our hero, his dad, and his two sidekicks rode off into the sunset. How can you top that? How can you come back from that? But 19 years later he tarnished many reputations and spoiled many memories with the deeply, DEEPLY misjudged Kingdom of the Crystal Skull.It was an amazing film to see as a child, and it's a shame that kids these days are not exposed to anything as good. If you can turn a blind eye to River Phoenix you will surely have a great time with Last Crusade. It's not the Snake Car on the train he ought to worry about, it's the Viper Room on Sunset Boulevard.


                
The third in a series of Indiana Jones films, INDIANA JONES AND THE LAST CRUSADE is a testament to the team of Harrison Ford and Sean Connery who provide us with two hours of entertainment on a grand scale, thanks to some fine direction from Steven Spielberg and a rollicking good script. The duo exchange some lively banter in a believable way, bringing more depth to both characters and making us care more about their adventures.Keeping the Holy Grail out of the clutches of the Nazis is what makes the story click from the start, with adventures that range from sea to desert to majestic mountain hideaways, all while Indy and his dad are hotly pursued by the Nazis anxious to get their hands on the cup that promises immortality.A good supporting cast is on hand to give the story all the excitement it generates, including Denholm Elliot as a clueless professor and Alison Doody as an adventuress who seems to be helping the Nazis but turns against them at a crucial moment until her own greed works against her fate.All of it is filmed at a breathtaking pace, never stopping long enough to make you dwell on flaws in the logic of Indy's cliffhanging escapes and fights with Nazis aboard tanks in the desert. But aside from action, the script provides plenty of insight into the relationship between father and son, peppered with some witty dialog.All ages should enjoy this one, about as good as the original Indy film with the addition of Sean Connery providing bits of warmth and humor as dad to the world's most beloved archaeologist.


                
Given that action and adventure is the series' selling point, you can expect the thrills and wondrous delight of discovery delivered in spades. The action scenes are terrific (and matched well with John Williams' rousing, memorable score, also the best of the trilogy), the best being a fantastic ten-minute chase sequence on board (and in) a tank, possibly the best action sequence of Spielberg's career. I also loved the motorcycle chase and the Zeppelin setpiece, where the heroes go about dispatching of two enemy fighters in unexpected, but quite hilarious, fashion. The climax, complete with frightening booby traps, is a suspenseful venture into the unknown.The Last Crusade is far more humor-oriented than its predecessors, but part of the movie's effectiveness is that it's able to deliver belly laughs without defusing the tension during the action sequences. Some of the jokes are just brilliant, including one with Indy armed with a Luger in confrontation with a trio of Nazis on board a tank that's even funnier than the swordsman scene in Raiders (well, to me, at least).The supporting cast is all-around superb; John Rhys-Davies is back as Sallah, wonderful as ever and displaying a bit more enthusiasm searching for the Grail than he did digging up the Ark of the Covenant. The late Denholm Elliot also returns as Marcus Brody, the most lovable goof of a museum curator. Alison Doody is interesting as Elsa, the blonde historian whom Indy falls for; a twist involving her character and her actions towards the climax make her not as one-dimensional as she may initially appear. Julian Glover is the best of the main Indy villains, he's far more menacing than Paul Freeman's Belloq and less over-the-top but equally enjoyable as Amrish Pruri's Mola Ram. I also enjoyed Michael Byrne's performance as the Jones hating Colonel Vogel, who relishes in torturing Indy and his father. When it comes to pure delightfully nasty villainy, Byrne is even more fun to watch than Glover.


                
How often does a third entry to an American produced English language franchise, often worked to spin money irregardless of the critical consensus, sag and just generally disappoint? It is, in that case, a great credit to the team behind this, the third Indiana Jones film of 1989 entitled "The Last Crusade", and the fact they done what they've done in creating something as fun and as refreshing as what we've got. We've all been here before, what with the then-latest hijinks preceded by something like four hours of romping; globe trotting; intermittent Nazi-thwarting period-set archaeological causality, but Spielberg doesn't just tread ground: he offers fresh character dynamics; addresses some rather personal issues that affect those caught up in the film's adventure and does his utmost to include action sequences that are every bit as exciting as what preceded them without ever necessarily mirroring them. Where other franchises have in the past faltered through repetition by this stage, Spielberg's film offers fresh wit and flair towards what is essentially the same theme park ride gone again.After the grim fatuity of 1984's Temple of Doom, The Last Crusade slots into a more carefree and relaxed approach to the "Jones" material by initially harking back to the man's youth for the opening in a dusty 1912 Utah. In doing so, the messy and misjudged series of bleak horror-shows that was the second entry are somewhat banished and there is this sense of the franchise thus reverting back to all the fun and frolics imbued within that of Raiders of the Lost Ark. The film makes a point to get across the tenaciousness and professionalism of Jones, covering the very first time the character happened upon the need for such characteristics with a delightful array of episodes set aboard a freight train hoarding varying circus acts. He looses a piece of treasure in '12, but gets it back again aboard a large ship on stormy waters in '38 - establishing his skills in combat in the process and how he doesn't necessarily let a loose end pass him by: he's willing to go to the ends of the Earth, it seems, if it means getting that 'just' cause settled.Back home in the American present, life as a university lecturer is draining and the students are demanding. He stands in his class room understating his profession, telling his class that the majority of the pastime is the reading of books and that romanticism has no place in the subject, citing that "X never, ever marks the spot". After a series of loosely connected events, Jones is bumped back onto the track spawning adventure and danger thus essentially allowing him to undertake a quest which will go some way to quell these negative emotions through which he expresses about his living. In wanting to get away from his students, there is an opportunity to rekindle that 'spark' and this lies with taking up the challenge to go after The Holy Grail, within which the blood of Chirst was captured as he lay there on the cross at his crucifixion: a goal outlined to him by American Walter Donovan (Glover). The decision teeters over from being a professional one to a personal one when it's revealed his father, Sean Connery's Henry, was swiped by some rivals gunning for the Grail given his credentials in the Grail's makeup and ancient history.Things begin in Venice where splashes of exposition and a good boat chase give way to some suspicions about who's on whose side when elegant German Elsa Schneider (Doody) pops up and seems very keen to guide Indiana through the initial mire. Around about this time, we're provided with a trademark series 'bit' involving rats and human-beings in a tight, centuries old underground place one cannot escape from. We've had bugs; spiders and snakes in the previous films: rats ought to do it this time. Charging across Europe to Austria, father Henry joins the quest and makes for what is probably the best sidekick so far; blowing the likes of the previous entry's Capshaw character and Short Round out of the water and probably topping Allen's from the first. Throughout, the Jones' aren't really on speaking terms and both Ford and Connery bounce off one another really well as these two scholars of archaeology acting as one another's foils: Henry being a man of a more refined and old fashioned sort therein the pastime but clashing head on with Indiana's serial-action hero approach to things.Fleeting substance between the two of them begins in the form of a brief moment on an airship when some truths from years ago rear up, and how Henry was seemingly more in love with his finding of the grail than of his own family. Spielberg's insistence on shooting Connery in the way that he does during the 1912 prologue goes some way to emphasise his anonymity in Indiana's life at that specific time; and without wanting to give anything away, the key denouement in their relationship happens much later on when Henry is forced into uttering the words "let it go...." at a crucial time when the decision between putting family before what has since been revealed as a pipe dream plays out. The film is a winner, a franchise entry that sticks in the mind thanks largely to its central pairing; its humour; its action sequences and its off-piste scenes such as the one at a Nazi rally when a certain man's autograph is captured. In a sense, this is probably better than Raiders; the film cracks along at the same sort of pace but there just seems to be more stuff going on here with the capability of leaving a big grin on your face and not have you feel too bad about it. Where Spielberg has garnered praise in the past for his romping, B-movie inclined entertainments, he deserves a little more with this effort.


                
Dumping the set-like feel of Temple of Doom and going for location shoot of Raiders Steven Spielberg's vision looks fantastic. There's no denying that some of the effects have dated and Jeffrey Boam's script a little heavy on the comedy, but George Lucas and Menno Meyjes story is exciting and intricate. In this quest Indiana Jones must rescue his kidnapped father and stop the Nazis that are in search of the Holy Grail.Although a little forced the cute flash back opening has exciting gusto as you see the influences on young Indy (played by River Phoenix) that turned him into Indiana the man.The casting is note worthy, Alison Doody as Dr. Elsa Schneider is wonderful, playing the perfect Austrian (even though she's Irish). Harrison Ford is once again flawless in the title role, a part that he was made for. Sean Connery is exceptional as Indy's father and familiar faces return including John Rhys-Davies' Sallah and Denholm Elliott's Marcus Brody. My only complaint is that Brody's character is far more comical than he comes across in the first adventure.With John Williams familiar fantastic score, coupled with globe trotting adventure and action set pieces galore, Last Crusade is an exciting must see classic.


                
This installment of an otherwise successful run of movies was the most contrived piece of garbage I've ever seen. They tried to explain the scar on Indiana's chin, his fear of snakes, his style of dress, and his love of all things arcane, in the first ten or fifteen minutes of the movie, and frankly, it just didn't work for me. As much as I loved the first two of these installments, this one just left me cold. After that ten minutes, however, things did get better..for a while.I found Sean Connery's character's need to debase our hero, to be trite and just wrong. I hated it, in fact. I cared not for his ramblings, considering his son had all this field experience, and he obviously was more at home in a museum. Heck, at his age, he could almost be an exhibit. I really detested the way they used Connery to lower our estimation of Ford's character. I would have liked it better had they worked together, rather than having been written to constantly go at one another. It devalued the whole franchise for me. The whole movie was not awful, but this was the first installment with which I had any issues whatsoever. The next thing I found wrong with this attempt was that they went back to the Germans again, rather than moving on to something new. The relic for which Indiana Jones is searching is new, but the story was more of an attempt to redeem themselves after the gore of The Temple of Doom. I frankly did not mind the gore; that story and execution of that story was excellently done.So, okay, it is the Germans again. Nothing we can do about that. And, again, the artifact is a Christian artifact. What with all the wonderful legendary relics of our richly documented mythological ancestries, why go back to something that has already been touched upon? This is more like a remaking of the Raiders of the Lost Ark, than a new installment.What about the lost library of Alexandria? What about Atlantis? What about the Bermuda Triangle? Stonehenge? The Isle of White? Easter Island? The literal thousands of mysteries in Carnac, Cairo, or Thebes, such as the Great Sphinx and the secret room which is supposed to be hidden there? The headpiece of Isis which was supposed to show the gateway to the heavens, and so on? Why go back to the same original formula of the first, only to end the franchise there? If they were setting up for a new run, then I could see going back to the beginning, but this was not the beginning of a new run. This was the end of the run. So I fail to conceive of why they would copy the first movie so closely in both specifics AND generalities. I can understand why they would feel the need, perhaps, for deeper character development with Jones and his father, hence their bringing in Connery to debase Indiana and make us view him in a lesser light. But again, that is in the case of the beginning of a new run, but as I said, this was the end of the run, so why DO that? We loved the character just fine, without the in-depth character development, and certainly without being made to feel sorry for his character by being subjected to an unappreciative father's constant haranguing. I simply do not see the reasoning behind it. It lowered my entire estimation of this movie, something fierce. Where this final chapter could have been great, it was simply...okay, and rather a disappointment. I was glad this was to be the last of the Indiana Jones movies, if that was what they were reduced to. There are some good elements here, please do not get me wrong. The movie was still moderately enjoyable. The mysteries and intrigues were craftily written, the dialog was witty and clever, and the effects were excellent Lucas/Spielberg fare. I just found Connery's noisome presence to be totally undesirable and unnecessary.But now, as of this writing, at any rate (01/01/04), there are plans to do another installment, with Ford, at the ripe old age of 62. I must really say, "I have doubts." If his latest film, "Hollywood Homicide" is any indication, I will have to say that they will be much better off leaving him in the university, this time. It was truly sad to witness his performance in that movie. He ~fell down~ more than he pulled his gun! I was very disheartened to see him like that. With "What Lies Beneath," at least they had a new genre for him, something which would allow him to gracefully age into ultra-maturity. But no, they could not leave it at that. It will take over a year for them to film Indiana Jones 4, what with having to stop every few minutes, to let Ford catch his breath and freshen up. But with the problematic script and postponement after postponement, they may end up scrapping this movie all together. I DO hope so. But if I'm wrong, I hope they leave Connery out of this next one.Regardless of its short-comings, it still earns an 7.4 from...the Fiend :.
Harrison Ford, Sean Connery, River Phoenix, Allison Doody, Denholm Elliot, John Rhys-Davies and Julian Glover star in Steven Spielberg's 1989 adventure sequel. This entry takes place in 1938 with Henry "Indiana" Jones (Ford) getting a diary sent to him and learns that it's from his father, Henry Sr. (Connery). He's soon hired by museum contributor, Walter Donovan (Glover) to search for the Holy Grail and rescue his kidnapped father held prisoner by Nazis. Indy rescues Henry and uses the important info written in the diary to find the Grail. Doody plays Elsa Schneider, a woman who gets involved with Indy and turns out to be a Nazi working for Donovan whom is also a Nazi, Elliot returns as Marcus Brody, Davies returns as Sallah and the late, Phoenix plays young Indy at the beginning of the film giving a great performance. Harrison and Sean are also great in this together and John Williams' score is excellent as usual. I recommend this good adventure sequel.
The great adventurer returns! In the third instalment of the escapades of heroic archaeologist Indiana Jones, Steven Spielberg has reverted to the original formula that made the first film, "Raiders of the Lost Ark", such an overwhelming success. And after the Gothic, action bursting "Temple of Doom", thank goodness he has. Not only has the tongue-in-cheek humour and light-hearted adventure of "Raiders" resurfaced here, but the plot is again along the same lines. Two years after his 1936 pursuit of the Ark, Doctor Jones once more finds himself pursuing a religious artifact. This time it's the revered Cup of Christ, better known as the Holy Grail. No prizes for guessing that the Nazis are of course his nemesis, lead naturally by a megalomaniac non-German whose only goal is self-glorification.Okay, perhaps this new story from George Lucas and Menno Meyjes may not be incredibly innovative nor original, but their dialogue is truly incisive and comically effective, especially in the lively exchanges between Indy and his new sidekick.Harrison Ford is joined in his adventures this time by Sean Connery, who plays his rather uninitiated father, professor Henry Jones. These two old hands of the cinema (Ford a veteran of twenty years, Connery of thirty) provide much of the entertainment that is offered throughout the movie, engaging in some hilarious by-play and a few very memorable scenes. They develop a rapport that will have you totally convinced that they are blood related, such is the chemistry they create.Sean Connery manages not only to create a wonderful new cinematic character, but also seems to have a great deal of fun almost sending up his "James Bond" image, playing the inept older partner to Ford's world weary hero. In an outstanding performance, Connery easily steals the majority of the scenes he's in. Not to under-rate the talents of Harrison Ford though, who (not always outdone by his co-star) is still the star of the show. Perhaps Ford's Indiana Jones is becoming a little too invincible, escaping more hair-raising tight spots that an ordinary 'human' hero has a right to, he's still however fantastic to root for.Support cast are also most enjoyable, especially Denholm Elliot as Marcus Brody and John Rhys-Davies as Sallah, both welcome returns from "Raiders". It is the villains that are the disappointment. Instead of the delicious nasties like the effervescent, charismatic Belloq, and the shifty, evil Toht (both of whom graced "Raiders"), this instalment presents us with an uninspired obsessive Donovan (Julian Glover), and a one-dimensional Nazi commander. Alison Doody is an attractive femme fatale, though never a match for the feisty Marion Ravenwood (Karen Allen). River Phoenix drops in as a young Indiana in a segment from 1912 which helps to explain away some of the intrepid archaeologist's secrets and motivations.Always a treat is maestro John Williams score, which introduces some invigorating new themes, as well as a familiar old one that serves as a very clever in-joke. Douglas Slocombe's camera follows the action superbly, and now familiar editor Michael Kahn sets a telling pace.With "Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade" Spielberg has undeniably cemented the great archaeologist's reputation as the world's most fearless adventurer. Filled with thrills 'n' spills, lethal hit men and deadly booby traps, its a movie all the young at heart should enjoy.Saturday, July 22, 1995 - Video
The "Indiana Jones" films varies. "Raiders of the Lost Ark" is one of the best films of the 1980's. It was #1 Box Office Hit of the Year! IT went on to be nominated for Best Picture and Director however those prizes escaped the film and filmmakers. 3 year later we got the sequel "Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom" which is one the worst sequels ever made. So 5 years of "Temple of Dome" we got "Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade" which was a vast improvement over "Temple of Doom".This go around is also a little bit of an origin's story. The filmmakers were also very wise to add Sean Connery to the cast. He plays the father of Indiana Jones. Now the story is not that hard to follow but the film suffers from sequel fatigue. The film runs over 2 hours and at the final climax is almost a letdown!


                
In this film, the third in the franchise Indiana Jones, the most famous explorer of cinema will accompany his father on a quest for the Holy Grail. Directed by Steven Spielberg, this film has screenplay by Jeffrey Boam, and has Harrison Ford and Sean Connery in the lead roles.After the debacle of "Temple of Doom", this film intensified interest in the franchise and revive her success. In fact, the team formed by Ford and Connery is unstoppable and gives pleasure to see how professional is their interaction on screen. There are two established actors, Ford is very well suited with his role and Connery is a veteran with decades of experience and versatility. This clearly benefited the film, where these two artists outshines the rest of the cast, especially in humor moments, tearing laughter to the public. The script is good, all that "Temple of Doom" had to be and was not, recovering the vivacity and adventurous spirit that had been so intense in "Raiders of Lost Ark". The final sequences, filmed in one of the most stunning scenery I know - the Nabataean ruins of Petra in Jordan - are worthy of staying in memory of any movie lover. The photography is excellent, the visual and sound effects have great quality, some costumes were very well thought out and the soundtrack, not surprisingly, has fulfilled her role.It's no coincidence that there is a division on what is the best movie of this franchise: "Raiders of the Lost Ark" or this one. There are some similarities between them, especially concerning the quality of final product. For me, if "Raiders" had a greater script and spirit of adventure, "Last Crusade" offset any fault with better humor, a stunning scenery and some breathtaking action scenes.


                
Indiana Jones is trying to correct the perception that he's a grave robber in the first section. As a teen, he tries to rescue an important gold artifact and later as an adult, he finally steals it back from a ruthless collector. Now there is a tablet about the location of the Holy Grail. Indy must stop the Nazis once again and rescue his father (Sean Connery).It's a return more to the original and abandoning the stupidity of 'Temple of Doom'. This time they have Sean Connery to play opposite Harrison Ford. It takes awhile to get them together, but once there, they make a great duo. I love their banter. Their chemistry saves this movie from being a sad reminder of better times.


                
Tonight I wrapped up revisiting the Indy franchise with The Last Crusade. The five or so years between Temple of Doom and this installment gave Spielberg and Co. time to go back to basics, recast a few hundred Nazis, cart out another religious relic, reinforce some more Christian mythology and throw in a dose of Sean Connery for good measure. Benefiting TLC, the camp, corn and annoying female sidekick from TOD are long gone as is a supporting cast of way too many cute little kids that served an almost Ewok-like presence.The only kids in TLC are in the prologue which flashes back to the young Indy played by the late River Phoenix. The prologue's back story manages to cram in the origins of many (if not all) of Indy's trademarks: the hat, the whip, the fear of snakes and his overall look and demeanor. Phoenix convincingly apes Harrison Ford's signature Indy-isms and also manages to look like the kid Harrison probably was. True to the franchise, Spielberg rolls out a series of tributes, one of the best being the prologue's train sequence which feels like frames lifted right out from Buster Keaton's 1927 classic The General.What makes TLC a cut above TOD are the numerous real world locations, the pseudo- historical references and stunts grounded in real-world physics. Connery who is cast as Indy's dad, is a worthy addition to a strong cast and the constant adversarial banter between him and Ford doesn't get tired like the nagging supplied ad nausea by Kate Capshaw in TOD.While it can be argued TLC cannibalizes Raiders for success, I can't find a reason to argue with the old adage: if it ain't broke, don't fix it. Like Raiders, TLC is truly an adventure, an homage to classic Hollywood serials that manages to elevate the genre well beyond that of any of its predecessors. I've maintained for years that Spielberg is a master story teller, but that his talents run threadbare when he steps out of his comfort zone. TLC is definitely in his comfort zone and after watching it tonight, I'm even more hopeful that The Kingdom of the Crystal Skull will be a worthy addition to an already fantastic saga.http://eattheblinds.blogspot.com/


                
I've never been a massive fan of the Indiana Jones movies so forgive me when I say I don't believe this movie really belongs in the mid section of the IMDb top 250 movies because it's no masterpiece of cinema As good old fashioned entertainment it certainly succeeds but as a great movie it's flawed . Despite an attempt to bring character development to the eponymous character at the start of the movie the screenplay by Jeffrey Boam quickly becomes a merger between the first two movies with a secret cult protecting a sacred object and Nazis wanting to get their hands on it . There is a subplot featuring Nazi traitors but when the traitors are revealed about 50 minutes into the running time it means there's nowhere else for the story to go hence the story becomes bogged down in a long set piece involving a Nazi ubertank To be fair the positives outweigh the negatives and it's good to see Sean Connery in a blockbuster where his presence lends weight . In fact just think how much worse this movie could have been without the British talent in front of the camera , Julien Glover is impressive and even John Rhys Davies makes an impact . We also have scenes of violence that are fun without becoming too explicit which is my major gripe with RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK which probably makes this sequel the best in the series even though it's not a truly great film I think it'd be a mistake to continue the series ala STAR WARS though


                
Learning of a Nazi plot to steal the Holy Grail, archaeologist Indiana Jones sets out to stop them, a quest that leads to him working alongside his estranged father in this second sequel to 'Raiders of the Lost Ark'. Sean Connery is well cast as Indy's father, with very natural banter between them and there are some great action sequences - most notably a fight on a wooden boat being crushed by a propeller. Nothing quite matches the riveting opening few scenes though in which River Phoenix plays Indy as a lad with bits and pieces that explain his fear of snakes, love of whips and iconic hat. Many curiously regard this as better than 'Temple of Doom', yet for all its flaws and Kate Capshaw's shrillness, the second movie feels like a motion picture of its own whereas 'Crusade' is more of a rehash of 'Raiders' than a tribute to it. The plots are near identical, with Nazi bad guys and a Biblical artifact McGuffin, and neither 'Raiders' nor 'Crusade' can match the non-stop action thrills and humour of 'Temple of Doom' with most of the comic relief this time coming from Denholm Elliott being turned into a bumbling old man. All three films are technically well-made and riveting at their utmost best. As popular as 'Last Crusade' is, personal preferences will likely determine whether one likes it the most of the original trilogy or not.


                
When Dr. Henry Jones Sr. (Sean Connery) suddenly goes missing while pursuing the Holy Grail, eminent archaeologist Indiana Jones (Harrison Ford) must follow in his father's footsteps and stop the Nazis.The general consensus is that "Raiders of the Lost Ark" is the best Indiana Jones film, "Temple of Doom" was a disappointment, and this one was the redeemer: not as good as "Raiders" (but close), and better than "Temple". Now, in fairness, "Temple" is probably better than generally given credit, but the overall order is correct.The Nazi villains here are among the nastiest, the plot is weaving in the way that we want from an Indy film... and the object of their search? Well, how can you ever get better than the Holy Grail? (The original script called for the Fountain of Youth... maybe someday we will see that.)


                
An excellent and difficult production, bolstered by great performances. Harrison Ford delivers his best Indy performance. I can remember being in awe when I first saw this movie in the theatre. Nothing I'd seen since compared. . It's not "touchy feely" in any sense. That being said, you still get your classic moments. The leads' combined talents and charisma have a lot to do with this movie's success. I found the acting to be sensational, the dialogue incredible and the director's abilities to be up to par and then some. An awesome, good surprise for me this little movie was, so that I highly recommend it and give it 7 out of 10.


                
Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade...........I first saw that this film was in the works around December 1987 when Temple of Doom was receiving its Uk TV premiere. I really enjoyed Raiders Of The Lost Ark, and its sequel was good fun but not as much as the first film. Then in summer 1989 I saw the third film and I was severely disappointed.Gone where the scary special effects to be replaced by Sean Connery's character who does provide some great comedy. I just couldn't enjoy this one as much as the other two as I'm afraid it really feels like a straight sequel to Raiders where the writers try to recreate the action sequences of the first film. Unfortunately, Indiana Jones seems to to have peaked with his first outing as both Temple Of Doom and Last Crusade are just not better than the original. Unlike Star Wars, where the second film is clearly better. I really think that George Lucas lost something since 1981...I haven't enjoyed any of his work since more than Raiders, Star Wars and Empire Strikes Back.


                
Sean Connery and Harrison Ford is very good together. The Indiana Jones trilogy is good adventure films and of course "Raiders of the lost ark" is the best one. Even if "Raiders of the lost ark" is not so old it has aged because many other new adventure films has taken much of the elements from that film. It´s the same with part two and three even if they are only sequels. This one is funny, some small goofs but overall entertaining.6/10


                
Indiana Jones III has all you would expect -- a silly story, corny jokes a la Arnie from front to back, a good performance by Connery, and Jones' usual antics.It's not particularly good to be honest, but then it doesn't need to be does it?The search for the holy grail was the task behind the adventure, and it's only been done better by Monty Python -- perhaps they should have got together and made the story more fun!


                
I've watched Crusade many many times over the years and for some reason it just does not captivate me throughout.. the opening is okay although not a patch on the first, and also not as good as the diamond/antidote scene in the second movie After the opening it then cuts to a very bad scene on a boat which is all shot really close, no distant perspectives at all. I remember when the movie came out and they showcased this scene, saying how it was all done in a real water chamber, but the result is very claustrophobic and doesn't feel like a real boat at all (again unlike Raiders!) Things get better when Connery is introduced but thereafter it is all slapstick humour. While Raiders had some very funny scenes, it was still quite a dark movie and it had contrast, Temple of Doom was basically a kids movie but still had a dark theme, but Crusade really doesn't let up at all on the funny one liners. Indy's love interest is also easily the blandest of them all The music in the Crusade is also quite irritating.. Raiders had lots of music too and John Williams is well known for his Mickey Mousing, but here it is taken to extremes and there really is hardly a quiet moment, even the final poignant scenes with the Knight aren't left untouched If you've never seen Crusade then it is still a must see, I'm still fond of the movie and give it a 7 but for vintage Indy and a true classic, Raiders is the only one in the series that measures up


                
I still don't understand why this movie became the fans favorite of the franchise and it was even critically re-praised, when the vastly superior "Doom" is, constantly, bashed. I was lucky enough to watch the original three in the cinema and ironically, i've watched them by the correct chronological order, my first was "Doom", then a re-run of "Raiders" and 5 years later, now as a teen, i attended, enthusiastically, the premiere of "Crusade", but it ended with me left the movie theater in a total state of disappointment. Where do i start ? Firstly, it lacks the excitement and thrills of the previous two installments, when we think about the most memorable scenes of the franchise, "Raiders" have the most iconic and unforgettable opening like if a comic book came alive; the sequence in Nepal when Indy and Marion reunite; the swordsman in Cairo; the Well of Souls; the truck chase and so on. "Doom" have a 'glamour-ish' opening which reminds the classic musicals of the golden age, mixed with the exotic war dramas from the 30's & 40's and a bit of Bond thrown into it, plus the escape from the plane; the spike chamber; the black sleep of Kali Ma; Mola Ram (which was one of the best villains ever put on film); the mine chase and the rope bridge. "Crusade" have a lacklustre opening sequence where Indy, at the young age of 13, in a total of 10 minutes screen time acquires all his future trademarks: "It belongs to a Museum"; the ophidiophobia; the chin scar; the mastering of the whip and even his Fedora hat given away by a man who was supposed to be Abner Ravenwood, the future Indy's mentor, but he was ended up credited in the cast list as "Fedora Guy", because Lucas at the last moment, opted to exclude the Abner connection. One of his first dumb moves. For the rest, they gave us a tepid boat chase; the rescue on the Castle Brunwald; the zeppelin; the tank chase in the desert which was an unimaginative re-hash of "Raiders" and the anti-climatic 'grand finale'. Secondly, the McGuffin in this one isn't as exciting as the Ark of the Covenant or the Sankara Stones, and once again it's a Jewish / Catholic artifact that resembles too much of the Ark and even have the Nazis as, once again, the evil nemesis spreading their greediness towards the power of the Grail. Thirdly, the characters, Ford has been saying that this was his favorite Indy, but what he said doesn't mean that it rings true, because he looks bored / uninterested for almost the entire movie and his acting looks and sounds more Ford playing himself than Ford playing Indy. The lack of conviction is apparent here, he grew tired of the character after the difficult shot of "Doom" and, at this time, he was establishing himself on a more demanded roles in drama films. Connery was cast, not because that the best actor to play Indy's dad was the former James Bond, but because Sean was fresh from his Oscar winning role in the B.O. Hit, "The Untouchables" and his name had became trendy again after almost a decade into oblivion. Connery's roles in the acclaimed, "The Name of the Rose" and the sleeper hit, "Highlander" which he played the witty old mentor to younger folks, convinced Spielberg & Lucas that he could do the same for Ford and 'cash in' on Connery's crescent popularity of his middle-age comeback & Oscar winning. Connery gave an inspired performance with lots of heart and integrity, which earned him the SAG and BAFTA nominations, no question about that, but he wasn't the best pick to play Henry Jones, Sr. Charlton Heston should have been the perfect choice. Not only he resembles much more Ford in the looks, acting style & 'screen persona', but also Heston's jungle adventure movies from the 50's, such as "The Naked Jungle" or "Secret of the Incas" were major inspirations in the conception of the Indiana Jones' character and his perilous adventures around the world. The late great Denholm Elliott returns as Marcus Brody, this time with more than a glorified cameo, he's also on the track of the Grail, except that in "Raiders", Spielberg & Lucas established the character as an adventurer / archaeologist like Indy in his younger days, but here he serves the purpose of the buffoon / comic relief, a distracted erudit that "gets lost in his own Museum". John Rhys-Davies also returns in this installment, but his character Sallah have as much importance to the plot as his brother-in-law's camels. A total waste of two great actors !! Julian Glover and Alison Doody are too weak villains, they look like Disney Channel next to Arnold Toht or Mola Ram. Doody is, certainly, the nicest Indy Girl to look at, but the worst in the acting department (yes, Kate Capshaw was way better !!). Michael Byrne as Colonel Ernst Vogel is the only menacing of the bad guys, but he can't save the whole. Last, but not the least, River Phoenix sporting a late 80's haircut style, played Indy at age 13 in 1912, a bit 'off', but we accept it as Indy is well-known for being a misfit. The late actor gave an acceptable performance as young Indy, after he played the son of Ford in the underrated, "The Mosquito Coast" and studied his mannerisms and dialogue delivery. In short, "Crusade" still delivers, it have nice production values; not-so-exotic, but still okay locations; great cinematography by Dougie Slocombe; the master score from John Williams (even if it was the weakest of the original trilogy); stunning art & costume design and some impressive stuntwork like the previous two movies, but lacks in the thrilling department and the magic started here to disappear, maybe making this the last one (before the "Crystal Skull" crap resurrected the franchise some 19 years later...) was a good decision by the main trio.
