The 1930s archaeologist and adventurer Indiana Jones (Harrison Ford) , a larger that life hero , with its battered hat and whip wielding will confront evil Nazis for the obtaining the Holy Grail . This time he makes couple with his daddy (Sean Connery) along with a beautiful woman (Alison Doody) and friends (Denholm Elliott and John Rhys Davies) . Brave and daredevil Indiana Jones risks his life facing off villains , taking on armoured tanks , warplane , cliffs and several dangers and adventures.Dr.Indiana executes feats of derring-do in various exotic countries . It's the finale part of adventures trilogy (along with : Raiders of the lost ark and Temple of Doom ) going on the way of the 30s classic films and the Comic-books language .The picture blends comedy , adventures , action , rip-roaring , Cliff-hunger , tongue-in-cheek and being extremely entertaining and fun . Harrison Ford plays magnificently as the valiant and impulsive archaeologist turned into an action man .F or comic relief in charge of continued jokes about the relationship between Indy and his dad .The picture has great loads of action , special effects abundant and habitual and impressive John Williams musical score .The movie has a spectacular intervening period when Indiana is fighting against a tank that will have you on the edge of your seat , but the action never lets up. In this flick appears River Phoenix as an adolescent Indiana in a spectacular and frenetic beginning. The film is followed by the TV series ,also produced by George Lucas : ¨The young Indiana Jones¨ with Sean Patrick Flannery. The motion picture was splendidly directed by Steven Spielberg , being his favorite of the "Indiana Jones" films , and it is on record as saying he directed the pic for two reasons: To fulfill a three-picture obligation he had made with George Lucas, and, and to atone for the criticism that he received for the previous installment, Indiana Jones and the temple of Doom (1984). It obtained some Academy Awards, secondary Oscars for editing and sound effects, very well deserved although I miss didn't achieve more. The movie will appeal to Indiana saga fans as well as the neophyte who didn't have seen the previous episodes .It's indispensable and essential watching . Rating : excellent , above average and well worth seeing. It's a winner for Harrison Ford fans.


                
The third and the best of the adventures of Indiana Jones. In this new film, the famous archeologist is searching for a mythical object: "the Graal". This is the glass in which the Christ would have drank during the last meal with his apostles. His father assists him in his investigations because he's got precious information about the Graal. So, a long trip begins and will lead our two heroes from Venice to the Middle East in passing by Berlin. You can guess it, this trip has got its rough patches (otherwise the movie would appear devoid of interest). Indeed, the Nazis wish to discover the Graal too because it would make them powerful even dangerous.Steven Spielberg designed his movie like a fascinating treasure hunt and he had the good idea by bringing Sean Connery. Thanks to his presence, the movie's got a certain humor (perhaps a little too convenient but the result works) and allows to lighten the movie."Indiana Jones and the last crusade" is also a good surprise because it wipes out the unhappy memory of the previous movie: "Indiana Jones and the temple of doom". I found it too horrendous, bloody and even annoying due to Kate Capshaw. Here, to film Indiana Jones' incredible adventures, Spielberg adopted a dramatic and especially efficient film-making. He also avoids all that could make the movie fall in the faults quoted in the second movie. Moreover, there aren't any injury times, the rhythm is skilfully sustained (particularly during the pursuits) and it's better this way because the result is very convincing. Obviously, the movie doesn't go without a few unlikelinesses.Spielberg also brilliantly used the good old recipes for the adventure film: weird and exotic sceneries, the struggle between good and evil, the magic object that possesses supernatural powers etc...The only criticism I have to make of Spielberg is that the screenplay is perhaps well boosted but it doesn't also succeed in hiding a certain manicheism: the Nazis wish to get rid of Jones and his father and to discover the Graal would help them to satisfy their strength.An adventure movie entertaining enough to sustain the interest and rather well performed. Let's add the imposing music (as usual) composed by John Williams.


                
Adventure action at its best, fascinating Chemistry between
Harrison Ford and Sean Connery, and of course John Williams with his enthralling magnificent Music. One of my Favorite movies.


                
When it comes to the most iconic film characters of all time, Indiana Jones is near the top of that list. The amount of unbelievable journeys he has gone on has been unparalleled to say the least. The Last Crusade just adds to the fun with Sean Connery portraying Indi's father. Raiders did a great job in establishing this laid back tone with glimpses of darkness along the way. Where as Temple of Doom in my opinion steered away from the tone of the franchise and never seemed to capture my attention as much as the book ends did. It's very hard at this point to pick which out of the two i liked more, but the franchise is most definitely cemented as one of the greatest of all time.Out of the three The Last Crusade has the most action and the pacing is brilliant. You get a 15-20 scene of chases and adventure and then 10-15 minute of key dialog in the over all story. Much like Big Fish and About Time this film is an adventure film with plenty of mystery, but when it comes down to it, its a story about father and son reconnecting. The story is heartfelt and some of the better acting both Connery and Ford have done. When you get two actors of their caliber you can count on that they will deliver the performances needed to sell this bond between father and son. The film is on the shoulders of those two, and they carried this classic to the very end.It also helps when a movie actually makes you believe the leads are in true danger. With huge franchises it is often tough to sell the audience into thinking our favorite character may actually die, but this film did that. But i can say this film is not without it's problems. While Raiders was special because of the villain, Crusade wasn't anything too spectacular. A villain needs a good back story and motivation to do the things they do. I didn't feel at all intrigued by the Nazi leader. It was just great to see Indi kick his butt in the end. Ford is a movie star so i cant say it wouldn't be great to see him back in the role one day but that time has likely past. They have big shoes to fill but the fan favorites Chris Pratt or Bradley Cooper would do the role justice.+Non stop entertainment+Father-Son duo+Belief that our characters are at risk+Beautifully paced-Weak villain8.5/10


                
What could be better than seeing what led to the whip and the hat that became the trade mark of our hero; what could be better than seeing Indiana Jones on a quest with his father and probably his mentor as they face odds and spiritual powers in high places.The thing that makes Indiana Jones movies a must watch is that it crosses various genres like action, adventure, thriller and spiritual/supernatural. Making sure that the viewer is intrigued by the blend. The father and son relationship is one blend that Spielberg did well as it was never a dull moment with the duo.The chase scene in the train where we get to see young Indy in boys scout uniform is one scene that I very much applaud, as it does not play on your intelligence, and it explored the realms of revealing some of the attributes of Indy and what led to them.Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade is directed by the legendary director Steven Spielberg who had to drop out of directing Big and Rain Man so as to fulfill his promise of making this movie with executive producer George Lucas.The Last Crusade is the third installment (and was meant to be the last) in the Indiana Jones franchise.The raiders of the Lost Ark was the best of the best when it comes to the Indiana Jones series as Temple of Doom fell short of the pedigree that the previous delivered, Last Crusade was taken through writes and re-writers so that it can serve as an apology to fans and win back their love for the whip and the hat Although to me Temple of Doom is not as bad as some say.The movie plot is centered on the Holy Grail. It starts with an introduction to a younger Indy (played by the late River Phoenix), where we get to see things that made Indy who he is like what led to his fear of snakes.It moves from there to a classroom where Indy is teaching his students and was drawn away from his teaching again to embark on another adventure, to find the Holy Grail and his missing father. His adventure led to Nazi involvement as they want the Holy Grail and the eternal life that comes with it.Shot in Spain, Italy, England, Turkey and Jordan, the movie was a financial success, earning over $474,000,000 in the box office and it went home with an Academy Award for Best Sound Editing.Here is one Indiana Jones you don't want to miss.www.lagsreviews.com


                
This is, in my opinion, the best Indy film of the series. It is a terrific action movie with bits of humor. The character of Indiana Jones is further developed in this movie. Sean Connery and Harrison Ford work wonderful as "father and son". This idea of "father and son" adds humor to the wonderful story. What makes this entry slightly different then the two previous films is that Indy is not only searching for the Holy Grail but he is also searching for a antiquity that is more rare then the Holy Grail or any of the artifacts he was searching for in the predecessors, Indy is searching for his father. The music is good. The acting is great especially Sean Connery's performance as Dr. Henry Jones. Do yourself a favor and watch this classic.


                
Both this film and Raiders of the Lost Ark are exciting and funny at the same time, in the days when movies could be both, but the Last Crusade is a more modern film, and is therefore more polished. The cast are terrific, and in a way, Harrison Ford is the odd one out, as he is surrounded by many British actors. There is a grandiose feeling about it, and the music amplifies this feeling. It is a bit of a shame that there could be a fourth, as it will have to go a long way to beat this.


                
They don't make films like this anymore. It feels genuine, it feels solid and it feels adventurous in a way that no other film has been able to copy. I love the third Indiana Jones for several reasons - but the main one is: the feeling it evokes.The adventure film is a dying concept. The last one to date to really fit into the adventure-genre, "Cutthroat Island", didn't work out very well. It had the right feeling, and I kind of liked it. But adventure doesn't really work these days.But with Indiana Jones, it's different. Indiana Jones is set in the perfect time (what other villains are better than nazis, evil Indians or just plain crooks?), has great timing and takes great care to assure that the adventure - i.e. traveling, meeting people, solving tricky problems and gaining something in the end - feels real. To do so, one needs humor (supplied by the animosity between Jones and his father, aptly played by Connery), magic (good ole Christian legends of eternal life) and a villain.The very best part of this film is when Jones faces Hitler and gets his autograph in his fathers notebook - at a book burning fest in Berlin... Great fun.


                
What can one say, with 2 stars of the stellar magnitude of Sean Connery and Harrison Ford at their peak, what could go wrong? Nothing goes wrong in this jim-dandy adventure film. It's packed with excitement, humor, and suspense. From first to last, a totally wonderful experience. I have watched time and again and not grown tired of this film.YOU MUST SEE IT!


                
The third film of the series is virtually as great and as entertaining as Raider of the Lost Ark. We get to see Indy on a "quest" to find the Holy Grail, which is even rarer than the Ark of Covenant and the Ankara Stones. In fact, this one is Indy's most challenging adventure yet. To add more greatness to the cast, we get to meet Indy's father Henry Jones Sr. (played by Sean Connery of James Bond-fame). Seeing Harrison Ford and Sean Connery as father and son gave me that "James Bond is Indy's father" kind of feeling.The film's action scenes are great to watch! Spielberg's directing formulated the action to a higher level than that of the Temple of Doom. In fact, I find the action here the most exciting yet. Overall, The Last Crusade is one of the best movies ever made with action and adventure. It's right beside Raiders of the Lost Ark on top.


                
SPOILERSOnly eight years after "Raiders of the Lost Ark", Harrison Ford returned for a third and preferably final time as famous archaeologist and explorer Indiana Jones. With Sean Connery joining Ford as Indy's father Henry, this film would redeem the series after the awful "Temple of Doom".Introduced to Walter Donovan (Julian Glover), rich benefactor to his university, Dr Jones will this time rescue his father as he travels around the globe on the hunt of the Holy Grail.As people play roles more, it's obvious that they're going to get better at the performances. This is true more than ever with Ford's performance. Providing a fun, laid back performance, Ford's connection with Connery (who is only 12 years his senior) is a masterstroke.It's not just these two however which are so superb. Denholm Elliot as Marcus Brody is always a laugh, as is John Rhys-Davies as Sallah. Both provide an extra joke element in this feel good story.All in all, "Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade" is your typical adventure film. Entertaining from beginning to end, it thrives on some stunning acting performances and a great script. If you want to watch a decent adventure film, ignore "Temple of Doom" and go straight for this.
This was the third and final film in the Indiana Jones series, which was very popular and helped make Harrison Ford the mega-star he wound up being.Ford ("Indiana Jones") and Sean Connery make an excellent team. Connery plays Jones' father. The two banter back-and-forth the whole movie and fun to hear. I'm not familiar with the female lead, Alison Doody, but she made an attractive blonde German. Of note, River Phoenix plays a teenage Jones in the beginning of the film.The story, like the other Indiana Jones films, is loud, especially with the soundtrack. The music, at times, almost drowns out some of the dialog. The action is almost but not quite too much except for the tank scene, which goes on too long. In all, it's a fine addition to the other films, making this a solid trilogy.


                
Not as good as the first outing, but far better than the second; and this time it's a quest for the Holy Grail with the help of his dad (played typically well by Sean Connery), this is more of the same great action/adventure you've come to expect from Indiana Jones.The introduction of Indy's father gives the character a little more depth and again you will undoubtedly enjoy the ride all the way.Action packed fun for all the family.8/10If you haven't seen the first two then watch them first, if you didn't like the first two then give it a miss. (I know i'm only talking to a minority here)


                
Sure, Raiders of the Lost Ark is far better, this film is still pretty darn good in its own respects. Few films that are considered second best in a series could be considered better than most films that are released on its own. But when one watches this film, the action is comparable to Lost Ark. What I especially found interesting was the three obstacles to the Last Crusade, which was amazing, especially the invisible bridge. I've always thought the pairing of Connery and Ford was absolute genius. Someone should have been given a reward for that great casting choice. I can't wait for this one to come out on DVD.


                
Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade is the last of the 80's Indiana Jones and an adventure that more than matches any other like it that's out there. With fine performances throughout the good guys in this, The Last Crusade is truly one that is a well played out one, and also very funny. Does it match up to Raiders, well we will have to see as I write this review but be safe in the knowing this is thoroughly entertaining stuff. Harrison Ford is of course the man donning the whip and fedora again and is off on yet another quest, but this time it is his father he needs. In this film we are introduced to Indiana's father, Henry Jones Sr, who to Indiana's annoyance always calls him "Junior". Sean Connery is the actor stepping into the boots of Jones Sr and he makes a fantastic addition to the series, I'd even go as far to say he is the best new character in the series since well, Indiana Jones. As for rest of the cast it is Julian Glover who I wasn't so keen on, I wasn't sure if it was the poor accent or just the circumstances that happen but I just felt he was a little stale. Denholm Elliot as Dr Marcus Brody returns, this time he is maybe not in it as much as he could have been but is still a welcome return and an addition to a cast full of personality. Spielberg I feel is not at his absolute finest here, his direction can feel a little sticky at times, not that it is bad but just not as good as say Raiders. It is written fairly well, the script not maybe blowing me away in the more serious moments or even parts where it is downright ridiculous, but the comedy styling that is put upon Connery and Ford is one of the up most brilliance. It is that partnership between them that is one of the most immortalising things about this movie, the addition of Connery's character instantly makes this better and the workmanship between him and Harrison Ford is one that for me makes them two one of the best film duos's of all time.The effects are ramped up for this one, of course years had passed since the last two and the movie really knows how to utilize new found techniques. It is the explosions that for me are just better, this film is bigger than past seen, much more action means much more effects and it is great to see them used properly(and not overused either). Staying on the technical side of things the cinematography by Douglas Slocombe is still as ever marvellous, he just seems to know how to film an action adventure movie, never makes it boring angles, always quick but swift shots.So, is this addition in the Indian Jones movie collection the best? well that is a tough question. Raiders of the Lost Ark I know is a movie people find a special one, a movie that many consider their all time favourite, of any movie period. For me although I did watch Raiders and found it really good, I think the Last Crusade is too and deserves a place like Raiders in the heart of film fans, I don't think the Last Crusade is anything special that saying, but is still a highly entertaining piece of cinema and one I feel will endure for years to come.So overall the film is great, a movie I would recommend to anyone really as it contains a bit of everything, action, adventure but most importantly for me, it has laughter, this for me I can be sure of, is the funniest of the series. Sean Connery is the stand out performer in my opinion, maybe he even deserved awards for what he did here, and the chemistry here between father and son is one of great fun and great humour.


                
What is there not to say about Indiana Jones. This is one of my all time favourites and yet no other feature film changed my mind yet. All the elements that keep you on the edge of your chair are combined in one production with such musical rhythm that no scene is crossing that boring stage. This is the kind of genre you will watch over and over again and every time enjoy it as much as the previous so much so that by now i know the dialogue word for word. Strange but true, even the kids are enjoying it. It will definitely remains a vintage production that can transport you away from reality within minutes. This production has the x factor out and out. I am waiting impatiently to see if there will ever be a movie that top Indiana Jones


                
The opening sequence of this third Indiana Jones picture is the one part that really feels fresh, or rather, it recovers 1940s serial and magazine imagery that Spielberg hadn't used yet. The remainder of the film doesn't come as a revelation to Indy fans, but then how could it? The series by then had characterized a household universe of hazardous stunts, breathtaking chases, wry humor and the pursuit of ludicrous objects in extraordinary places.Raiders and Temple of Doom delineate the modern stamina for action-adventure films. They were a feverish revolution. But there was no way for Spielberg to outdo himself, and maybe it was for the best that Last Crusade was indeed supposed to be Indy's final film, and should've been. It will be heartbreaking watching the rejuvenated series age and tire out. Even in this third escapade, some of the basics are second-hand from Raiders. This time, Indy's mission is to locate the Holy Grail, which calls to mind the first movie's Ark of the Covenant, and both instances are race against Nazi villains.The new-fangled component this time is how Spielberg enhances some of Indy's backstory. We discover his real name and meet his father, Professor Henry Jones, played by Sean Connery at just the right pitch. Like the fathers of typical boys' stories, Dr. Jones is not a parent so much as a full-grown partner, an older chum who lacks full-bodied characterization because kids can't see their parents as intricate human beings. Perhaps we conjure up the Hardy Boys' father, who rolled his eyes and grinned at the activities of his endearing youngsters and maybe sporadically "worried" or "advised them firmly." Because the Hardy Boys were always mixed up, at a green age, with a never-ending slew of fraudsters, hijackers, Nazi agents and robbers, their father's impassiveness was either transcendental or insane, and Connery enjoys himself with some of the same essentials.What Ford does looks so simple, so dry, that few other stars could keep such a square and poker-faced poise amid such pandemonium. After young Indy learns his life's mission in the early high point, the predominant plot is set after Raiders, when Henry Jones, the world's foremost Grail connoisseur, is snatched by bandits who are certain he knows where it's now hidden. He does. And Indy, working from Dad's notebook, trails from the States to the waterlogged burial chambers under Venice, and then to the barren regions of the Holy Land, where there is a fun chase including a formidable Nazi armored tank. He's escorted on his expedition by Dr. Elsa Schneider, an art historian he meets in Venice, but the character is a letdown after the fervor of Karen Allen in Raiders, and even the light-heartedness of Kate Capshaw's presence in Temple of Doom.As had been established as custom with those first two films, Spielberg sets up various set pieces of sophisticated workmanship. The art direction is terrific in a getaway from a zeppelin by airplane. If there's a tinge of disenchantment in this movie, it's because Spielberg simply couldn't reproduce the shock of endless inventiveness and dizzying energy. Raiders and Temple of Doom were a crossroads in the cinema of escapist entertainment, and there was no way Spielberg could make it crisp and fresh yet again.


                
Many consider The Last Crusade to be the best in the series. And many attribute Sir Sean Connery's performance as the staunch and proper Dr. Henry Jones Sr. as the turning point in the series and really makes it terrific. I have a slightly different take on both of those aspects. The Last Crusade is still a worthy part of the series and definitely is not "worse" than any of the others. I just don't believe it's any better either. In fact for me it kind of steered away from the core idea of Indiana Jones bring a gritty action adventure. Yes the film has action and adventure but also feels a little Hollywood with some smart comedy, one liners, bigger cast, bigger budget, and less historical viewpoint despite the idea behind the film. A lot of the film is Indiana rescuing his father from the Nazi's which is a completely different take on the series and a classic moment is Hitler himself signing Indy's book in Berlin. While I do think Sean Connery being added to the cast was a great decision I also think his character and therefore him was overused. It was like they were trying really hard to breath new life into the series and I don't think it needed it. It seemed to leave behind the homage to the 40's serials, and the campiness in exchange for big budget spectacles.Harrison Ford returns as Indiana Jones and as always is terrific as the hero to end all heroes. I think in The Last Crusade his portrayal is a little more sarcastic and humorous and doesn't really get as much opportunity to show off that rugged side that we have came to know and love. But the film had a different tone and Ford adapted Indy to fit that and still created the amazing character. Sir Sean Connery joins the cast as Indy's father and really did a terrific job. He was the polar opposite to Ford's Indiana Jones and yet they had this similar quality that made their roles believable. They have terrific chemistry together and Connery just fit into the cast perfectly. Alison Doody is the latest in Jones' love interests and she also kind of doubles as a villain but a sympathetic villain. She's also far more sultry and seductive than previous heroines from the series. River Phoenix also deserves honorable mention as he portrays the Young Indy and gives us a bit of history on the character in the beginning of the film which is one of the great moments in The Last Crusade. Phoenix is brilliant as young Indy and when grabs that cross and reaches for the ladder and flashes a smirk at the camera...it is a pinpoint accurate smirk that Harrison Ford is renowned for. That alone makes Phoenix a great performer in the film.The Last Crusade is a terrific installment in the series. I mean you have some really key moments like the history of Indy in the opening, and meeting Hitler and the entire creation of his father as a character played by Connery, the tank battle towards the cliff...I mean the film is still a classic and important part of the Indiana Jones series but I still didn't feel like it quite felt the same as the previous two Indiana Jones films. Steven Spielberg returned to the helm for this third film and you can still see his style and amazing directing skills but the film was still different and maybe they were aiming for something a little different. If anything Indiana Jones could be described as resilient and adaptive and this shows a different kind of adventure story set against the back drop of World War II and Nazi occupation but still has this medieval ancient story close behind. Regardless you have to see the film...many consider it the best, I consider it my least favorite but that's like saying I prefer Chocolate cake to Apple Pie or brownies...they are all delicious!! 8/10
This is a violent film. Like the other two in the trilogy, it is not for children. But for adults (OK, teens too, unfortunately) it is colorful and extremely entertaining, just the thing for cold dreary winters here in the Pacific Northwest.I join other reviewers who note that the return to more familiar geographic and historical territory is welcome. The Temple of Doom catastrophe had to be done simply to capture the Asian market, with more familiar myths perhaps. A mistake in any case, as it had to be as insulting to the people of the East as it was to the people of the West.The Last Crusade is great fun. The female interest is by far the best of the three so far. She is gorgeous and intellectually a match for "Indy", not the hostile ex-child or the screaming harrion of the first two films. One could see why Jones regretted losing her down the hole. Oh well, where was the earthquake when we needed it in "Temple"?


                
I have seen this movie nearly, without exaggerating, twelve times and have sincerely to admit that this film can never be boring or drab. Right from the beginning you are mesmerized, unable to escape the charm of Indiana Jones and his father Henry, authentically and brilliantly played by Sean Connery and when you see the Ending Credits running down the screen you deadly certain that this movie must be one of the most rousing adventure and action films. Maybe I'm a bit biased for I prefer watching old-school movies, that's how I call movies directed out of a funded script which provides an atmosphere I haven't seen in most of all recent action and adventure movies of today. These movies are intangibly foreseeable and moreover not worth being watched more than one or two times. Surely there are exceptions. But as we say: The exception proves the rule. Heading back to my headline which is meant honestly: If anybody here has not seen this movie I recommend it in the most urgent way.


                
I personally really enjoyed The Temple of Doom, but this is best Indy movie out of all of them. Adding Indy's father into the fray was a good move. Sean Connery played the role of Indy's dad to a T. There's alot of exotic places seen in this movie compared to the other Indy movies. I love the prologue showing the young Indy. The only thing I don't really like about this movie is the end where Donovan ages really fast, that just seems to fake for my taste. Overall this movie had a great storyline. Good humor good fun, watch this movie!


                
Naturally, I already saw this movie ages ago. But it so happens that I've just seen it again, a few hours ago, and would like to add my comment. :^) One thing is for sure: there was never and there never will be a hero like Indy, nor real big-screen 'adventure' like in this trilogy (with the exception of The Mummy). Now that we made that clear, let's say a couple of things about TLC.Pros: Action, action, and action. Obvious and fantastic chemistry between Ford and Connery. The secondary characters performed very well (especially Marcus and THAT Nazi official). Cons: a 500-year-old knight? C'mon! And the female lead was just terrible.I rated it 8/10That's it, my 2 cents for today. Have a nice day, and remember, there is only one true on-screen hero: Indiana Jones!


                
Many say that this is the saving grace of the Indiana Jones saga after Temple of Doom. And I most certainly agree. It's got its parallels with Raiders (ie a biblical artifact, agents of the Third Reich, and of course John Rhys-Davies, who is one of my favorite actors), plus Sean Connery as the dad. Aside from that, this also features one of my favorite sites in the whole Middle East. Just watch and see what I mean. For me, this is one of the better father-son movies. Sure they fight a lot but what parent-child duo doesn't? Maybe they should play this movie more on Father's Day. That would prove that not all father-son relationships are as bad as they seem. As for me, this is my favorite Indiana Jones movie. A lot of the actors from Star Wars are in here, including Julian Glover (who played General Veers), Harrison Ford (Han Solo!), and the late Michael Sheard (who played the first guy Darth Vader strangled in The Empire Strikes Back). And this is the only River Phoenix movie I've seen. He did well as a younger Indy. If you have to see one Indy movie, give this a go!


                
I just watched this again today for maybe the 20th time. I have to say that it doesn't quite hold up as well as Raiders and Temple of Doom. The 'leading lady' is the weakest of the trilogy, and the plotting seems like a pale retread of Raiders. Obviously Connery adds some spice to the story, but this really is inferior to the first two in the series. That being said, it does have the best 3rd act of any Indy movie.mikePS: I'm kind of worried about Indy 4. How can Lucas pretend that he couldn't find a good script for it? Didn't he write Phantom Menace?


                
