It seems to me that one of Louis CK's strengths is the authentic nature of the dialogue. Given the quality of the actors in this thing, it makes for some captivating viewing.I found the bar-discussion about politics, etc, to be very entertaining and well-paced. It was almost a little Aaron- Sorkinesque and I loved it. Also amazing to see how up-to-date it is?! Talk about fresh material. I thought the accountant-bit was funny.The main plot about the family was engaging and managed to pull me in. It was depressing and dark, but still somehow not exhausting to watch. I am not actually a big fan of Louie's darker episodes, I don't have the patience or the inclination to spend my time being challenged and depressed. I want it to be funny and entertaining. But even so, I watch and value the darker Louie episodes, and I watched and enjoyed this. As I said, there is this theater-like presentation and at the same time feels so authentic! When Buscemi says "and you give our whiskey to this stranger" (or something), I get the feeling that the characters have had their own thoughts and feelings while our attention was diverted.It's fun to see Louis use these very typical, almost cliché transitions (walking down the stairs to change scenes, etc) and making it work? It's very well made. I loved the diegetic music, watching Alda establish his presence by reacting to it.There is no laughter-track or audience referencing at all. You are totally left to your own devices as a viewer, to laugh or dislike at your own discretion. It's kind of artistic, in that it challenges you to like it or shove off?While I wasn't enjoying watching it, as it was sad and not my typical kind of thing, I am glad that I did. It's great watching something this well made.


                
I have watched a lot of Louis CK's stand up comedy and it seemed to me that his amazing humour came from him extracting the absurdity of life and him talking about it on stage in a way that was both very funny, honest, and engaging, which is not easy feat I think (the feat being presenting the absurdity and confusing nature of life in way that both the presenter and audience can laugh together at it, as opposed to be terrified/confused/annoyed by the confusing universe). Even though the episodes of Horace and Pete feel formatted more in the way of a play, to me it is still fantastic in the same way. Family and life can be infuriating because as we grow up we see that the more we know about family/life/universe the more we realize that we don't know (that whole Socrates thing), but that doesn't mean we give up hope ... instead we can find it absurdly funny and laugh in the face of absurdity, and try and learn from it, and move forward in a better way, especially when there is a master funny man like Louis CK to extract amazing funny thought lines from the absurdity. In this way it is an honest reaction to the confusing nature of life instead of simply trying to create a sanitized narrative to our lives that might make us feel less fear, but doesn't really address the reality. Anyways, that is more my emotional mumbo jumbo response to why I think this is a really good show, but in more specific terms I find the dialogue really great, the acting great, and the jokes great, and therefore I find it ... very great! Thanks Louis CK!


                
Horace and Pete is an outstanding art experiment. And - as cheap as it may sound - it stands out just because the main goal here is to portray life.Let me explain. We are all so used to the genre-tagging way productions are put together, that few producers are bold enough to question this absurd system. Usually there will be a "comic relief" to a drama, or a dramatic turn in a comedy. So we can relate more to the story. It's just not enough."What is it? A comedy? Musical? Drama?". On the way Louie leads this project, the question "what is it?" shouldn't be automatically answered with a tag. Are you looking for a comedy? Don't watch it. But if you're looking for a drama, don't watch it either! In real life, mood is Gaussian. Most of the time it will be neutral: there will be that core gratefulness and anxiety mixed together. That's routine. Sadness and happiness will eventually alternate. Funniness doesn't come up like in a writers room. There's no 24/7 quote-boom-punchline-quote-boom-punchline. Also, no musical background will come up unless someone's actually playing it or hitting a button.Obviously there's more into it, otherwise there would be no point on watching this; you could just kick back on a bar and see what happens. Here we have the guarantee we'll watch very interesting characters dealing with their daily struggle, exposing absurd features of social conventions and human behavior.Louis C.K. is masterfully writing, directing and performing in this. We also have great performances from Alan Alda, Steve Buscemi, Edie Falco and others. That should be enough to just go and give it a try.This is not our usual hacky Fordist sitcom. This is pure handcrafted art (and worths every penny).


                
Starts out kind of slow and awkward in the first episode. Strange facial expressions and very little action or dialogue. By fifteen minutes in, many interesting characters have entered into the bar and it starts to become interesting. At a half hour I was becoming charmed by the stimulating dialogue and very impressed by the casting which includes many stand up comedy greats doing some serious drama. By 45 minutes I became completely sold and hooked after Steve Buscemi's pivotal performance that just blew me away. Louis CK has done some impressive writing here and it goes a long way to compensate for his acting ability which can be a bit uneven. However unlike his show "Louie," here he is only one member of a very impressive ensemble. I was expecting a comedy but what I got was something I've never seen before on a TV show. This reminded me of "the Iceman Cometh." For a pilot, this was really intriguing. I have high hopes that it continues to develop and doesn't let me down.


                
This show is a credit to Louis CK. Its basic aesthetic-formula can only succeed if the writing & performances are very good, which they are. A special mention has to go to Alan Alda who is wonderful in the role of Uncle Pete.The show is funny & engaging & also authentic, which is half the battle of any good show. By 'authentic' I mean it has an accessible & familiar look & feel. I know these people, these people look like they could live next door to me as opposed to a Barbie castle. No Ken dolls or mind-crushed girls with heels & no knickers in sight. American TV is screaming out for a show of this calibre. This is a show with actual substance as opposed to; look at the shiny-shiny.I watched this round at a pals house, apparently this show isn't on TV at present, although I watched it on my pals'.PS. It's honest, that's what it is. Normal folk can relate to it. There's no pseudo-liberal middle-class sentimentality which so much TV is drenched in these days. It's not scared to offend!
This is something special. Feels like a stage play, with long shots and slow pacing. The performances from Steve Buscemi and Louis CK are truly outstanding. Awkward, achingly difficult to watch, but really outstanding. No trite feel-good resolution here, just a voyeuristic study of the darkness that oozes from the heart of man.


                
Louis CK is a master at creating his own stuff that sells on his own website. Not many other people could pull that off.The first episode of Horace & Pete (and as I'm writing this, the 2nd will be released in a few hours), was emailed to customers on his email-list, but with only a price tag of $5 - and nothing more! We didn't know what to expect. Or, actually, of course everyone expected an episode similar to Louis, or maybe a stand-up special.Horace & Pete is neither of these things.What strikes you first is the set, very similar to Cheers. Even some of the camera-angles are the same. Second, the cast. Steve Buscemi, Alan Alda, Jessica Lange - and that's only the top. The cast goes on.Buscemi and Alda are perfectly cast. So perfectly cast that Louis himself seems awkwardly out of place. Alda also has the best lines, and it is with his barrages of unpleasant, misogynous and racist dialogue that Louis CK's script really shines. You can see that those parts were the easy parts for Louis CK to write.The DRAMA though - and this is what strikes you, third - is good, but balances on a fine line of becoming either a bit boring, or a bit too over-the-top. BUT it is the first episode, AND it is Louis CK, so you can forgive this. Easily. Because it never dips into the pretentiousness that it could've with a less experienced writer and director.Impressivly, this production is made by Louis CK himself. Financing, directing, writing, producing - even distributing! That also means that the product has some technical flaws. The worst one being sound! Please oh please, Louis - clean up the sound! This is filmed theater, and as such it's great - but we still need a perfect product. This is the hardest part to forgive - but I do know how extremely difficult this type of sound is. It will hopefully, and probably, be better in the later episodes.Editing is also a bit jumpy in some parts, and too lengthy in others, but the type of product this is means that we don't mind. But prepare yourself for a slow moving drama-comedy. This is not Louis, this is not a one-hour-special, this is something Louis CK never really done before. It IS different. And with all the cool action-packed nudeness TV-series with chaotic violence ála Gotham, Black Sails and Game of Thrones - Horace and Pete sticks out like a 60s dramedy.To be able to be part of this is amazing. Don't stop Louis CK! All your fans are eagerly awaiting the next episode.
Maybe this show isn't for everyone but I think it is the most refreshing and truly artist show I have seen since Curb your Enthusiasm. The style has a strong voice, the writing is out of this world, and the characters are real. You get an amazing transfusion of writing and acting through intense character tirades that sort of get interrupted or unresolved and that cut off feeling creates realism. It also allows for an open ended discussion that seems to be a theme in the show. This show gets deemed as dark but the heavy content and openness makes it strangely comforting. Great writing,great cast, and all around its just great.


                
A slow-paced show about a family bar, the family that runs it and the conversations the customers have in the bar. Sounds just like another show in a bar but it was written and directed by Louie C.K. So there is dark humor of course and the conversations are all about controversial topics. The conversations have such a unique point of view but not so unique at the same time. So most people talk against stereotyping, but in this show Louie C.K writes dialogues expressing so clearly and honestly the conflicts we have in our head about different stereotypes and that was something I absolutely loved about the show. Personally I feel a lot of us don't address these conflicts because the world is evolving and so should our thoughts. Horace and Pete is a very very well-written show and the actors have all done such a wonderful job.


                
Nothing is more honest than this show. Life is full of ups and downs, and sometimes, a lot of downs. And sometimes the downs just keep coming. And sometimes, a lot of the time, they transverse through generations. And sometimes the downs are thrown unknowingly and subconsciously onto others, and thus the cycle and domino effect continues. Horace and Pete shows this so simply and beautifully. Well done. Well fking done.Like a lot of the reviews are saying, it is very up to date on its dialogue. Some I thought to be amazing, some, not so much. But overall it was true to what might be and probably is being brought up in a lot of bars across America today. Thank you for doing something so honest and out there. I'm sick of shows pretending things are so fking amazing or glorifying the drama of life. This show did neither, so thank you.


                
Just finished watching the show. I seriously can't remember the last time, if ever, I had fallen so perfectly, hopelessly and unashamedly in love with the TV show. And I shall not excuse Louis C.K. for making me feel like that. I seriously can't recall when in the recent, or even not so recent past, a TV show was so entirely, absolutely and freshly written that the modified classifications of comedy shows one had watched over the years- for as long as memory could be awakened back in time- had suddenly begun to seem not just obsolete but downright wrong and offensive. And I seriously can't appreciate Louis C.K enough for that. Can't recollect when last, the hyphenated words, 'author- backed', when used for a show performance, had been justified so fully and considerably by an actor who stupefied you by actually making you believe that he wasn't acting at all. And, once again, I can't pardon Louis C.K for fooling me like that. And, finally, can't seem to point out when was it last that a TV show could be just about one writer, one actor, one performer, and yet catch you by the veins and force you to search, with a sense of awkwardness, for a little of awkwardness lurking within you. Or, a lot of insecurities, raging without.


                
