This is quite frankly an astonishing film. One that fills your entire array of senses and sensitivities, and the praise from Argentine reviewers here is 100 percent justified. Ricardo Darín turns in another majestic performance as a Buenos Aires court employee who is fiercely affected by the rape and murder of a young girl in 1974, a tragedy that dominates his life. Overlapping this theme is the powerfully sensual but never physical relationship between Darín and his superior, the investigating judge played by the superb Soledad Villamil. The connection between the two is electric. It's a pity this film cannot easily transcend the language barrier, if it was an English-language film of the same quality it would already be hailed as a masterpiece. The blending of tragedy, love, violence and humour is brilliant, and the comedy dialogue fantastic. One scene where Ricardo Darín is balled out for having searched an old lady's house is priceless in terms of comic timing and delivery. A wonderful performance also from Guillermo Francella as the court clerk with a drinking problem, in fact the secondary acting is all first-class. The camera-work is impressive, especially the swoop down into the football stadium and the closeups, and the script is also superb. Argentina has nominated the film as its candidate for best foreign film at the Oscar's, it deserves to walk it.
Simply put, this is one of the finest films I've ever seen. I don't say that lightly, I don't exaggerate when it comes to talking about movies -- but everything about this one, from the acting to the writing, to the camera work, to the directorial decisions, is grade A. The story deals with deep matters, and it does so one step at a time, with a plot that moves steadily forward, gathering force, substance and intensity, not settling for easy answers or plot points, not cutting corners. The characters are complicated, interesting, believable, flawed, funny, tragic and deeply human.I prefer not to get specific about what happens -- I mostly want to try to get across the quality of this bugger. So I'll say it again: it's one of the best films I've ever seen, as good as anything out there. If there's any justice, a lot of people will see it.


                
This is it. A film that you can't get your eyes off until lights are back on... and then it's still difficult to stand up. A thriller, with lovable main characters, that makes you smile and think. A movie about a crime and a love. It has one of best chase scenes I've ever seen, involving what seems to be real complex camera work, something that could've been part of a Lord of the Rings movie maybe (at least that is what it looked like from my seat). Simply amazing. The acting is perfect. The pace is perfect. The ending couldn't be better (and we have seen so many great films that spoil it all at the end!).Just go see it and enjoy what cinema should always be. It's a 10 out of 10.


                
I am a big movie aficionado and watch a lot of movies. I guess you can say movies are my passion. After watching The Secret in their Eyes, though I confess I had my reservations as the movie was in a foreign language and I felt I won't be able to enjoy much as the real emotions and feelings mostly can't be conveyed in translations. Thus with such thoughts I proceeded to watch the movie. Initially, the plot and the character build up seemed nothing out of the ordinary but then gradually as the movie progressed it held me in rapt attention.Then it was simply impossible to let go, I was entirely swathed in this marvelous and sublime creation. The story line, the direction,the acting, editing, background music etc. simply sublime. This is the kind of movie which mesmerizes you, captivates you and simply won't let go. The human emotions expressed and portrayed are bound to touch the viewer regardless of the region he belongs to. This is the kind of movie which exemplifies that cinema has no boundaries and has an universal appeal. A must see for all movie aficionados and movie well deserving the Oscar.This movie ought to go in Top 250 movies of all times and Hall of fame.


                
I agree with SanFava. I am a follower of Campanella's and Darin. I have seen all previous three films. However, this one surpasses them all!. This is a great script, top-notch acting by everyone, partly thanks to the excellent casting. Superb cinematography. The film basically explores what "passion" is to the human being. A great passion (on various areas) is involved in almost all characters. You have suspense, a clever detective story, some surprising twists, etc. Darin has an "aura" (paraphrasing the the title of the film he worked in, "The Aura") that illuminates the whole screen. His presence is as powerful in the screen as that of Gene Hackman, Pacino, DeNiro or Hoffman (the top, great ones). I sincerely hope this movie gets his due awards (Oscar included), because it deserves so!).


                
Wow what a great movie really! It began like a simple crime story but the wonderful use of subjects, symbols and strong references turned it in to a masterpiece. Details about Eva Peron's Argentina and questioning of the terms of law and justice. My interest is increasing for Latin American Cinema when I watch such beautiful works. By the way I watched this movie in It's original language. Subtitles were translated into English. I think by using "Google Translate" which sucks. But I had to use it cause there was not any subtitle in my native language yet. Despite all these problems, it was so impressive. You shall see it at once!


                
I can't add a lot to what has been written. The direction and cinematography aside (which is magnificent), this is an incredible psychological study, involving a group of the most complex of characters. Esposito finds himself in love with two people: the woman who was once his boss and because of inaction, left him heartbroken, and, secondly, a beautiful young rape/murder victim. Over a twenty-five year period, these forces never leave him. The rapist is his Moby Dick to his Captain Ahab. Since we don't see a lot of what happens in the intervening time, we must wonder how empty and fruitless his life has been until he has his epiphany. Mixed in all this are the politics of Argentina and the vengeance of a horrible man. Also, in the middle is the messed friend, an alcoholic, who can be a true talent, but is submerged in his problems, spending his time in bars. If we look to literature we might consider him the Sydney Carton of this film. When you see what happens to him, you will see why I choose this character as a reference. This is one of the finest films I've ever seen. It has it all.


                
To get the big picture before beginning this piece, I did a quick sweep of previous reviews and immediately had to ask myself: why does the same film generate such passionate applause on the one hand, and such punishing comments on the other? I suppose it goes back to the question of "sus ojos" (your eyes). Those looking for an American style murder mystery or a boy-meets-girl, loses-girl, finds-girl romance may in fact have their eyes closed to some important possibilities. But those willing to see film as a novel have an experience to look forward to an experience that satisfies and enlightens on every level."Sus Ojos" is a multilayered film that, like the work of Dostoevsky, makes us totally vested in the lives of its characters while exploring universal themes that can resonate with all of us. There are two major threads here that are worth close examination: the first is the unrequited passion that the intelligent and humane legal affairs clerk Benjamin Esposito feels for his well-bred supervisor, the beautiful, distant and self possessed Superior Court judge Irene Menendez. Having only completed high school, he has convinced himself he has nothing to offer her. In fact, his life is comparable to the clunky typewriter he has been given, with the defective "a" that always pops up as a capital letter: flawed; just not good enough. Esposito is held back by his self-doubt to the extent that, 25 years after the relationship begins, as he tries to start a novel based on an unresolved murder case, the prompt he uses to remove writer's block is "TEMO"--I fear. Yet he is not a true coward: he simply, like any blocked writer, doesn't know how to reach his goals--both the completion of the novel and true connection with Irene.The second theme, one that is strategically intertwined with the first, is the murder case itself. Soon into the film it becomes apparent that Esposito's inability to resolve the rape and stabbing of a beautiful, 23-year-old school teacher--that is, to bring the murderer to full justice--represents his de facto impotence in bringing his relationship with Irene into reality. And on an immediate level,too, his obsession with the case makes perfect sense. Empathetic and perceptive to begin with--who else would continue to give support to an alcoholic friend, as Esposito does--he wants to bring justice to the dead girl and some element of resolution to her traumatized husband. Soon we are intrigued by the growing relationships between not only Irene and Esposito, but between Benjamin and his friend, who disparages him to barfly friends; Esposito and the husband, who insists that life in prison is the only acceptable punishment for the murderer; Esposito and the murder suspect; the murder suspect and Irene, revealing a toughness and ingenuity we hadn't seen before; and ultimately, the husband and the killer. And it is when Esposito sees that the final resolution is left to the husband that he is free to move on with his life. A simple act brings the decision to life: he suddenly realizes that by putting his "defective" letter A into the word "TEMO", he will end up with "teAmo"--I love you: the declaration he must make--the action he must take--in order to go forward and leave the past behind.Visual motifs keep the viewer connected and grounded throughout the film but placed to appear to be a natural artifact of the story telling. The most obvious one is the door image, used in promotional posters for the film. The judge's chamber door consistently is kept open or closed, depending on her relationship with those who enter. Esposito, attempting to put the final piece of a 25-year old puzzle into place, must wait for the husband to leave his house and enter a secret door. In the same way, secrets are hidden or revealed throughout the movie by means of doors large and small, obvious or subtle. A second motif is the train image, showing arrivals and departures, journeys and moving on from situations that cannot be resolved. Esposito, his life threatened by associates of the murderer, must take the train to a new town, leaving behind a regretful, running, Irene. The husband tells about murdering the suspect,the roar of a passing train disguising the sound of gunshots. A third, of course, is the eye, seen open and waiting in Esposito in the beginning shots--this is the eye of a person open to experience. The dead girls' eyes must be physically closed by an attending police officer. Esposito feels deep connection to her husband, citing the love for the lost wife seen in his eyes. A fourth is the interplay of columns at the department of justice--seen top down or bottom up--representing the aloof justice system, corruption and bureaucracy of the Argentian course system that prevents justice from taking place.This film has it all under the accomplished hand of director Jose Campanella. Acting is up there:Ricardo Darin as Esposito, Soledad Villamil as Irene, and Pablo Rago as the friend are equally affecting. Then again there are the strong story lines; thematic development; pitch-perfect cinematography (the chase seen through an enormous soccer stadium is as believable as they come); and even touches of humor, developed through perfectly synchronized dialogue. Is there a happy ending? Well, as both Esposito and Irene tell each other at the end--and as we see in the best loved novels--"it's complicated."
Well..I don't write reviews. I often vote for the movies I watch, but usually not jump in to reviews, and I have to mention that I don't understand Spanish, I watched it using subtitles with original language spoken (which I don't like at all, but just watched it anyway because it had some good ratings here) I'm writing this because this one deserves it.Just watched it. From the very beginning I forgot that I can't understand a single word they speaking. The movie glued me into it so that I can't get my eyes out of it. At first, I thought its a same old story a person looking for his wife's murderer 30 years later. Sooner the movie turned in to a masterpiece by attaching romance, humour and mystery/thriller into it.The plot is well executed, casting was excellent, camera angles were directed 100% accurately to express the sadness, humor, fear and romance of different situations of characters. Every single frame constructed towards the final decision of the movie, as in missing a frame would result in a loss of information, and I think that final result beats the endings of Shawshank Redemption, The Usual Suspects which I liked most. Also I think this still underrated at 8.5.If you still didn't watch it due to the language problem or any other concern, please watch it immediately. It's an excellent piece of art!


                
OK, frankly, I didn't expect much of this.I'm not familiar with Argentinian cinema, so this was my first acquaintance with director, writer and actors.Boy, what a surprise this movie made. It's beautifully filmed, it has lovely slow parts where director and actors narrate emotions through silence, this feature is almost vanquished from modern cinema where any frame that doesn't contain action is considered boring.I thoroughly enjoyed directing, but acting left me pining for Spanish classes. Impressive portrayal of characters if self-evident, with Soledad Villamil's performance shining out as an example of true actress. Unfortunately, we Spanish-impaired people can only sense the beauty lying within spoken lines and rhythm of the language that subtitles just cannot convey. As for violence and nudity they are used in glimpses, not more than necessary and in meaningful places, I spent good part of the movie fearing that it must eventually get ruined with some trendy shocker effect. But it doesn't, it flows it's own way beautifully to the end.If one can use small court office and a rape case to tell a love story in such subtle and profound manner it leaves me wandering what Argentinian cinema has for us for the future. I'll jump on digging through it's past right away, and I hope anyone wondering if this movie is worth their time can be swayed to yes side by my humble recommendation.


                
Nothing, nothing in this movie did not surprise me.I expected not much, I tend to be overly critical when it comes to movies (Avatar made me yawn, The Silence of the Lambs wonder) and I'm very critical of foreign movies (meaning non-Hollywood), because they tend to be too dramatic. (Not that I have anything against drama, but most of the times it's just laughable over the top) This movie has great characters, a great story, and great directing. One of the few movies that combined all three in a masterwork. It was one of the few movies who described love and passion without getting clichéd.I don't want to spoiler anything, but I think I can give this movie a recommendation to anyone who cares about the art of cinema.


                
As an Argentinian i can affirm it, this is one of the best Argentinian movies ever.Ricardo Darin again makes a big film shot, taking his role on this great thriller movie, that mixes a little bit of fantasy and also true stories, all involved between a complex drama, with real life situations and complications.The story would simply keep you on hold until the last minute, it takes unpredicted twists even in the last half hour.Just a few thriller movies can keep your attention for so long as this movie does, even in Hollywood films is hard to find today a real great thriller that can get your eyes watching the movie all along.Also a great, unexpected, performance of Guillermo Franchella, keeping aside his usual roles as a simply comedian, to take an important play on this thriller-drama story.Truly recommended.Doesn't matter if you knew the Argentinian history of the time (on which the movie is based) or not, you'll truly enjoy it from the beginning to the end.
Everything about this film reeks of class. From the perfectly underplayed emotions of the main characters to the storyline to the cinematography,it's just beautiful.Rarely are films this well done,and it's just so refreshing to see something made for the senses,that sparks them all so well into life.You'll feel exactly as the director/D.O.P/and producer intended for you to feel.Just watch it,revel in it,adore it and tell all your friends to watch it.Happily the best two hours I've spent in the company of celluloid in as long as I can remember.


                
El Secreto de sus Ojos is a great film. If you examine the filmography of the director, Jean Jose Campanella, you can see that all his years directing TV in Hollywood has taught him the craft of classic Hollywood style on a high level. But the movie is authentically Argentinian, both in style and in content. Ricardo Darin and Soledad Villamil are both deeply familiar actors in Argentina, and the romantic melodrama is quite typical, but the tautness of the suspense and the intelligent plot twists bring out the best in both actors, as well as an amazing supporting cast. And I loved the portrayal of politics. Without giving any more away, the scene in the elevator is one of the most effective portrayals of what fascism really feels like.I'm sure Campanella's Hollywood contacts didn't hurt, and that the movie was done in a pretty standard style (note the tour-de-force long shot in the stadium!), but this is a great movie by any standard.
Not often I come to an IMDb review page and think what can I possibly add to all the comments that came before? The movie is staggering in its ability to engage and while engaging to constantly fiddle with the expectations of the viewer. It is the rarest of movies, a slow movie that is never boring and one you never want it to end.I want to ask aloud why Hollywood feels the psychotic compulsion to remake every decent foreign film whether it needs remaking or not? I remember that one of the best horror films I have ever seen was about an undead girl in a climate so cold that the thought of living there was scarier than the story (LET ME IN.) It was a foreign film and the Hollywood remake took place in ... Mexico.Some people will never get it.Highly recommended. But you already knew that.


                
This is a wonderful, wonderful movie! Easily the best movie I've seen this year. The German's 'white ribbon' was unwatchable. (one of the worst foreign films Oscar nominees I've seen, over-hyped and so undeserving). French's 'A prophet' is good. But it's like a 'prison break' meets the 'God Father'. I can't say it's too original and some part of it was just not very interesting. But this one is outstanding. It's bitter-sweet and masterfully done. it's one of those movies leave you speechless in silence after the end credits. I highly recommended to everyone who loves movies with a great depth.


                
It's a thriller. It's a love story. It's a puzzle movie. It's It's an acting tour de force. It's spectacular cinematography.It's a masterpiece.Going in, all I knew is that it was a highly regarded film from Argentina that won an Oscar. I know zip about Argentine cinema, but it's hard to believe a better movie has ever been made there.One thing Americans should know is that this "foreign film with subtitles" is in no way, shape or form an "art movie" loaded with ambiguity and other hoity toity stuff like that. This movie is the work of a master craftsman director working off a brilliant and intricate thriller script.The narrative unfolds in interspersed scenes involving the same people, but 25 years apart. It's the same actors and characters, but youthful in some scenes and with wrinkles and gray hair in others.The plot turns on the aftermath of a brutal rape and murder of a beautiful young wife. Front and center throughout the movie are Benjamin, the passionate young investigator for whom this particular case is one he cannot set aside, and Irene, his colleague (it was a little unclear to an American what their professional relationship was) who clearly is drawn to his passion and has feelings for him, even though she is engaged to someone else (offscreen).Two shots must be discussed. First, there's THE shot. Anyone who has seen it will know exactly what I mean. It's a one-take (seemingly, but not really — it would be impossible without CGI) tracking shot involving a chase in a packed soccer stadium. The second much-discussed shot is only about a minute long and happens in an elevator, but you will not breathe during that incredibly tense minute.Lots of credit goes to the secondary actors, who portray a law clerk with a drinking problem, the perpetrator of the crime, a hapless intern, a weaselly judge and the devastated husband of the victim.The ending is an elegantly shown series of reveals. The next-to-last sequence totally screws with your mind. I kid you not, it's a shocker and it comes out of nowhere. Then comes the grand finale with Benjamin and Irene in the touching end scene.You will leave the theater simultaneously with a chill down your spine and a lump in your throat.


                
This is a response to the commentaries of dardo (sorry about my poor English). What you see in the movie is exactly what it is: You can spot a fan because fans of a football team or hooligans, when their team plays as visitor in another team's stadium, the visitor's fans have a sector assigned ( up, in one of the sides), therefore it was enough to look for the assassin in that sector alone, and not in the whole stadium. The players' commentaries of Racing which appear in the letters, belong to old times football players, of whom Gomez was a fan when he was a teen-ager. It would not be surprising that he was commenting on any alternative of a game with his mother which they could have just watched, and that had been discussed with the rest of the family, for instance, in which case, she knew exactly what he was talking about when he was recalling this or that football player.The mind of a rapist and murderer, is not the one of a normal person. There are thousands of examples of people who ended up confessing crimes to demonstrate their value or bravery. The Simpons are a caricature of real life situations because millonaires, drunks, corrupt politicians or whatever, do exist.And at last, the insulting dialog that you refer between Esposito and Romano, is not exactly what they say. Romano never says the word "ass" (it's only suggested) and Espósito never says "first" (It's a word game between "to rub" and "to put"). Insulting each other never has a real meaning, but the dialog is more sophisticated than what you tell. Translation problems.In my opinion, the captures, scenes, the love story that undergoes the whole movie, a different plot and more than one very out-standing performance makes this movie a remarkable film. IMO.It's a 10.
In the last Oscar celebration when we lose the gold little man statue in foreign language categories for this movie -before I see this masterpiece- We all feel sad here in Israel- although we all know Kubati the "AjAMI" movie director is a amateur student only, nevertheless we hope -but now i understand why...this movie deserve 3 Oscar nomination and is better than " Ajami" Thousand time. One of the perfect and touching movie i see for years. all my applaus for the Argentinian team and movie industry for this remarkable beautiful movie! I see the movie 3 times now -and every time a find something new I discover in this intelligent puzzler,or in the brilliant dialogue between all the characters.


                
This is one of the best movies I've seen in the last 10 years. It is intelligent and crafted to perfection. It also stays two steps in front of the audience trying to guess what is going to happen next.By the looks of it, Argentina is producing movies that are at par with the best of the best.One only has to see Las nueve reinas and El secreto de sus ojos to appreciate first rate cinema.One thing that has surprised me is the lack of reviews from mainstream press in the USA. This movie is better than anything Hollywood has put out in the last 5 years. F


                
I had heard such rave reviews of this film from my friends and colleagues that I just had to watch it, and I'm glad that I did. What an exquisite piece of work. I loved the cinematography and the casting was perfect. Darin and Villamil, as well as the supporting actors, delivered outstanding performances--so believable and touching. Took a bit to get into this movie, but once into it, I became immersed. Afterwards, I couldn't get the movie out of my mind. Really stayed with me. What I originally thought of as slow was simply a steady build up to the movie climax. Nicely done. Intriguing. The romantic storyline didn't do anything for me (and I found it implausible) but the detective/suspense part was awesome. Not sure if I want to see the recent re-make because it might ruin this version of the story for me.


                
If you want to understand what this movie is about you need to ask yourself why the movie ends the way it does. One may think this is a crime movie, other may think this is a love story. I lived in that Society and I believe it is much more than that. The movie traps you right from the beginning, but the end is so logical that, even if it made me feel sad for the implications, I had no words to express the feeling that the logical conclusion produced on my person. There is a message in what the spectator sees at the end. If you think this movie is a thriller or a love story is because you did not understand it. When you understand the logic behind it then you realize the greatness of this movie. Some people may think it is about past times in Argentina. At least this was what my brother, who had recommended me the movie, told me when I asked him why he had enjoyed the movie. I felt sorry at the end because, it is not about the past, it also embraces the present.


                
It took me three years to finally watch this movie. It was in Spanish, and it was always easier to watch a silly blockbuster or some series when coming back from work, so I always waited it out. I am glad I did not wait any longer. As other reviewers noticed, it is hard to find flaws in the movie, from the beautiful story, nice camera work and great acting to the painfully emotional feel and the depiction of Argentinian corrupt justice system.The film is slow paced, but building strength with every scene. The characters are complex, the situation is complicated and real. There are no useless plot devices, gratuitous violence or nudity, no ridiculously moral or powerful or lucky or beautiful people. No pointless Spanish cursing and over-dramatic scenes. It's painfully real for its whole length and, even if the ending is pretty intense, you get there in a smooth curve.Bottom line: if this is the film, I really wonder how good the book was. The movie was perfect for me and I can't recommend enough watching it. It deals with love, pain, obsession, helplessness and retribution is a way few films ever succeed or even dare.


                
THE movie: Drama, action, love, suspense, an amazing scene at the perfect moment, and more, all balanced and part of one story. And even if this is not the best movie that you watched, it shows that with some (a lot) of creativity you don't need to gather a big budget to make an award winning film. The stadium shot is for the history books.... and again brought into the movie at the perfect time, in synchrony with the ongoing plot.If you enjoy movies like Rambo or American pie (or if you had trouble understanding those), then this might not be your movie. If you want some depth, thoughts, emotions, and a meaningful topic of conversation/discussion after the movie, then this is your movie.Bill San Diego.
Actually, I don't watch Argentinian movies very often. Some of them are very good (Like Son of the bride), but in the majority are pretty bad. But I read some positive reviewers about this movie (El secreto de sus ojos) and I decided to watch this masterpiece. I watched it in Spanish, because I understand this language pretty good. They talked very fast, but the Argentinian accent sounds like that. I enjoyed all the movie. In the first minutes I wasn't convinced about the story of the movie. But after a while every piece of the story was in the right place and I could follow all the story to the end. It's special, non-Hollywood. It makes you think about what life really is. The actors were very good in their roles, special Darin and Francella. Funny, enjoyable, very deep. An excellent masterpiece!


                
