THIS MOVIE IS NOT A MYSTERY OR A SUSPENSE THRILLER. This movie is more of a drama. I was expecting the movie to be a thriller/mystery. It was a bit boring after an hour or so. I didn't like the movie that much. Actors did a good job. I was expecting a huge twist towards the end, but the twist was not at all thrilling. Surprisingly, the ratings were very high, but the movie is dull. There is only one thrilling moment in the entire movie. The beginning of the movie was great, but after first half hour, the movie goes at snail pace. It was kinda predictable too. I would give the movie a maximum rating of 4/10. The rating is 4 because I liked the performances of the lead characters. Otherwise, I would have given a 2/10. If you are expecting a suspense mystery movie, THIS IS NOT ONE. You can safely escape it.


                
Some of the best movies I've ever seen came from Argentina, but the more like American movies they become the less interesting they become. Maybe this one was made with winning an Oscar in mind, to please Hollywood audiences, and that's why it's so superficial and annoying and predictable - and popular.The hallmark of an American movie is good-guys-versus-bad-guys melodrama, in which the bad guys are REALLY BAD and the good guys are REALLY GOOD; the bad guys win at first so we get all indignant and outraged, and then the advantage lurches back and forth between good and bad a few times before finally the good guys win, the good guy who's not good enough for the girl wins her heart anyway, and they ride off into the sunset together holding hands. That's been the Hollywood formula for more than a hundred years, and it's The Secret in Their Eyes in a nutshell.This sleek, glossy, superficial movie could just as easily have been made in Hollywood with George Clooney and Julia Roberts (no... she's too old: whoever the latest Julia Roberts is) - and maybe it will be. They can do better than this in Argentina, but (as with movie makers the world over) less money nearly always makes a better movie. I'll just toss this one on the pile with Avatar and watch Plan B or Burnt Money again.
I've rarely felt so strongly about my opinion (opinions are like belly buttons, everyone has one). France's THE PROPHET should have been a front runner for the Best Picture Oscar, not just the best Foreign Film. Germany's THE WHITE RIBBON is a great film. TSITE is, at best, a mediocre made-for-TV movie. That TSITE beat out, among other films THE PROPHET and THE WHITE RIBBON for the 2009 Foreign Film Oscar is yet another shame upon the Academy (add to MOONSTRUCK and DRIVING MISS DAISY).TSITE is a plodding melodrama packaged as a crime drama. Its two hour length is padded with inconsequential banter among its main characters. It is chock full of awkward, incredible plot devises: Hero "discovers" killer in group photos; killer bated into confession; killer appears in elevator with hero, etc. Not only is it not in the same league with THE PROPHET or THE WHITE RIBBON, it is not even a good film! JUST BECAUSE ITS FOREIGN DOES NOT MEAN IT IS NOT JUNK.If THE PROPHET had been beaten out for the best Foreign Film Oscar by THE WHITE RIBBON, I'd be in disagreement but would also be at peace. For one, its tough to compare an apple and an orange; e.g., whether one is more "orangey" or "applely" can be debated forever. On the other hand, TSITE is full of useless and/or protracted scenes and dialog, tired storyline and subplots, cardboard characters and, especially, contrived sentiment.Life is unfair as is. TSITE's Oscar is a tragedy.
