"El Secreto de sus Ojos" hit me with unspeakable strength. I didn't expect to like it so much, so I owe a review to those in analysis measures before seeing it or those interested in some opinion.First off, Campanella works with flawless effort all of the technical aspects of the film. It even starts with a double exposure effect, mixed with some sad shots of a beautiful Buenos Aires that hints the spectacle ahead of us. One shot especially, from a chopper in a soccer field edited with a crane shot is breathtaking. Nothing to envy from Hollywood upper class.But the main strength of the movie comes from the powerful narrative dominion Director Campanella has over characters, spaces and silences. Many moments are coldly tense, scary and very, very intense. This crossover from genres by Campanella couldn't have been better. Crime stories often fall in common places, this one relies on the fragile psychological state of the audience to draw all of it's intense dialog, acting and scenes.I cannot stop recommending it, Argentina can open it's market with movies such as this. It has many, many memorable moments, it interwines comedy perfectly and it is doubtful you will instantly forget it, as it is so well constructed. See it if you can!


                
When Juan Jose Campanella is not directing episodes of Law and Order, CSI or the like, he periodically returns to Argentina make a movie. In this case he directed and co-wrote the screenplay of The Secret in Their Eyes. Thus far it is the most successful movie in Argentina in the past thirty-five years and now in just few days after we saw it, we will find out if this Academy Award nominated movie for the Best Foreign Film will win an Oscar. It reminds us of the French movie, Tell No One, one of our all time favorites, as it is also a sophisticated detective story with an easy flowing but yet a complicated plot that keeps you thinking and guessing throughout the story. It is in Spanish, of course, with good subtitles. This movie is not only a mystery, crime movie but it is also a subtle romantic film which is has very good comedic moments. There is the use of a narrative technique that allows you to see the story through the imagination and the memory of the main character Benjamin Esposito played by well-known Argentine actor Ricardo Darin. There are skillfully done movements, which go back and forth in time as well as shifting the point of view, which on a few occasions took a few moments for us to orient ourselves. The acting, directing and photography were superb with great realism and therefore it surprised us to learn that the budget was only two million dollars. As required for all good movies of this genre, there is a strong ending, which will hold your interest and encourage further reflection.


                
A retired investigator, Benjamin Esposito, from a criminal court in Buenos Aires, decides to write about a case that has haunted him since the days he was assigned to cover the crime. In putting his thoughts in paper, he realizes the case is still unresolved. What's more, he is more involved now, than he was back then. For that he must go back and speak to Irene, the district attorney, under whose office he worked. Irene, he realizes, is the woman he has never forgotten in spite of being apart for so many years.The crime in question involved a beautiful newlywed woman found raped and stabbed to death in her apartment. Benjamin and the other investigator, Pablo Sandoval, try to gather as much information about the circumstances that triggered the murder. Both men are hindered by an elusive killer whose only, and possible identity, is a photograph that the investigators find in an album they get from the husband of the victim, Ricardo Morales. The thing that sparked their suspicion is Isidoro Gomez who appears in a couple of pictures almost adoring the dead woman, who obviously, he couldn't have. Benjamin is a self made man. He came from humble origins, in contrast to Irene Menendez Hastings, a girl from money and privilege. In a class conscious society like Argentina, their possible involvement would have been nil. Yet, one can see how Irene gets under Benjamin's skin. Their attraction is mutual, but it will never happen. She, too, is aware of the way he feels, but ultimately, decorum prevails. After all, Irene is about to marry a society man. The pursuit of Isidoro Gomez doesn't go anywhere. Pablo Sandoval's drinking friends crack the code about Isidoro Gomez's love for a soccer team, the Racing of Avellaneda. The suspect, who proves to be a master in the way he can outrun Benjamin and Pablo, is followed to his favorite place, the soccer stadium. When they finally catch up with the suspect, someone well connected with the government of then president Isabel Peron, bails him out. It was clear they had no chance in ever catching the assassin. Benjamin, in frustration leaves his post after his partner Pablo Sandoval is killed, a death that was meant for him.Years later, Benjamin returns to Buenos Aires and goes back to Irene with the notes he has written. Irene, now married with children, realizes whatever they felt about one another, never having said a word, is now stronger than ever. Benjamin gets lucky when he decides to pay a surprise visit to Ricardo Morales, the widower of the slain woman. When Benjamin finds him at a remote place in the country, he is for an unexpected surprise.Juan Jose Campanella is one of Argentina's best directors. Working with Eduardo Sacheri, and his novel, "La pregunta de sus ojos", the director struck gold. The film can be a bit disorienting for people without much knowledge of Argentine history that is at the center of the story. Most of the action takes place in the Buenos Aires of 1974, when the corrupt government of Peron's widow Isabel, was in power. One can relate to the way the story of those years work well with what the creators wanted to present. With the presence of Ricardo Darin and Soledad Villamil the director had it made. Both are excellent actors who will enhance any film in which they appear. They both shine as Benjamin and Irene. But it is with the supporting players that Mr. Campanella achieve greatness. Guillermo Francella, who plays Pablo Sandoval does an amazing job. As he proved with "Rudo y Cursi", Mr. Francella steals the film from the principals any time he is seen. Pablo Rago, is brilliant in the way he approaches his role as the husband of the assassinated wife and whose life ended on the tragic day she was killed.Felix Monti's atmospheric cinematography works well, capturing that bygone era. So does the fine musical score by Fererico Jusid and Emilio Kauderer. This is another triumph for Juan Jose Campanella.
Perceptible drama with suspense filmed with sensitivity and feeling. The story, set in 1999, is told in flashback way : in June 1974 a Justice Officer , Benjamín Espósito (Ricardo Darin), becomes entangled in the investigation of the crime of an ill-fated wife named Liliana , cruelly raped and killed inside her home in a Buenos Aires neighborhood. Her widowed husband named Ricardo Morales (Pablo Rago), is shocked by the crime ; Espósito promises to find the murderous and bring him to justice. Benjamin is helped by his drunk assistant Pablo Sandoval and a newcomer, the upper class Secretary of Court named Irene Hastings (Soledad Villamil) who is hired at the Criminal Court . Despite the department already having two other suspects Benjamin seeks tips off . Espósito's rivaling partner Romano pins the killing on two immigrant employees so as to get rid of the case , an issue that infuriates Espósito, hitting Romano in a fury. He finds a track while seeing some photos provided by Morales: he comes across a strange young man identified as Isidoro Gomez(Javier Godino) who watch the victim in a rare manner in various pictures. Espósito investigates the whereabouts of Gómez, and learns that he is residing in Buenos Aires, but fails to chase him. Espósito and Sandoval break into Gómez' household in an illegal entrance and take some letters that lead a clue about his liking to Racing Club . The other issue is that Gómez is still at large, and they set out in pursuit . Meanwhile Benjamin Esposito is writing a novel, using the matter as the source material. Benjamin was personally affected by the case as he tracked the killer, hence the reason why the unsatisfactory ending to the case has always bothered him. This sensitive tale contains intrigue , tension , drama, and an enjoyable love story . It's a brilliant and touching film though sometimes is slow moving and tiring but is developed with intelligence and sensibility. In the picture are treated ethic and moral themes narrated with great sense of fairness and ductility . Marvelous relationship between two main starring , they are frankly wonderful . Very good interpretation from Ricardo Darin as impulsive Justice Federal Agent who embittered by unsatisfactory ending to the case will have to face the traumatic truth and special mention an awesome Soledad Villamil as intelligent and wise chief department . It's impossible to escape to spell of the Argentinian movie star Ricardo Darín. Not only is he continually employed but whichever body chooses Argentina's Oscar submission each year has a huge crush. Darin's the star of their 2001 nominee Son of the Bride and this 2009 winner The Secret in Their Eyes and he's also principle cast in their submission titles that weren't nominated from 2002 (Kamchatka), 2005 (El Aura) and 2007 (Xxy) . The motion picture was stunningly directed by Juan Jose Campanela and deservedly prized with Oscar winner for the best foreigner film . He's a good Argentinian writer and director as Television as ¨Law and Order¨, ¨ Winds of water ¨,as cinema as ¨The Avellaneda's moon ¨, ¨Same love same rain¨, ¨Son of the bride¨ again with his fetish actor Ricardo Darin . Rating : Above average , well worth seeing . This a good-feeling movie full of intrigue , drama , tension , and agreeable message . Essential and indispensable watching .


                
This is a memorable and good movie, proving strength of Argentinian cinema.While the movie is great on so many levels, some details of the plot are not so believable. However, strong delivery makes this not so important. It is atmospheric peace, that shows you some Argentinian culture and problems. However, it is also a powerful examination of justice in a dysfunctional system, has many memorable moments as a great movie would. So it can be forgiven its imperfections. By any means it is a refreshing and original movie, somewhat subtle which is what is the main advantage of such films over Hollywood industrial product.


                
I came up to watch this film after its Oscar award as best foreign language film. Although it starts like a crime movie, slowly it becomes into a love story, when we see its development through the eyes of Benjamin Esposito, the former legal counselor, who tries to solve a long ago murder.What I liked about this story is its reliability portrayed from the 70's - when being a critic of the government was considered a reason to be prosecuted by the state- combined with two loved women stories that have lasted for 25 years. One lesson this movie gives us is "love can last longer than you think" and another is "even a forbidden love can even last longer". And it's precisely those lessons the key for Esposito to solve a crime long ago closed.


                
I just loved the concept of the movie. Even the acting the acting was to class but the concept behind the movie and portrayal just left me speechless. I do not understand the language and watched it with subtitles only but still I find this one much more worthy than other usual English or Hindi movies as the movie bounds you all the time. It does not let you get bored. The acting was good too it totally complements the storyline and the direction. I can not pick out any loose ends in this movie and would surely remind to everyone who wants to see a movie with a great storyline.PS : These are my personal opinions. You must watch the movie and write yours.


                
This film is about a man working in the Justice Department trying to find justice in a rape and murder case, even with lots of obstacles and after 25 years has passed."The Secret in Their Eyes" has a very well written plot. The story is told engagingly in an interwoven series of flashbacks and the present time, but it is never confusing. There are slow parts, and the constant dialog makes it hard for me to keep up with the subtitles. However, the plot is still told in an engaging manner, that makes viewers connect and sympathise with the characters' tragedy and the injustice behind it. The ending is very powerful, I find myself holding my breath for fear of missing any bit of information due to my breathing sound. It's that intense!


                
This is another good foreign thriller , one that could have been made by Hollywood ! The movie tells about the Morales case spread out over 25 years . We meet Benjamin Esposito who is a retired criminal investigator who decides to write a novel about the case , where a young girl was brutally raped and murdered . It sure isn't a movie about who has done it , in fact we already know that very early in the movie ; because of the flashbacks. The flashbacks tells us about the case when Benjamin was working on it . There is a constant degree of high performance acting in this movie especially Ricardo Darin ( EL AURA , NUEVE REINAS )who gives another solid performance . In fact this movie is more about the people who get left behind when someone we love dies . It's about loss , dozens of memories and bittersweet revenge . Oh and another thing ..... with such a powerful ending of the movie we learn another thing about the cruel nature of us human beings . There are a few thrillers that get a high rating from me , in fact the only thriller that i gave a high rating this year was SHUTTER ISLAND from Martin Scorsese , now i have found another one ..... It really deserves every point that i'm giving it . 8 / 10 .
Even though I almost don't understand any Spanish and I had to read the English subtitles that are not really my language either it was a remarkable good movie. I had to adapt a little bit in the beginning because it all goes so fast but once you are in the story you get sucked into it. It's a long movie but it doesn't matter because the story stays good until the end. The end is even better then the beginning. The whole mystery about the murderer/rapist keeps you alert and the side love-story between Irene Menéndez Hastings (played by Soledad Villamil) and Benjamín Esposito (played by Ricardo Darín) gives the movie even more drama. Beautifully played by both of them by the way. Very nice filming and acting. I will certainly watch it again in the future.


                
Ironically enough, the problem with non-Hollywoodian movies is that you never get to know them unless they win some kind of a top-notch 'Hollywoodian' award. I wonder how many other good non-American movies I've missed due to this monopolizing propaganda. The Secret in Their Eyes deservingly grabbed an Oscar for a Best Foreign Film in 2010. The story of the movie is a quite simple, yet deep, one that touches upon the fine line connecting a love story with a homicide. Both being unfinished, they linger about Counselor Benjamin Esposito's (Darin) life and haunt his memories keeping him stuck in the past. What is really peculiar about this movie is that it delves deep into the most private human emotions: love, passion, loyalty, faithfulness, vengeance.. etc. It is also about the unflinching power of unreconciled memories that can take hold of our lives and control our future.However, the film was not without shortcomings; the tempo was a little bit slow-paced and the events sometimes took some far-fetched turns. The cinematography and direction were outstanding, leaving you with some unforgettable scenes. Moreover, the screenplay was one of the wittiest I've ever seen. Without any exceptions whatsoever, and I totally mean it, the performance was epic! The cast did a great job bringing this heart-piercing story to life. A special kudos should go to Esposito's friend, Pablo Sandoval (Francella), for his smart, funny and witty Woody Allen-like performance.


                
I'm glad they called this "The Secret In Their Eyes" because the director, Campanella, has filled the film with close ups of the faces of people who are mostly lying or manipulative. Happily, he has abjured the usual sickening fads -- the wobbling camera, the instantaneous cuts, the desaturated ghoulish pallet, the revolver held sideways, the two-gun shoot out, the inappropriate wisecracks.Not that there aren't many exceedingly humorous moments sprinkled throughout the script, particularly in the first half. You have seen the detective too eager to solve the crime chewed out by his angry superior. Please don't trouble to deny it. You've seen it a thousand times. Often the miscreant is forced to hand over his piece and his shield. But you have never seen it done like this. I laughed all the way through it.Esposito's new boss in the Justice Office, a stern woman named Hastings, is a recent graduate of Cornell which, high as it is above Cayuga's waters, suffers a climate that practically makes cheer illegal. She gets Esposito and his drunken partner Sandoval out of trouble, she tells him, by exercising her social skills, her charm, and her irresistible smile. Thoroughly reamed out, Esposito is about to leave her office but turns and asks humbly, with her permission, what "irresistable smile" is she talking about because he's never seen it.All this humor is written with the understanding that the audience will get it and it's delivered in a manner consistent with an adult audience. The same isn't true of all the comedy. Esposito and Sandoval illegally examine a woman's house. She returns unexpectedly and they are chased outside by a furious but tiny short-haired dog. They dash out the door, the barking dog in hot pursuit. When they're out of sight, we hear a yelp, and see the dog running back in.Well, one more example. His wife kicks out the drunken Sandoval and Esposito takes him into his apartment. Sandoval keeps stumbling into things. "Too much furniture," he complains. When Esposito tries to call Sandoval's wife and explain things, he finds that there is no answer because Sandoval's phone has been broken for a year. Esposito decides to drive to Sandoval's house and get the wife. "Why not phone her?", asks Sandoval. Esposito: "You just said your phone was broken." A long pause and Sandoval replies with the logic of the inebriated, "My phone IS broken, but yours isn't." I don't want to get into the plot too much because it's complicated and has a couple of twists that no one could see coming. Some are, let's say, improbably. Having found that a murderer is a soccer fan, Esposito and Sandoval begin visiting games, which Esposito has no interest in. One game a week. Lo, on the fourth, they find themselves only a few seats away from the killer -- out of about 70,000 seats.The acting could hardly be improved on. Esposito has a face that challenges disbelief. He's modest and completely trustworthy. Sandoval never overplays the drunkenness. Hastings, the boss back at the DA's office, is middle-aged, pretty, and not knock-out beautiful like a movie star. Romano, Esposito's rival who chews him out, is hilarious before he turns to the dark side.Yes, it's true. You have to read the subtitles. And they're in the Argentine dialect too. But it's worth it. Everything about the film is admirable, including the photography and location shooting. Besides, you get to see what Buenos Aires looks like. It's arguably the most Europeanized city on the continent. And out in the boondocks, they drink mate. I believe you also get a glimpse of pampas grass, a fiendish growth that I had to fight weekly in my California back yard.
"A guy can change anything. His face, his home, his family, his girlfriend, his religion, his God. But there's one thing he can't change. He can't change his passion."'The Secret In Their Eyes' builds upon the very essence of life: a sequence of key moments that can completely change our destinies if we recognize them for what they are, held together by the long ordinary days in between where we don't feel remarkable enough to act. Yet its ultimate message is one of hope, while also challenging us to decide whether or not in certain situations revenge is justified. I am not normally a big fan of crime fiction, let alone romance, yet if 'The Secret In Their Eyes' was indicative of the way in which crime-romance cinema normally entertains, I'd have to jump the tracks and nail my colours to the mast. However, 'The Secret In Their Eyes' is simply a very good film, written and directed with confident maturity, populated with engaging characters expertly realized, and one that really makes you think long after the credits have rolled up into the screen.As the 20th Century draws to a close, retired federal justice agent Benjamin Esposito decides to fictionalise an especially memorable case from his younger days - one that changed his life forever. However, as the memories come flooding back, the unsolved 1974 crime refuses to fade away, and Esposito finds himself compelled to solve it once and for all, in the process rediscovering his undying love for a woman he once let slip through his fingers. Along the way, he learns what truly makes humans tick and that true passion may be the strongest force in existence, although it may manifest itself in ways too hard to accept.It will therefore hardly be surprising that I consider one of the film's prime strengths to be its study of the human condition. On one level, the commentary is nothing new: love, longing, missed opportunities, regret, fallibility, weakness, malice; yet this is humanity in a nutshell, with every generation enacting the same drama as before. 'Secret' is not intended to turn this all-encompassing portrait on its side and offer a new interpretation. Its characters are straightforward, easily-identifiable and found all around us - they may even be us. The aim is to show them in all their glory and misery and break them down into the raw emotions that make us all tick. If you've never truly loved and lost, much of the film simply won't resonate as anything more than a tired cliché. Likewise, if you don't care for a study on the mechanics of human behaviour, this isn't for you. It's not a new paradigm of the genre, rather a very open and honest one that relies very much on the viewer's own life experience for it to make impact. Others may be put off by the analysis of revenge, especially as it invites introspection on one's own character by film's end. Yet this is surely the point.Another of 'Secret's key strengths is the choice of actors and the characters themselves. Ricardo Darin's Esposito is at turns very subdued, worn down by the realities of life, yet elsewhere a fiery champion of justice - perhaps not unsurprising given his vocation, but Darin has the feel of the character just right. In opposition, Soledad Villamil's Irene is a woman in conflict: career-driven, struggling to walk the right path, and torn by her feelings. If anyone embodied the film's title, it would have to be Pablo Rago's portrayal of Ricardo Morales, the husband of a rape victim. Rago's wide eyes says so much, yet hide even more. Perhaps especially memorable however is Esposito's friend, Pablo Sandoval, played by Guillermo Francella. It may again be unoriginal that the film's comic relief turns out to have the greatest insight (and espouse the film's central message), but the oft-ignored yet wise fool is a long-enduring character simply for what he offers the viewer. There is also something earthy and endearing about Francella's performance that keeps your eyes trained upon him. The humour also provides a welcome release amidst the darker themes of the film.This is helped further by the touching, at times hauntingly-beautiful score provided by Federico Jusid and Emilio Kauderer, proving an excellent match for the often sombre mood director Juan Campanella aims to create. Although 'sepia' would be too strong a word, there is a definite yellowish tint awash over the flashback sequences that give the film its art-house feel and atmosphere. Running at just over two hours, Campanella has managed to set the pace just right - anything slower would lose the audience, yet to speed things up would be to destroy the important character moments, often carried by lingering expressions that say more than dialogue ever would. Yet dialogue is very much the centrepiece of the film - none of the themes are left unexplored and Campanella isn't interested in letting the visuals do all the talking. Again, I felt the balance between the visual discourse and the verbal was just right.As my first entry into Argentinian film, I was very impressed with 'The Secret In Their Eyes'. However, to dwell on its country of its origin would be to do it a disservice, for it is simply good cinema. While its commentary on its universal themes may not work for everyone, I think many will enjoy the very touching and human tale that unfolds. If it ultimately leaves you a little unsettled and undecided as to the choices taken within the narrative, it has achieved its goal. Actual rating: 8 1/2 stars.


                
"The Secret in Their Eyes" is a very good film--I don't in any way deny this. However, given that the film is in IMDb's Top 250 List, that it won the Oscar for Best Foreign Language Film and is currently rated much higher than "The official Story" (the other Argentinian film that has won the Oscar), I really expected more. Now you cannot blame the film but sometimes such high expectations set the viewer up to be disappointed...and I was to a certain extent. But, I still recommend you see it.The story begins with a retired investigator struggling with a story he's been working on for years. He's been trying to write the story of his most perplexing and haunting cases--the senseless murder and rape of a young lady. What follows is a film where the story bounces back and forth over a 25 year period--from the present to the days when the case first began. Interestingly, the story (like the film "The Official Story") also is an indictment of the corruption of the Argentinian government of the 70s, as the identity of the perpetrator actually is eventually determined--but justice, it seems, is never to be.The best things about the film are the acting as well as the wonderful ending. While I did guess the ending, it still was very, very satisfying to see. My only reservation is that this is a VERY adult film. Not only does it show a rape occurring (though it was done tastefully and respectfully), but you see a very nude corpse as well as a man dropping his pants to reveal his penis. It's certainly not the sort of thing you'd normally show your kids, your mother-in-law or Father Jenkins when he stops by for a friendly visit. Additionally, while the film is quite interesting, it never seemed great--like a must-see film and you certainly would expect that with its 8.2 rating on IMDb.


                
Greetings again from the darkness. I was a bit miffed when this film beat out both A Prophet and The White Ribbon for the Best Foreign Language Film at this year's Academy Awards. Since then, I have been anxious to see this "upset" winner. It is with great pleasure that I state my faith in the Academy voters is restored. This is a staggeringly wonderful film! Based on the novel by Eduardo Sachesi, it is written and directed by Juan Jose Campanella, who also directed Argentina's 2001 Oscar entry "Son of the Bride". Mr. Campanella also has quite a resume of U.S. television in addition to his film work. What really stands out here is the multitude of story lines and character development, none of which are cheated ... yet each which could have stood on their own as a film. This is terrific film-making with rare balance between comedic dialogue, a full fledged crime drama, unrequited love and nasty politics.The excellent script is helped along with fine acting by the key players: Ricardo Darin as Esposito, Soledad Villamil as Irene, Guillermo Francella as Sandoval, Pablo Rago as Morales, and Javier Godino as Gomez. Each actor has physical features that play well with the film's title.I certainly don't wish to give away much of the substance of the film, but it mostly revolves around the investigation by Esposito and Sandoval into the brutal rape and murder of Morales' young, beautiful wife. Esposito works for Irene and they have "eyes" for each other, and Gomez is the key suspect despite all the political maneuvering designed to throw the investigators off track.There are a few outstanding scenes and my two favorite were an incredibly intense elevator ride, and a fascinating crowd scene at a soccer/futbol game. As you might guess, there are innumerable close-ups for a clear eye-level shot and the film bounces back and forth between 1974 and 2000, so we must adjust to the weak make-up.For anyone who enjoys fine film-making and isn't afraid of 2 plus hours of subtitles, you will surely be satisfied and impressed at the quality of this film.


                
"The Secret in Their Eyes" is directed by Juan José Campanella--it is a splendid multifaceted film which skillfully alternates between the present and past, as it seamlessly intertwines a murder mystery, love story, and judicial injustice. All of these elements of the story are flushed-out--creating depth, and all play a crucial part in Juan José Campanella's adaptation of Eduardo Sacheri's novel. A film that effectively juggles both affection and misery, using Benjamin's conflicted heart as a way to humanize the chilling details, while observing a man not only starved for justice, but after a woman he abandoned decades earlier. Benjamín (Ricardo Darín), a retired court investigator, is trying to write a novel about an old case of his that was never resolved to his satisfaction. More than two decades ago, a woman was brutally raped and murdered, and although suspects were found, the case against them was thrown out on technical grounds. However, Benjamín always suspected someone else entirely. Benjamín and his assistant Pablo Rago (Ricardo Morles), ultimately were certain that a man named Isidoro Gómez was the real killer. For help, he returns to his old office and bounces his thoughts off Irene (Soledad Villamil), whom he has always loved despite never acting on those feelings. The past and the present begin to merge as pieces of the case are re-investigated, forcing Benjamín to reflect on his past, and what could have been. But Benjamín's search for the truth will put him at the center of a judicial nightmare, as the mystery of the heinous crime committed 25 years ago continues to haunt him in the present. Interweaving past and present, we see how the investigation affects Benjamín, as well as Irene, over the period of decades. Stealthily weaving Esposito's relationship with Irene into the on-going murder mystery, it takes on a life of it's own--a compulsive narrative that manages to be genuinely surprising. Haunting and gracefully, the film reveals its secrets slowly. Lengthly, but engaging, wonderful storytelling, and extremely well-done. The entire cast is uniformly superb, enhancing this foreign thriller--with its intelligent, layered screenplay. Oscar winner for Best Foreign Language Film (2010). **This was a unpredicted and surprising winner of the Oscar. It beat out two great films also in contention that year. Respectively-- "A Prophet" and "The White Ribbon."


                
"The Secret in Their Eyes" was one of a small number of films that I was willing to take a chance on buying without seeing. I bought this DVD for 2 dollars from my local video shop which is closing(a whole different story, and a shame). The DVD looked like it had never been viewed.I love foreign film. I think it's a real escape from the Hollywood trash that's coming out of late, and a truly great way to find some more obscure/under-viewed releases of the highest quality.This is not a film for kids. The themes and the pacing are geared towards an adult audience. Not only that, but the films subtitles move at a break-neck pace. I sure wish I spoke the language so that I might be able to enjoy more of the visual style of this film. Maybe I'll watch it again dubbed. That's something I don't usually prefer, but this film might actually open-up to some viewers like myself if you/I do so.The film really demands the audiences attention. It jumps back in forth in time, and the characters are rather candid and restrained. The story isn't all that confusing, but it's played out like backdrop, or something that's there, but not always the center of attention. I'm still not sure if I would classify this as more of a thriller, or a romance. It's rather uncomfortable to finally return to dialog-driven cinema. Let's face it - America has turned into a bunch of action-junkies.I have the feeling that I'll raise this rating after a second viewing. This is definitely the type of film that divulges new and fascinating secrets with repeat viewings. Some people will watch this and never want to watch it again(many won't even make it to the halfway point), and then some will watch it five times to 'take it all in'.This is a "heavy" film.I wouldn't rent this(or buy it) unless you really have the time to sit down and concentrate on the film. The film is long and hard to follow for the first time viewer. If you take your attention away for one minute you'll feel lost in that weight. You probably won't have missed anything, but you'll want to rewind it and make sure.I kind of feel like this film beat the crap out of me. The last time I got that feeling was after P.T. Anderson's "There Will Be Blood". I think that is actually a really good comparison. Two totally different plots and time periods, but two crushingly powerful films.Careful with this one!


                
So I saw "the secret in their eyes" from 2009. S0 is it good, I say Si! This movie is from Argentina and enlightened me in ways that I never knew possible, chiefly that Argentina has a film industry. Once I got past this shocking revelation I was ready to watch the movie. So this movie won awards all over the globe including the Oscar for best foreign film, and literally every award offered by the Argentinian film awards (which suggests to me maybe Argentina doesn't have a film industry so much as makes a movie a year). This movie was one of the best I have seen in years. It has flash backs that are actually purposeful and not confusing. It has humor. It has suspense. It has mystery. It has not one but two great love stories. It has violence. And it brought me into the world of Argentina, a world I am not that familiar with other than the rumors that Hitler is secret living there. I loved this movie, from the first shot to the ending, that I thought would be all typical Hollywood bull crap, but surprised me completely and made me go "hmmmmm.. I did not see that coming," which is something I wish I could say more often with thrillers. This movie is a must see unless you hate subtitles. I can see Hollywood making a version of this and ruining it, so see it before Hollywood rapes and kills this movie. Oh and by the way that is the main plot of the movie (the rape and kill thing not the Hollywood thing) so if that makes you squeamish, that may be another reason not to see it. if you like concise reviews of interesting films please read my other reviews at http://raouldukeatthemovies.blogspot.com/


                
This psychophysiological thriller begins with the meeting, after many years, of Benjamin and Irene. She's a judge. He's a retired criminal investigator. They're a little too happy to see each other. Twenty-five years ago, when she was assistant to a judge and he was an investigator under her, they were caught up in a vicious case of rape and murder. Benjamin visited the crime scene, and the dead woman's body powerfully told of the crime's cruelty. Two workers were arrested and convicted. Benjamin was never positive of their guilt. Now he tells Irene that on his own time he wants to write about the case.There's a revelation that comes that I felt caused the film to be overcooked, but regardless, slowly the emotional grandeur and tragedy of that aim become plainer after this begins an interesting backward-and-forward excursion through time, between Buenos Aires in the 1970s and the turn of the new millennium, which reintroduces both the crime and the unrequited sentiment that's lingered all these years between Irene and Benjamin. That's where their individual allure emerges. Actress Soledad Villamil is mature, strong, rational and probably cast for her eyes, as the film has masses of close-ups, and they're essential to hiding secrets. Playing Irene at ages 25 years apart, she's never too young or too old, but standing right there.Ricardo Darin makes her admirable cohort as Benjamin. His rank was too low, his salary too little, her presence too self-possessed for him to believe the hints he must have known she was giving. He's one of those men on whom a beard seems preordained. There's a melancholy about him. He has never stopped thinking about the murder case, and we get the feeling---although the movie is oblique about this---that the investigation was mismanaged at the time owing to Argentina's contaminated right-wing politics.Without being too open-faced about it, the film reconstructs the threads of two stories, the murder case and the fragmentary feelings between Benjamin and Irene. It's packed with lucid characters. There's fully drawn and effective comic relief Sandoval, played with a fine balance between gravity and lightheartedness by Guillermo Francella, is Benjamin's alcoholic assistant, rather sidekick, in the investigation, one of those drunks who may be bungling but is not hopeless. He and Benjamin, and all the legal-side workers, participate in the amusing ritual of referring to each other by fancy monikers. Morales is the husband of the dead woman, even now fanatically preoccupied with her death. Gomez has at all times been Benjamin's true suspect, and there is an astonishing scene featuring him in a soccer stadium that I have no clue how it could've been filmed, FX or not.The camera is like an omniscient character. There are many wonderful shots in the film, like that which opens the film and is later repeated. Various scenes take place that'll be retold later, using the retelling as part of Benjamin's evidence in the solution of the crime. The shots that are repeated somehow take on a greater dramatic force.Juan Jose Campanella is the writer-director, a gentleman who weaves a thorough (perhaps overly so), enthralling, adoringly constructed film, an epiphanic story where blinders are removed, suppressed desires are realized, self-limitations are accepted, the protagonist takes unusual actions, behaves oddly, anxious about the future. We get to fully know the characters, and the story details their complications and desires with fitting admiration. There is the continual feeling that they exist in the moment and not at some position along a predestined gamut. And though the film is a little bit overdone as I say, the cast doesn't act as much as it lives life candidly under invented circumstances.


                
This is a fabulous film, the acting is superb, the film is shot beautifully and the storyline is riveting. There are a few times during this film when the screen blacks out and I was actually begging that it wouldn't end. It is a long film but it didn't feel long, the only sign that I'd been in the cinema a long time was my eyes were getting sore from reading subtitles. But don't let subtitles put you off going to this film. I'm not usually keen on random love stories being thrown into films but I thought this one worked very well, perhaps the end was slightly unbelievable and a bit Hollywood but by that stage I was shouting for them to get together.The reason this film got 8 instead of 10 were that at some moments in the film I lost what was going on, it seemed to cut too suddenly, and there were some aspects I still didn't understand at the end. But ultimately a film well worth going to see.
He said " please ask him to at least speak to me " Juan José Campanella really nailed it...The secret in their eyes is well chosen tittle for the movie, this story is about devotion, love but above all.. Passion , he couldn't forget her and continue his life ,this story you don't see everyday.A man whose beautiful wife was savagely raped and killed and the murderer gets away with it, so he took the liberty and puts him in a cell for life he actually stepped over any sane man's principles and the law can love drive someone to go as far as he did? this story succeed in mingling romance with revenge. great cast and perfect acting, absolutely not a waste of my time it's really well spent time.
I must say that I felt bored at the beginning, partly because I didn't find a subtitle in Chinese, which made it difficult for me to catch the story. But I hanged on, and I'm glad I did so. This is truly a great movie. Every scene has its intention to express something, the typewriter with a broken key "A", Irene's door waiting to be closed, the photos been turned down in Benjamin's home. And love, Morale's love for his wife, making him waiting in the train station day after day only because the murderer MAY escape from there. The love lasts for more than 25 years and just this love encourages Benjamin to face his own feeling for Irene, for which she has been waiting for so many years.I knew little about that time in Argentina, the chaos of society, the judicial corruption, or some dark things like that, so I can't figure out what the director want to tell other than love. However, I'm still deeply touched only by the romance.
Benjamin Esposito is a retired criminal investigator struggle to write a novel about-"THE MORALES CASE" that is A bank officers wife brutally raped and murdered by a unknown man. The story flashbacks 25 years to source when Benjamin first met Irene, educated at Cornell's law school, have just arrived at the office. Benjamin and his partner Pablo investigated the Morales case . Benjamin visit victim's husband house, he found some clue from childhood photos of victim (Lilliana Colloto) about the man who watch her like an eagle eye. Isidoro Gomez, is finally caught in a stadium, whose passion is to watch soccer games. At first he disapproved all which has been filed to him. At instant Irene saw he is lustfully gazing at her . Irene try to taunt him and finally arrested him. But somehow government released him. After 25 years later Benjamin revisited the case and try to know what happens to Isidoro , who has been missing since 25 years . H e visit Morales house and try to know the answer "how did you live life without Lilliana? How did you live life full of nothing? How did you do it?"This film is about dirty politics, love which is never courage to confess, Emptiness, Rejuvenation, and the eyes which is never lied.
Hearing about the UK release of the US remake of the Oscar winning Argentinean Noir,I discovered that the BBC were going to show the original 2009 version.With having been interested in seeing the title for a good while,I decide that it was time to find the secret in their eyes. The plot-1999:Retiring from a law firm, Benjamín Esposito decides to write a true crime novel about a case that has troubled him for decades.Writing the manuscript, Esposito starts remembering details from the Liliana Coloto case of 1974.Completeing the first draft, Esposito decides to meet Judge Irene Menéndez Hastings for the first time in 20 years.Surprised by Esposito's return,Hastings starts to talk to him about details of the case.1974:Arriving to the Coloto crime scene with his assistant Pablo Sandoval and new recruit Hastings,Esposito finds Coloto's husband Ricardo Morales devastated by the killing of Coloto.Taken by the passion in Morales eyes,Esposito promises that he will dedicate everything he has to catching the killer.As they start to build a profile of the killer,Esposito,Sandoval and Hastings catch the eyes of the secret police.View on the film:Switching between the 70's and late 90's,co-writer/(along with Eduardo Sacheri) editor/director Juan José Campanella fogs Esposito memories with crumbling yellows and greens,which along with stylishly revealing the fading clarity of memory,also dipping the title into grime covered Film Noir,where the curling wallpaper is being pasted with decay.Shining light over the clear memories of Esposito & Hastings in the present, Campanella & cinematographer Félix Monti pull open the corruption and identity of the killer with crystallised vision,from a dazzling tracking shot (which took 9 days to shoot!) locating the murderer,to murky,tightly held low-lit shots exposing the Film Noir world being soaked with corruption.Taking place just as the 1974-1983 Process of National Reorganization/"Social Cleansing" began (which led an est 7000- 30,000 people being killed)the screenplay by Campanella and Sacheri brilliantly cast shadows of fear and dread across the film,as Esposito, Hastings and Morales find themselves in a stark Neo-Noir landscape,where double-dealing cops and death squads try to keep their dealings underground.Based on Sacheri's pulp novel,the writers thread the horrific history of Argentina with a thrilling Film Noir atmosphere,which spills across the title as Esposito makes a pledge to catch the killer.Keeping the mystery bubbling away,the writers place each piece of the mystery down with coiled tension,which is gradually released in order to unveil deliciously macabre eyes.Standing firm over the passage of time,the elegant Soledad Villamil gives a graceful performance as Hastings,with Villamil keeping Hastings level-headed whilst playfully developing a closeness with Esposito.Taking a close look at all the clues, Ricardo Darín gives a superb performance as Esposito,thanks to Darín digging into the thought process of Esposito looks for the secret in their eyes.
This Argentinian film has many virtues but some serious flaws. Ultimately it winds up being too much of a muchness. Its meandering story line focuses on a murder investigation that spans 25 years. It's carried out by a judicial underling, Benjamin Esposito (film veteran Ricardo Darín, who starred in both of the late Fabián Bielinsky's films) with his (romanticized) alcoholic assistant Pablo Sandoval (the comic Guillermo Francella). Meanwhile the lowly Esposito is (wanly) in love with his judicial boss, the aristocratic Irene Menéndez Hastings (Soledad Villamil), who arrives with the imprimatur of a US Ivy League education, and eventually becomes a judge.'Eyes' feels a bit like 'Zodiac,' only in Spanish and with too many flashbacks, too much unconvincing aging make-up, a last reel that feels like a trailer, and a saccharine conclusion. Everything is complicated by the corruption of the Perón dictatorship and its aftermath under Perón's widow Isabel, because it all begins in the mid 1970's. This is interesting and there might have been more of it it. The repressive regime could have been, but isn't, made to explain everything, the homemade justice, the delayed romance, even Pablo's drunkenness. Disorder and evil might well have been more emphatically shown as contaminating all aspects of life, as they clearly are in the superbly creepy 2008 Pablo Larrain film, 'Tony Manero,' about a petty criminal and John Travolta imitator in PInochet's Chile, vintage 1978.Seen from the viewpoint of flashbacks, because the film begins in the 1990's when Esposito reflects back on earlier events, a young man's beautiful bride, Lilliana Morales (Carla Quevedo), is brutally raped and murdered; we see her only as a Grand Guignol tableau draped over a bed. The husband Ricardo Morales (the stiff Pablo Rago), a bank employee, never gets over it. Something is fishy from the start, when a rival judicial agent tries to pin the deed on a couple of dark-skinned immigrant workers, whom he beats into confessing. How do Esposito and Sandoval know who really is the guy? From the angle of his eyes in an old picture: it seems like something gets lost in translation at this point. Anyway, when the murderer, Isidoro Gómez (the subtly creepy Javier Godino) is tracked down -- and this is when things get lively, with a buoyant, almost Hitchcockian chase and capture in a soccer stadium -- and is dramatically made to confess by Hastings through impugning his manhood -- also a very good scene -- he's released right away because he works for the dictatorship's death squad so "what he does in his private life doesn't matter." All this is being reviewed 25 years later when Hastings and Esposito, who've long been separated, meet again and he shows her a "novel" he's trying to write based on the murder investigation and his involvement in it. So the film, based on a novel by Eduardo Sacheri, is a murder mystery, a love story, a story about memory, a political study, and a buddy picture with comic overtones.The latter may be its best aspect. The film is never more Argentinian or more charming than in its scenes in funky but historic-looking cafés full of seedy characters in front of tasty plates of hors d'oeuvres, everything drenched in sunlight and shadow, where Esposito goes to brood, or to retrieve Sandoval from one of his drunks. The interiors of houses are cozy and atmospheric too. If only some of the funkiness had been allowed to creep into the scenes around the court and law offices, but they are, doubtless by intent, kept coldly grand and marmoreal. Still, all the staging is ambitious and assured. There is something cozy in the way the story keeps doubling back over itself as well.But Campanella may be a bit too sure of himself, because in time, over the film's 127-minute length, all the leisurely doubling-back, which seemed to suggest a magisterial, almost epic structure, begins to drain away the energy that has fed into the story from the hints of evil, the widower's determination to find the killer, and the comradely investigations of Esposito and Sandoval. You could have built a whole movie out of Sandoval. Unfortunately he doesn't make it through to the end of the picture. Campanella manages to juggle so many balls successfully for a while, but then the murder mystery falters and the makeup starts to show (overly emphasized by a preponderance of tight closeups). A creepy final revelation is followed too hard upon by a late-blooming romance. The romance is the weakest element in the story, too lukewarm and repressed most of the time (understandably, due in part to the social gap between Esposito and Hastings), and its most energetic moment, also its corniest, seems to be only a fantasy. Maybe Eduardo Sacheri makes it all work better in his novel. 'El segreto de sus ojos' has a few very fine scenes and much impeccable acting but the narrative contains kitsch elements that undercut the too limited depiction of the moral and political world of the time that the narratively less ambitious 'Tony Manero' manages so well for 1970's Chile. The film nonetheless won the Goya best picture award in Spain, and soon afterward received the Oscar for Best Foreign picture. But for all its ambition, it's not as successful as Jacques Audiard's 'A Prophet,' which it beat out for the Hollywood award.
