Last night I went to watch this flick, and I must say that all in all, I ended up quite surprised because of it's impressive quality. Taking into account that I was already expecting superior film, indeed, it came out to be even more outstanding than I thought, mainly because of the rare combination of noir genre with very precise and measured funny moments and especially an incredibly faithful description of the Argentine system of justice and the characters that compose it. This last element is just perfect. The movie keeps your attention all the time -no decays at all- and the set design is also great, to such extent that it left me wondering what the tricks of the trade employed to achieve such similarity are. Foreign watchers might not fully understand some great details that are mainly local, but anyway they will surely enjoy the thrilling aspects of the film. It would be enough for them to say that almost all this locale's are just true, no matter how incredible they might look.


                
In my country, Juan José Campanella is synonym of 'cinema of the highest order'. The director works in USA and from time to time he brings a new film. We know, dramatically, what we're going to watch: Ricardo Darín in an important role, a lot of sentimentalism, references to the country's past, a love story. And technically, if it's the highest order, there won't be any complaints. When the film ended, the people in the movie theater started clapping."El secreto de sus ojos" tells the story of Benjamín Esposito (Darín) and his need to tell the story of a case that wasn't completely solved 25 years ago and had an important impact in his life. A woman raped and killed and a husband with the surname Morales (Pablo Rago) who went every day to every train station in Buenos Aires to see if he could find the killer. "You have to see his eyes; they are in a state of pure love", Benjamín professes in front of Irene Hastings (Soledad Villamil); his boss and the woman he loves.There are things we never forget, Campanella knows well, and that might be the film's most important declaration. We expect from the director a powerful love that grows with the years, as we saw with Darín and Villamil in "El mismo amor, la misma lluvia"; we expect characters with inner ghosts, things to hide and things to hold on to; we expect total control over the language of the environment (in "El mismo amor..." it was a magazine staff, in "Luna de Avellaneda" the neighborhood club), a knowledge of the customs and the way of speaking of characters that makes for day-to-day comedy. In this aspect, the casting of Guillermo Francella as Pablo Sandoval is crucial. Taking the place of the best friend role always in charge of Fernando Blanco, the comedian plays a drunk with a lot of respect for friendship. His change of look, the measurement of his composition and how he enlightens it with comic touches make for one of the year's best performances. That's about everything we can expect. The fact is "El secreto de sus ojos" is a very good movie because there are things we don't see coming. The film contains a treatment of a police investigation that hasn't been seen in our cinema for years. In his riskiest picture, Campanella flirts with thriller, mystery and real action (handy-cam included); he acquires true tension and a sequence in a soccer stadium is the best example of it. He understands when silence is required and when the loneliness of the characters –each of them with a rich, mysterious private and inner world- must be seen fully. It's quite embarrassing in fact, because Darín as a director tried to achieve something like that with "La señal". Even though it's obvious Campanella took no inspiration from that film, everything that went wrong there can be seen here, improved. And Soledad Villamil is no femme fatale. I take a risk, however, and defy you to tell me if, because of image and makeup resemblance, and disposition of images and voice in off, the movie towards the finish line doesn't take direct inspiration from Chris Nolan's "The Prestige". It's quoting it somehow, at least.It's very moving to watch excellent performances from recognized actors. We've seen them on screen so much, we know what they do, we admire them and respect them and, as with Campanella, we tend to know what to expect. However, sometimes they enchant us with every face in every frame, with every word in every conversation. I'm trying to explain to you the feeling of what Villamil and Darín do in this film: it's enchanting and contagious, purely human (as it occurred in "El mismo amor..."), but at the same time moving, simply because they're not unprofessional actors that fit in the look of the film, or young actors with expressive faces, or newcomers that take our breath away: they are Ricardo Darín and Soledad Villamil. Campanella has a lot to do with this, because he knows how to make them work together and he made an effort so they would not repeat what they had given us in the other film I've mentioned.The fact that Fernando Castets didn't write the film calls our attention; the script was written by the director and Eduardo Sacheri. It also calls our attention that Campanella himself edited the movie. Is this film-making of the highest order? I believe so, in our country, and speaking of something commercially successful too. It's the only movie seen by many people that can generate interest in revising the director's previous work and, who knows, maybe other national pieces.


                
One of the most perfect movie i have ever seen.This type of movie come once in a while,and remains with you for a long time.The best thing of the movie is cinematography that makes movie so beautiful.They use camera so well and scenes are shot so beautifully especially soccer match scene.They give a very realistic feel to movie. the scene of the crime is shown very realistic.Great acting by all the actors.all characters are very well portrait by actors.The story of the movie is so emotional and deeply involving and have very well written dialogues. this movie kept me so engaged with all the perfect twists and pace. this movie have everything crime,romance,drama,thriller and have some moments that makes you laugh.Direction of the movie is flawless,this movie is almost perfect in all the departments.I hardly found any mistake in the movie.This movie deserves at least three Oscar nomination this year for screenplay ,cinematography and best movie in foreign language.This movie is a masterpiece and will be remembered among greatest movies ever made(at least by me).I give this movie 10/10


                
I am one of the people who always criticized Argentinian movies, because most of the times the scripts makes no sense or the story is slow or some scenes pointless, but El Secreto de sus Ojos is a master piece.The ambiance, the photography, the script, the acting (I cannot stand Guillermo Francella but in this movie he completely shut my mouth, wonderful acting), everything makes this one of the greatest Argentinian movies I ever saw.On a side note, as a reply to dardo766 I have to tell you that it may be childish for you the language in that scene, but actually is very common here all the swearing you are complaining. I think one of the greatest things of the movie is the dialogs, with or without swearing, it is very local and this might be the only flaw of the movie.


                
The retired justice officer Benjamín Espósito (Ricardo Darin) decides to write a novel based on the Morales Case of twenty-five years ago and has difficulties to find the right beginning. He visits his former chief Irene Menéndez-Hastings (Soledad Villamil) in the tribunal to show his draft. In the 70's, Benjamín has an unrequited love for his new-hired chief Irene that belongs to an upper-class. Benjamin is assigned to investigate the murder of Liliana Coloto (Carla Quevedo), a beautiful woman recently married with Ricardo Morales (Pablo Rago) that had been brutally raped and murdered. Benjamin and his alcoholic partner Pablo Sandoval (Guillermo Francella) feel touched with the grief of Ricardo and go further in their investigation. Benjamin observes that a man named Isidoro Gómez (Javier Godino) is staring Liliana in many pictures and he becomes the prime-suspect. Meanwhile the tension between Ricardo and Irene increases along the days but Ricardo does not understand the signs of her eyes. Twenty five years later, Ricardo is still haunted by his love for Irene and for the unsatisfactory resolution of the Morales Case."El Secreto de Sus Ojos" is a film awarded with the Oscar of Best Foreign Language Film of the Year with a dramatic story that perfectly entwines crime, thriller and a subtle romance in an adequate pace. The direction of Juan José Campanella is tight and the screenplay is wonderful, unfolding two lead stories – the brutal murder of a young woman and the repressed love of a subaltern for his chief – with many subplots. The acting is top-notch, with excellent dialogs and many funny lines but never vulgar. The cinematography and the camera work are magnificent and there is one specific scene very impressive with the camera approaching to the stadium in the middle of a soccer game between Huracán and Racing. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil): "O Segredo dos Seus Olhos" ("The Secret of Your Eyes")


                
The second Argentinian movie to win an Oscar, "El secreto de sus ojos" ("The Secret in Their Eyes" in English) looks at a Buenos Aires detective's passion in solving a case on the verge of the military junta that was responsible for the Disappeared. As I understand it, a difference between this movie and Juan Jose Campanella's previous ones is that this is more mainstream, so to speak. I actually found it pretty comparable to "My Wife's Boyfriend", which Campanella also directed. I certainly recommend both films. To be certain, this one has some of the best lines that I've ever heard. Argentina has clearly shown itself to be a fine country in terms of cinema during this past decade.


                
I am not a big fan of rape movies no matter how well made they are. So I was about to walk out of the theater after watching a beautiful girl's body on the floor covered with bruises implying a rape and murder case. I am so happy I did not.The first thing I loved about the movie was the story. Most rape movies show the reality of rape and the aftermath. It is very true that most of the time there is nothing you can do that can come close to revenge. when you leave the movie theater, you can feel how the real world is full of disgusting crimes we can not do anything about. This one was different. this one had a plot that real or not, fixed things. you leave the movie theater smiling knowing that he got what he deserved. You enjoy watching people trying to set things right even after 25 years. you watch them change "Temo" to " Te Amo". the second beautiful thing about the plot is the suspense. you barely notice the passage of time and the plot changes directions at all the right times.The second thing I loved was acting. I really think they could have casted someone less creepy as her husband. I had a hard time believing that he did not do it himself. :) but apart from that I enjoyed the acting very much. Everyone from the detective to the rapist did a great job. Top notch acting indeed!Last but definitely not least is script. It is not the most beautiful artful script but it is simple, strong, heartfelt and with nice twists like the "missing A" and the themes that are consistent through out the whole movie. beautiful look at love, passion and devotion. there is not even one single sentence that is left unexplained. everything comes to a beautiful whole at the end. A very touching work of art.
El secreto des sus ojos (2009)A quietly building up of suspense and romance , a terrific movie. It has some of the slow pace punctuated by violence of "The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo" and it shares the steadfast leading man (Ricardo Darin), willing to plod along until the crime is solved. And it's filmed with a contemporary edgy but warm eye, the camera often moving between things so the subject is half seen, or not seen at all, and yet it is so natural you just get sucked in further.The plot may seem ordinary at a glance, with a pair of investigators, one a very funny alcoholic (Guillermo Francella), going after a man who raped and killed a woman, but it isn't really this main idea that matters at first. In the classic fashion of some great detective movies, it's the characters and how they proceed that matters. We come to know the two men (as well as actress Soledad Villamil, a tangential love interest) and wander through less common edges of Argentina, where this was made.The storytelling is given depth by moving back and forth over a 25 year period, and this laying out of ideas slowly makes you pay attention. It's very smart this way, grabbing the viewer. By the end, the tragedies begin to really move you, the final large twist (or two) to the story is utterly believable and sensational, and the love story becomes as archetypal as "Dr. Zhivago" and as beautiful. A lovely, involving, and satisfying film.


                
Only the second Argentinian film to win the Best Foreign Language Film Oscar, The Secret in Their Eyes is equal parts a slow-burning crime thriller and a forbidden love story that affects everyone involved for over a quarter of a century, following two separate timelines. In 1974, Judiciary employee Benjamín Espósito begins investigating the rape and murder of a young woman named Liliana Coloto. Assisting him in the investigation are his assistant Pablo Sandoval and his superior Irene Menéndez Hastings. Twenty-five years later, Espósito decides to use the case as the basis for his first novel, leading to a reunion with Hastings and the revelations that arise from discovering events that were set in motion twenty-five years prior. Although the majority of the film's runtime is devoted to the 1970s timeline, director Juan José Campanella, who also served as the film's co-writer and editor, finds a masterful balance between the two, crafting a non-linear narrative that provides a satisfying resolution to both threads.Admittedly, the film takes a while to get going, with the initial back- and-forth between the two timelines feeling a bit jarring. However, as the story begins to unfold and we delve deeper into the investigation, the film simply captivates, as Campanella delivers an engrossing crime drama with an ending that left me breathless. I will say, however, that I found it difficult at times to keep up with the film's rapid-fire dialogue. Even though I speak Spanish myself, some of the film's dialogue-heavy scenes demand the full attention of the viewer. While I don't know how this problem might play out for someone watching the film with the English subtitles as they might be simplified, but it is a problem that I found worth noting.The film's engrossing nature rests on the strengths of its performers, which include Ricardo Darín as Espósito, Guillermo Francella as Sandoval, and Soledad Villamil as Hastings. Darín does magnificent work in the lead role, expertly capturing Espósito's growing obsession in regards to the case. Francella, in his after first dramatic film role after an established career as a comedic performer, turns the alcoholic Sandoval into a fascinating character. Sandoval, whose relationship problems and drinking habits often conflict with his occupation, could have easily been a one-note stereotype, but Francella (who bears an uncanny similarity to Steve Carrell) manages to make him a likable character. Sandoval's friendship with Espósito leads to one of the film's most emotionally charged scenes. Villamil also delivers a mesmerizing performance. Much like the film's title implies, the eyes of these characters play an important role, serving as a method of non- verbal communication. And none of the other performers use their eyes to their advantage as much as Villamil does. Through her beautiful gaze, we see the complex relationship she forms with Espósito, whose eyes convey a buried, unspoken love for her.The film also benefits from more than just Campanella's storytelling abilities. This is a marvelously well-composed film, one that takes full advantage of the cinematic medium. Each frame feels tightly constructed, with Campanella sometimes telling two different stories in the same frame or obfuscating characters behind chairs or piles of documents and folders. In regards to the latter, by framing his characters in such a way, Campanella subtly communicates the growing obsession that they feel as the investigation begins to unravel. The film's technical prowess doesn't end there though. The film contains an enthralling five-minute long take set in a soccer stadium that ends with Espósito and Sandoval chasing their primary suspect, one Isidoro Gómez (acted to chilling perfection by Javier Godino), on foot. Campanella isn't just concerned with ideas of obsession, however. The film's conclusion allows for it become a meditation on justice and to what ends someone will go to punish a guilty individual. And Pablo Rago, who plays the deceased's husband, shines in these scenes as he delivers a haunting performance.Campanella's The Secret in Their Eyes is a thoroughly compelling film that benefits from a well-executed screenplay, skillful direction, and a host of strong performances. It's a shame that Hollywood couldn't resist the urge to remake the film years later with Billy Ray's Secret in Their Eyes, which ended up being a decidedly inferior production. Campanella's original, however, stands on its own as a modern classic.Rating: 9/10 (Amazing)


                
It is never easy to write about a movie that you love because the words are never enough to describe the emotions that it gives you. This is one of my favourite movies of the last decade: made with a slow pace and always careful not to let the cruelty of the crime to take over and tell the story. We meet the main characters in Buenos Aires in 1999 when Benjamin Esposito (Ricardo Darin) is trying to write a book about a 30 years old cold case occurred while he was a legal counsellor. Benjamin has been haunted by the past and is in desperate need of closure, still in love with his ex-colleague Irene Hastings (Soledad Villamil) and hoping to finally let the victim rest in peace. A young couple's dream of happiness is savagely destroyed and what remains of it carries such a deep and honest grief that no one is left untouched. Pablo Rago is brilliant playing the young widower Ricardo Morales, his inconsolable but calm way to grieve introduces us to a man made of love and patience while Ricardo Darin, never over the top, portraits a middle age man lost in a limbo of memories and who has waited for years to see his passions for Irene and for justice to prevail. Passion and melancholy are the elements that have made this movie a masterpiece, and the poetry of a director like Jose Campanella has borrowed nothing from overseas: this is an Argentinian movie with an Argentinian heart and this is why it has to be seen in his original language to be truly appreciated because nothing like the Buenos Aires's accent will rock you through the events. My vote 9.5/10
This is it. Cinema at its best. I couldn't take my eyes off the screen until lights came up, and I never saw the final twist coming. A thriller, with likable characters, a sense of humour, and a plot that develops at just the right pace. The acting is wonderful, and the direction and cinematography support the plot perfectly. The camera work is fantastic throughout, and there is one scene with a single sweeping shot from high above a football stadium down to crowd level which is truly amazing. In the end this is a movie about two kinds of love and one kind of passion, but it's far from clichéd. If you get the chance to see this one, don't miss it.


                
The movie is the story of an Argentinian detective who pursues a case of a woman who was raped and murdered twenty five years back and how his life has become inter wined with it and how he redeems his lost case. It is quite an intense film but yet it has its lighter moments and passionate moments as well.The film truly deserves an Oscar. There isn't any thing which is missing in the movie. It has a fateful love story, mystery , redemption and drama inter-wined. The director has done a great job in adapting the novel and has obtained great performances from all his lead characters.Though the story is simple, it will make you feel about the kind of life we live and the choices we make to live with it. It is quite a serious film with a simple criminal plot, no high tech criminal investigation or action but great enough to engage the audience till the climax. The film is a testimony for great screenplay and direction and makes Hollywood movies look trivial before it. Watch it!


                
The Secret in their Eyes is a tale of undeclared love, laced in a complex murder mystery that spans 25 years. The details are so densely packed that I almost would have nodded off had its beauty and skill in the telling not kept me shocked in wakefulness. It is a story of remembering. And how that act of remembering can change the present. What is that timeless quality that we sometimes see in a person's eyes? A look that can hold maybe more than anything, and how it can arrest our thought as they travel a sea of faces; a torrent of years. If they 'express the inexpressible,' is there a reason that stops the lips from forming the words? And if that barrier could be removed?Beating such notable competition as Haneke's White Ribbon for the coveted Foreign Language Film Oscar was no small task. That the Secret in Their Eyes fathoms profound emotions (for want of a better word!) perhaps goes some way to explain its appeal.Benjamín Espósito has been employed by the criminal court all working his life. Now entering retirement, he begins writing a novel. The story will be that of a tragic case he once investigated, the brutal rape and murder of a beautiful woman. The legal system in Argentina is not free of corruption but still a highly developed one. The court secretary, Irene Menéndez Hastings, is Benjamin's immediate superior. He is secretly in love with her, but she is far above his social station and he has no hope of being together with her. As he writes the novel, he goes back over events. Including his unfulfilled relationship with the woman he is still in love with after all this time. A love of justice propels the movie forward but at a pace that accepts some things can take a lifetime. Or a single moment.The murder case is far from simple, even with Benjamin and Irene's pooled determination. Benjamin looks back on his life seeking meaning. Both in his own relationships and lack of them, and in the small successes (but greater failures) that accompanied the investigation. As he replays his memories will he be able to re-write his future? Or are there things to which his eyes will forever remain closed? Juan José Campanella's two hour film can occasionally seem affected. But as anyone who has visited can confess, that is true of life in Buenos Aires today anyway. It is still the bastion of European manners from a bygone age and The Secret in Their Eyes sometimes feels like a period piece (even though the film is set in 1974 to 2000). The subtleties of gentlemanly flirtation, the delicacies of social interaction, they present a careful, often unhurried formality through which we must finesse our way with perseverance and appreciation of good taste. We delicately unpick the knotted past so that it does not reap problems for our futures. Does the real life we have lead reflect our inner life and turmoils? The other way round? Or are they not connected? Memory is a powerful thing and can knit together more than just our imagination, our hopes, dreams, and insights. There are clues we have maybe failed to acknowledge. Through stupidity or 'blindness.' And what are the secrets? How do we see them as they really are; spot the clues before our eyes? One secret it's cracked is box-office success. The Secrets of Their Eyes is already a blockbuster in Argentina and enjoying huge triumphs at international festivals. It will probably be one of those 'timeless classics,' as they say.


                
El secreto de sus ojos (The Secret in Their Eyes), director Juan José Campanella's pot-boiling mystery romance, comes to North America loaded with the freight-load of expectation. Earlier this year the picture picked up the Oscar for Best Foreign Film, to some surprise, as it beat out two films everyone assumed were duking it amongst themselves: Michael Haneke's Das Weisse Band and Jaques Audiard's Un prophète, two absolutely astonishingly good films.The bad news is that Campanella's film is not as good as Haneke's and Audiards are, but the good news is that it's a close-run thing. While Haneke and Audiard work at the outer limits of biggish-budget narrative film-making - coldly documenting the roots of fascism in the pettiness and cruelty of village life in 1910's Germany in the case of the former and grittily, violently exploring the tension between Arab and Corsican inmates in a Parisan prison in the latter - Campanella's film is old fashioned. Charmingly so, in fact.Argentinian superstar Ricardo Darín plays federal justice agent Benjamín Espósito. Set partly in 1999 and partly in 1974, the film follows Espósito as he tries to complete a novel about a case that he had undertaken 25 years earlier, with the help of his alcoholic assistant Sandoval (Guillermo Francella) and ivy-league educated boss, Irene (Soledad Villamil). As the three investigate the case - the brutal rape and murder of a young woman - they must not only piece together enough evidence to find the killer, but also deal with Argentina's slide into political violence under Isabel Perón, a widow with his own agenda and a budding, impossible romance.It's classic retro mystery film-making, made with an incredible eye for atmospheric detail, made by people talented enough to create suspense and old-fashioned thrills without having to resort to cheap action-movie shootouts. It's occasionally corny and often melodramatic, but it is stacked top to bottom with great performances - comedian Francella as the heroically dissolute Sandoval chief among them - and a script that takes us and the trio from authentic-seeming 1974 Buenos Aires dive bars to a riotous football match, from the paper-jammed offices of a well-meaning judge to the gleaming polished wood of a fascist, scheming operative. It succeeds because of its occasional corniness, because packaged along with everything else that the film does so well it doesn't offend, it just seems<U+0085> pleasant, and old fashioned and warm, an entertaining reminder of how un-glitzy, un-rock and roll mystery film-making used - and still can - be. 8.8/10


                
I always have a bad predisposition against Argentinian movies, because they tend to be boring and pretentious.However, there are some exceptions, because films like Nueve Reinas, Tiempo de Valientes and El Secreto de sus Ojos are clear proofs that excellent cinema can be made in Argentina.The screenplay from El Secreto de sus Ojos is very well written, since it is simultaneously detailed and fascinating, at the same time it presents complex and very interesting characters.Juan José Campanella's direction is perfect, since he drives the movie at a perfect rhythm and he creates a memorable sequence in a football stadium.That scene is simply magnificent.And, as for the performances, they are also very good.The only thing I can say against this movie is that a few elements near the ending feel a bit forced.However, that is a minor fail.El Secreto de sus Ojos is an excellent movie, and the kind of film Argentina needs to have more frequently.I recommend it with a lot of enthusiasm.


                
Winner of Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film, The Secret in Their Eyes (also known as El secreto de sus ojos) is an ingeniously crafted mystery thriller from Argentina that grabs the viewers attention from the beginning, keeps their gaze firmly transfixed on the screen with its gripping plot, quality direction & compelling characters, and is one of the finest offerings in world cinema today that deserves a much broader audience.The Secret in Their Eyes tells the story of a retired legal counsellor who is planning to write his first novel and chooses a quarter century old case he worked on as his source material. The plot then interweaves two story lines, first covering the case itself which was about the brutal rape & murder of a young girl while the second follows the buried romance between him & his superior, both of whom worked on the case together and are still haunted by it.Co-written, produced, directed & edited by Juan José Campanella, The Secret in Their Eyes is intelligently crafted from start to finish for it brims with multiple layers which unravel itself steadily as the plot progresses and also manages to throw a few surprising twists along the road. Campanella excels in both writing & direction for the plot is highly engrossing, the arc of the characters inhabiting this story is brilliantly handled, and the tense political ambiance in Argentina during the mid-1970s is finely illustrated.The technical aspects are no slouch and is carried out in an effective manner. The splendid use of camera, clever placements & controlled movements, in addition to the warm colour palette provide its narrative a rich, refined look which also fits the timeline its story is set in. The pacing is consistent throughout its 129 minutes of runtime. VFX is rarely noticeable yet its seamless fusion with the film's thoughtful camera-work & clever editing is responsible for a jaw-dropping sequence that would easily go down as one of the greatest scenes ever filmed.Coming to the performances, The Secret in Their Eyes features a committed cast in Ricardo Darín, Soledad Villamil, Guillermo Francella, Pablo Rago & others, and all of them are terrific in their given roles. What further helps their performance is that the characters they're given to play aren't weightless and their arcs are wonderfully fleshed out. Darín delivers the finest performance of them all, his chemistry with both Villamil & Francella is spot-on who provide amazing supporting work in their respective roles of his superior & assistant, while Rago is able to leave his mark as the film nears its conclusion.On an overall scale, The Secret in Their Eyes is a masterwork of sophisticated filmmaking that triumphs in nearly all departments to work as an entertaining & enthralling example of its genre(s) and beautifully portrays the fear, vulnerability & flaws of its scripted characters on the film canvas. Covering the themes of love, loss, vengeance & corruption and further uplifted by its assured direction, impeccable script & honest performances, The Secret in Their Eyes is a remarkable film that effortlessly lives up to its reputation and is absolutely deserving of all the accolades it has garnered. A modern classic, this Argentine masterpiece comes strongly recommended.


                
The story is incredibly told with great editing, directing, cinematography and acting. Starting out like a normal crime film, the movie juxtaposes the present with those of the past, and along with Benjamin, the audience recounts the past through his memories. It gets more and more complex, as when a suspect is found, what seems to be the end turns out to be the beginning of a mystery. The film also displays the corruption within the legal system, and the battle between evil and good, with Benjamin being the embodiment of morality. The acting as well is great. The connection and chemistry between both Darin and Villamil, and Darin and Francella is sweet. The film aggravates the audience by showing that both Benjamin and Irene love each other, but nothing is done about it. Similarly, there is a bromance between Benjamin and Sandoval that is touching, but heartbreaking when the relationship is broken. Rago and Godino both do a great job at showcasing their characters emotions and expressions. What really stood out for me is the cinematography and editing. The camera moves with such fluidity across spaces that it often makes me wonder how they did it. For instance, there is a scene in a football stadium and in one continuous shot, the camera goes from a birds eye view to a close up of the characters in the stadium. I am thinking that perhaps they used a drone which is pretty impressive. Similarly, the camera work in chase scenes are just incredible, everything form the shot placement to the composition and movement. Additionally, the editing is on par with the cinematography. There are multiple scenes that do not depict what actually took place but is more of a 'preview' into other possibilities of the story. I found this to be very impactful as it disorients you and makes you think about the story more closely. It could be confusing at times though, so it is both a positive and a negative for me.Overall a phenomenal film that tells an incredible story with great acting, cinematography and editing. Only thing is that it is a bit slow at times, but the ending is just chilling. Read more movie reviews at: championangels.wordpress.com


                
Oh, there are questions all right? Plenty of questions about what really happened? There will be answers, too, and they will be satisfying and maybe, even huge revelations to fit this epic drama, where people express themselves openly, and yet their own emotions take backstage to the drama of others, just like we forget we're watching a film and surrender ourselves to its hypnotic and bewitching power.Set in a bureaucratic world where who you know will open doors and determine the safety of your future, a couple is in the middle of a drama which originates when a young and beautiful woman is brutally murdered. As the investigation proceeds, emotions grow, and in a perfect, isolated world, things would turn out easier. What develops is a messy situation where everyone becomes more and more frustrated because this world after all, is not forgiving or perfect, and sometimes justice is nothing else but a name or a word with not really weight.As the onion layers are peeled, and we know more and more about what really happened in the drama that spans for 25 years, we discover that love is such a powerful force that it refuses to die, but it's not infallible and it's pretty confusing. There are after all, social classes, political mazes, and personal vendettas to block the road for our hero and heroine. There are also many fantastic pieces of dialog, and some very realistic recreations of what working in a government entity is like. As one of the main characters states: "It's my life, live yours." It's easy to be overwhelmed by the drama of others, especially if we get too close to the source of the mess.This film deservedly won many accolades, and in one of those rare moments, was fairly recognized with the Academy Award for Best Foreign Film. Its two closest contenders would have made the Top 10 Best Picture list a better indicator of films with better craftsmanship, storytelling, and the true magic of a great film. I had a tough time choosing between "The White Ribbon" and "The Prophet". They're great films; yet there is something powerful and very touching at the heart of this movie, something that connects with our human needs, and that elevates the film a bit higher than the other films. One will gasp at the end of the final scene, one that summarizes the message of "The Secret of Their Eyes", an appropriate title if I ever saw one.This film is not perfect; its length is a bit of a problem, but it's got epic feelings, classic moments, and a very satisfying conclusion, a moment that cinephiles around the world will recognize and embrace. Maybe because they don't make them like these anymore, certainly American studios don't put them out as much anymore...


                
I was curious and intrigued, but mostly skeptical when I first read the brief description of "The Secret in their Eyes" in a TV- magazine. It stated: "a romantic thriller about the unresolved rape and murder case of a beautiful girl 25 years ago<U+0085>". Huh? How can a thriller, especially one dealing with such painful topics like rape and murder, be romantic? And yet, the description is 100% accurate and truthful. This harsh thriller is simultaneously one of the most emotional stories that I ever witnessed and it's romantic at no less than three different levels! There's the obvious but oppressed romance between lead character Benjamin Esposito and his court superior Irene Hastings, and then there's also the more convoluted but undeniably romantic devotion that widower Ricardo Morales shows for his murdered wife and the perverted (but yet somehow romantic) motive of culprit Isidoro Gómez for committing the inhuman crime. One things for sure, "The Secret in their Eyes" is one of the most absorbing, beautiful and unforgettable films of the new millennium. I was wondering how on earth it could be possible that Michael Haneke's masterful "The White Ribbon" didn't win the Oscar for best foreign film for 2009, but now it makes perfect sense. Those people at the Academy were more than right to award this film instead! "The Secret in their Eyes" deserves every price that it won and it also deserves to be seen by as many people as humanly possible! In 1974, the beautiful and lovable Liliana Coloto is found brutally raped and murdered by someone that she obviously must have known and trusted. The crime is so vile and shocking that it even silences the experienced court room counselor Benjamin Esposito. With the help of his alcoholic but brilliant colleague Sandoval and his new supervisor Irene, whom he's desperately in love with, Esposito identifies the unmistakable culprit and promises Liliana's grieving widower Ricardo that he will spend the rest of his life in jail. But the assumed killer is released shortly after due to internal courtroom corruption and personal vendettas and Esposito narrowly survives an assassination attempt. 25 years later, the retired Esposito travels back to Buenos Aires with the intention of writing a novel about this case that altered his life. He goes to see Irene Hastings, who built out an impressive career over the years, and notices that his old feelings are still as strong and irresistible as before. In all honesty, the more you contemplate about the plot and analyze the events afterwards, the less plausible and realistic "The Secret in their Eyes" becomes. And yet, for once this doesn't matter because you are so moved by the story and feel so much sympathy for the main characters that you'll gladly overlook any flaws that only come to the surface later. Apart from the story and the unique mixture of styles and genres, there are two other aspects that make this film a genuine masterpiece, namely the acting performances and the cinematography. Regarding the acting, being a European I don't know any of the actors and actresses in this film, but they surely all made a big impression on me. The camera work by Félix Monti is stupendous, with various great sequences in which he achieved beautiful effects through reflection (in mirrors or windows) and extended pan-images.


                
Hi, This is my first review on IMDb, so please bear with me. I don't speak or understand Spanish and I don't watch many foreign language films, but I somehow managed to get myself in a mood to watch this and I am so glad I did. This movie as mentioned here, had two underlying themes, one is about the obvious rape and murder mystery, and the other more effective theme is the unspoken love between the main character and his supervisor. As for the story itself, its about the rape and murder of a young woman, and revolves around the police team (a detective, his supervisor and his drunk assistant) who try to solve it, her husband and the killer. It is not so much about trying to find out who the killer is, rather about the emotions involved with the people concerned. The untold love story between the detective and his supervisor captures as much attention as the murder mystery and is beautifully told. I really didn't find any negative points with the whole film, the acting was brilliant, the screenplay was superb, the editing was also neatly done. Obviously I cant ignore that one shot of the football stadium which takes your breath away. I guess I am going to watch more of Spanish and other foreign language films after this one. 9 out of 10.


                
The splendid Ricardo Darin, star of the late great Fabien Bielinski's two movies, is back on fine form in this film. Superficially it's more conventional than Bielinski's films, being a straightforward story of a veteran (ex-) policeman who can't let his most interesting unsolved case lie. For sure, the plot is tricksy and there's evidence of corruption in high places; but this is all run-of-the-mill for this genre. What's unusual about this film is it's focus on character: the brooding hero is another stereotype, but Darin's character's relationship to his case is complex; the supporting cast are also great, and the sense of a life wasted, in part, because the hero's boldness in his job is not matched by a similar confidence in matters of the heart is well conveyed. The film is also superbly shot, there's a sequence filmed in a football stadium where the use of the camera to exploit the venue is frankly brilliant. Overall, I think that Bielinski's films with Darin were even better, but they also set a high bar; but 'The Secret in Their Eyes' certainly confirms his uncanny ability to shamble onto the screen and steal it completely.


                
Well this Argentinian mystery film was a very good experience. Going in to it, I had absolutely no idea that this movie had won the best foreign film Oscar at the Academy Awards. When I discovered this immediately afterwards I had to admit that the Academy for once may have got things spot on. This is a terrific film. It's a murder mystery with romantic subplot underpinning it. The acting is excellent and the cinematography is brilliant, on one occasion quite extraordinarily so (but I'll come to that later).The basic plot-line has Esposito (Ricardo Darín) a retired detective trying to write a novel about an old case that still haunts him. The crime was the vicious rape and murder of a young woman. In his memoir Esposito uses the memories of others to build the story, and his objectivity is clouded too because he is in love with his superior Irene Menéndez Hastings (Soledad Villamil). The old case from 1974 is then told in a series of flashbacks, while in the present Esposito tries to make sense of it all.Darín and Villamil are especially great in the two lead roles. While he is a man with much vulnerability, she is very strong; the chemistry between both actors is wonderful and as a central pair they are never short of convincing as three-dimensional characters. Also very convincing is the period setting. The year 1974 is captured perfectly in terms of look and uneasy feeling (this was just before the military junta took control); the latter is alluded to in scenes where the state is clearly seen to be acting in highly corrupt and immoral ways. One of the beauties of this film is that it touches on so many different themes without being trite or aimless; as well as the aforementioned political situation, the film works seamlessly as a mystery and a drama about people living in limbo.Of course it's all very well and good being thematically interesting. But this is cinema and does it deliver on that front? Well I did mention earlier the presence of a sequence of unbelievable technique. All I will say is, the sequence in question starts with a night time view of a football stadium from up in the air, from here we rapidly approach and then dip into the bowl of the arena while hovering above the game in action and then seamlessly arrive in the midst of the crowd; from here we continue to play the scene where the crowd erupts for a goal and a chase ensues around the inner workings of the stadium, ending up on the pitch. This scene lasts for the best part of ten minutes and it is one glorious unbroken shot. Although there must clearly be some trickery involved as it would be frankly impossible to physically achieve this shot, I for one saw not one obvious break. It's a breathtaking piece of cinematic art and worth the price of admission alone.There are certain other short scenes of striking power, such as the sequence where the killer shares a lift with Esposito and Menéndez, and initially pretends that he has not seen them. He then takes his gun out and loads it. After exiting the lift we then see him briefly stare menacingly back in at his two principle antagonists. The sinister mind games at play are brilliantly presented in this short slightly off-kilter scene. But the film as a whole is full of little moments of unexpected excellence like this, including the final denouement, which I was not expecting; I won't give it away but it is a satisfying conclusion to the mystery.If you haven't already guessed, I loved The Secret in Their Eyes and I highly recommend it to everyone. It's great to see a film every so often that is capable of surprising you. It makes you realise that cinema is still alive.


                
Is justice only a legal term or a spiritual ideal? Many seek justice but confuse it with revenge or being right and live their lives in turmoil as both victim and victimizer. Benjamin Esposito (Ricardo Darin), a retired Buenos Aires state criminal investigator, knows that even though a case that has been haunting him for the last twenty years is closed, it is still incomplete for him and justice in his mind has not been served. Based on the novel by Eduardo Sacheri and written by the director, Juan Jose Campanella's The Secret in Their Eyes (El Secreto in sus Ojos), Academy Award winner for Best Foreign Language Film, is a noir'ish thriller that is the most popular film in Argentina today, having broken every box office record in that country.Like multi-faceted films of the fifties and sixties, The Secret in Their Eyes is a murder mystery and psychological thriller, a lighthearted love story, a meditation on memory, and a look at justice in Argentina in the 1970s that does not hesitate to show the indignities people suffered during the military junta, though not in a heavy handed way. As the film opens, the retired Esposito decides to write a novel about the 1974 rape and murder of an attractive 23-year old woman, young newlywed Liliana Coloto (Carla Quevedo), a case that was closed by the authorities but never solved to his satisfaction. To obtain access to the file on the unsolved rape-murder case he spent so much time on, Esposito pays a visit to Irene Menendez Hastings (Soledad Villamil), his former supervisor and chief supporter who is now a judge.It is clear from their meeting that they have rekindled an attraction from years past that faltered on class and social differences (she got a law degree from Cornell) and remained strictly professional. Supported by the cinematography of Felix Monti and the engaging score by Federico Jusid and Emilio Kauderer, the film moves back and forth between the present and the past. As the camera picks up the case in 1974, Campanella chooses to graphically display young Liliana's bloody and battered body (a very poor choice) laying half on the bed and half on the floor. Benjamin interviews the victim's husband, Ricardo Morales (Pablo Raga), but he is not a suspect. In fact, the investigator is impressed by the depth of the love that Morales had for his deceased wife and the impact his loss has had on him.Although two workmen of dark skin color from a nearby building are arrested and charged with the crime, Esposito knows they are innocent and were coerced to confess in an example of the Junta's racist justice and they are soon released. When he goes through old photographs of Morales' wife, however, he notices a strange young man, Isidoro Gomez (Javier Godino), gazing intently at her in every photo. The "secret in his eyes" suggests that he may be a prime suspect and Esposito and his clownish partner Sandoval (Guillermo Francella) try to track him down against the direct orders of their judicial boss. Sandoval, a penetrating student of human nature though an alcoholic, goes through Gomez' letters to his mother trying to find out what his "passion" is and finds that he is a devoted soccer fan.In one of the film's highlights, Esposito and Sandoval locate him (among 90,000 screaming fans) and a seven-minute chase scene takes place in one unbroken shot through the stadium as the camera sweeps through the crowds, follows a few false leads, then goes into overdrive when Gomez is spotted. Under interrogation by Ms. Hastings, the suspect cracks when, using every inch of her power as a woman, his physical stature is ridiculed by the Supervisor to try and provoke him. When Esposito tells Morales of Gomez' confession, both men agree that justice will be served only if Gomez is given life in prison but corruption gets the upper hand, at least temporarily. Performances by both leads are brilliant and intense and many twists and turns await the viewer as The Secret in their Eyes ratchets up the tension in the last half hour to arrive at a surprising and Hitchcock-like conclusion. It is one of the best films of 2010 so far.


                
Catching up on Oscar-caliber films which I have yet to watch, I stumble upon this Argentinian crime-drama, a fair upsetter won BEST FOREIGN LANGUAGE FILM over more critically acclaimed THE WHITE RIBBON (2009, 8/10) and A PROPHET (2009, 9/10), in its own strength, THE SECRET IN THEIR EYES is a powerful and near-perfect dissection on how people are stuck in the prison of their own memories, "you will end up with only memories" is a vital sentence imprinted deeply in audience's mind. In 1999, a retired legal counselor Benjamín Esposito (Darín) visits his former chief Irene (Villamil), with whom he is secretly in love for over 20 years, Benjamín tells her that he decides to write a novel about the horrendous rape-and-murder case of Liliana Coloto (Quevedo) in 1974, which would subsequently prompt him to leave both his job and Irene, in parallel, the film recounts how Benjamín and his drunkard parter Pablo Sandoval (Francella) traced down the suspect Isidoro Gómez (Godino), but thanks to the iniquitous loophole in the law system, the murderer got away with life sentence and became a threat to Benjamín's personal safety; alternately, it narratives the latest updates of the rekindled romance between Benjamín and Irene, until a final unforeseen discovery of Isidoro's whereabout, it is never easy to acquire a closure in regard to one's troubled past.Majestically directed by Argentinian director Juan José Campanella, who studied film in New York University and is a regular hand in TV series (HOUSE M.D., LAW & ORDER: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT, and HALT AND CATCH FIRE), this film is his 5th feature, Campanella fabricates a slow-paced, reality-and-imagination entwined narrative under a retro palette, patiently builds up personae with rigid framing-compositions and intricate editing, often collates the two time-lines with subtle indications which intrigue multiple viewings. He and the DP Félix Monti have accomplished a brilliant long take (with superbly imperceptible editing sleight of hand) which starts from a hovering airborne shot of the stadium and authentically records the entire activity, from Benjamín and Pablo spot Isidoro among a full-packed stadium during an ongoing football match, to the subsequent cat-and-mouse chase until the suspect is captured, it exemplifies the fly-on-the-wall intensity and altogether it runs more than 5 minutes, which can blow any cinephile's mind.Indeed, apart from its formalistic artery as a hefty CSI-styled chronicler, another amazingly satisfying deed is the suspense, not all over the place but when it approaches to the crunches, the edge-of-the-seat feeling accumulates and the suspense becomes grippingly pervasive, namely, the two most appalling findings in the film (one abrupt death and another is the revealing of the truth), both grimly under-lit and the effect is soul-crunching. The picture is also abounding with top-notch performances, Darín and Villamil, bring about strong affinity in-between the 25-years time span, both render their feelings with indelible restraint, the shut-the-door metaphor keeps their unspoken connotations up and running. Guillermo Francella is the scene-stealing sidekick with an offbeat personality, not only he addresses cogently the pinpointed theory about man's invariable passion, his heroic act comes as resounding and pathos-inducing as well, what's more enticing, we don't know whether it is the real happening or the creation of Benjamín's wishful thinking. Pablo Rago, who plays Liliana's grieved husband Ricardo, carries the responsibility of being the linchpin in the plot as another prisoner of a traumatized past, and he also pulls off what Benjamín claims "the purest love he has ever seen", all four are in my top-10 line-up of 2009, although I push Villamil in the supporting group since almost all her scenes are with Darín, her side of story never laid bare and she is mostly absent in Darín's investigation procedure. From "temo" to "te amo", it is a creatively designed wordplay for Benjamín's life-consuming odyssey to find his missing "a", Juan José Campanella commands a humanized brush to retouch a cautionary tale embedded with harrowing profundity and self-reflected sobriety, an outstanding piece of cinema, by all means.
Excellent movie, best shown by the Argentine cinema in the last years. An incredible performance by Darin, Villamil and Francella adapting very well to the role of the characters.The staging, photography and cinematography are really hard to find outstanding slip, great precautions were taken to detail and high quality finish was achieved.As is common in Juan José Campanella, script, direction, they are taken to the limit of perfection a true work of art that earned him an Oscar for best foreign film.Undoubtedly it will be in the history of Argentine cinema, a rightful place for the great work of the entire cast.


                
