I'm sorry, but this movie is slow, boring and even stupid. a thousand of idiots creatures don´t make a good film. I think that it's the most overrated film of 2002. ¿8'7?  ¿the best animation film ever made?......JAJAJAJAJAJAJA.


                
I might have a thing with anime. I have never understood / appreciated it. Ghost in the Shell, Akira, and now this movie... I can't seem to like it.As a matter of fact, I find the movies visually stunning - for a framed portrait, that is. Try to make the elements move, and you are greeted with the worst animation since "Speed Racer". It's a jarring thing, watching smooth CGI against badly animated characters and elements. That's something I'm willing to ignore - IF the story is compelling, that is.Akira and this movie (and Ghost, to a lesser extent) share a terrible characteristic: they both can't make themselves tell a story with any consistency whatsoever. As in Akira, where the filmmakers were unsuccesful trying to tell a multi-volume story in 2+ hours, it seems Spirited Away tries to hard to tell a deep story - one that has so many dead ends you end up thinking either every small story is a metaphor about something the filmmakers didn't feel the need to tell you, or that this movie is just a collection of beautiful sketches.As an example - why did Sen parents were turned into pigs? And why was she able to find them at the end of the movie? Why didn't she try earlier to do so? Why did Haku try to attack Sen? What was the importance of Sen knowing Haku from before? Why did Sen thought it was a good idea to return the seal to the witch' sister? And why was No-Face introduced as a character when he didn't add anything to the story? and...Maybe it's just me, and the story does make sense once you think of it, or get to know the rest of the directors' output. As it is, I find it hard to understand just what the movie was all about. Which is sad, since, in a way, I was really expecting to like this movie.
I apologise to the seemingly massive fanbase for these Miyazaki films but I find them totally over praised.I cannot see what people find so amazing about them. The scripts are totally banal and unnatural with nothing that makes me feel any emotion or humour. I find the dialogue boring and idiotic to be honest.Yes the animation is what must attract people mainly I guess but is it just me or is it no better than the weird cartoons I used to watch on kids TV in the 80s like Ulysees, City of Gold or Thundercats? I just would accept it as a kid in the 80s and it is not terrible but while quirky it is neither clever nor realistic nor beautiful. I am not impressed.The stories are mostly weird. In this case it is weird and unengaging for me. I cannot see why people rate it so highly. The characters are drab and cold or sullen and the script is nothing to get me interested at all. The kookiness is all that I can see to attract people. I feel it appeals to the kind of computer game playing, does not leave their bedroom type of geek who has not grown up. It is neither for children nor for adults which is my main disconnect I think. Just my opinion.


                
`Spirited Away' is well animated film but suffers from a poor story and uninteresting characters. You can add all the freaky dragons and netherworld spirits you like and marvel at their strangeness but what do they add to the story? There was no intrigue and no real character development. to me it felt like watching a anime version of the Nutcracker Suite except with over the top symbolism (things like the greedy parents turning into pigs).
`Mulholland Drive' accomplishes much better the kind of storytelling through emotion `spirited away' attempts.4/10


                
I just saw `Spirited Away' (Sen to Chihiro no kamikakushi), and have to tell you that this is no `Akira.' Although the animation is crisp, clear, and flawless for what it does it breaks no new ground and doesn't deliver what I would consider an Oscar-worthy performance. The plot, if one can call it that, is thin; amounting to very little. This is Japanese `Alice in Wonderland' on hallucinogens.I'm completely at odds with all the rave reviews: this doesn't deserve any of it. I suggest everyone take a deep breath, and step back from being an otaku for just one second and rethink their viewpoints. For the uninitiated, this is pure fantasy gibberish. I have no choice but to give this movie sub-par ratings because of the plot-which is practically nil. I gave it the rating I did only because it is wonderfully colored and next to Akira is as flawless as anime will ever get; but at the same time its non-existent plot breaks the whole thing apart, and what you're left with is <U+0085> well <U+0085> nothing. It's all style and no substance.I give this a `4' only because it shows how good Japanese anime can look. Pity it was hobbled by not having a story worth sitting through.


                
This movie had some redeeming qualities, but I basically didn't like it. I'm not very familiar with anime, so maybe that's part of the problem. The animation seems to be choppy, unlike Pixar movies where the characters move in a smooth manner. Some of the scenery was wonderful, but the choppiness of the characters took away from the beauty of the scenery for me. Also, the fantasy part of the story was just plain weird for me. I understand the "Alice in Wonderland" reference, but in that story, we still have animals and people as the strange characters. In "Spirited Away," there are strange characters that don't seem to make sense, for example, the witch's baby. How does she have a baby and why is he "huge?" Other parts of the movie didn't make sense. Why does the father suddenly drive his car very fast up the hill just before stopping in front of the stone statue? Why is the fantasy world suddenly surrounded by water? It's a little too strange for me.


                
I did not enjoy this the way so many people do.I do like Chihiro though.


                
