The word masterpiece is being thrown around a little bit too much on this one.While I found myself stunned by the visuals in Spirited Away (particularly a magnificently realized train ride across the sea), its lackluster story - little more than a rip-off of (or homage to) Alice In Wonderland - keeps this film from being a classic masterpiece.Some of the ideas were extraordinarily imaginative (the spirit bathhouse, Haku's transformation into a dragon, Yubaba's transformation into a bird, the boiler-room operator), others were just downright ridiculous (No-Face's regurgitation, the bouncing disembodied heads, the baby, an evil twin sister - what is this Days Of Our Lives?).This is not to say that I was expecting literal-minded filmmaking.  I was thoroughly impressed by the director's previous film, Princess Mononoke, but I felt its story was integral to its success (i.e. a hero's journey; the forces of human industrialization vs. nature and the need to co-exist peacefully).  The "story" in Spirited Away is much more simplistic (girl overcomes her fears) and, as a result, leaves little in the way of narrative thrust or suspense (especially for a 2 hour movie).  Princess Mononoke's story was epic and its running time and pace justified.  Spirited Away is merely serviceable in every way except its visual palette.


                
The spoiled and whiny girl Chihiro and her parents are moving to a small Japanese town in the countryside and Chihiro is missing her old house. Chihiro's father makes a wrong turn and drives through a lonely land road with dead end in a tunnel. Her parents decide to stop the car and explore the area. They cross the tunnel and find an abandoned cultural theme park on the other side with a ghost town.When her parents sees a restaurant with smelling food but no staff, they decide to eat to pay later; however Chihiro refuses to eat and decides to visit the place. She meets the boy Haku that tells her that her parents and she are in danger and they must leave the place. She runs to the restaurant and finds that her parents have turned into pigs. Further, the place is a bathhouse of spirits, monsters, gods and ghosts owned by the witch Yubaba. Now Chihiro counts on Haku to save her parents and return to their world."Sen to Chihiro no Kamikakushi" is an entertaining and original Japanese fable with the supernatural and ambiguous journey of a girl named Chihiro to a world of witches, gods and ghosts the same way that Alice meets the Wonderland in Lewis Carroll's tale. Even the villains are lovable and the conclusion is open to the interpretation of the viewer. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil): "A Viagem de Chihiro" ("The Travel of Chihiro")


                
I'm a huge Ghibli fan and admit this was a great movie and deserved every single prize it won. Had some cute "Ghibli treats" like the Susuwataris (Totoros Dust Bunnies) but overall, and maybe for the first time, I didn't felt the originality Ghibli has everyone used to: Whole concept of being trapped inside a new world and trying to save it before returning to their own reminded me a lot of Neverending Story. Could be coincidence in there, but then you see that Chihiro must protect her identity and name before she forgets it. Exactly the same happened to Bastian. Haku can turn into a flying dragon (although his hair reminds me of Atreyu), Neverending story has Falcor the luck dragon. I read the book and watched the movies as a kid, I see a heavy influence here. Spirited away is a great film, I just didn't saw anything new. Not Ghiblis best. Probably number 3 next to Princess Mononoke and Grave of the fireflies. (I'd give this title 5 stars, you can thank NoFace for the extra ones)


                
As far as elegance goes, i believe this film has showed that and more. A truly enlightening and heart warming film, Spirited Away has brought me even closer to the fantasy and Japanese world. i very much enjoyed the music which sets the emotion of each scene. i've only seen the English version, and i must say that they did an excellent job on everything. I'm hoping that they come out with a sequel, because Haku (or Kohaku if you've seen the movie)promised they would see each other again. one flaw is that i believe that we should get a clearer background on each characters past. Little things in the movie like Chihiro falling down the steps when she was going to kamaji to ask for a job,her clumsiness while cleaning the 'big tub', and not being able to hold her breath the whole way across the bridge in the beginning of the movie have made her more human like and easy to relate to. This movie is truly a masterpiece and will remain one of my favorite movies of all time. I still hope they make a sequel!!!!! ^_^
This is one of my favourite movies.After watching the original version in Japan, I have come across with the English dubbed version here in the UK. I'm afraid the English voice of the main character is 'mismatching' at the best, compared to the original Japanese version.It is clearly the problem with casting. Throughout the English version, the girl's voice sounds nothing but an innocent little kid, while the Japanese version gains certain strength as the story progresses clearly reflecting the subtle change within the main character.After all I am very disappointed with the English version, and as Studio Ghibli could had have a say to it, I'd like to reflect it in my evaluation. However, the movie itself is fantastic and is not an ordinary pop-"anime" but rather one of masterpiece films that is made with animation.


                
As I'm not a fan of Japanese animation I went it to see the film with some suspicion that I might not enjoy it, but as the story started to unfold I couldn't believe I was ever thinking about not watching this film. It has to be one of the best animated films I've seen for a long time in terms of thoughtfully constructed plot and dazzling effects.      It is also a welcome change from the CGI animation that came with the Toy Storys and more recently Finding Nemo, although the animation isn't as believable as those created by Pixar they are still a work of art. Being the first time I'd seen a Hayao Miyazaki film I didn't know what to expect and now intend on watching a few of his older films like Princess Mononoke.
     Although partly produced by Walt Disney there is no sign of the usual sentimentality that they enjoy filling with films such as Pocahontas and Treasure Planet. I really do recommend this film to anybody no matter what age you are even if you're not a big fan of Japanese animation. Some smaller touches towards the end of the film which really make it worth while watching, is the interactions between the mouse and bird!     Even though 'Spirited Away' can be just seen as an enjoyable film the underlying messages about love conquering all and the dangers of greed and sloth are examined within.


                
This animated film is pretty to look at, but IMO it was endless and rather meaningless, at least to this western viewer.Perhaps this film holds meaning to those cognizant of Japanese mythology, but although the protagonist is changed by her strange adventure here, there seems to be no moral lesson to be learned other, perhaps, than "act with kindness toward others." John Lasseter admires this film and its maker, but then he brought us the three "Cars" films, so what does he know? At least the first Cars film had a discernible message..


                
I was really looking forward to seeing this film, and was really disappointed by it. I agree with the user who commented that the English dubbed voices are just plain awful, especially the main character Chihiro/Sen, whose voice the user described as "like nails on a chalkboard." I realized that I was SUPPOSED to feel really sorry for this little girl's plight and worried about her fate, but quite frankly, all her screeching and crying really got on my nerves to the point that I began to wish she really would be "spirited away" - off my screen! I have seen and loved other movies by this director, and I intend to find a copy of this particular film in the subtitled version, so that I can give it another chance. I'm sure then I will fall in love with it as I have the others.


                
Spirited Away is both a beautiful to watch animated movie and gives the viewer plenty of ideas and symbols to ponder, but the story itself and particularly its conclusions left me ready to move on. I have the utmost respect for animation studios and Studio Ghibli after watching Spirited Away. Miyazaki puts in so many small visual details that immerse you in the spirit world and make it so much more realistic. In terms of the story itself, I found it inconsistent. There are plenty of great themes and ideas to consider, the two that stood out most to me being greed vs kindness in the characters, and the older, more naturalistic mindset clashing with the materialistic, capitalistic modern mindset. Chihiro is a fun protagonist who avoids one-dimensionality, having both a multifaceted personality and an arc that significantly shows her character develop throughout.
Where the story broke down for me was in several of the plot events and details of the world. Simply put, I found the ending to be deus ex machina and an overly simplistic and easy way to solve what had seemed like big, complex challenges. I didn't buy her sudden love with Haku and the way their relationship transitioned from a caring friendship to quite committed love. I also didn't find the addition of Yubaba's twin to make any sense, she felt like a superfluous character added in as a weird twist. The way she got her parents back felt completely absurd and was when I accepted that it just isn't a great movie. In addition to these and other plot frustrations, maybe it was an intentional choice to make the spirit world feel whimsical and ambiguous, but the lack of clarity in how the world functions limited my enjoyment. Are all of them spirits? How many of them are being held there against their will (like Haku)? What is the true motivation of all the spirits? How do the spirits interact with the physical world, and how do their transformations and magical powers work? I found many underlying workings of the spirit world to be unclear in addition to plot points that were either contrived or superfluous. I definitely enjoyed watching it and I do like the consistent, immersive feel of the movie from a young girl discovering this wild world perspective, but the exposition and later plot events didn't completely satisfy me.


                
It is hard to find a cartoon that can please both those who love both anime and animations; this movie is one that does, the craftiness of the script, the whole new world and fantasy is all well glued together all you need is the imagination to be able to access this Japanese Alice in wonderland.Spirited Away is a critical acclaimed film and it finds its way to the top of many notable lists of greatest animated films of all time. During its release it was the highest grossing Japanese film ever and in the 75th Academy Awards it won the Academy Award for Best Animated Feature.This 2001 Japanese animated film is written and directed by Hayao Miyazaki who is a Japanese film director, animator, manga artist and screenwriter with a career that has spanned over fifty years, his films are often about humanity's relationship with nature or humanity and technology. The protagonists in his films are usually strong, independent girls or young women. His career in animation has led to many comparing him to Walt Disney.The movie plot starts with Ten-year-old Chihiro Ogino and her parents who were traveling to their new home when her father decides to take a short cut which got them lost.While they kept moving they strolled into another world where Chihiro lost both her parents and she was being hunted and disliked as she was the only human in the world she was in.Chihiro's journey led her to meet the twin grandmas, a dragon, a no face spirit that can eat anything in sight and she also met a giant baby who is afraid of germs. Now Chihiro most always remember her name so she would not forget she is a human and be able to tell her parents apart from the pigs all this with her trying to find her way back to her world.Spirited away is based on Miyazaki friend's ten year old daughter, he decided to make a movie for her and her friends who come for vacation in his cabin with his family.With the characters mostly hand drawn and a budget of $19 million dollars, Miyazaki and his production crew decided to keep the graphics simple so that the focus of the movie will not be diverted from the story.The English adaptation of the film was done by Walt Disney Pictures under the supervision of Pixar animator John Lasseter; also on the production crew was Beauty and the Beast (1991) co-director Kirk Wise who acted as the director in this English adaptation and Aladdin (1992) producer Donald W. Ernst who was also the producer in this flick.I still stand to say this is one of the best animations out there, the fantasy level is high and the twist and turns that it brings makes the whole movie very interesting and a nice movie to see with the family.www.lagsreviews.com


                
Spirited Away is one of my best movie that I saw. It was made in 2001 in Japan. It is called Sen to chihiro no kamikakushi in Japanese.This movie was written by Hayao Miyazaki who is one of the famous writer in Japan, but recently he is known all over the world. His studio Ghibli warms people's heart very much.The main character in this movie is Chihiro. The story begins in the car. Chihiro is moving to the new house with her parents. On the way to the new house, there was a traffic jam so her father plan to shortcut between the forest. Then there was a tunnel. They get off the car and pass the tunnel, next there was a long path so they pass it again. After that, there were some opening-restaurants. Chihiro's parents were hungry so they start to eat, but she didn't eat. She roam around and noticed that something is strange in that place because faceless spirits are walking around as night falls. She suddenly go back to her parents place but it was late. Her parents changed to pigs. She run to the path and cried. Then a boy named Haku found her. Haku promise her to help her. He suggest to go to the strange big building to work. That building is a bathhouse for Japan's spirits and gods. Everything were strange there to Chihiro but she keeps searching the mysterious why her parents changed and how can she help them. Do you think she can find the way home....?This movie is a kind of family, fantasy and adventure story. It tells us how valuable is to help your important person. If you like a heart warming movie I really recommend you to watch it. Well...it's a little childish movie so maybe it sometimes make you boring. If you watched this in a different language instead of Japanese, I want you to watch it again in subtittled because you can feel more reality! You must watch it once.


                
Beautiful story, really touching and quite strange but definitely worth it.


                
When I first saw the movie, I didn't see what the big deal was. All right, so a girl gets whisked away to a fantasy world? We've heard that story before. And, unlike many other movies, there's no dramatic love story or epic battles and action scenes to keep you at the edge of your seat. Consequently, I didn't think of it as being very exciting.Still, I watched it again and, for some reason, I got it the second time around. Spirited Away isn't meant to be anything grand, with all the bells and whistles. It has a quiet, subdued way of telling a simple story about a simple girl in a very strange world. Instead of expecting something huge, just sit back, watch, and appreciate the world and story Miyazaki has finely crafted for us all to enjoy.To get to the technical aspects...The art is, of course, amazing. The colors are rich and the animation is fluid. When Chihiro and her family first walk into the spirit world, you can practically feel the breeze as you watch it whisk through the grass. The lights of the spirit world at night are breathtaking. And watching the train ride closer to the end of the movie, coupled with the amazing music score (the track is called "The Sixth Station"), remains one of my most favorite animation sequences out of anything I've seen. Which brings me to another point: the music.I will get this out of the way first - Joe Hisaishi is one of my favorite composers. His music style is very simple, but he makes every note count. Most of his music is quite subdued in nature and takes a careful ear to notice when your eyes are being captivated by what's going on in the screen, but do take notice if you have the chance. Or search on YouTube for videos of his live performances. His music is a joy to listen to. Like with Spirited Away, Hisaishi's music lacks all the "bells and whistles" per se, but it's beauty lies in its simplicity. Hisaishi has not failed here in Spirited Away.I dearly loved the characters. One of the best parts of this movie, for me, was that it lacked any clear good or evil characters. Everyone has a bit of both, though perhaps some allow the evil sides of them to come out a bit more obviously than others. In this way, it's very realistic. Granted, the characters were all quite predictable and Chihiro grated on my nerves at times, but overall, I enjoyed each and every one of the characters Miyazaki has create here.


                
After seeing 'Mononoke-hime' the bar of my expectations was pretty high. 'Mononoke-hime' is absolutely one of the best all-around films I've ever seen. I did so want 'Spirited Away' to take me to that same place...and it almost did....almost. I watched the English translated version and occasionally got the distinct impression that what was being said and what was going on didn't quite jive. I don't believe in giving out 'spoilers' unless I am discussing directly with someone who doesn't care and I won't start here. All I will say is that I wasn't satisfied with the revelations/resolutions/explanations. Like most films of this genre it is allegory and metaphor. Usually I am able to bridge to a successful interpretation as I did in 'Mononoke...'. I viewed this twice to see if I was missing something. No. It is what it is. I was not compelled nor was I satisfied with the central characterizations. They didn't seem rooted. Maybe that was part of the problem here - that being reality merging into and becoming part of a so-called alternate reality. The reality wasn't established very well. No lessons were learned. Explanations for the metaphors kind of fell to the wayside. Then it ended. Groan. However, it is an entertaining film and I do recommend it! 'Mononoke..' is still my first love.


                
Chihiro, or Sen, is the hero in Spirited Away. Her hard work and bravery is the saving element to her life, and her parents. The film, Spirited Away, is an anime movie that won a 2003 Oscar. The film lived up to its Oscar hype by delivering good framing, pace, and characters. Chihiro is the main character who has to work in the bathhouse to save her life, and her parents. She is portrayed in a good way, although her voice can be a little annoying, but this could be the product of bad translation. She is later given the Shinto name Sen, which means 1000. In addition to Shinto, the nature spirits are used throughout the film. The Anime was phenomenal throughout the movie, helping to add to the already good plot. The pace was surprisingly steady and smooth, which is not normal for Japanese or Chinese films.The films literary elements were very good. The plot seemed to have a good direction, although the audience should be aware that there is a discontinuous narrative (flashbacks) and a time disjunct. However, the film is very easy to follow along for most ages. The characters of the movie were very clever. Besides Chihiro, there was Haku (who she falls in love with), the polluted river spirit, the witch who ran the bathhouse, and so forth. The polluted river spirit was a way to show that the modern world is being polluted by people's greed. Throughout the film, the director displays problems with modernity, and fixes them with more traditional ideas. The ideas of modernity verse tradition present the underlying conflict in the film. The conflict that most people will see is Chihiro trying to get back her parents. However, there is more to it than just that. It is important to note the tests she must go through in order to be free and save her parents. For example, the stink creature shows the destruction of modernity through his pollution of modern materials.I recommend this movie to all audiences. The anime was particularly good, and the pace was very pleasant, even to westerners. The plot and characters kept me entertained throughout the film. In addition, the audience should pay particular attention to the modern views that are criticized and corrected by traditional views. Even if you're not educated about the traditional values, modern values, or Shintoism, you can still enjoy the film.
Excellent ;Such a Movie&#12290;Even Though I have watch the director's some other films ,such as "The Princess Mononoke" ,and "The Castle in the sky",I think the voice of it,the scene, the theme song,are the most cxcellent ones I have know.Also, It have won 1 Osca Award..The director Hayao Miyazaki is talented.Howl's Moving Castle has been nominated for the Best Animated Feature Film category of the coming Oscar. The other two nominees in this category are Wallace & Gromit and Corpse Bride. When the quiet Sophie is rescued from a group of soldiers by a mysterious wizard named Howl, she arouses the jealousy of the Witch of the Waste, who transforms her into an old woman. Unrecognizable in her enchanted state, Sophie leaves her village and seeks out Howl in his magical moving castle.


                
When the heroines parents turn into pigs as punishment for their greed, leaving a young girl to solve the problems of the fantasy world she has entered, the viewer is immediately sucked in too.This animated feature is both vivid and entertaining, and while there is no attempt to be in original in the overall plot, the fantasy world depicted is certainly novel. The story is told in detail, from beginning to end, with charm and wit. While there is no doubt that this is Japanese, the film is on the whole Westerner friendly - the myths and fears pervading the story are ones most people are familiar with. This is a very good time for animation - with the array of styles available to producers (the Animatrix displays many of these) writers can get on with their job and let the animators do their job. The result is films like Spirited Away. I think a lot more writers who previously would not have considered animation must now be taking a second look.


                
This movie was not the "end all and be all" of Anime movies thatall the hype (and the Oscar win) has boosted it to be, but goodnone-the-less.  It's an imaginative story and a nice change of pacefrom the largely Disney-style narratives and animation that themajority of North American audiences have become so familiarwith.I have never been a fan of Anime, based solely on what I considerto be sub-standard animation and over-stylization (dime-sizedmouths & saucer-sized eyes?!?!), and again those factors did playa part in my rating SPIRITED AWAY lower than I could have.  Onone hand, there is a wealth of interesting looking characters,absolutely fantastic backgrounds, and incredible attention payed toanimating the 'spirit world' in the movie (including somebreathtaking CGI combinations), but then the actual characteranimation itself is rendered in obvious 12-frame rather than 24- frame motion.  That just makes no sense to me.  It's comparableto setting a sumptuous table for a regal dinner party, then crackingopen a can of pork and beans and slopping it out onto the goodchina.The shining achievements in SPIRITED AWAY are the characterizations and, above all, the story.  The young heroineChihiro/Sen is played with exceptional realism in attitudes andabilities to a ten or eleven year girl; in the way she talks, feels,moves and reacts one gets the feeling that she is indeed thedaughter, grand-daughter, young sister, neighbour, school chumthat they might know and love.  And the film is littered with aplethora of memorable characters that fascinate and help carry thestory along.  Where the movie really shows its MAGIC is in thewonderful and incredibly imaginative story though.  Strangecreatures and magical beings, living in a world so removed fromthe typical Hollywood/Disney attempts at "wacky & weird".  Themakers of SPIRITED AWAY didn't try to dumb-it-down or pander todelicacies of the PC crowd (as evidenced by the sight of blood andvomit and a "Stink-Monster" that was quite obviously a giant,walking mound of feces!).  Nor did you have to sit through acookie-cutter love-story cemented together with 10 songs by EltonJohn or Celine Dion that ends with a horrible but justifiable villain- death and everyone else living "happily ever after" together forever,etc....I laughed a few times, marveled at some of the creativity, andnoticed that it held the attention of both younger and older viewersalike throughout its unfolding on the screen.  I wouldn't knock it, butI didn't fall in love with it either.  It was just "good".7/10.  A nice effort and a good change of animated fare.


                
Spirited Away is an important movie for lots of important and unimportant people. It's visually gorgeous and full of creativity but it's story just doesn't seem to grip me like it does to most people. I can easily respect anyone who loves this film but it's hard for me to care about our protagonist or what's going to happen at the end of the movie. It really just seems like they are throwing weird imagery for the hell of it. Which isn't a bad thing but if the movie didn't have that, I find it hard to believe that people would care about it as much.7/10 --- Good. Despite what I said, it is a good movie. I just can't see myself recommending this to anyone but the average weeaboo that's probably already seen it.


                
Quite often I'll use the IMDb reviews and ratings to recommend a film, and that was the case here. With a ranking in the Top #50 as I write this I was anticipating something really special but was left somewhat disillusioned when it was all over. Probably the biggest disappointment for me was the lack of a coherent story line, or more specifically, the way the story veered off in completely different directions as if it was being written while the filming was already in progress. Story continuity seemed unimportant, one such example would be Master Haku's insistence with Chihiro that she must persist in getting a job from Kamajii the Boiler Man and refuse to take no for an answer. Failing to do so so would put her in jeopardy with Yubaba, but Kamajii simply recommends that Chihiro request a job from Yubaba directly, which she does.There's also the instance when Chihiro, now Sen, recognizes the bloody dragon serpent as Haku. How did she know that, and more importantly, how does the viewer come to that same conclusion, other than Sen's say so? There was enough of this kind of stuff to bother me in terms of effective story telling.I would surmise that Japanese anime is directed specifically at teenagers and young adults, and that's OK, just as it was back in the Fifties and Sixties with the explosion of monster films a la Mothra, Rodan and Godzilla. But to elevate "Spirited Away" to the level of masterpiece as some would suggest is carrying things a bit far to my mind. Perhaps in terms of technical achievement, one would have a point. The film is beautifully made and quite colorful, and some of the concepts seem original like the bathhouse for the spirits, but overall I was left unimpressed. Perhaps this is an acquired taste or maybe I'm too old to appreciate the genre, but this film didn't really do it for me. But you know what, I watched "Grave of the Fireflies" and I thought that was more thoughtful and insightful, so I'm not closed minded about the whole thing. I guess I'll have to try some other titles to see what works for me.
I saw the movie "Re-Cycle" not that long ago and people on boards for that film talked about two scenes that resembled each other so I wanted to see this one. I have seen another film made by this company "Nausica" and I could tell there were similarities in music and animation style. Well the bridge scene was a bit similar, but my girlfriend says there are a lot of tales in Asian culture of holding your breath so the spirits can not see you so it really was not to a like. Actually, I found this movie while a bit flawed here and there for my tastes more entertaining than that other film and much more whimsical. A girl and her parents are driving to their new home and get detoured along the way and end up at what appears to be the entrance to a long abandoned theme park. Well the daughter, named Chihiro has a bad feeling about this place, but her parents just have to explore. Suffice to say the daughter's bad premonition about this place turns out to be correct as the parents stumble upon a lot of food in one of the buildings in this place and proceed to eat the food like Goku eats in Dragonball Z. In the end the girl ends up trapped in what is the spirit world, and this theme park which is actually a bath house for the spirits. The girl ends up getting employed by the witch who runs the bath house and has her name basically stolen by her as she goes from Chihiro to Sen, a boy named Haku at times seems to want to help her and at others seems cold to her. Her parents are pigs, a strange creature seems to really like her and she gets to meet all sorts of interesting new chaps. The problems I found with the piece you ask? Well despite a rather lengthy runtime of 125 minutes it still feels like it needed more. Many interesting plot points wrapped up with not enough development, like No-Face. The twin sister's strange turnaround in they way she acted and treated the girl. The way she gets back seems a tad rushed too, however for the most part this movie was simply a delight.


                
in regards to sailvane-1's comments on spirited away, yes i agree the film had beautiful graphics and the story was well told but how could he say it is superior to ice age when both do something completely. Ice age is meant to be a family fun, almost comic animation with the use of cgi whilst spirited away is more serious and a darker form of animation so its not good to compare against each other.compared to other films done by the same director.... i found this to be his best... ie. the baby being changed to a rat,girls angst at her parents being pig, and the evil black ghost(?)thing which keeps on swallowing people in the bath house.although howls castle (dubbed version) is extremely good visually with funny characters such as calcifer (fire demon) although has a slightly weaker story than spirited away and princess monokee is a very clever film and almost rivals that of spirited away in the sense of it talking about mans destruction of animal habitats and the conflicts that ensure..in all spirited away may not suit everyone as yes it lacks the Americans use of cgi and yes it can confuse those don't watch it more than once... bit very entertaining still... but if not to your cup of tea try some of his other works or just stick to American animation


                
This animated film reminds me of the visual nature of East Asian people. This is captured on the front cover as the story theme seems to continue the notion that the Japanese spirit must strive and survive in its totality as a unique ethnic way. The front cover seems to capture the innocence of the Japanese youth in an over stressful atmosphere of proximity of Japan. Looking aside from the direct view that the world in front of her displays as opportunity given the "time frame". Moving forward never the less because of a sense of duty to Ryu the friendly dragon. But taking personal time to look aside to the attention of the curious viewer.The confrontation with the boiler maker seems negotiated as the small black spider like beings escort the youth home. The spirit of a tradesman, or craftsman, burns very earnestly in their own spirited way of life. Perhaps it is this mystery of faith that is the will to devoutly follow all that is pure like the white kami of Shinto religion, water clear sake, spirit of decisive action of Samurai Budo, and even the thoughts in any craftsman's mind that produces the way of human righteousness via their art.Its this same sense of duty that if followed blindly will bring you virtue and honor like the concept of a perfect society which a citizen calls government. Always fear the politician with this East Asian budo spirit because they seek to establish a virtuous government as a noble virtuous citizen by example of their deeds that they may sign their oaths of duty. It is their selfless spirit that brings unification of all government duty. I think this movie A Spirited Way brings many different characters under the same common theme of duty with spirit.


                
When I first saw this movie I did not have much of an appreciation for it. Although I loved the animation, and did get a few laughs, the story as a whole did not really intrigue me. It seems as though there wasn't much done to really differentiate this movie from a typical Alice-In-Wonderland story. Although the animation was unique, animation alone is not enough to make a movie. I did enjoy watching the movie and I understand it's artistic excellence, but I feel there is no way this movie ranks as the top animated movie of all-time. The story is so simplistic that at best this movie could be the top 10. I am going to watch this movie again, because I was very interested in the animation, but story-wise I don't think this movie cuts it.
This is a good movie don't get me wrong, it just seems sad how many excellent and superb Japanese anime are over shadowed by regular movies with a huge budget like this one, was a surprise to me to find Chihiro before any of the biggest classics, like Ghost in the Shell, Fist of the North Star, 3 X 3 Eyes, Porco Rosso, Jin Roh, Grave of the Fireflies, and so on. On the good side of it, I see many people discovering that Japanese anime is not only cartoon porn, or cartoons for kids, because of this movie. But definitely I would like to see some familiar names of anime here before Chihiro.


                
