Last year I saw Spirited Away on it's UK release. I've never been a particular fan of anime, and it didn't really occur to me that I was watching a foreign language film dubbed into English (or 'American'). I can't imagine seeing a live action foreign language film dubbed into another language, but hey, this is a kids cartoon, what does it matter? Up to a point it didn't, because I loved the film. I enjoyed it so much I set about digging up the Studio Ghibli/Miyazaki back catalogue, in the process Sprited Away was filed away as one of the lesser Ghibli's - still great, but compared to Laputa, Grave of the Fireflies and a few others, it seemed a little weak. BUT... I recently re-watched it on DVD with the subtitles and found the difference unbelievable. The film came alive like the other Miyazaki's I've seen. It seemed infinitely more layered, detailed, intelligent and witty than I remembered. Could it be that retaining the intended performances (even if the words are unintelligible) can make that much difference? Maybe the dub was just poorly done? Or was it just because I was now versed in the language of Ghibli? As a little experiment I decided to re-watch some of the film with both the English subtitles and English language dub in order to compare, I ended watching the whole thing out of morbid fascination. It's simply amazing what a difference there is. Entire scenes change. It's not just that subtle emphasis is shifted or the same points are made in a different manner - in the dub, the subject of whole conversations and scenes are changed, and often to some flat and uninteresting hokum. Relationships between characters are changed, their motivations and personalities are changed, the difference is shocking. I appreciate western, and particularly American audiences can be put off by subtitles. And cinemas are less likely to show the film anyway. It's pointless to be all righteous when, fundamentally, you just want people to see the film. Unless they do, this treasure trove will remain undiscovered, and maybe finding it will encourage people to conquer the 'subtitle demon' (as Miyazaki might call him). But the problem is the quality of these dubs, and the liberties taken with the source material. Of course, without speaking Japanese, who can say it's not the subtitles that are way off? They're probably written by westerners too. But the dub just stinks of Disneyfication. Saturday morning generic nonsense. The challenging, uncompromising and emotionally ambitious nature of the film is severely watered down.A fair question might be, 'if it's so bad why was it so successful?' The success is evidence of the films staggering quality. Even so, it hardly challenged whatever Jerry Bruckheimer movie was showing at the time. In Japan it's the biggest grossing film in history. 'Go figure,' as Chihiro wouldn't say.


                
I recently bought this on DVD for my 11 year old sister as a birthday present. The only real background info on it I had at the time was that it was an anime in the vein of Alice In Wonderland. However, in all aspects, (including the one that is most often in contention among anime fans, the English dub,) reached and then exceeded my expectations.Chihiro is a little girl who is unwilling to join in with her gung-ho parents who are setting off to live in a new town. However, when her father's bad driving has them at a dead end in a forest glade, they discover a tunnel that leads into what seems to be an abandoned theme park town. However, when the sun goes down it becomes clear that this is a ghost town of a different sort, a place where spirits return each evening to relax and refresh themselves. Chihiro finds herself working at the towering Bath-house of the Spirits and trying to find a way of getting back to her home, encountering many incredible creatures along the way, including the brave water spirit/dragon Haku, gruff but kindly boiler-man Komaji, cranky witch/owner of the bath-house Yubaba and the mysterious wraith No-Face.On the strength of the US English dub, it is an enjoyable and exhilarating film, with a well-written story, fantastic dialogue and, given the nature of the film, totally believable characters. Daveigh Chase is marvelous as Chihiro, and brings across her complex emotional states brilliantly. The supporting cast, including many Disney regulars, are on top form, and whilst it has no real stars on board, the skill of those involved proves it isn't necessary. I often found myself wondering if Wendee Lee was one of the cast members, but on discovering it was Susan Egan I felt like a complete dolt. David Ogden Stiers, the Peter Sellers of Disney, is a treat as Komaji, and Jason Marsden and Suzanne Pleshette are fairly engaging as Haku and Yubaba/Zeniba respectively. Bob Bergen and John Ratzenberger both make good cameos as well.The visuals and sound are crisp and clean and unpretentious, the story is accessible whilst still being quirky and inventive. Whilst at the time of it's release I was repelled by the fact that it seemed a tad too Disney-ish, I now think I can safely say I was wrong. This isn't Alice In Wonderland; it's in a whole different class.And by the way, my sister loved it too.
I will admit hesitation in viewing the latest Miyazaki film, simply because of my own close-minded first impression of it.  Historically, I can appreciate the beauty and artistry in all of his films, but I find that I prefer the films that center more on characters (Kiki's Delivery Service, Whispers of the Heart) as opposed to animals and nature (Mononoke Hime, Porco Rosso).  Therefore, after seeing that this film was more fantasy than reality, I was not in a hurry to see it. Unfortunately, this meant that I missed out on having seen a masterpiece for several months.  Spirited Away, the story of a little girl who must somehow escape from a world inhabited by fantastical characters is as much about her own evolution and strength in character as it is about the incredible creatures that surround her in her new environment.  While Spirited Away is a fairy tale, it is also a lesson in accountability, strength and responsibility. 	 Miyazaki is known for creating strong young female characters that are also completely adorable, but Spirited Away contains some of the most interesting co-stars I have seen in recent memory.  A lamp that not only provides a guiding light, but also happens to hop along on one foot, a giant baby and a bird with the head of an elderly lady are just three of the many eccentric characters we experience.  Not only are the characters and story line rich, but the artistry is absolutely beautiful as well.  The colors and character design are flawless and awe-inspiring.  Even I, the cynical and technical viewer found myself saying `Aww' and smiling at the little soot monsters and the `mouse'.  The hype was worth it and the Oscar was well-deserved.  Spirited Away is a beautiful film that really and truly should be experienced, and has the potential of being enjoyed by most, because it has so many layers and imaginative aspects that there will be points of appeal for just about anyone.--Shelly


                
What makes this movie so powerful and great are mainly its characters. The characters are well constructed and are mainly the reason why this movie is so unforgettable. Some of the characters are quite odd looking, even by anime standards but they are so wonderfully constructed that they all become believable.The story is just totally brilliant. It's odd but oh so beautiful. The imaginary world gives the movie a totally unique and beautiful look and feeling. It all helps to make "Sen to Chihiro no kamikakushi" an unique and unforgettable viewing experience. The beauty in the movie is in its unpredictability. Because its so unique and original, you never know what to expect next and everything comes as a pleasant surprise. My only complaint about the story is its love-story, if there even was meant to be one, wasn't really believable and felt underdeveloped and like a missed opportunity.It all is beautiful animated and with lots of eye for detail and I'm talking about both the characters and the imaginary world. It helps to make you believe in the totally imaginary world and the story.The musical score by Joe Hisaishi is just fantastic and fits the movie very well.This is once more another Hayao Miyazaki masterpiece. Once more he has succeeded in creating a unique, original and totally believable world, story and characters. It's both beautiful and unforgettable.9/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
There's no doubt that Pixar Animation Studio is the greatest thing on animation in modern times. I use to love any effort by them, being Monsters, Inc. my all-time favorite so far. However, yesterday I rented this movie 'cause I've been hearing some great things about it, and after watching it, I just have to say that Sen to Chihiro no kamikakushi it is not just a great movie, this adjective is almost insulting: it's awesome, it is spectacular, it is mind and sight challenging, and is a round film from wherever point you wanna see it. Said in a few words, it's a masterpiece of modern times, which spends most of his time in a parallel (and surreal) world of ancient Japan. Sen to Chihiro... has so many powerful stuff to stand out for. It has one of the strongest imagination I've seen in my entire life on animation, and also there's a lot of inventiveness, believable profiles on characters (and they're animated!), perfect on detail drawing (yes, hand made, traditional drawing), pulse accelerating action, humor, an outstanding and subtle soundtrack, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera. Even the closing song is not less than beautiful.As much as I love and respect Pixar, this one blew me away enough to place it on the same level as the films made by the most popular animation studio. I just couldn't believe my eyes as I was watching it. Is that simple. This experience is magical, involving, marvelous, and one more great thing about it is that you don't have to be a manga fan manga to truly enjoy the trip; just have to be an animation lover. Well done animation. And that doesn't happen much; it did to me with The iron giant, but that was some time ago.
Mr. Miyazaki, I knew nothing about you or your work before Chihiro, but, from this point on, you have become my hero and I can't wait to have on my DVD player any other piece of animated heaven you've created.


                
'Spirited Away' is a Japanese film, and is available in the UK in dubbed & subtitled versions. I saw the subtitled film and (with the exception of occasional gaps & pauses in the subtitling) I judge it to be the best animation since Akira, or possibly even Pinnoccio. The storyline is (in outline) no more incredible than most anime, but the film excels because it is bursting with unusual ideas. The imaginative imagery is wedded with fine, detailed animation and evocative music. Some parts of the film (chases/drives through foliage/flowers/within the bath-house) are exceptionally detailed and visually striking. There are (thankfully few) portions of the film soundtrack that suffer an outbreak of a Richard Clayderman-esque piano composition (IMO), but generally the sound supports the animation well and the animation was continually stimulating and moving. I give this (original film with subtitles)  9 OUT OF 10.


                
Well, what a surprise; "Miyazaki" and "masterpiece" together in an affirmative sentence.  Spirited Away marks Miyazaki's first work as a semi-retired director, though the movie doesn't suffer from it in the least. Spirited Away is about a young girl gets lost in a world of ghosts and spirits and is forced to work at the bath house for specters.  Any fan of Miyazaki will instantly fall in love with this movie.  Don't be fooled by Disney's involvement or the fact that it's animated.  It's still very much anime, but not anime for anyone.  This is a good movie for young children and those who have a timeless love for movies.  If you're the kind of person who still loves Toy Story, for example, then this will become another one of your favorites.  People who are only into anime like Ninja Scroll and Cowboy Beebop, this may not be the movie for you.  This is a movie for those who love anime of all kinds, like myself.  Spirited Away is a fanciful movie that most open-minded individuals will enjoy.  I'd have to give it a 9.25 out of 10.


                
While Nausicaa is better this movie is a vast monument in animation. Therefor I find it an insult when people say something like Ice Age is better. sure Ice Age has pretty visuals but it does not have the depth and spirituality of Spirited Away.However I cannot really blame most comments since most people don't really know Japanese culture other than Sushi, hightech gadgets,  Dragonball Z and Pokemon.The thing with Spirited Away is that it delves deep into the spiritual side of Japanese culture. To Japanese people all things contain spirits. Hence all the gods and spirits in this movie. there's a lot of symbolism in this movie as well. And a lot of life lessons.And what I find really important: it doesn't try to be a kiddy movie but more a family movie. Western people often seem to view animation as something only for kids. In Japan this is simply not true. Animation is for everyone. It provides an escape and a way to create outragious stories that would not have been able to be created through normal film.i love it. I found it hard at first but after seeing it again all the puzzle pieces fell into place.Still I do have some isues with the film. Actually only 1. the ending was too swift. It should have been worked out a little bit more.
Other than that wonderful wonderful movie. oh and btw (comment to one reviewer) watch the original japanese language version with subtitles. Chihiro does NOT have a high pitched voice. The whole ide of Dubbing in itself I find ludicrous.


                
Leave any preconceptions about this being a kids film at home, this is breathtaking. A simple enough story, told with such charm and imagination that it is hard not to love. In every moment there are elements that western cinema might spin into a whole film, but here they are just passing ideas. Every location is so full of life and spirit (pun intended) that a totally immersive atmosphere envelops the viewer at every stage. The film is gentle, yet does not shy away from death and emotion. It's not over-sentimental in it's approach either, just perfectly balanced. It made me genuinely laugh out loud, and cry too - a film hasn't provoked this reaction in me for five years.I have never seen such a brilliant animation, it surpasses the Bellvue Rendezvous and any other you care to think of. It's not just amongst animations that this film should be compared, it's amongst all films, of every genre, for the young or old. Standing tall among giants, this is truly great cinema.


                
Yeah... Spirited Away, or Sen to Chihiro as they call it here. My DVD said Spirited Away. It's a Dutch version with Dutch dubs and original Japanese language on it. Also there are Dutch subs. I've only watched Japanese with Dutch subs. Two times. Yes... It was such a great films from Studio Ghibli's living legend Hayao Miyazaki. I love all his films. And I like most of the other films from Studio Ghibli too. Like Grave of the Fireflies... it's such a drama, really beautiful. But right... this is Spirited Away. It's a great film. You get a nice feeling when you watch it. It's a little bit dramatic, but you won't get down of it. It's some fantasy. There are creatures in it, like ghost. You won't see the difference between good and evil, 'cause the line between that is really vague. Some things look bad, but are good. It's a film who's loved by young and old. Even adults can enjoy the deep lying thoughts in it. I really recommit this. If you have watched this and liked it, but want some more action, you can try Princess Mononoke. It's also a Ghiblifilm, but with some more action. And if you haven't watched it yet, have fun!


                
I've never been a big fan of anime.Granted, I've only seen a handful of anime films, but they've never really interested me. So when a friend threw a copy of Spirited Away in my hands and said, "You've gotta watch this!" I was less than thrilled, but decided to give it a try.I'm glad I did.The little girl in the movie is made to seem very real. She has all the mannerisms and quirks of a normal, bratty little girl. She is suddenly cast into a surreal world of spirits in which she must be brave and take care of herself.The unique characters and fascinating artwork make this fun to watch. These aren't your stereotypical cutesy anime characters either. The film really branches out and has diverse characters that keep you guessing.If I can think of anything negative about this movie, it might have run on a few minutes too long, but that's a small point, and can easily be overlooked.So, I'm still not going to rush out and watch all the anime films I can, but for those of you who (like me) have decided that you don't care for anime, allow this to be the rare exception.9 of 10


                
Spirited Away - Sen to Chihiro no Kamikakushi - 2001 Every year there's a handful of films that manage to take flight and cross international boundaries with massive success and translate to a truly international audience. In 2003 Hayao Miyazaki's Animated Masterpiece, Spirited Away, washed up on British shores to an audience who took it in and loved it as the beautiful ghost world tale it was meant to be. This is an 'Alice in Wonderland' like tale, of a young girl who's parents are turned in to pigs while exploring and enjoying the cuisine of a seemingly abandoned theme park. Chihiro remains trapped in this theme park, that after darkness, becomes a surreal world belonging to a collection of ghost and beasts. Chihiro settles down as best she can in this parallel word, as she befriends many characters, and searches for her parents. While the story line may be a little disjointed, the visual imagery of this film makes up for any faults. From the eccentric and eclectic characters, to the serene and stunning landscapes through which Chihiro journeys. This is thanks mainly to the fact that Miyazaki has combined hand drawn and computerised animation, to good effect. It successfully presents a film in a medium usually reserved for kids, but makes it encapsulating for both adult and child alike. Spirited away is certainly one of the most surreal and beautiful films I've seen. 9/10


                
I have recently been trying to get into anime as I adore the artwork and creativity of the movies every time I see clips and trailers of them. I was intrigued when I saw the trailer for this film and knew that I definately wanted to see it at some point. I finally managed to watch the film recently and I was not dissapointed at all!The animation is superb, the colours are breathtaking, you simply cant look away! The whole film is beautiful!For fans of anime it is a must see, but I urge all movie fans to see it as I believe most would definitely enjoy it. I watched the movie with the original japanese dialogue accompanied by english subtitles and I certainly prefer watching these films in that format than with a crappy dubbed english soundtrack.I give this film a rating of 9/10


                
Some movies you just have to see to believe.  Spirited Away is one of them. Now I'm something of an anime/manga fan, but my wife is definitely not, and she LOVED this movie.  My young son also has become something of a Miyazaki fan, thanks to the DVDs of his movies.  (We now give a rousing "Studio Ghibli" cheer at the beginning of this and other Miyazaki films.)My wife and I saw Spirited Away in a theatre, and unlike some japanimation I've seen, this does belong on a large screen.  However, it might be too intense for younger viewers.  It translates quite well to DVD, so no complaints there, but the amazing color pallete and generally high artistic quality deserve a vivid presentation.I've heard and read complaints that some of the themes were too culturally-specific, that it would be impossible for an American unversed in Japanese mythology to understand the film.  Well, that suits me just fine; I rather like the sense of strangeness that comes with not quite knowing how all the themes tie together.  Perhaps it helped me identify with the main character, Chihiro, who as a young girl used to a technological society certainly isn't in a position to know the details of bathhouses for spirits.I really enjoyed the notion that if one goes just a little off the beaten track of modern Japan, one finds beautifully anachronistic spirit worlds. Fortunately, we didn't have to go too far afield to find Miyazaki's beautiful flight of fancy.  This film succeeds as a morality play on the pitfalls of carelessness and greed, as a comment on the persistence of deep cultural roots despite technological homogenization, and as an inspirational fairy tale of a girl who has to accept her extremely peculiar lot for the sake of her family.Impressive. 9/10.


                
Animation is not my favourite medium of film but I have always been fascinated by it. I cannot draw to save my life and so watching some of the greatest artwork ever created come to life before your eyes can be overwhelming. And that is what Spirited Away does, it brings animation to life.Unlike other animations that focus on action or special effects this is all about the story and characters, and these ore some of the greatest fictional characters I have ever seen. Whether it be the leads of Chihiro and No Face to the supports of Lin and Kimarji they are all fascinating to watch and you quickly get attached to them, willing them on to succeed in their given tasks.Tha animation itself is also some of the best I have ever seen, it is fluent and bursting with color and life. Every character is beautifully realised and there voices are perfect Talking about voices, this is where I get stumped. Most people agree that the original Japanese dialogue with subtitles is superior to the dubing. But I cannot make my mind up, apart from the witch i find all characters to be equal in their dubing and Japanese versions. The dubing is also easier to understand (although it can border on Disney-ification sometimes, a lot of work has gone into the dubing and it shows. Only the witch really sounds better in Japenese.Overall this is one of the greatest films I have ever seen and easily the best animation, whether 12 or 112 you will LOVE this movie.


                
After claimed-to-be-the-last Princess Mononoke, here came Sen to Chihiro no kamikakushi by Miyazaki. I suppose the whole world is crazy about it, and of course it's worth.The story starts with Chihiro and her family going on the way to their new house. They get lost and go through a gate to another world. When Chihiro's parents see the food in the market, they just sit down and eat but they turn out to turn into pigs. Chihiro is so scared but then when night falls, gods and spirits appear. Chihiro has no clue about anything happened but she keeps going. She gets a job in the bath house, finds out more and at last manages to leave this world after a series of events.You must find the whole film is quite interesting and all the spirits and gods look really funny. We seem to be with Chihiro throughout her whole journey in the world of gods and spirits. She has a very pure heart and works really hard even when she's in trouble and doesn't understand the whole situation. When the Witch tries to take away Chihiro's identity and fool her around, Chihiro's belief really stands and gives her the way home. She's also willing to accept and help others, be them evil, strange, nasty, or greedy. Maybe the personalities she possesses are something we need but have lost. Of course identity is more than our names, but what the names mean to others counts most. Otherwise we'll just like No-Face.Miyazaki's way to process the whole film may be a bit exaggerating compared with his previous works, but that makes it more enjoyable and more suitable for children. I've watched this film for five times, and every time I'll have some new thoughts. The inspiration brought by the film is of course subject to viewers, but I'm sure everyone will be fully satisfied with the film.This is surely one of the best imaginative animations I've ever seen. Don't miss out!


                
A great film full of funny moments with quirky and the most creative characters that I can say I have known, and also some seriousness and mystery to mix together to make a astonishing film that is practically flawless


                
Spirited Away' is the first Miyazaki I have seen, but from this stupendous film I can tell he is a master storyteller. A hallmark of a good storyteller is making the audience empathise or pull them into the shoes of the central character. Miyazaki does this brilliantly in 'Spirited Away'. During the first fifteen minutes we have no idea what is going on. Neither does the main character Chihiro. We discover the world as Chihiro does and it's truly amazing to watch. But Miyazaki doesn't seem to treat this world as something amazing. The world is filmed just like our workaday world would. The inhabitants of the world go about their daily business as usual as full with apathy as us normal folks. Places and buildings are not greeted by towering establishing shots and majestic music. The fact that this place is amazing doesn't seem to concern Miyazaki. What do however, are the characters. Miyazaki lingers upon the characters as if they were actors. He infixes his animated actors with such subtleties that I have never seen, even from animation giants Pixar. Twenty minutes into this film and I completely forgot these were animated characters; I started to care for them like they were living and breathing. Miyazaki treats the modest achievements of Chihiro with unashamed bombast. The uplifting scene where she cleanses the River God is accompanied by stirring music and is as exciting as watching gladiatorial combatants fight. Of course, by giving the audience developed characters to care about, the action and conflicts will always be more exciting, terrifying and uplifting than normal, generic action scenes.


                
First of all, watch this movie with subtitles. I cannot stress enough the amount lost with the americanized translation and the unnecessary dialog used to satisfy over-sentimental western audiences with the dubbed 'Disney' voice-overs.Spirited Away is a visual splendor like no other and it's unusual technique of being completely hand-drawn does not create a lack of quality but in contrast makes you appreciate the astonishing imagery and magical burst of color. Indeed, this alone makes this movie stand-out above all others. But it doesn't rely on its excellent animation alone.The story is simple but no doubt carries complex themes, to which immediately makes this more than a 'kids' movie, as cynics would suggest. In saying that, this movie can appeal to all ages and equally be interpreted differently to children as to adults. It will keep you intrigued to the end as the fantasy tale twists and turns and brings you to an enchanted land of mystical madness like no other.But unfortunately, I was of slight disappointment with the ending, seemingly rushed and disorganized and not justice to the spectacle just witnessed. Without this fault, it would surely be a classic in my eyes, however, it is incredible nonetheless. I would recommend it to anyone, not just animé fans, as it manages to serve up a great plot and dialog to match its beautifully crafted animation. Excellent.


                
The movie started and I wasn't quite sure what I was watching. There were moments at the beginning when I had no clue what was happening. But as it continued I was drawn more and more into the story to where I accepted anything the story threw my direction. I was a part of the movie in a way very few movies can involve me.Disney movies have their charms and I'm a big fan of some of them, namely the Pixar movies and a few of the 2D ones, but this will be unlike anything you've ever seen before (unless you're already familiar with Hiyao Miyazaki, in which case you'll probably be able to fully appreciate Spirited Away). I'm not going to ruin the plot for anyone, but I will say that it follows a girl named Chihiro on her journey into a spirit world and her discovery of how to take care of herself and those around her. There is far more to the movie than that, but I'll let you enjoy it for yourself. It's worth it.


                
I should start this comment by saying: You need some time to ponder over that anime! First of all I am not Japanase so it's not easy to affiliate yourself with Japanese culture(for example if you know nothing about Shinto religion it's really difficult to put pieces together)When I first finished watching that movie I thought "Hey it's really fun but it's just a conglomeration of imaginary fantasies but when I really pondered upon it and when I did some reading on it I realized that there are more to Spirited Away that eyes can see at surface. For example there is no clear-cut distinction between good and evil just like in real life right. Even Haku and No-Face who seem good at first look have their share of bad and good within their souls. Words have such a power in the movie. For instance Chihiro has to keep her real name in her mind if she doesn't want to be entrapped in the spirit world. This is actually what we do in real life. We attach such an importance to words that our emotions like anger,love,hatred,passion are channeled through the power of words. Greed makes spirits and people oblivious to what really matters in the movie. Spirits and people's greed (even Chihiro is greedy when it comes to grasping her parents attention)is self-destructive mostly. In short Spirited Away shows us the consequences of actions that alter the natural order of things in destructive ways just look around you you'll see how we humans are self-destructive by creating a figment of our imagination that we are not hurting ourselves but others to gain a place.Spirited is the story of transformation of a whining weak greedy little girl into a capable altruist brave girl.I say don't miss it!


                
I have seen many international films over the years and quite a few of these were Japanese. In addition, unlike many parents, I have seen a lot of anime that my kids have watched so at least I have some familiarity with the medium. Yet, with my background I still felt pretty confused and baffled by the strangeness of this movie. Now this isn't to say I didn't like it, but so many times I just couldn't understand exactly what was happening. Interestingly, when I saw the film again, I understood it much better and appreciated it much more. And this may be exactly how you might want to approach the film unless you already are a die-hard anime fan. See it, but be willing to see it without trying to think out the odd plot too much or even try seeing it several times. I know that each time I did, the film became more and more enjoyable and I began to notice so many cultural references. Now, several years after I first saw it in the theater, I have seen a lot more Japanese anime and films and it's practically second-nature to follow the film. So, for adults and those unfamiliar with the medium, this movie might take a bit of effort to fully enjoy, though with more and more children being familiar with and loving anime, it's very likely your kids will love it and will then be able to explain it to you!! As for the film, the animation is the best I have seen in any Miyazaki film, the story deep and fascinating and it's full of cute and endearing little touches that make the movie magical. See this with an open mind, please.


                
Spirited away is an amazing classic that I have watched since I was a child. As a child, it was a bit creepy and I didn't watch it as thoroughly. As a now 18 year old, I absolutely love this movie. It really shows the importance of bonds with friends and how even strangers can sometimes be your greatest savior. It also truly shows the importance of the saying "you don't know what you have until it's gone." As with most of Miyazaki's movies, the art style is amazing. Overall, I would highly recommend this movie to any person above the age of 8. I would also recommend watching Miyazaki's other movies such as My Neighbor Totoro and Keki's Delivery Service.Thank you for your time and for reading this review! Enjoy your movies!Jamie Pappas


                
Domo Arigato (thank you very much) to all the voters who gave this feature such an high score and guided me to see how superior "Sen to Chihiro no kamikakushi" is even to the best Disney and Pixar films. To be much better than "Ratatouille", "The Lion King" and "The Incredibles" is quite an achievement. I had never thought that I would see animated features better than those. Cause I really like Disney/Pixar though it seems almost boring next to this.Chihiro is a nervous little girl who's on the move with her parents. When they're on the way to their new home, they get lost on a road into the woods and ends up in a tunnel who leads to something they think is an abandoned amusement park. When the parents start eating from a table full of delicious food who just happens to be on a table in this place, the day turns to night, her parents turn to pigs and the world changes to something scary, weird and completely different...This tale is the work of geniuses. I have never seen such an always captivating film filled to the brim with wonderful and unique characters, as well as an original, exciting and constantly surprising story. The feature contains an amazing mixture of adventure, action and drama with some drops of cream comedy on the top. I simply couldn't take my eyes away from the screen a second of the two hours, two hours who felt more like 30 minutes. It is such extraordinary entertainment to watch Chihiro using the power of courage and love to save her loved ones. I could keep going on with the superlatives but you have probably taken my point by now. I definitely recommend this movie in Japanese with subtitles. It simply feels much more natural that way than it does dubbed. All in all "Spirited away" is the best animated feature and even one of the best films I have ever seen. I nearly never give movies 10/10 but this time I simply must.
Following the story of Chihiro, a young girl who mistakenly wanders into the spirit world with her parents, Spirited Away will be responsible, along with the CGI geniuses at Pixar, for the long-overdue downfall of Disney animation, both ideologically and visually. The story is neither simple nor predictable, and the weird and wonderful characters, locales and soundtrack are woven together with the hand of a genius director (Miyasaki) who really is at the top of his game.This is easily the most emotionally enchanting and visually brilliant animated film I have ever seen; every cell is crafted with such vibrant wonder that 'awe-inspiring' is a phrase which will need redefining. I hope that, in time, word of mouth (through sites such as this) will elevate this film to Shawshank godliness, no less than it deserves. As a foreign film, a feature animation and a children's film, this will satisfy lovers of all three genre and convert many more to all three causes, such as I.


                
