I was quite sad that the movie turned out to be like it is, because I really had high hopes for it, especially after the amazing movie that The Dark Night was.I think that the movie simply has too many inconsistencies and just plain badly done scenes:1. The scientist takes about 10 seconds to fiddle with a state-of-the-art reactor and make it into a bomb. 2. They had never seen this reactor before, supposedly didn't even know it existed, yet somehow, they have a "nuclear" piece that fits right into it and magically turns it into a bomb... 3. How batman stays still like he can't move when he's stabbed, yet 2 minutes later everything is fine again and he's running around. 4. How when the truck with the bomb crashes, the woman who's in the front of the truck dies, yet Com. Gordon, who's in the back of the lorry, in a huge metal compartment, with no seat belt, no nothing, is just fine. Not even a scratch on him. 5. How they make people walk in ice, yet in the next scene where they show a view of the city supposedly 1-2 days later, there's no ice to be seen. 6. How when Robin goes to save the cops and tells them to come up the manhole, the cop is immediately shot. Also, if the manhole was there the whole time and it was open, why didn't the cops just escape? 7. The scene where all the cops charge up to the criminals, how come no one shoots at the running cops before they're like 50 meters from City Hall, and also, how do Bane and Batman just stand in the middle of hundreds of guys with guns and yet nobody thinks to shoot at them?Seriously, I could go on, but the truth is that at one point I could not stop realizing how many sloppy twists and events were happening on the screen, and how little attention had been given to detail. On top of this, the story becomes weak by trying to include so many different, irrelevant little things at the same time, which leaves nothing but poorly developed characters and too many scenes that add nothing to the plot...All in all, a huge disappointment. I mean, if I hadn't had such great expectations from such a good director as Nolan, then I probably would have considered it as passable, nothing to write home about. But after seeing what he was able to do with The Dark Knight, and then to see such a crappy followup, leaves me feeling disappointed and sad for what could (should) have been a great movie.
I felt compelled to submit my first IMDb review after seeing the film today and looking at the IMDb rating and some of the reviews which have been posted.Nolan has been praised for his gritty realistic portrayal of batman, yet chooses to focus this last film on a giant cartoon bomb with huge digits counting down to destruction.WOW...Social, moral and political issues are hinted at but never truly addressed, instead mind-numbing punch-ups and chases play out with inevitable conclusions.


                
Nolan's recent blockbusters stand like looming corporate architecture: shining and cerebral; stately and sexless. His scripts are like visitors' guides to these spaces, proudly explaining every detail, surgically removing every doubt. His tell-don't-show insistence is of an artist possessing consummate technical skill and curiosity, but one unwilling to allow his crafted geometric edges to be rounded off with anything approaching satire or self-effacement. Nolan's style is rigorously formal and conservative, eliding evidence of the author in favour of ruthless aesthetic efficiency. Handsome and functional but lacking personality: Apple iPod films.His sort-of-superhero trilogy began with Batman Begins, an elegant, taut, stirring comic book thriller, in which Bruce Wayne (Christian Bale) struggled with his entrenched internal fears, and how to externalise them and use them as a weapon. It was followed by The Dark Knight, which had some fantastic scenes, usually involving the Joker, and maintained a convincing sense of dread up to a point. But it was dogged by hyper-plotting, scattergun characterisation and maddening verbosity - and sadly its successor continues and extends these trends.The third film is set eight years after The Dark Knight, and we meet Wayne as a limping recluse, still suffering physically and emotionally from his sacrifice. The first hour is a spaghetti mass of new characters and reintroduced characters and references to characters, but it's pretty much the same plot as Avengers Assemble, with a bad guy (in this case Bane, played by Tom Hardy) threatening to use a powerful yet unstable energy source as a weapon of mass destruction. Bane was "born in hell on Earth". He's built like Lord Humungous from Mad Max 2, his gas mask looks like a Predator mouth, and he speaks like Darth Vader. Not nice. Luckily Batman has help from cat burglar Selina Kyle (Anne Hathaway), feisty rookie cop Blake (Joseph Gordon-Levitt), and the usual wholesome oldies, Commissioner Gordon (Gary Oldman) and Alfred (Michael Caine).There's a great central scene in which Batman is lured to Bane's hideout, and the two go head-to-head, elbow-to-elbow. It's the one satisfying action scene in the film. (There's nothing to rival Begins' monorail showdown or The Dark Knight's truck chase.) Bane is still a seething, menacing presence at this point. All physicality: the embodiment of rage and fearlessness. But soon after he starts speaking at length, and his voice rises and his mystery evaporates, and he becomes just a man, much less than the horrible primeval idea he'd been before. If anyone could have done with a media spokesperson, it's Bane.The film then enters zeitgeist territory, with Bane's army tearing down Wall Street (or whatever the Gotham equivalent might be), nullifying the police presence, and staging the ultimate Occupy protest, while the meek Gotham citizens cower indoors. By this point serious questions about plot logic and group dynamics emerge - a lot of "How did he end up there?" and "Why don't they just...?" type enquiries. This is what happens when writers follow every digression their story allows.The Dark Knight Rises isn't a terrible film, but at nearly three hours the content must more compelling than this. I don't mind its neo- conservative messages; the worship of the feted elite is not new to the superhero canon. I can cope with the portentousness. Even Christian Bale's funny Batman voice doesn't bother me. These are all matters of taste. But if we're expected to take this stuff seriously then excessively exposition-heavy screen writing, narrative over-complexity in lieu of profundity, plot chasms, extraneous characterisation, and editorial indiscipline are inexcusable.Remove the cumbersome political overtones and you're left with something disappointingly generic: a doubtful hero (with attachment issues, of course) facing up to a brutish nemesis, a city in peril, and an explosive showdown. So you might as well watch Avengers Assemble again.


                
THEY CHANGED THE ENTIRE CHARACTER OF THE VILLAIN. All of the stuff that made Bain interesting, they didn't even include in the movie. The premise was idiotic. Batman fans always except that for some reason villains want to take over Gotham City, who knows why; especially since they are stuck in the late 50's with the old cars, slum neighborhood etc. But this was just dumb. First of all they really gave no reason that this would be so in this movie, they usually give us that. Then the costume Bain wore served no purpose except to make him look scary, or in this case like Hannibal Lechter. And then the complete departure from the storyline that took us out of the country for what seemed like hours in real time, before "the Dark Knight Rises" which everyone knew he would, and they didn't even bother to make that interesting. What they succeeded in doing with this movie was making my butt hurt because I had been sitting waaaaay too long. So if you go see it, buy the extra large popcorn, dump a gallon of butter on it, buy a hotdog, a huge soda, lots of candy, take a cushion, because you're gonna be in there for a while, waiting for what you already know is going to happen.


                
Well I'm not going to delve too much into the plot of this film, I've marked it for spoilers so if you're reading this you've either seen it already or don't care. So lets jump right in, the acting in this movie is obviously a step down from TDK but that's to be expected. You just can't top what Heath Ledger did in TDK but overall everyone gives a good performance. The action is also well done, no complaints there either. So, good action, good acting, the music is obviously great, why don't I like this movie? To sum up what is wrong with TDKR, instead of carefully setting its big moments up like the previous films did, the story in this film is lazy. If you'll indulge me, lets jump straight to the laziest part. How did Bane manage to hook up American cable underground in the middle of Africa? How did Bruce Wayne fix a completely broken back with rest? How did he get back to Gotham within 24 hours of leaving the hole? How did he even get anywhere since he climbed out of that hole with no passport, money or identification of any kind? I'm not someone who usually allows a plot hole to ruin a movie. But there were just too many in this one to stay invested. They just throw a bunch of stuff at a wall and hope all of it sticks, which is a stark contrast to the storytelling excellence of BB and TDK. Maybe it's because they tried to go too big, but it was a huge disappointment. I think the positive reputation this film earned was solely done on the backs of its predecessors.
Morgan Freeman's character goes from clever to worthless. Alfred goes on and on about what's going to happen to Bruce when we know that Alfred is always right so he's practically giving the plot away. Bane could apparently do so much with no ease you become numb and unimpressed by his character. Stronger than everyone, able to hack anything, everything. Seems to know where everything is effortlessly, where the reactor is, batmans batcave, how to hack the stock market, find 100s of thugs who have no prob committing suicide when the bomb goes off, c'mon. So far fetched. So unintelligent unlike the dark knight. Colliard's character was the most unsatisfying, not to mention unconvincing twist. I could go on and on about this movie..Jesus
Interminable, interminable, interminable, interminable, interminable, interminable, interminable, interminable, interminable, interminable, interminable, interminable, interminable, interminable, interminable, interminable, interminable, interminable, did I say interminable yet? What a waste of acting talent, the only bright spot was the good casting /production values which made the film tolerable to sit through but I never want to see it again although I did enjoy the first two films and have watched them several times. The directing was poor, the writing was poor, character development was poor, and the actors were not allowed to act to their potential. Scenes were drawn out, some were dead ends (long and drawn out dead ends, perhaps this was an even longer film and too much was cut out to shorten it? The film was as a dirge. Perhaps it should have been named the "The Dark Knight Trudges On". Only ONE moment of comedic relief and it was not original but the film was so droll the joke, any joke, was appreciated. This movie could have been standard length and been much better or much longer (with fewer dead ends) and perhaps better. Another film which was clearly done to just rake in the residual dough.


                
THE REVIEW DOES NOT CONTAIN SPOILERS REGARDING THE DARK KNIGHT RISES.As it is with every Nolan film, the film starts off with an impressive mid-air action sequence, doing justice to the proverb: "Well Begun is Half Done". Synonymous to the bank robbery scene, Bane enters the action with a different style clearly showing off how evil he is. The film then slowly settles down showing us what has changed in the past 8 years after Harvey Dent's death. Harvey still is considered as the "White Knight" and Batman as an outlaw vigilante. Bruce is weak and filled with a regret. Then the story takes shape in to the usual good-versus-evil plot in an extremely aggressive environment with a few shocking twists and a great conclusion.First of all, let's throw light on Bane. Bane is totally perfect. Tom Hardy portrays him extremely powerfully. I was impressed by the amount of dedication he took which clearly can be seen. But we cannot compare Bane with The Joker, who was spectacularly portrayed by Heath Ledger in the The Dark Knight. Bane doesn't possess the sense of humor that Joker possessed, true; but that's just because he's pure evil and wants his job done. He is true to his word and his actions. Tom Hardy is as good as Heath Ledger was.Then there's other performances to hail. After Bane I thought Alfred, played by the Michael Cain, and Billy, played by Joseph Gordon-Levitt, were the strongest. Alfred is more than a butler in this film, he is Bruce's guardian. There are many scenes when they both exchange emotions and a part of it was shown in the trailer where Alfred says "I don't Want to Bury you...". Those were seriously well filmed scenes, probably the best in the entire film. Joseph plays a cop who turns out to be another great character. After that the entire ensemble did their job well too with good acting. I had a feeling that Catwoman wasn't gonna work but I was wrong... In other superhero movies, you will find that the Hero is given the most vital spot, his sidekick a little less, the people he loves a little more less and the villain is always portrayed with exaggeration. Nolan however very perfectly places them on the same level. His films are quite natural and down-to-earth, including TDKR, which is what makes his films so special. Now moving towards the technical aspects of this film, they are brilliant as always but I did not find anything new in them. If you expect it to get better than the technical ingenious of Chris Nolan's Inception, you will be slightly disappointed. The film is actually 70% drama and 30% action. But it is worth it. If you ever get the opportunity, don't miss it on IMAX. Similar to Batman Begins, the story is quite straightforward. It does not have the beautiful complexity of The Dark Knight because it focuses more on the experience where Nolan is trying to give you that feeling of "Rise". The ending was quite smart but I won't say anything more than that. It totally depends on how YOU take it... In conclusion, it was a worthy ending to an amazing series. I wouldn't like to compare it to The Dark Knight as this film has it's own different story to tell. So I suggest you watch it with an open mind, making no comparisons to it's predecessor and you might enjoy it more... In case you are too excited to watch it then go to Wikipedia, they have the entire plot there ;)Visit my facebook page: www.facebook.com/filmsthemostbeautifulart


                
This, the last part of this so overrated trilogy, is by far the weakest and the most mediocre, presents all the faults of its predecessors and also multiplied by ten. If there is something to rescue, it is that it entertains, but unlike the rest it is so poorly realized that in the end you only keep the bad things. Bad script, simple assembly, tremendously ignores the supposed realism on which his universe was based, wastes minutes in unnecessary situations or exaggerated to the point of being hilarious (not in a good way), it falls a lot in the interpretations compared to the previous two and it is very obvious that it is made to satisfy the devotee fandom of The Dark Knight. My recommendation, you do not need to see it, stick with the good that the previous one had and now, enlarge The Dark Knight as much as you want, but this one is indefensible.


                
I've seen this movie a few times, all in the hope that multiple viewings may unearth some hidden gem I missed the first time or two. Sadly, none were to be found.I have to say that I was initially discouraged with the choice of villain for this installment. I do not follow Batman lore (canon?) so I had no idea who "Bane" was or why I should care. After watching this movie, I couldn't get over the thought that Bane was a mediocre criminal at best, who was only successful because the screenwriters made him that way. He didn't come off as menacing, intimidating or, well, crazy enough to make me think that he was some formidable opponent for Batman. Maybe I was spoiled after seeing the maniacal genius in Ledger's Joker, but Bane came off as very pedestrian.The scenes with Hathaway were unnecessarily long and drawn out. And so were the scenes of Batman/Wayne in the pit. This movie could have been better served by having been cut down by a good hour to get some pacing going because it never really took off. The bomb chasing / tracking sequence was interesting as was getting the police force trapped underground. The football sequence was neat, too, as there was a comic-book like feel to watching the field fall away right behind a streaking player's trail. And the ending sequence (batplane on autopilot with the nuke) was a bit formulaic but entertaining. But there was just... too... much... space... in between these parts to keep the movie from lagging. Overall, it would have been much better served to have had (1) a universally known villain (the Riddler, maybe) and (2) much better pacing.
I can't believe this is the same director...I thoroughly enjoyed the 2 previous films but this was a CrapFest.I found myself asking questions throughout the film, which is a disjointed, boring, batless flick...when he does show up, it's not very interesting...the bat, I'm afraid, has lost his touch...Ingredients for DARK KNIGHT RISES POOP MILKSHAKE>>1) Swap Wayne Water Device from the first film with a Wayne energy Atom bomb, thats pretty much the story, even with its own timer..also include explosive drains. 2) Add 2+ hours of dull exposition with 20 min of bland/repetitive action scenes. 3) Add the pointless character of Gordon Levitt, {correction}.. replace Batman/Bruce Wayne screen time with Gordon Levitt. Nolan has sold the fans short by catering to the next film in the Bat series by giving this character too much screen time. The character knows who batman is too quick and the audience is asked to make a leap of faith and just go with it.....WTF...Seriously...WTF...some sob story about seeing Bruce at an orphanage...and knowing its batman..blah blah 4) Convolute the story even more by adding in more uninteresting characters, and a last minute villain...that you could see a mile away. 5) Add the compulsory Scarecrow character into the film through a bizarre court scene. 6) Have enemies that can't shoot fully automatic weapons in a straight line. 7) Force in the "Bane breaks Bat storyline", then unconvincingly have Gotham under siege for 5 months. 8) Destroy Gotham Bridges or have scenes involving the Gotham Bridges. 9) Add overwhelming music to try and recover/improve bad scenes. 10) Fail to capitalise on a great baddie in Bane and a great actor in Tom Hardy by one shoting him at the end...cheap O' so Cheap... 11) Have a plot involving cops being trapped underground for 5 months...I call them Mole-cops, thats trademarked! 12) Have an atom explosion scene in the end that rivals Indiana and the poop skull. 13) Have Gotham cheering (even as the radiation cloud is blown towards Gotham).I could continue... but I'm so underwhelmed, I have to try and remember to breath.
So Let's see, The Conclusion to Chris Nolan's Dark Knight Trilogy. Starting with Batman Begins which was a great movie that pioneered the new wave of superhero films with blockbuster action and near art house philosophy with superheroes at the center. It took the concept of fear and turning it into power. Then came what is considered Nolan's greatest work, The Dark Knight. The Dark Knight brought in an engaging villain, ideas of anarchy vs control, real tragedy and analysis on what it takes to turn a hero to the dark side. Then came this movie...Well I personally don't care for it. It's long and pretentious and has loads of laughable moments. Bruce Wayne is written to be a little annoying and out of character. There are GAPING plot holes, nonsensical writing and odd creative decisions.First, what I like about the movie: Bane and Cat-woman. Bane is great. Tom Hardy is a great actor. He can be just a little hard to understand at times but did a great job nonetheless with an intelligent yet intimidating portrayal. That said, the character he played was Bane, in name only. No characteristics were taken from the comics otherwise. Cat-woman is great and that's all I can say. Her scenes are the most fun to watch in the movie.So where did the movie go wrong? Well, it has a lot to say but never takes the time to say it. It's also over 2 and a half hours long, which I don't usually mind but the editing and pacing are very hectic. It never takes the time to examine it's characters. Batman is a whiny recluse now and that character change plays no real part in the story later. The Batman voice is even more annoying in this one. The plot of the Dark Knight is made completely useless. They could have skipped that movie and gone to this one and everything would have been fine. the only remnant is Bruce Wayne's trauma (which goes NOWHERE) and the Dent act which caused peace (which goes NOWHERE). Things they could have cut out of the movie to save time since they clearly lengthened the movie ad cut bits and pieces everywhere.Bane has an overly complicated plan that involves (yet is not limited to) stealing Bruce Wayne's fingerprints, bankrupting him, breaking batman and throwing him into prison, destroying the city for the next 5 months, taking over the city and revealing the lies of commissioner Gordan, using tech from Wayne industries to break open black gate prison, then nuking the city. In that exact order. Why not just break Batman then nuke the city?Some Questions: If Bane has Bruce's fingerprints why is he stealing his tech? And why bankrupt him if you're just going to throw him in a pit and take over the city anyway? What is Bane's motivation really? He says the criminals are oppressed by the government but never explains how. His MO keeps changing though out the movie really Why is he attacking Gotham and claiming it needs to be saved like this when the first 30 minutes established Gotham is perfectly fine and at "peace time"? If you're going to say because the commissioner lied about Two-face you'd be wrong because the league of shadows has no problem with lying and deceit to gain power (evidenced by Batman Begins and this movie). Why put Batman, WORLDS GREATEST DETECTIVE, in a prison A CHILD once escaped from? Why keep him alive anyway? The entire "your punishment must be more severe" line has no logic in it. The league of shadows kills its enemies but now it just keeps the most dangerous ones alive?Talia al Ghul appears. I have issues with this. Why do her and Bruce Suddenly start having sex completely out of nowhere when they've JUST met? she says she hated her father for banishing Bane but still wants to carry out his plan. WHY? Why send EVERY policeman in Gotham to fight Bane in the sewers? couldn't they have gassed the sewer instead or kept some officers on the surface?Aside from those questions, there is really no chemistry between Bruce and Talia or Batman and Cat-woman or Bane and Talia. These romances happen without any prior indication and just confused me.It's not very faithful to the comics, but Nolan never wanted it to be anyway. I don't mind that and the other 2 movies did it pretty well, but in this case it's so far from the comics that there's no reason for this to be a Batman film. NONE. Other than the costumes. Where is the detective work? Where is the use of intelligence? Where is the dark atmosphere? most of this movie happens in the day time. Where's the noir feel that Batman is known for? Bane is nothing like this in the comics and for that matter neither is Talia.But I'd let that slide if the plot made logical sense. Bane's and Talia's deaths are both completely lackluster scenes. The ending was predictable and foreshadowed heavily by both Lucius Fox and Alfred. And speaking of the ending... BATMAN DOESN'T QUIT!!!!! WHAT IN THE WORLD WAS THAT ABOUT? ONE OF THE MAIN FOCUSES OF THE COMICS IS BATMAN'S OBSESSION WITH CRIME AND HOW IT CONSUMES HIS LIFE!! HE STAYS BATMAN TILL OLD AGE. It might sound nit- picky but it's a major trait that batman has.There's just so much wrong with this movie. It has great scenes but they don't make sense in terms of the over-all film. Things aren't really explained very well either. to each their own I guess. This was not for me.
I loved the first two Batmans because he was Batman, but this one was such a let down! There wasn't one moment where the audience or anyone in the movie was like "wow thats Batman!". I kept thinking: "after this scene they are really going to make him come back" and then, "oh after this scene we are really going to see Batman!". Never happened. I am pretty sure if I had counted he probably only put the suit on five times the whole movie and they tore him down never to bring him back up in any real Batman capacity. Basically the entire movie was him getting his you know what kicked. And the end was left open too. I am so disappointed.


                
Dark Knight Rises is a tale of two movies. The first half is engaging and Cat Woman is stupid hot. They also introduce an interesting Character in Gordon-Levitt. Then the movie looses itself. The story falls so flat I don't even think the actors can get behind the on-the-nose writing and terrible character development. It becomes hard to watch at times. Get ready to cringe at all the clichés you see coming a mile away. The Villain is awful. The choreography brings nothing new to the table. The Gordon-Levitt characters story line in the second half is so under-written that it makes for some of the worst scenes in the movie. All brought together with the most ridiculous ending imaginable.


                
Since the cinematic genius of The Dark Knight, I've been eagerly awaiting the final instalment. In this review, I will be comparing The Dark Knight Rises to its prequel, given that the hype has been created by the brilliance of its predecessor. From the start and throughout, the film just didn't work. I couldn't get into this film whatsoever. Perhaps it was a combination of a lousy script, including poor dialogue and an outrageous plot that seemed rushed together; completely out of tone to the simplistic but intelligent, and most importantly, realistic plots we've seen in the first two of Christopher Nolan's Batman trilogy. **SPOILERS**Firstly, the plot was ridiculous. Take a step back and view what actually happened in this movie. A man with an atomic bomb trying to blow up the city he spent months 'cleansing'. As opposed to a man hell bent on showing the city that when push comes to shove, they'd eat each other alive. On the face of it, which sounds like a master-class, the one with substance and logic? That's what used to distinguish this Batman from Superhero films.The dialogue was a mess. I challenge you to find a single quote that had any worthwhile meaning to it when compared with great lines like "Because he's the hero Gotham deserves, but not the one it needs right now" and "You either die a hero, or live long enough to see yourself become the villain" and that's leaving out all of the Joker's classic quotes. PS "I'm Gotham's reckoning" isn't a meaningful quote.They ruined Batman. Batman is supposed to be a hero that never gives up. In this film, we are told he gave up for 8 years because of a girl, and at the end of the film he retired for a girl again. It wasn't just the ideology of Batman that was trashed in the film. He is supposed to be a fighter who thinks on his feet and utilises all his gadgets and weapons, whereas, in this movie he was nothing but a mad brawler. Disgraceful. Let's compare the opening scenes to show how out of proportion and wild Nolan has made this film. In the Dark Knight, it opens with The Joker raiding a bank, killing off his accomplices and escaping in an organised fashion. Whereas, we see Bane tearing up a plane with another plane, whilst placing a dead body and taking blood; unexplained and just unrealistic.The actors performed well, but the characters were poorly scripted. Alfred was ruined by and overuse of crocodile tears. Gordon's character was a complete mess, even cringe worthy at times. Catwoman was good, but seemed like she was conveniently thrown in whenever it suited. Miranda was perhaps the weakest link. Overall, I could not relate to them or become emotive to their dire situation.Nolan's idea to connect the film to Batman Begins was ultimately a failure, and even ruined Bane's character as a result.Moving on to the numerous flaws in the story:<U+0095>We learn that Bruce Wayne has serious injuries, including no cartilage in both knees. He would have been in excruciating pain from every movement if this was the case, let alone get back in the suit.<U+0095>This one was perhaps the most unrealistic. Batman had his back broken, his vertebrate was sticking out. Yet somehow, a man punched his spine back into place. How he managed to become 'un-crippled' and later defeat Bane in a fist fight is insane. <U+0095>Why didn't he just shoot Bane? His head was exposed at all times. Earlier, we saw Batman use projectiles to knock out his men so why did he not use that on Bane? <U+0095>From escaping the random prison in a faraway place (nonsense), Bruce Wayne managed to get back to Gotham in time and find Selina Kyle on the streets. How?<U+0095>You know it's going to be a Blockbuster drag when the main threat in the film is the unoriginal nuclear bomb. And this was no exception. This bomb didn't even make sense too! The Doctor estimated it would be 5 months until the bomb explodes, yet it had a precise timer on it, despite them being able to blow it up at any given point. <U+0095>How did Batman escape the explosion when he was seen in the aircraft just 5 seconds before it detonated? Surely, the radiation emitted would have critically mutated the citizens of Gotham regardless of the blast radius.To summarise, The Dark Knight Rises was not only garbage, it ruined everything that made the first two films brilliant. There wasn't a sense of realism or intelligence. I can only imagine the majority of users who have given this film parity with its predecessor, have fallen for the hype and forgotten everything that made The Dark Knight a magnificent spectacle.


                
The ONLY reason this has a high rating is because it is riding off the popularity of The Dark Knight with the Joker. That is IT!! First off let me say this: Batman was seen in costume maybe 18 to 20 minutes out of the 2 hour movie!! Secondly, the movie went against what DC portrays the Batman to be. He showed himself to be a defeatist, a person of weakness, and fear. The fight scenes with the lame Bane was almost hilarious!!! This movie was SO predictable I found it quite boring after 40 minutes into it and, get this, Batman not believing in guns, Bane was shot with a gun at the end. I mean, COME ON! The ONLY reason I gave it a 4 was due to the last 30 minute battle scene. Other than that it was a joke and wish I could have gotten a refund for this movie.
The dark knight rises was a major disappointment for me, the characters Catwoman and Bane were rushed along and terribly done yet this movie is still 165 minutes long. however Batman also felt strange, like they forgot they need to at least act like batman was an established character in the other two movies and was established a certain way. bane was not the character that am familiar with, i understand Christopher Nolan was going for a more "realistic view on the Caped crusader but why use a villain like bane in something meant to be semi-possible in the real world? but when watching TDKR i couldn't help but think this is not the batman Christopher Nolan has been creating since 2005 with BB. and then after thinking they butchered Bane enough i find out to my disgust that bane is a mere henchman to somebody we barely know as a character. catwoman who has a very convoluted relationship with the Caped crusader was thrown into the movie and ushered through to get back to the "plot" then of course the pit, where was it? because it seemed like Bruce got back to Gotham in no time,the Bruce who has no money, nobody knows where he is, he is surely starved, and dehydrated just climbs out and...teleports back to Gotham? i guess batman really does have a superpower after all. and the bomb is no one going to die from radiation? because they didn't act concerned that the bomb was still pretty close. and finally "Robin" so JGL is what the heir to batman's throne? because he is a basic cop with some minor fighting skills? guess someone has to take over since batman is in Paris with the the underdeveloped catwoman. banes voice was a joke guess what bane if people cannot understand you, it makes you less scary( but then again his lines sounded like a 12 year old wrote them so maybe it is good nobody could understand him) also punching spines heals them, everybody knows this. the fight scenes were impossible see properly, not that their were many anyways since bane and batman fight twice the first one which was just sad, was too dark to see, camera barely ever showed them and batman fought like a mindless chicken. and the second he finally realized "hey look bane has a mask lets cut off his access to the serum/medicine or whatever it was. and then catwoman gets to finish him, they needed a reason for him to go to Paris with her after she betrayed him. final thoughts it just made no sense, threw to many characters in for the sake of it and didn't do enough to make me care at about them all.
I was really excited when this movie was finally coming out. Seeing as it was Christopher Nolan, I thought it would be great as I've liked every other movie he's been involved with. But I couldn't get myself to like TDKR. Too much was happening and Nolan introduces all these problems that are solved moments later which makes me wonder why they were introduced in the first place. Nolan also gives us all these new characters(Catwoman, Robin, etc) and why? They didn't serve much of a purpose and I couldn't get myself to care about them. Also, nothing about this movie was clever. The twist at the end that reveals the real mastermind behind destroying Gotham wasn't all that surprising. The second Miranda showed up, I was immediately skeptical. This movie was just full of plot holes and I honestly wish they just hadn't made a sequel to The Dark Knight. I loved TDK and I really wanted this movie to be great. I really did, but I just didn't think it was. I think everyone feels obligated to praise this movie because it's Christopher Nolan and won't admit that even the greatest directors and screenwriters make bad movies.
This is probably a totally different kind of review, but it does have to do with the movie, so I'll just get started.You know, I've been writing this book and at a point when I was stuck and needed inspiration I decided to watch this movie, hoping it would inspire me so I could connect the dots in my story line. I have a plot, but all the pieces don't fit together. It's been incredibly important to me to make sure that anything that happens in my book doesn't just pop out of the blue; that it's explainable and the audience can understand why it's happening or how it got to that point.When I was watching this movie, it was the first time I really paid attention to the plot....and realized that it's FULL of loopholes! For instance, how does Robin - just by looking at canisters full of explosives - realize exactly what Bane is trying to do with them? That certainly wasn't explained. Yet it gets an 8.8 rating on IMDb? How did that happen? Now I'm confused on how this movie got such a great rating with a plot that's full of unexplained gaps.


                
This was a decent movie, however it was not the best movie of 2012, or the summer. The drama was strained at times, and the movie was excessively long. Long for no reason. Fans of Nolan's work will like this end to what was a good stretch for Nolan's trilogy, however I'm not sure how comic book fans will respond to this last story-line. Christian Bale and Morgan Freeman were good as always. Tom Hardy was good but he was no where as good as Heath Ledger. Anne Hathaway did not change my view that she was not a good choice for this role. Sir Michael Cain is a great actor, he did what he could with what was given to him. The action was good but the movie drags terribly at times. Again, it's a decent movie, better than many that have been released so far. Many people have been trying to compare it to the Avengers or The Amazing Spiderman, it should never be compared to these two movies. The drama in Spiderman was better, the story moved more fluid. The Avengers is still, to date, the best comic book based movie and The Dark Knight is still the best of Nolan's version of Batman.
Judging by the applause in the cinema when this movie finished, I assumed myself to be in the minority of those who were seriously disappointed.Bane's voice was far too loud and the character didn't work, he should have worn a full mask as his face could not convey emotion.The overall story seemed too grandiose and intense (even more than the second film) which consequently made the film overly lengthy.Despite being a Batman film, Batman appears only briefly and accomplishes very little in what little screen time he has. For me the whole point of Batman is that he is not weak and cannot be beaten completely which was brilliant in the first film, this tended to show otherwise, much to my distaste.On the other hand Joseph Gordon-Levitt's character was likable and Liam Neeson and Cillian Murphy reprising their roles was very nice but here felt unnecessary as they didn't fit this film.For the most part the cinematography was great, but unlike the previous two installments I was not blown away with any of the action, or sequences.I'm sorry to be so negative, I was so hoping this would equal the quality of the first one, and the general consensus is that it does. Towards the end I had grown weary of this piece and my mind started to wonder and think more about the Man of Steel trailer, sadly.Go and watch it, you'll probably enjoy it. It was just not for me.
Not too sure why there are all these 10 reviews. This was far from perfect.First the good: Catwoman - excellent and Anne Hathaway does a bang up job. Expect a sequel. Probably with her and Robin.Bane - another excellent villain for batman. But there is no way he even comes close to the joker.The score was excellent. Screenplay pretty well done.Good ending tying everything together - there will DEFINITELY be a next one, but its likely to involve cat woman/robin a bit more.Scarecrow used as the judge/jury/executioner. Brilliant.Now the bad: There were so many clichés it hurt my head. But to counter that there were actually some well handled potential clichés. The fight scenes have been dumbed down to boxing matches, really pathetic. Very surprising considering the quality of the previous movies.The movie was badly paced in terms of characters. At the start it seems they introduce you to lots of characters, give you a tiny back story, but its as if they say "none of this is interesting, lets get to some blowing up techy stuff!". 3/4 of the movie was blowing stuff up while the first quarter seemed like an after thought that they had to put in to make it slightly believable. Not cool. Your characters should develop and change during the story, not just be fillers for some cool action. Thats what it felt like in the end.The real bad gal I feel didn't have any teeth and was a bit pathetic. They killed her off though, but didn't kill off Bane, which was probably good.The action was a bit pants, nothing mind blowing or that cool. We all remember the bike/wall turn around scene from the last movie, nothing cool like that going on here. About the best bit was the explosive start to the hostage drama. The worst part was the amazingly slow missiles which can't quite catch what looks to be a VERY slow helicopter. Please, we aren't retards. Missiles generally move at faster than the speed of sound (like 2 times at least), they don't move at the 50kmh that those ones were or they would be completely useless and fall out of the sky because they are moving so freaking slow. Pathetic and quite stupid. Another bad bit was cat woman using the guns on the bike to shoot through about a 3 story pyramid of cars with 1 shot. She then shoots Bane with the same guns, which should have left him splattered all over the room (along with Batman who he was killing at the time), but probably just grazed him a bit. She should have just run him over.The story piece with Bane breaking Batmans back/him getting healed and escaping was pretty badly done to be honest. It lacked any realism or depth.Time and some plot coherency are treated badly - Bane breaks Batmans back, suddenly he is in a different country, amazingly some "doctors" at the bottom of a hole fix him with a rope and a punch, he gets tough, climbs out and magically appears back in Gotham. Badly handled and unsatisfying.The scene where cops run at men with fully automatic weapons and tanks then overcome them is neither believable or realistic. In the real world they would have been mown down easily. In this world they take down a fully armed malitia.Another part that was pants - Robin telling to clear everyone out of the tunnels. The last cops are going in when everyone is told to clear out. But all the cops just keep going. Then somehow they are all trapped. Uhhhh... didn't he tell all you guys just entering the tunnel to turn around? Why didn't you... turn around? Dumb. Also the cops then have no way out. But supplies are being given to them... so there is a way out? Badly handled. Why didn't Bane just kill them all? Its what he wanted anyway...Really the movie didn't feel anywhere near the standard of the last one, not sure why you would give it 10... maybe its people so enchanted with the franchise they upgrade an average movie to amazing. But thats what it was, average.
Wow, what a disappointment this movie was, after Nolan had spent such effort in crafting a Batman universe that felt tangible, this finale was a total mess. Paper-thin plot and questionable motivations, the film felt overly contrived. Jump to 8 years after 'Batman's last sighting' (where our caped crusader escapes into the night a wanted man), we discover Batman hung up his cape that fateful night and simultaneously Bruce Wayne became a limping recluse - the whole of Gotham couldn't work out that coincidence, but wait, John Blake, a feisty cop, did work it out because Bruce Wayne's an orphan like him and he can see that look in his eyes? We are introduced to Batman's new nemesis, a powerful, fearless and intelligent member of the League of Shadows, Bane, his Bond baddyesque accent to highlight his intelligence; his single-minded goal to destroy Batman unclear (to some degree because of his mumblings through his respiratory mask). We meet Miranda Tate, a wealthy woman with similar ideas as Bruce Wayne, so similar in fact, that the pain of losing Rachel disappears and they sleep together.Selina Kyle (aka Catwoman) captures Wayne's fingerprints for John Daggart, in league with Bane and sitting on the Wayne board of directors. The prints are used to purchase stock/shares through Wayne's account to make him loose all of his money. These trades are done during a 'terrorist' attack of the stock market and therefore are immediately honored. The baddies have infiltrators everywhere, hiding guns in mop buckets and shoe-shine kits. The police surround the building, but our baddies escape on motorcycles which they also smuggled into the building in mop buckets and jump over police blockades using the handy ramps attached to the police blockade metal barriers.Alfred becomes overly emotional at the prospect of becoming homeless.Our hero, putting his faith in Catwoman, gets double-crossed and is led to Bane in the sewers directly under his secret R & D dept only to be pummeled to near death and have his back broken. To make Batman's punishment 'more severe' he is sent to a full-board 3 star hotel in Morrocco, also known as 'the worst hell-prison on earth', where he must endure color TV and being bed-fed. In addition to this, the hotel features the best osteopathic clinic in the world, healing his broken spine. We are led to believe Bane, as a child born in this 'hell-hole' managed to escape whilst countless other fully grown men fail. After a few failed bungee jumps, Bruce 'rises' (spiritually by being afraid, again in contrast to previous outings) and checks out of the hotel with an added backpack of supplies.In the meantime, Bane has released all of Gotham's prisoners and informs everyone about 'the truth about Harvey Dent' from Comissioner Gordon's handy 'admission of guilt' speech. He's blown up most of Gotham using cement explosives installed by the men working for Daggart's construction company, blocked off all exits to and from the city and has the slowly radioactive decaying bomb with inbuilt led clock moving about the city in an armored truck (with decoy trucks running about the place also). The lame-ass people of Gotham abide by Bane's rules for the entirety of the film, as do the military.Batman comes back, enlists the help of his trustworthy good friend Catwoman and the battle ensues and he smacks Bane's mask enough to give him an asthma attack and here comes the gigantic twist we've all not been waiting for; Miranda Tate is Ras Al Guhl's daughter, Talia Al Guhl and in fact she was the one who was brought up in the Morrocan hotel and the only one able to escape, thanks to Bane! To put it simply- A Warlord for whom Ras had been working for becomes enraged when Ras gets his daughter pregnant and imprisons him. However, his daughter begs her father to release Ras and replace his place with hers, so obviously the father does! The daughter Talia, is born and as a child witnesses her mother get raped and killed and Bane loving all things innocent (as witnessed in the rest of the film), protects her, helping her to escape. The prisoners beat him to a pulp, but the resident orthopedic specialist is also a ear, nose and throat surgeon and sorts Bane out no end. Ras Al Guhl comes back with his men to free Bane for his daughter, but ends up exiling him from the League of Shadows, as he finds him to be too extreme. The daughter Talia, hating her father for exiling Bane, decides to forgive her father, because Batman killed him and is really the manipulating figure behind Bane; she sticks it to Batman and twists it for good measure. Make sense? Thanks to Catwoman's love of weapons and killing people (except apple-stealing boys), Bane is speedily dispatched without much emotion from Talia and the Bat and Cat save the day. The armored truck with the bomb that should have detonated but didn't thanks to intervention of Gordon in the back of the truck comes crashing to a halt and Talia dies in standard Cotillard style whilst Gordon is unscathed with the two tonne bomb missing him completely. The Batman straps it to his 'Batplane' with under two minutes to go and flies the Neutron atomic bomb over the sea (approximately 6 miles) where it detonates. Although we see a glimpse of Batman in the cockpit with 5 seconds before detonation, we are later led to believe he may have survived the explosion. The bomb is a special type that has no radiation, so the folks of Gotham celebrate. John Blake has a middle name Robin and gets to go to the Batcave, whilst Wayne manor becomes a orphanage. Oh and Bruce Wayne IS alive as Arthur sees him WITH Selina Kyle in Italy (something he wouldn't have known)
I was looking forward to this. Unfortunately, my two buddies and I left the theatre quite disappointed. The plot was weak and full of holes and often as unintelligible as the villain. I appreciate that the actor was supposed to be speaking through a mask, but one really has to strain to hear what he was saying. It was too long, by at least 30 minutes. The conclusion and wrap up were lazy. I felt like I was being treated like an idiot fan-boy. The special effects and cinematography were superlative. Granted. But one has to assume that will be on the screen for a bloated blockbuster like this. We, the audience, deserve better and we deserve more. Batman deserves better! Ultimately, it's just another stupid movie, but some folks get so caught up in this fluff - a movie very few will care or be talking about six months from now. That's my opinion. And I'm not alone.


                
All in all this movie shouldn't have been released. Everyone is going to go see it anyways but it's really not worth a $20 movie trip. So go see it, I just sure as hell won't be in line to go again. Banes character is terrible and his voice makes him sounds like a 13 year old British boy (wooo scary). That makes bane more annoying to listen to than Christian bale trying to talk like batman. The plot is lacking real fiber even though they took 2 hours and 45 minutes to tell a story. Very disappointing. You've got to hope they don't follow through with another movie like the ending would insinuate. Have fun burning a 20 dollar bill at the theater! J


                
