You can all rest easy now.. "The Dark Knight Rises" is the 3rd and final movie of the Christoper Nolan-directed trilogy and it was a great feeling seeing it finish in grand fashion.There was no way it was going to surpass "The Dark Knight" and the iconic performance of Heath ledger as the "The Joker", but it comes incredibly close and mostly delivers with the assistance of "Bane"; the last major villain of the franchise. Actor Tom Hardy does the role justice as the voice itself is creepy and haunting and sets the tone of the entire film, as Batman is caught in the darkest of struggles.Then there's Anne Hathaway's portrayal of "Catwoman" which surprised me and added a bit of fun to the otherwise dark film, however she doesn't surpass the utter brilliance of Michelle Pheifer's "Catwoman" in Tim Burton's "Batman Returns" which is still the definitive version of the character.All in all the movie was a lot of fun to watch since we've all been waiting to see how it all ends, and trust me it was well worth the wait! I congratulate Christopher Nolan for making a trilogy that is connected beginning to end and is now the most compelling take on the "batman" that we've ever witnessed on the big screen.
Christopher Nolan was assigned with the job of coming out with a new Batman movie comparable to The Dark Knight. Did he succeed? In short, yes. Is it better than The Dark Knight? No. But is it incredible, awesome, and everything we could have hoped for? Yes. This movie would be the best Batman movie and even one of the best movies ever if Heath Ledger wouldn't have put on the face paint. That's what I think is the biggest difference between the movies. While Tom Hardy's Bane is very very well done and flat out frightening at times, nobody can top Ledger's Joker. But don't think for a second that TDKR is any worse because of that.The Dark Knight Rises brings the biggest threat of all three movies to Gotham in the form of Bane. Bane is Batman's biggest threat he's ever had physically and forces Bruce Wayne to return as Batman after entering an isolated state. Much less happens in this movie than in the previous two and I think it's because of the villains. In Batman Begins, Batman had to fight the Mob, Scarecrow, and Ras Al Ghul. In The Dark Knight, Batman had to fight the Mob, The Joker, and Two-Face. In The Dark Knight Rises, Batman has to fight Bane, and only Bane. From beginning to end, all Batman has to do is figure out how to defeat Bane and stop him from finishing his evil plot. While Batman Begins is some what lessened in genius because it has to tell the origin story of Batman, and The Dark Knight is just obviously amazing to everyone who sees it, The Dark Knight Rises has more of a hidden genius. Most people will miss all the symbols and why this movie is so brilliant and such a masterful ending to the Dark Knight's Legacy. There's so much I wish I can say, but I don't want to spoil it for you. All I should say is see it. See it and be amazed by it. 10 Stars out of 10.


                
I'm going to start off by saying that this was probably one of my most anticipated movies of all time. I went in the theater hoping for a masterpiece. I actually expected this movie to jump into my top five of all time. It didn't disappoint, I loved it.The opening scene had me questioning what exactly was going on. Movies that make you think about the smallest details of the plot are my favorite. In the scene the audience is introduced to the new villain, Bane. As a kid watching cartoons I always thought that bane was a mindless hulk-like bad guy. In this movie he has a true to the comic's portrayal. He's smart, he has a plan, and he'll stop at nothing to put it into action. Much like Dark Knight, the Villain is a major standout. He has such an intimidating presence on screen. Tom Hardy put so much work into the physicality of the character. The first fight between Bane and Batman is one of the moments that they had to get right. Luckily it's one of my favorite moments in the entire film! In the scene they don't use too much sound, just Bane's taunts as he fights, truly frightening. His voice is so interesting. It's something you'll really remember about the film. After the film my friends and I couldn't help but do Bane impressions. He has so many quotable lines that he will probably be one of my favorite villains of all time. You might be wondering if he outperformed the Joker from Dark Knight. The answer is no, not quite. He's so different of a character it's hard to compare, but Joker was just too hard to beat. Christian Bale's performance as Batman and Bruce Wayne was amazing. This was easily his best performance as Batman. The story takes place eight years after the end of Dark Knight so Bruce is feeling the ill effects of being batman. He uses a cane now, and he has a little grey hair. This is a story about Bruce Wayne coming back, and doing anything he can for his city. Bruce and Alfred have some amazing scenes where you forget your watching acting. The emotion they both convey when they're together is stunning. Michel Cane doesn't have as much screen time as he does in the other movies, but he's so good in the ones he's in you won't forget his performance. Morgan Freeman is back. He has some particularly funny scenes with Bruce. They feel like old friends yet again. You really can't go wrong with any of the actors in this movie. Joseph Gordon-Levitt plays young police officer Blake. He has some great character development during the course of the movie. I was cheering for him the whole time. If you come out of this movie saying "I just wish it had better acting" I'd question your sanity. Anne Hathaway as Catwoman was one big worry I had about the movie going in. Luckily, I was pleasantly surprised. She did a great job of portraying the playful vigilante. She actually had okay chemistry with Christian Bale. Catwoman wasn't forced into the story, her character made sense within the plot. She didn't ruin the movie, which was all I was asking for. Plus, she actually looked like she could fight. She wasn't doing the "I'm a woman who can beat up ten men with one hand tied behind my back" routine. It was such a relief that they didn't try to do something annoying like Black Widow from Avengers.The story was fantastic. It's amazing that Christopher Nolan wasn't planning on doing this movie before he made Batman Begins. There are so many callbacks and references to that movie I would strongly recommend watching that one again before you see this one. I kept saying "Oh I remember when he said that!" or thinking "That ties in perfectly". This one had plenty of twists and turns. Multiple times I was questioning what was true and what was a clever ruse. If there are any negatives, you might say there are some plot leaps. Not holes mind you, but something upon thinking about it you might consider a little unbelievable. With such huge story and scope I'm surprised there aren't more mistakes. The scale of this movie is far bigger than in either of the first two Batman movies. Bane has a plan for all of Gotham and batman has to stop an entire city of villains. The entire trilogy comes to a very fitting finish. I absolutely loved the ending. I was very satisfied how everything tied together. I especially loved the conclusion of Bruce's story, perfect. When I came out of the theater I couldn't wait to discuss the amazing things that happened in the end. This is a movie where the more you watch it the more you'll understand and enjoy it.Of course, in the conclusion to a trilogy like this one you would expect to be dazzled by the special effects. They were quite impressive. The new batwing has some pretty amazing aerial maneuvers. You definitely get your money's worth with the cinematography. The opening and ending scenes especially stand out. There was an extremely cool Bat Pod driving scene that, as soon as it was over, I wanted to watch it again.It can't tell you enough that this was an amazing movie. It was certainly the best of the year. If you're wondering if it's better than The Dark Knight I honestly can't say. Time will tell. It could be better, and that's some of the highest praise I can give it.tkubas1.wordpress.com


                
Got to watch it in a preview show here in India. Was stunned with the way Nolan has narrated the story. It is simply AWESOME! Everything looks so perfect here, right from the starting, till the end credits roll. Even though i am not an ardent fan of action/superhero movies, I liked the first two installments of the series, so the expectation for this was so huge. And to be frank, i am happy with the outcome. Ii is brilliant in every aspect. Nolan's direction is top-notch and he is the real hero of the movie. I even felt goosebumps in certain sequences. I do not want to reveal the story much, but what i can say is, this one is a must for every movie lover. Such an awesome performance from Tom Hardy! I was just amazed to see him perform Bane. Christian Bale is no less, he is literally perfect reprising his role from the previous two films. The other actors have done good job. But i missed Heath Ledger, may his soul rest in peace. Anyway, what i have to say is, do not miss this film, lest it is a real loss for you. I would like to rate it 8.5/10, And Hats off to Nolan and the entire crew for giving us such a cinematic experience.


                
I would like to suggest that researching anything to deep about this film is a bad idea. Go into it with a clean slate. The experience will be ruined for you if you do not.REVIEW IN SUMMARY:The movie was phenomenal. It never slows, and I was surprised it was over when the time came. If you've disliked the pacing of past Nolan films, you will be fine with this one. This movie has incredible acting, a beautiful story, and is the perfect end to the Trilogy. FULL REVIEW:For starters, the Nolan brothers have created a masterpiece of a script. The themes explored in this film are stirring, and inspiring. The story is beautiful, and full of depth. Those of you looking for a simple mindless thriller will probably find this film to be, "alright", but you won't get the hype behind it. You won't understand everyone's obsession with this film. If you haven't liked Nolan's previous work, you won't like this one. It's not about the action, or the simple mindless battles many superhero movies today are all about. It's not as simple as those are. But do not despair, there is more large scale action in this then any of the other Batman films thus far. But, it is easy to follow. Even if you haven't seen the other movies in the franchise you will understand it. The other movies add depth, so I suggest you see the other two films before you see this one, but all the same you'll be able to follow it.Chris Nolan tells the story well. It wasn't as choppy and unorganized as some of his past films. This one is by far his best work.Tom Hardy brings an elegance to the villain of Bane that is addicting. Yes, you read right, and elegance. Class. He is a classy villain, whose motivations are understandable, and frighteningly relatable. This is, in my opinion, his best work aside from Warrior. As far as comparisons to the Joker go, it's like comparing an apple to an orange. Except when you bight into Bane, and the threat he presents, you'll forget the Joker even existed.Anne Hathaway won't be disappointing. I know I, like many of you, was worried when we saw that name on the cast list. But she does fine.This movie will stir your emotions. Satisfy your need for action. Satisfy your need for Batman. And satisfy your need for insurmountable villains. It will also satisfy those who have read the comics. Although this story does not follow in exactness to any original comic, Nolan cleverly manipulates the characters to fit the comic agenda, in a more "modern" or "realistic" sense. This film is full of surprises. So I suggest you stop reading these reviews, avoid potential spoilers, and go enjoy the show.


                
The action was pretty mediocre at best. The plot was decent but most things were pretty predictable. Even the "surprise" evil villain at the end was predictable. During the movie I turned to my girlfriend and said "$20 says she ends up being a bad guy at the end." needless to say I got a pat on the head later.Is the movie good? Yes. Is the movie great? Depends.... it is great for the fans of the movies but in general its not a masterpiece. I feel it deserve a 8 on IMDb at the very best. The fact that its so high rated right now is pretty unrealistic.Everyone saying Bane was the greatest villain of all time with amazing acting? I disagree... I still think Heath did a better job as the Joker. I feel Bane was a cool character but I don't feel he at all lived up to the hype provided in other reviews.The movie is a must see for the year, but it is something you can watch on DVD and still get the same effect. No idea how they spent so much money on this movie... the action wasn't that good.


                
You just don't watch a Nolan movie. You experience it. Something happens inside you after you're done watching any of his movies.The Dark Knight Rises is not just a movie, its a baggage of expectations, its a sequel to The Dark Knight, it has been directed by Chris Nolan, it has the Batman and people have already started with their assumptions and speculations.Does the movie survive all this?Yes. Definitely yes.Batman Begins dealt with fear. The Dark Knight dealt with chaos. The Dark Knight Rises deals with pain.Eight years have been passed since the demise of Harvey Dent. Batman had hung up the boots and started blaming himself for Harvey's Death and everything. With all the injuries he had sustained while fighting under that bat suit and the depression, he is no longer the Bruce Wayne Gotham knows. People have been questioning his sanity. Wayne empire is declining.In comes Bane. The dark, brutal, masked and monolithic beast who almost destroys Wayne enterprises to seek Batman.Selina Kyle, a female burglar who teases Bruce Wayne with her attitude and activities. As a result, Batman is forced to come back. What follows is the series of events that not only blow your mind away but cast a magical spell to last the full life time.There are a several new players that have been introduced in the film, such as Wayne's love interest and the new age cop John Blake who does the job of being the good side kick of Gordon and plays in an important role in convincing Bruce Wayne to be back as the caped crusader to protect Gotham one last time from the terror of Bane and army.So is The Dark Knight Rises better than The Dark Knight? If you were one of those fans who prefer Batman Begins to TDK then you'll find much to love about TDKR. And if you weren't then no Batman film will ever match TDK for you.As both Batman and Bruce Wayne, Christian Bale's work here is master- class, and he gives the character such an inescapable melancholy – a certain perseverance in the face of absolute resignation to his fate – that he becomes a more tragic figure than ever. That said, he's aided enormously by a never-better Michael Caine, who turns with hope and palpable love what might otherwise be expository dialogue into searing, supportive criticisms of Wayne's self-destruction. On the other hand, after being marketed as heir to the Joker in "The Dark Knight," Tom Hardy's Bane is a different sort of villain – a focused and more ideologically-developed version of Heath Ledger's Joker – but one with equally ruthless charm.While she doesn't quite steal the show as Heath Ledger's Joker did, Hathaway's Catwoman is a magnetic presence whenever she's on screen and she has great chemistry with Bale. Selina may be the proverbial good bad girl, the thief with a heart of gold, but Hathaway imbues her with a wounded spirit and a survivor's edge that makes her feel genuine and sympathetic even when she's being naughty.That being said, the acts of good old Gary Oldman and the power house Joseph Gordon Levitt cannot be ignored. Christopher Nolan is in peak time of his life. Whatever he is touching is turning into gold. He has taken The Batman series to a level which no one in thousand years can reach. The action scenes, the rise and the fall of all the characters along with the climax are just the pieces of the puzzle, which in the end you feel was taking shape since the day Batman Begins released. The first hour ties all the loose ends the first two movies left behind and the climax is so apt that you leave the theater feeling contended and satisfied.We may never see superhero films quite like these again, and that's fine. Nolan had something special to say with his time in the trenches, and he's ended on his own terms. I wonder which series Nolan decides to reboot next!


                
well before entering the theater like most of u guys i had 3 questions in mind... 1:would it b worth the 4 year gap? 2:can it outdo the last one (pretty tough one)? and finally would this be the end of the Nolan- batman saga? one thing more i didn't watch a single trailer of this movie on purpose which was pretty hard though....so the excitement was sky high . so after watching the movie ....its not as good as the dark knight ...reasons : heath ledger was too good , the story of this part is not as complex as last one ...this is the kind of story which builds up to a magnificent climax but offers little before ...plus this part deals with more characters than last one so less time to build them up... the MOST INTERESTING and exciting part is the ending which gives a definite hint of a new series!!


                
The Batman is a worshiped character throughout the world of movie goers as well as comic book fans specially after 'The Dark Knight' where the makers achieved the impossible and made you question your ways of thought about the day to day world. The more you plan and scheme, the more things can go NOT according to plan, rather why not embrace chaos? The world isn't fair so why follow moral codes and ethics? Why make friends and why follow the rules set out by someone else? Only a movie like The Dark Knight could have made anyone feel like that.Christopher Nolan studied literature in college for a reason and that reason is apparent in his films. He brings a sense of great storytelling with the massive scale and canvas for his audiences. He doesn't make movies just for intelligent and spectacular entertainment but forces the viewer to think a lot after one has witnessed his product. He makes the hero more human than anyone else can and tells you how everyone can be a hero in their own universe.The Dark Knight Rises hovers a lot lower than The Dark Knight simply because it is more of the same. It feels more of a sequel to 'Batman Begins' than anything else. It doesn't blow your mind off. It doesn't show or give you a feeling that you've never had before because the theme of the film revolves around fear and disparity, lies and betrayals and how you choose to rise above that. However it treats the fictional characters as best as possible. There are fantastic elements for the promised epic conclusion but somewhere it lacks a little bit in the tight and nerve jangling screenplays we are used to from the Nolan Brothers. There is a release of pressure in places at times so the audience gets at the edge of the seat then slides back and then comes back up. This one ties all loose ends, the story comes full circle with a promise and hope for a better future without which peace cannot be sustained. The legend ends in style nevertheless.You do tend to expect more from the man who gave us the Joker's epic lines, which is unfair. In its own right, The Dark Knight Rises Rose well above most films of the Action/Adventure/Crime genre.These films are beyond actors, beyond technicalities, beyond film makers themselves. If you've ever laughed or cried or cheered at any projected moving image, you cannot afford to miss this trilogy.


                
I would give this 8.5/10. It's very, very good.First and foremost this movie is more about Bruce Wayne than Batman. It's about Bruce learning to live in a world where he feels he has nothing to live for. It's about the demons of the past coming forward to haunt and exact vengeance for those wrongs, and how Bruce must learn to overcome them, and finally learn to live in the present and not the past. Michael Cain gives an outstanding performance - heartbreaking, even. He has cared for Bruce since the day he was born, and he's seen the pain and suffering he has endured. It's clear Alfred cannot take much more of Bruce living in misery, and the tension between them is palpable. When Bane arrives and they do their research to find out more about him, Alfred genuinely becomes concerned that Bruce is about to set out on a suicide mission. Worse still, Alfred believes Bruce wants to die in this way. The rest of the movie is what you'd expect - lots of amazing action, typical, subtle Nolan humor is written throughout. Anne Hathaway provides some much needed distraction and is good eye candy. She also represents the counterpart Bruce needs to move on with his life, or end it. Bane is an intense and charismatic villain. I hate to say it, but it will take reading the script or watching it a dozen times to understand everything he said. And for anyone that didn't think Tom Hardy was big enough? Well, there's certainly a shot early on that shows his impressive physicality. He's much bulkier and more ripped than Bruce ever was.The fights between Batman/Bane are what most hardcore fans are looking forward to and they were done well. I won't spoil things too much, but I think they did a good job of showing that Batman is not the fighter he once used to be - age and injury have slowed him down a bit. He really is in a fight for his life when he encounters Bane. The last 1/2 hour of this movie is brilliant, stunning, and has more twists and emotional resonance than most will have anticipated. It's gripping, heart wrenching, and bittersweet - all at the same time. A stirring conclusion.


                
As a fan of Nolan's other films, this is a great Nolan film. As a fan of BatMan, I am glad the character is getting so much attention. I hope fans of Nolan's movies will explore the character in other media. It would be great if people actually started reading the comics because of this franchise. Finally, as a comicbook fan in general I still look forward to the day we get a REAL BatMan movie.Here are my nitpicks(with minor spoilers): Still hate the BatMan voice, wasn't satisfied with the Bane voice, and it is comical when they are both trying to have a battle-of-wits when also fighting each other. "Bane" is really only the character in name only, I wish they had found a way to add more nods to his comicbook counterpart. I wish they had left out the whole "Robin" nod because it's a really big stretch for a comicbook nerd like myself, I would of been satisfied simply knowing he inherits the legacy in an unexplained fashion.Here is my praise(with minor spoilers): Loved the portrayal of CatWoman. Every level of her character was close to the comics and even if it were not, she was relevant and awesome. John Blake was a great character as well. There's a very iconic moment in the movie that has to do with Bane and BatMan fighting...It was truly lifted right out of the comic. Need I say more? I loved it.
That Completes the trilogy.. Just came out from 'The Dark Knight Rises'...Not as mesmerizing as The Dark Knight ,but still Christopher Nolan executed a legendary ending to the series with breathtaking visual moments and fine performances..the movie takes off slowly ,bt the racy 2nd half s just stunning...Hans Zimmer 's score is brutal, percussive and ma ear drums was busting , the Bane Chant wherever he used was goosebumps..Christian Bale continued his legacy in the third part too.. Tom Hardy was a beefy substitute for Heath Ledger in a hell of a villain as the merciless and destructive evil.. Michael Caine and Morgan Freeman reprise's there roles as strong as it's been throughout the series.. Joseph Gordon-Levitt did a fair job as the detective and he s a promising actor and the shocking 'Rise' was Marion Cotillard as 'Miranda Tate'..Anne Hatheway as CatWoman was just a sidekick and nothing much performance wise from her We may never see superhero films quite like these again, and that's fine.Nolan had ended on his own terms..If plans arise to reboot the "Batman" films a few years from now, I wish you luck. The bar is as high as it could possibly be... Must Watch for all Dark Knight and Nolan and movie lovers..!!


                
First of all you should watch Batman Begins and Dark Knight before this. This movie gets back to events of both of those movies. This is not as good as previous movies because this has few things that feel so stupid that you start to think why they are on movie.Batmans war tactics seem to be from before World War I and this movie seems to have some kind of fair fist fight fixation. Police seems to be stupid and doing things that makes no sense only because plot requires it.Another annoying thing is messing with time space continuity. In real life characters can't move that fast between places they seems to do this movie. Unnecessary time limit at the end is one of those too convenient things.Bane is quite interesting. His master plan is not. There is no motivation for what makes him do things he do. Movie would have benefit better explanations of motives.Catwoman is not called Catwoman in this movie and she has too little part for my liking.Best things about movie is how it ties story lines from first two movies and shows why good ideas from earlier movies weren't so good after all. Good ending to great trilogy. If characters motivations were explained better and they wouldn't done few of those stupid things, this would have been on level of previous ones.
I went to see the Dark Knight Rises last week and I have to say I was impressed. Story-wise it's a lot better than it's predecessors. The plot is coherent and has several interesting twists along the way that I won't spoil for you here. My only complaint is that it is a bit heavy going at some points. 3 hours is a long time, and I wouldn't go so far as to say boring, but it definitely takes a while to pick up the pace. However once it does you are in for a thrill ride.Nolan did a fantastic job with the Characters, from the troubled Bruce Wayne/Batman to Catwoman to the antagonist Bane, as well as secondary characters such as Alfred and Gordon, they are all fleshed out beautifully and are very believable in respect to the source material. Supplemented by superb acting by the all star cast, I have no complaints here.The direction is fantastic. As I said above, it takes a while to pick up, but it never ever get's boring. As soon as you start to think that, something happens that pulls you right back in. Nolan deserves to be commended for this. The action scenes are brilliantly done, the special effects are great, Hans Zimmer's score is, as always, superb, the editing and cinematography are crisp. There really is not much to complain about here. In my personal opinion it is the best installment in the Nolan trilogy, and if you haven't seen it yet I can only recommend you do so as soon as possible.


                
It was never really a question of whether the third and final act in Christopher Nolan's Batman trilogy would be good. Nolan doesn't make lousy films – and even at their most critically divisive (Inception comes to mind), he uses filmier techniques and spectacle that leave most Hollywood epics in the dust, heads spinning. So, no – 'The Dark Knight Rises' was always assured some degree of quality. But just how much are we talking here? A brief word on the story – spoiler- free as always. You'll want to go back and re-watch Batman Begins before heading to The Dark Knight Rises. It, arguably more than the Joker-focused sequel, has more to do with the unfolding events in the closing chapter than you might expect. Nolan sets this entry up to really validate his Batman films as a true trilogy, linking together characters and excerpts from the first two films, recapping the key points with well-edited care, and managing to land this character- heavy, expository behemoth with a steady hand. This is an achievement on par with the greatest film trilogies of the 20 and 21 centuries – no exaggeration


                
I would describe this movie as a great production with great directing and a terrific cast where in my opinion everyone put in great work. I am not gonna spoil anything specific from the movie but just say that its obviously a huge production with great talent behind it and a very worthy third movie by the today legendary Christopher Nolan. It is in my opinion a great movie and lives up to the huge hype witch in itself is an amazing achievement. The movie will be seen by all previous fans and you should see it but I can not agree that this is The Dark Nights finest movie even after all the great work put in and with all the great scenes combined with the best of effects with this huge budget. I consider this movie a great one but far from my top five and even this great movie in the Batman category would be behind "The Dark Knight" but as u know, that certainly doesn't mean it couldn't be great. Go and see it!


                
In the long build-up to this film, I started to believe it would surpass The Dark Knight. But it did not. However, it was a fulfilling ending. The fact that Nolan's reboot of the Batman franchise had an official ending was fulfilling enough itself, simply because it gave the Batman a purpose.Bale was once again a great Bruce Wayne/Batman. Sadly, Michael Caine as Alfred played a much smaller role than he has done in the last two films. However, we saw Alfred Pennyworth at his most profound in this film which was, despite being very emotional, a great feature.Tom Hardy was the perfect actor for the role of Bane. And Bane was he perfect villain for the final instalment of Nolan's trilogy. We finally see someone who can match Batman both mentally and, more importantly, physically. A couple of lines of his were a bit muffled and hard to hear, but that has no effect on the film and its plot. The inclusion of Selina Kyle, or unofficially "Catwoman" was also great feature. While characters such as that do run the risk of bringing a more 'comic-book feel' to the film (something which the absence of has made Nolan's films much better), her character worked well with the story and Anne Hathaway was great in the role.Now, onto the film itself. If you go into this film expecting it to blow the Dark Knight out of the water, you're going to be disappointed. TDK managed to feature so many great scenes and all with so much depth within the same time frame as TDKR. This film, however, seemed to be a bit rushed. Not in the sense that it lacks quality in aspects such as acting or directing, but mainly due to the film trying to cover too much time in too little film time. Emotional parts of the film are over too quickly. A few aspects are also left unanswered in the film, too.On a more positive note, though, the film is packed with great action, special effects, twists, and emotion throughout, with bits of humour in between. Nolan does not disappoint. Nor do any of the actors in their roles.All in all, TDKR was a fulfilling end to Nolan's Batman trilogy. However, a lot of the film seemed rushed and some, perhaps trivial, parts of the film are left to assumption. While the acting was by no means bad, it is unlikely that it will sweep any awards shows. The special effects, on the other hand, will be where the film competes with the other blockbusters this year in terms of awards. Regardless of how this film compares to the previous two films in your opinion, The Dark Knight Rises is a film you will certainly be able to watch over and over again.


                
Careful as I have been over the past few days to avoid all contact with outside world, should someone/thing reveal plot points in the movie and spoil the experience, I still ended up looking at a few news articles that mentioned that "critics" found the movie as an "epic letdown". Well, I've now seen the movie and I just don't see what those guys are talking about. The movie's awesome, more so when you watch it in IMAX. The story, locales, the special effects, background score, dialogues, acting - everything comes together perfectly and the almost-3-hours go past in a whiz. We get to see more of Bruce Wayne than Batman (though not as much as in "Batman Begins") and Christian Bale does give a nice performance. Same goes for the others too (though as charming as Anne Hathaway appeared in all her scenes, I'd have preferred seeing the gorgeous self of Selina Kyle in non-black-dresses too).One sore point was Bane's voice. The garbled-speech pattern in his "voice" was little unsettling and at times the background score would drown his dialogues out. Just like Batman's voice in "The Dark Knight", this was disappointing. The dialogues, at certain times, would appear a little contrived and not "fit" the scene. In all honesty, the movie wasn't as good as TDK, but it was close. And a part of the reason behind it is that in TDKR, the villain is not as enigmatic as The Joker. Tom Hardy does give a good performance as Bane, but there is only so much you can act with just your eyes and half your face in a mask.Many have felt that the ending could've been better. I, on the contrary, felt that the ending was the most appropriate end that the trilogy could've had. All said and done, there is no doubt that the movie is right up there with the rest of Chris Nolan's movies and he continues to dazzle the viewers with his brilliance.


                
First things first, don't watch the Rises without watching the Begins. You will surely miss the heart and soul of the movie.This movie is not about the action, the conflict, the villain or the hero. Nolan returns to the roots of this series by making Bruce learn more about fear. Bruce must learn the power of fear yet again, see it in a new way and learn to use it in a different way.The expected things are all there, the villain winning the first battle, hero returning stronger, nice twists, action and fist fights, new gadgets, effects. But don't let them blind you, look deeper and you would find the crowning jewel of this series.Another thing worth mentioning, the soundtrack is amazing!!


                
Where to start?This film just does not deserve the praise it gets at all.The plot is something that a 12 year old could come up with,the acting abysmal and it's pro-American stance on the war in Iraq is disgusting.Like the previous film this tries to convey a deep sense of morality but it does it in such an obvious way.Nolan got too big for his boots after TDK,in this film we are supposed to see Bruce Wayne's discovery of himself as it shows when he is down the hole and spends half the film trying to get out of it.The main thing people criticise is the length but if its a good film then it shouldn't matter.What they are really saying is that it's BORING,in fact incredibly so.When I first watched this film at the cinema I couldn't figure out what it was that I specifically didn't like about it,so I bought it on DVD and watched it again and realised quite simply that it's a crap film.Boring,pretentious and filled with characters that are impossible to care for as they are so hollow which is a criticism I give all Nolan's films after Batman Begins.The Dark Knight Trilogy had the same thing The Matrix Trilogy had,a superb first film to be ruined by much inferior sequels,the only difference is that TDK and TDKR get so much praise that it makes me question the future of films when drivel like this is considered a "Masterpiece"


                
As the ending chapter in the trilogy I enjoyed this movie the most. It had more of Bruce Wayne than just Batman. It showed Bruce's face behind the Batman mask and did so believably. Like we all know the Joker took the spotlight in the previous film and the first one was more Batman action. So we got a trilogy with a balanced focus between the guise, the seamlessly corrupt and the person behind the guise. Which is nice.As a movie about the struggling person behind the mask this was, for me, the most touching out of the three films. And the most hope inducing, seeing Bruce Wayne recollect himself from the pit and rise to stand on his own feet. Re-mustering his courage and will.


                
Christopher Nolan has finished up the Batman series in remarkable style. Where Batman Begins was about conquering fears and the Dark Knight was about traversing the fine line between order and madness; the Dark Knight Rises seems to be a movie about compromise and acceptance.It has been eight years since the death of Harvey Dent and Gotham has settled down into some semblance of peace. The main instigators of this crime-free age, however, have many scars for their trouble. Bruce Wayne ( Christian Bale ) is a reclusive cripple- with shot knees and scar tissue riddling his body. Commissioner Gordon ( Gary Oldman ) has found his career is now burdened by the lie that he and Batman wove to keep Harvey Dent's reputation spotless- so much so that he is separated from his family. Alfred ( Michael Caine ) despairs about Bruce Wayne's welfare- fearing that his master wants little more than a grand death. And Lucius Fox ( Morgan Freeman ) is attempting to stave Wayne Enterprises from bankruptcy thanks to all the money that Wayne has invested into Miranda Tate's ( newcomer Marion Cotillard ) renewable energy source.However a new threat emerges in the guise of Bane ( Tom Hardy )- a massive masked mercenary who has a connection to Batman's past. He claims to want a new Gotham where the 'have-nots' can rule over the 'haves' and bring true justice to the rich and corrupt. Alongside him is Selina Kyle ( Anne Hathaway ) a cat burglar who motives are enigmatic at best. It is therefore up to the old guard as well as idealistic cop John Blake ( Joseph Gordon-Levitt ) to try and hold Gotham together.Nolan has gone for bigger is better in his third movie of the trilogy and it certainly comes off as an sweeping, epic movie. Christian Bale probably gives his best performance as Bruce Wayne and Batman and the scenes he has with Caine's Alfred are particularly moving. Morgan Freeman and Gary Oldman are both very good also- with the scenes between Oldman and Gordon-Levitt ( probably the best of the newcomers ) nice to watch.But as good as the film is...it doesn't really seem to cover much more new ground. This isn't really helped by their choice of villain. Hardy does a good job as Bane, but he isn't helped by his breathing mask which makes him, at times, hard to understand. Furthermore, while Bane is shown to be dangerous, Nolan seems to be forcing the viewer to show how dangerous he is. Without the personal and affable menace of Neeson's Ra's Al Ghul or the twisted and frightening charisma of Ledger's Joker, Bane's most menacing moments come before the real action kicks off. Furthermore, it's difficult to see why anyone would want to follow him- utopia or not.As for Catwoman, Hathaway is very good in the role, but her character seems to be frustrating at times- seeming to just sit on the fence for the heck of it. Cotilliard's Miranda Tate is a fairly bland character that doesn't add much to the proceedings either.Furthermore, while the movie is indeed epic in scope, it sometimes gets lost in its own arcs in a way that the Dark Knight never did. The twists and turns that would have been seen as remarkable in the Dark Knight in this movie came across as almost unnecessary.Begins was a tight film that revolved around a single plot arc and holds together well. The Dark Knight was the true noir epic- a sweeping tale about morality and order in a insane city. The Dark Knight Rises is a flawed masterpiece- it's achievements not quite living up to the ambitions that it perhaps had. However, any Batman movie directed by Christopher Nolan is probably a good one. This is no exception.


                
I really enjoyed watching the film but as a Batman fan it felt like something was missing. With some of the characters written differently from their origins in the comics, it almost made it feel like a non Batman movie with political under tones. I had to forget what I knew about the Batman universe in order to enjoy this last installment of the series. But knowing what I know about how movies are made, it really didn't surprise me that things were done the way they were done. Personally, I think that Warner Bros. and D.C. executives need to get it together. I marvel at the fact that their animated movies are more accurate and entertaining than the live action movies. This needs to change very soon! Despite my dislikes about how the film was made, I was entertained for the time spent in the theater.


                
While I don't think that The Dark Knight Rises is as good as the last two Christopher Nolan Batman films, I still find it to be a good film as well as the proper send off for Batman. Yeah major spoilers ahead! If you want the film to be a surprise like it was for me, than I recommend you stop reading this now. In this story former League of Shadows member Bane (Tom Hardy) is fulfilling Ra's Al Ghul's dreams of destroying Gotham City by isolating it from the rest of the world and destroying it with a nuclear bomb. After Bane traps the Gotham City Police Department underground, Bruce Wayne (Christian Bale) becomes the only hope to save Gotham, so he dons the suit again to save the day for the last time. I don't feel that The Dark Knight Rises was done as well as the last two Nolan Batman films but I do still feel it was pretty good. It's also very confusing as to what is going on. In the first half of the movie we see three main subplots that eventually come together in the second half. I think it's a clever idea on Nolan's part and I liked it in the second half, but throughout the first half I just kept getting confused. If you're the type of person that would be thrown off by this, this may not be the movie for you. I do recommend this film, but you should see the last two first, as a lot of plot points are picked up from both of them.
I never saw the finale of Nolan's Batman trilogy in a theater. I was put off by the inclusion of Bane, who never has been my favorite character, so I, consciously or not, never saw it. I just couldn't muster the interest. And now I finally saw it I must admit that The Dark Knight Rises was much, much better movie than I expected it to be.Nolan took a character I care very little about and managed to tie him into his trilogy. In this movie Bane is a follower of Ra's Al Ghul, who is trying to finish what Batman stopped Ra's doing in the first movie: destroy Gotham. This he plans to do with the help of power generator Bruce Wayne has financed.The opening of tDKR is not as strong as the opening of the Dark Knight. As a movie tDKR is not as strong either, but it's not a bad movie, nor a bad way for Nolan to finish what he started with Batman Begins.Just like in the two previous movie the cast in tDKR is very strong. The old faces, Caine, Oldman, Freeman and Bale do their respective roles with routine and at places Bale's growling starts to be borderline silly, but he still manages to pull his Batman to the end without turning him into a complete joke. Tom Hardy does good job as Bane and Anne Hathaway fills in nicely the tight suit of Catwoman. All in all the movie works well in most levels. There's some problematic dialog, that doesn't quite work, but after the movie kicks in the high gear that really ceases to be a problem.But now, that Nolan has ended his supposedly more reality rooted Batman series I'd love to see Batman taken back in less serious world. The Batman comics are full of colorful villains, that couldn't be explored in Nolans world, but now that he's done, the time could be ripe to bring in the even more fantastical elements of Batman.
