Whose Line Is It Anyway? is perfection. No matter what the scene is and no matter the how bad and offtrack it goes, the entire cast put 100 per cent of their creativity into it to make it absolutely hilarious! A special mention has to go, obviously, to Colin Mochrie (my personal favorite) and Ryan Stiles. They are the best comedy duo I have ever seen. As best friends, they take nothing seriously and never hesitate to insult each other (various bald jokes and big nose quirks are aplenty!) and host Drew Carey. And it's especially hilarious how annoyed Ryan gets with the Hoe Down's - by far the best game ever. Oh, and Colin's impressions also get a shout-out...plainly because he can't do any. But don't worry Colin, we love you still the same!They brought improv comedy to the mass attention of the world and it's been ablaze ever since.So massive congratulations and ongoing thank you's go to this remarkably talented cast and for their great effort at making the world a funnier and happier place! BRING BACK WHOSE LINE IS IT ANWAY?!


                
"Whose Line is it Anyway?" is an Americanized version of an English show with a new host and some of the same cast, and it is downright hilarious. Drew Carrey is an excellent host, and even though he is no where near as comically talented as the improv actors, he is still funny, and doesn't take himself seriously, so seems very likable. The improv actors are all talented in their own ways. Wayne Brady is excellent at singing, and is better working by himself, or with one of the rotation guests. Ryan Stiles and Colin Mochrie are hilarious together because of their dry sarcasm. Even when they mess up it's funny, because they brilliantly cover it up and joke about it. If you watch one improvisational comedy show, this should be it!My rating: **** out of ****. 30 mins.


                
I can't tell you how much this show influenced me. I used to watch this show while I was in High School, and since then even my type of humor is like Whose line. Even more than Friends (which Whose Line cast hated by the way).... one of my all time favorites....This is one of the best improv shows I've ever seen, hats off to all those who ever did this, even for an episode.I would like to especially mention Ryan and Colin. They are the jewels in the crown. But that doesn't make the crown any less significant. I don't really see people mentioning "Brad Sherwood", but I always loved his quirky and out of the blue "Weird News Casters" names like, "Chester Snapdragon-Mcfisticuff" or like "Giesebel Spankbottom", he was also really good at 2 Line Vocab, along with the other stuff. And who can forget Wayne, he was the best singer in the batch, and his shotgun lyrics were just a piece of his talent. The show was simple, off the hook and innovating every day. Drew Carey was good too, but could have been better.This type of shows can run forever, but sadly they don't. So after 8 years of running it was taken off air, but fans of comedy like us will always be hopeful.Long story short, immensely talented people all mashed up to make a great show. Oh yeah and its for all.... they always cut off the good parts (censor)... (More interested viewers please check out the Bloopers on youtube.com)


                
Well, where do i start with this show?! This is the most amazing, hilarious and best show on t.v! although it is old its so much better than the new rubbish they put on these says. I only started to watch this programme a few months ago when i was ill and nothing was on t.v! and am i so glad i watched 5 US. This has to be the only programmes that has me crying with laughter and sometimes unable to breathe! :) Colin mochrie the baldy is hilarious his partnership with ryan stiles is wonderful. Wayne brady, good singer and cute. Greg proops i loooove him, drew carey is a great host! and finally the hot Ryan! he is the funniest thing on this show and keeps you watching..did i mention he was hot? I definitely prefer the US version to the UK one even if i am from the UK! it doesn't take itself as seriosuly as the UK one!11 out of 10


                
OK, seriously, if you haven't watched this show, go sit in front of a television this second! Whose Line, is by far the best improv comedy show that has ever existed. With original jokes, amazing guest appearances, a fantastic cast, and brilliant presentation, this show is my ll time favorite.The reason this show succeeds is simply because of the wonderful work of the four, ever present, people in this show; Drew, Colin, Wayne, and Ryan. All of the comedians/contestants get along with each other very well, and work together to create a half hour show that is guaranteed to have you laughing on the floor within the first five minutes.Give this show a chance... i swear on my life that you will enjoy it!


                
i used to flick through on foxtel and would see the name of this show pop up on the guide and i used to always change channel without giving it a chance. and then one time i sat and watched a 5 episode back-to-back thing and i absolutely cracked up with laughter. my dad and i are great fans of the show and would often be brought to tears by laughing so much.i find it hard to pick a favourite. Ryan Stiles, Colin Mochrie, Wayne Brady, Drew Carey (can be quite funny at times), and the regular guests as the fourth person. like Brad Sherwood, Greg Proops, Kathryn Greenwood. these guys are a bunch of geniuses at improv.i often enjoyed how there would be one main thing of the episode (like one of Colin's many colourful shirts, or one of Ryan's very interesting pair of shoes, or even a stuff up) and would often refer to those things in another sketch, putting it in somewhere.this show i found was always funny and even episodes i had already seen, i still found funny.remember, the points don't matter


                
Sure shows like Seinfeld and The Simpson's are smarter. This show is the only show where even if I ve seen the episode I still have the time of my life watching it. When you watch the show you can see the friendship and really translates into making some extremely funny parts. Now if you never watch the show it might not be funny at first but hang in there because once you realize why the show is funny because its friends joking with each other it really gets contagious all the inside jokes and screw ups become hilarious to you too. the cast Main guys Colin Morchrie- He is like Chris Farley he has the ability to make the cast die laughing like no one else Ryan Stiles- Smartest improver can really make incredible insults Wayne brady- All around the most talented of the cast singing, acting, and coming up with suggestions. Regular 4th men Greg, Chip,and Kathy The host is drew carey


                
This show is unlike many other comedy shows. Its takes simple games from theatre studies and places real comedians. I first caught this show when I was flicking through channels and since then I have become a addict. The performers play off each other beautifully and have some great ideas and keep making the audience laugh out loud, literally;Drew Carrey is sometimes annoying. But he was in the original so I guess its natural to have him apart of this show.Colin is simply hilarious, he is quick witted and makes the audience laugh with the simplest of things. Ryan is my favourite he is just as funny as Colin but he has his moments with physical theatre. Wayne. Wayne is a genius simply put. He can improvise anything into a song and knows how to make the crowd laugh. Special guests which are my favourite are, Chip who is extremely lovable. Jeff does a mean impression of Christopher Walken, Brad is funny while Greg is very funny with the Superhero games. It always keeps me smiling.
SPOILERSI mean, how could you hate Whose Line Is It Anyway? It was one of the funniest shows ever, and Ryan Stiles, Greg Proops, Wayne Brady, Colin Mochrie, Drew Carey, and everyone else on this show are truly amazing and talented. I prefer this one over the British version, but that version is still fantastic, too. The games in this show are great, too. Greatest Hits could get annoying and overdone at times, but Film, Television, Theater Styles, Scenes From a Hat, Whose Line, Hoedown, Props, are terrific. The list of good games could go on and on.Here is the basis of Whose Line Is It Anyway? A group of comedians have to play games with help from the audience. However, everything is totally ad-libbed, so they have to do the best they can to improv. The host Drew Carey then decides who won the episode after all the games and the winner gets to sit back and relax as the rest do something like Hoedown or Props.Overall, this is definitely in my top five favorite television shows of all time. Why was it canceled? The concept was so simple, and yet so elaborate at the same time. This was an incredible show to watch. It was so bright, so witty, and if you watch one episode, you would never want to miss another one. Anyway, this is a fantastic show that you must see.10/10 Recommended Shows: Thank God You're Here
I want all 8 seasons playing in my dvd player. there is certain episodes i want, because they were much funnier than what was available!
Way better than Friends ever was, WLIIA during the Drew Carey years was an underrated comedy spectacular of it's time. No doubt the stars of the show are the musically talented Wayne Brady, the quick- witted Ryan Stiles and the angry, angry, Colin Mochrie. The 3 of them have such a rapport that their interactions and banter is will leave your sides hurting with laughter. Seasons 3 to 7 were the best years and even today it has a high re-watch value. Indeed, as years go by, you'll be amaze at the little nuances that you missed. You'll might also miss Drew Carey, as he does a tremendous job at corralling the comedians and guests as well as creating an atmosphere conducive of people making fun at each other and at themselves. I remember Richard Simmons was invited during season 5 and he was fantastic. There was also, David Hasselhoff, Jerry Springer, Whoopi Goldberg, the late Robbin Williams, there was the belly dancer twins, Miss America, High School Cheerleaders. In fact, there was hardly any episode that wasn't a hit with all the gentlemen and the occasional lady nailing all the games and scenes. The show never got tired and it can still make you laugh 10 years later. Highly recommended


                
I have always loved this show,from its British beginnings to Drew Carey (less enthusiastic about Ms. Tyler). How could you NOT love: 1) "Superheros" ("Thank God you're here, Rogaineman") 2) Sid Caesar literally stopping the show; 3) Richard Simmons OWNING the sketch where he and Wayne Brady played the props ("I'll be ALL the props for THESE men!"). I have NEVER laughed so hard in my LIFE. I'm taking up jet-skiing this summer! 4) Wayne Brady could have been another John Legend/Smoky Robinson/Marvin Gaye outside of his comedy career, but the song parodies were priceless. 5) Greg Proops, Ryan Stiles, and Colin Mochrie--and think about it, what a perfect name for a comedian (mockery)--were GREAT GREAT GREAT!!! 6) The outtakes are on YouTube. 7) "Helping Hands" was a holdover from the British version, but still clever and funny. 8) Film Noir, World's worst dating video, and yes, even Irish Drinking Song, and even Hoedown were really good, and you didn't have to understand the genre to get it.Well Done, gentlemen, and may you have new life in syndication.


                
Whose Line is it Anyway {WLiiA} is the funniest show to be on the air. What with its originality and humor it was perfect. I remember watching it at night when it was on at a decent time. Even though i lost track of it for a little while i always remembered it. I know must people constantly compare the US version to the UK version, and i personally never knew there was another version until i did some research. And i wish that they could come to a agreement on the topic we all know that things changed between the two shows and i know we all have are own opinion but at least agree to disagree and get the argument over with.Neverless i consider myself to be a huge fan. And above all i wish ABC had enough sense to put it back on. They may say its on which it is 2 episodes every weekday at 12pm for those of you who didn't know. All i know is this show is my daily laugh and the only show in which i did really laugh. And I'm happy to know that other people remember it because half my friends don't. THE END


                
This show is hilarious! Probably the best show ever. You have to love it. Ryan Stiles, Colin Mochrie, Wayne Brady, Greg Proops, Brad Sherwood, and Drew Carey are comical! I play these games all the time. Props, Scenes Froma Hat, Film,TV, and Theatre Styles, Let's Make a Date, Weird Newscasters, Press Conference, Whose Line, I love them all. Though Greatest Hits and If You Know what I Mean get annoying, it is still hilarious. When this was canceled, it was very sad. This is the best show on ABC Family. I stop whatever I'm doing so I can watch it. It was a great show, still is, and always will be. I would highly recommend this show. Very, very, very, very funny.


                
Whose Line Is It Anyway is a remake of the hit British show from the early 90's. Four performers (Ryan Stiles, Colin Mochrie, Wayne Brady, and a guest) stand in front of an audience and given odd situations to performer ad-libbed. The crowd interacts with the performers sometimes Drew Carrey(The Host) will take suggestions from the crowd or performers will take people down from the crowd in order for their ideas to work.Each skits hilarious in itself from Wayne Brady singing to a 30 yr. old police officer or Colin Mochrie thinking peoples rears are sandwiches. The show may get out of hand and is suitable for early teens to late adults. It's a shame that the show is going off air but it had a good run. Whose Line Is It Anyway? Starring: Ryan Stiles, Drew Carrey, Colin Mochrie, and Wayne Brady. 4 out of 5 Stars (Except for a few episodes)


                
This is my favorite show. I love the new and old versions, and my favorite parts are the hoedowns, the Irish drinking songs, and anything musical. I also love the props game, the six o'clock news, and the commercial games.Drew Carey is his usual half-comedian, half-straight man self, Ryan Stiles and Colin Mochrie are hilarious, and Wayne Brady is brilliant. I think Brady is the best improviser on the show. I've never once seen him draw a blank, and everything he thinks of never fails to make me laugh out loud. I especially like the game where Stiles and Mochrie make up songs for him to sing (usually bizarre and impossible) and he pulls it off perfectly.It didn't surprise me to read that Stiles and Mochrie have known each other for twenty years. They have great chemistry on the show, and even for an improvised show that's important, because they're usually cast together. Like Wayne Brady, I've never seen Colin Mochrie draw a blank, although sometimes you get the feeling Stiles is trying to screw him (by thinking of something really crazy) and he has to pause for half a second. I like the episode where he has to act like a gerbil. Ryan Stiles is priceless, and even though I saw him draw a blank once (during a hoedown, but Drew Carey thought of something really fast and sang it behind him), he usually makes me laugh, too. Especially the episode that he did this hoedown: I'm so ugly, I'll never get a lover/When I go outside all the dogs run for cover/I'm wide and I'm round and my back is all hairy/Yes! You guessed it--my name is Drew Carey! But my favorite episode is the one where Ryan and Colin were cast as Noah and his wife, and they had to kiss.Despite some mature jokes, this show is great for the whole family. My rating for it is 11/10 and ******/*****.


                
Whose line is it anyway is without drought, the funniest show on television. It brings Wayne Brady, Colin Mochary, Ryan styles, some other random guest, and host drew carry for one of the best 30 minutes on television. It features now-famous skits like party quirks, lets make a date, whose line and weird newscasters. Wayne does all the singing, and is amazing at being able to make up funny rhymes. Colin is the target of bald jokes, and gets all the good quirks. Ryan is usually an animal, but is good at it. Drew Carrysd just there to be the target of cruel jokes, and to award points.Whose line makes racism and being sexist seem all right. easily one of the best shows on television.10/10


                
I Love Wayne Brady!!!!!!!!! I wish i could meet him a give him a huge hug :p . If anyone knows how i can send him a email or something please please please tell me!!! I give the show 10/10 because of Wayne. He has Awesome Voice and he is awesome dancer I Love U Wayne!!!!! XOXOXOXOXOXOXOXO Wayne u rock my world!!! I think they should only play the who's line with Wayne in it not the other one. I LOVE WAYNE Wayne Im Your #1 Fan 4 Ever This is probably freaking everyone out about how much i love Wayne but i do he is so cool. I remember in one episode all the girls were screaming for him and he showed them his wedding ring when i saw that my mouth drooped to the ground but Hey I still love him.U rule WayneXOXOXOXOXOOXXOXOXOOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOOX


                
This is the best show that I have ever seen.It is improv at its finest. My favorites are Colin and Ryan.They work great together.I love this show!!Was it canceled though? Thats what I heard.I hope I am wrong. I heard it was canceled in 2004.If it was ABC made a huge mistake.Whose line is it anyway has so many fans and is just brilliant.I bought Season 1 Vol.1 and saw the outtakes.They have so much fun while filming it! The whole family will enjoy watching it!


                
This show should be brought back. The talented improv brings forth such laughter that it is unsurpassed in entertainment even years later. The meshing of the talented entertainers is so compatible that we look forward to tuning in each night as a family preferring it to any other show featured.Other shows have been brought back that don't contribute one tenth of the positive conjecture that this show has. The fact that its popularity has increased over time should be an indication that the timing is right for its reemergence as a family hour source of entertainment.Powers that be-BRING IT BACK WITH THE SAME STARS.


                
Drew Carey hosts this hysterical show where four actors or actresses get up and do improv show where they make up scenes and songs off the top of their heads. This is the show to watch if you wanna laugh your head off. The regulars who are usually on the show are Wayne Brady, Ryan Styles, and Colin Mockarie (forgive me if I spelled that wrong). The fourth person on the show changes depending on the episode. Colin is my favorite, he comes up with some of the most witty lines and just says some of the funniest things. When him and Ryan are together in a scene it's a good bet that it's going to be really really funny. My favorite non regular is Greg Proops. My favorite game they play is scenes from a hat. Two episodes in particular I encourage everyone to see is the episode where Richard Simmons is a guest star and the episode where Robin Williams is a guest star. I think overall anyone with a sense of humor can appreciate this show.


                
What can I say about this show? It is the best. I've become a WLiiA fan since first seeing this show and the stars on this show are brilliant, especially Colin Mochrie! If anyone knows what it's about, go to the third paragraph! It's a comedy game show about four performers who have to improvise scenes as suggested by the host (Drew Carey) and the audience. The result is a laugh-out-loud performance after another of wit and mishaps! There are also music games provided by Laura Hall and Linda Taylor.If you have to see one TV show in your life, make it this one! This is the best ever, and it absolutely rocks! 100/100!!!


                
Whose Line Is It Anyway is the American version of the exact same version from Britan that is ten times better. We have four performers who do different games for a live audience for points which don't matter. We have games like Props, Living Scenery, Hoedown, and Sound Effects in which we get suggestions from the audience. Drew Carey hosts the show with hilarious results and the coolest thing about this show is it's all improve. Whose Line succeeds in everything it does. It's fun for the whole family. The regular cast includes Wayne Brady, Greg Proops. Colin Mochrie, and Ryan Stiles who happens to be my favorite. Usually we have a different improver in other episodes taking over Greg's spot. The show fires hilarious jokes and mind burning moments like Ryan smashing Drew's neon light on his desk with Ryan's own head, Wayne lifting up a girls skirt during a game, Colin doing horrible impressions, and so on. We also get to ponder great performances from real life superstars like actors Robin Williams and work out instructor Richard Simmons. But there are a few things that get annoying, mainly pointing to Wayne. Wayne does a great job singing and dancing but his singing games get so boring. Whose Line though achieves greatness. We need this show on everyday 24/7. It needs it's own network, 10 out of 10. The perfect game show, Whose Line Is It Anyway? Check it out, you won't be disappointed.
