This movie is definitely not as good as everyone is making it out to be.The movie starts off simply enough. Miles is your average Hollywood teen, who is the son of the only police officer in New York City. And if you want to see yet another person get bitten by a radioactive spider, then you're in luck.75% of the film is Miles trying and failing to be Spiderman. He's incapable of controlling any of his powers, and does little more than get in the way and utter cliche lines such as "I have to do this. I promised." It's rather frustrating to watch. But conveniently, he figures everything out in the last half hour and becomes a better hero than all the other Spidermen who've been in the business for years.Speaking of everyone else, as the story progresses, the audience is introduced to more and more Spiderman variations (and more unusual villains). With so much content, they barely get any more than just a few minutes of screen time. Spiderman Noir was interesting, for the five lines he had. I'm pretty sure there was some kind of Penny Porker character, but I may be mistaken. There's also a Scorpion villain who shows up out of nowhere, then mostly disappears.As a whole, the movie was filmed assuming that the audience's attention span is a about 1 second. Most jokes are cringe worthy, especially after you've seen them in the trailer. There's also way too much flash going on, and the movie's final scene is about as visually complex as a Jackson Pollock spatter painting.Spiderverse doesn't do anything that hasn't been done time and again.


                
Visually it is interesting for half an hour. After that, you really pay more attention to the story than the visuals. And the story is just so so. Mediocre.After 90 minutes of incesant visual noise and excess, you just want it to end.I saw the last half hour in reprise.What a waste of talent. It would have been great as a short film or something.


                
I am not a fan of animated movies, but I like and follow marvel movies.
Movie starts very gently with lots of passionate scenes, especially when the dad-cop asked his son to reply "Dad, I love you."
This movie followed the disappointing formula, in which a movie starts off well, but then it's all downhill from there. After that scene, all of a sudden, the movie became so confusing and the story line got so slop as it was filled with many unreasonable and superfluous actions,
And once again, I was left constantly wondering when this movie would end. I didn't leave early, because I did not want to disturb the other people, if there were any left.


                
Overrated, overhyped, pick your cliche.
I went into this movie with high expectations.
I was told how excellent it was.
Sorry, disappointed!
"Jokes" were not funny. Plot was thin. First Spider-Man was intriguing then they got rid of him. If you have to dumb down your points, stories, and jokes, stick with kids cartoons on PBS.
I went to see this because I thought the children would like it which is why I forced myself to sit through what was a torturous attempt at humour. But afterwards, I found out the kids didn't like it either. They laughed at a few bits here and there but overall they were bored and in my daughter's words "watched it because it was on and we were already there". The humour was overly forced and at some points more like a slap in the face. The action in the film was all a bit rushed and what can only be described as clumsy. The story was okay but again a bit rushed as it jumped from one thing to another. One minute nothing was happening, next minute, everything was happening with barely any transition at all. But the main thing I didn't like about it, was the style of animation they used. In complete honesty. It sucked! Massively. Overall, it was a bitter disappointment and I wouldn't recommend anybody waste their time or money on it. If you want to watch it. Wait till you can do so for free.


                
Hi ELLIOT GJAZZ here.
I'm going to make this review fairly short, as quite frankly I really don't have much to say about this film.I know many people loved this movie, myself sadly I did not. I was totally bored all the way throughout and even kept nodding off for a few seconds here and there .Don't get me wrong the ANIMATION was FANTASTIC BRILLIANT, but if there is a stupid story behind it then in my book, it's a waste of time. I really wasn't keen on any of the characters except for SPIDERMAN NOIR voiced by NICK CAGE and WILSON FISK voiced by LIEV ( RAY DONOVAN ) SCHRIEIBER, both of whom I admire as talented actors. Don't get me started with that idiotic SPIDERMAN PIG which was more like POKE'MON than SPIDERMAN. That's when I just really had enough. I remember when I was a kid i used to look forward to a tv show called GLEN MICHAEL'S CARTOON CAVALCADE. This was a show which predominately showed toon type short cartoons, however there was one more serious type of cartoon, a favourite of which of mine was SPIDERMAN usually shown as a weekly 2 part episodes. This was suberb, and the reason I am bringing this up is that all that time way back in the late 60's and early 70's these SPIDERMAN Toons were wae better than this rubbish. Let me iritterate , again the ANIMATION for SPIDER-VERSE was truly MAGNIFICENT. If these guys had a better story and script then perhaps it would have been truly magnificent. One last thing. I absolutely hated the RAP MUSIC and BLAND songs. A QUINCY JONES - LALO SCHIFRIN style JAZZY score would have suited better. It wouldn't make the script better but it certainly would be more pleasing to the ear. Ending on another note I also thought the gags were awful , and could have done with the gags from AQUAMAN which was out the same week and if you read my review on it , you will see I absolutely loved it. I so much also wanted to love SPIDER-VERSE sadly however that was just not to be!


                
What is this? Ill tell you, this is a awesome animated comic book style movie, but there is something that cracks this movie up, it becomes boring and more boring
Story is awful, absolutly has nothing in common with ex spidermans
Looks like MARVEL have run out of ideas


                
What a load of rubbish I really would not waste your money


                
Well, my 8 year old son liked "Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse", hence I eventually caved in and sat down to watch it. I, however, didn't like it.This 2018 animated foray by Marvel into a mashed-up mixture of Spiderman universes was downright atrocious. The storyline was horribly flawed and just downright idiotic, and it didn't really help that the majority of the alternate Spiderman characters were equally idiotic and misplaced as the storyline itself. I mean, the Manga character and the pig-like Spiderman, seriously? It was just so stupid.The one thing that "Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse" had working for it, was the animation style and the art style, which was very reminiscent of the Borderlands games and the Telltale interactive games. But that was also just about all that was working in favor of "Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse" in my opinion.Well, at least the voice acting in the movie was good, so let's just be just and say that two things were working in favor of the animated movie. The only voice I recognized, however, was Nicolas Cage. I am surprised to find that Liev Schreiber also voiced a character here.I actually gave up 25 minutes in because I was fast falling asleep. So I came back the next day to watch the rest of the movie, as my son liked it, so I wanted to check it out with him. But alas, breaking the movie up into two didn't make it an ounce better in any way. This movie was just unfathomably boring and unappealing to me.So this was Stan Lee's final legacy, his last product to grace the cinema before his death? Well, not really a movie worthy of being a final imprint for a man of his stature. Because this movie was an abomination in every possible aspect.I managed to sit through it in round 2, but I can in all honesty say that I am never ever returning to watch "Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse" again, and I will even go as far as saying that it is far worse than any of the live action "Spiderman" movies that has been spewed forth by Marvel.


                
I slept on the latter part. Animation is not my favorite.


                
Didn't enjoy this movie <f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+009F>. Too much of flashing images and lights. Really difficult to concentrate on the movie...


                
Was completely bored with this film and I love all things Marvel. Walked out 40 minutes into it. No thank-you.


                
Generally, the whole team certainly knows what they're talking about. They even adress and implement stuff that is known from the spider-verse I did really not remember. Here's my two issues with this film though. I was really looking forward to it, mostly hoping for a game-changer in art within the whole franchise.
The stop-motion-trick while doing the whole movie may be a bold animation choice, but turns out to make the whole thing clunky and I cannot figure out why they went for a lower framerate than regular animated movies. To me it just feels off and makes it hard to watch. What brings me to the second issue. I happen to feel motion sickness in certain games that appear to have head bobbling and certain light and brightness effects. So far I couldn't figure out the reason but this movie manages to do the same to me. I had to stop watching 1 hour in due to actually feeling sick just watching a damn movie.
Lot's of people like it. give it a try. I cannot recommend due to motion sickness issues. A clear no to the lower framerate. It was an artistic choice but I clearly don't see the point except for the saving money part. It is creative, sure, but I cannot watch it...


                
The tilde is pretty explanatory.
Bad animation, forced funny witch means it is not funny. Bad voice acting.
Appalling. A shame to the history


                
Now a days everyone is grinding for 5th dimension and parallel universe , Netflix did a really good job trying to bring that concept in our homes , but seriously this animation is not what i expected to be . all of those 10/10 it seems to be be some bots rating it up . it was just different from other animations obviously . i dont wanna be racist but , i guess black panther was enough , if you guys want to be different make middle eastern hero , Indian or what ever .


                
