SPOILER ALERT. I suppose it's asking too much to want a sci-fi movie that's halfway intelligent. "Alien" is not. If you start thinking about this movie, it falls apart. I'll try to be brief. One, if I'm not missing something, the "Company" that owns the spaceship knows about this horrible alien monster, knows it "can't be killed" (Ash, the robot, actually says this), and wants the monster brought back to Earth, "crew expendable." Question, if the monster can't be killed, but it kills each and every human it sees, how the heck are they going to get it off the spaceship when it gets back to Earth? And what will they do with it then? That's absurd. Two, how does the Company know the spaceship crew will even get the monster on board to bring it back in the first place? There's no way at all for the Company to assume this. Three, the only reason the monster got inside the spaceship was because of an incredibly stupid thing one of the crew did. If you were on an unknown alien planet and you saw some "eggs," would you try to go down and sniff at them and put your face as close to them as possible? And when one of them started to open, would you just stand there and get even closer to it? This is beyond stupid, it's insane. Four, once the monster is on the ship and hugging this guy's face, it disappears, and suddenly another monster pops out of his chest. Seriously? This rather sizable alien being with a big ugly head has been living inside a man's chest but he never felt any pain and none of his organs suffered any damage, not his lungs, not his heart, nothing? I didn't buy that for one second. Five, this creature supposedly has "molecular acid" (ha ha) flowing through its body, an acid so strong that it can eat right through steel like a knife through warm butter -- but the creature itself is immune? Right. Six, once the entire crew except for Ripley (Sigourney Weaver) is dead, she decides to blow up the ship and escape in the shuttle. So she has to go through a cumbersome series of physical actions, including pulling up big tubes, just to set a destruct signal, and then it gives her ten minutes -- ten minutes, folks -- to go to the bathroom, find her cat, get to the shuttle, strip down to her micro-panties for us, ten minutes. In a sane world, on a sane ship, you'd be able to set the destruct for any time you liked, and you'd be able to get on the shuttle first and then activate the destruct signal. Finally, only a guess from the way they made it look, but evidently the ship was destroyed in a nuclear explosion, while Ripley is still close enough that she (and her cat) would be killed by the radiation. (Even in "Forbidden Planet" they knew enough to get the ship far away from the explosion.) So, for all those reasons, this is a movie that is so scientifically stupid and impossible that I couldn't believe it or enjoy it at all. Where are Joel and the bots when you need them?
SPOILERS AHEAD!!!!!How this is considered a classic is beyond me.  I saw it when it first came out in 1979.  I was 16--I was basically bored or disgusted by it.  22 years later my opinion hasn't changed.  Why do I hate this?  Let me count the ways:1) The plot is old hat.  It's basically a haunted house movie set in outer space.2)  There is zero characterization.  The crew members are virtually interchangable.  How can you care about somebody getting killed when you don't know who they are?3)  Getting a bunch of talented actors and giving them nothing to work with.4)  Overdone set design.  Yes, it's impressive but it overwhelms what little plot there is.  Nice set design does not make a movie.5)  People stumble around in dark corridors and dark rooms looking for a cat.  Not once but TWICE!  And this is after they know there's a killer alien on board!6)  What the hell is a cat doing on a space mission?  7)  The characters act incredibly stupid.8)  The alien looks dumb--it's just a guy in a slightly modified alligator suit.  Cool set of double teeth though.9)  What does the alien do with its victims?  Two of them just disappear.10)  Why is the alien killing them?  What reason?  We're never given one. Oh wait--because it's in the script.  That's why!11)  Sigourney Weaver strips to down to her underwear for no reason whatsoever at the end.12)  IT'S DULL!!!!!!!!The only scene that works is the chest burster with John Hurt--but that's only a minute or two in a two hour film.  Long, dull and stupid.  I give this a 1--I wish I could go lower--it deserves a 0.  Avoid at all costs. See "Aliens" instead.  That's 100 times better than this.
What do people see in this film? I am not one for horror films, though I do like this alien stuff. Nothing happens in the film. Nothing. We spent most of the time waiting and waiting for something to happen. This movie could have been cut to half an hour, easy. There is a saying that says that fear is being scared of the unknown, something that the X-Files has done really well.Unfortunately, this film has tried to do this too and has gone too far. Rather than waiting for something to happen, while on the edge of our seats, we wait and wait and wait and wait. We barely get to see the alien and the special effects are pretty poor. Sure it was a long time ago so we can't expect too much, but look at Star Wars which came out around the same time. They were much better than alien and Lucas had half the money.Alien is simply a boring movie that deserves no credit.


                
This movie is very slow, very dull and very boring. After waiting half an hour for the movie to start after many long and dull shots at the area, the movie begins to move. After lots and lots of boring visuals, the story begins to move, though never takes off. Personally I hated the movie and has been given a vote of one by me in the user vote.I don't recommend you see it, but it's vote of 8.2 by other viewers might suggest otherwise. My personal opinion is that it was made in 1977 so people have just voted for it as a classic.It deserves nothing as a classic.No stars


                
I like to think that the slowness of the film allows for a good look at the set designs which are excellent. The entire success of this movie, where it's laurels rest, is upon those sets. Besides from that it is nothing more than another sci fi movie. I am stating this as my impression after watching it at least twenty times at home, if I had seen this movie in the theater at it's seventy-nine premier I would give it a different review.Despite the realness of the alien world I am unable to suspend my disbelief and earnestly follow the action... I mean everything looks good but there is something awry with the story in which I find ridiculousness and redundancy. In the directors commentary Ridley Scott says something interesting about the cryogenic freezers that open up at the beginning of the film, he says that if you think too hard about it then it does not make sense. I say that if you think at all such a thing will be a hindrance to reason. And since the bulk of the movie is just pushed along by a continuance of sci-fi clichés such as those cryogenic "freezer-inos" it leaves me wondering what does this movie mean to do? I mean every movie has a purpose, film is not a reflection of life but an attempt to create a new vision for audiences that will change the course of the world. And in Alien the goal is emasculation. As a genetically born male I find a problem with the feminist orientation of the thing. The film culminates with a strong female character ejecting a phallically headed creature off into the oblivion of space. The entire film equates male sexuality to a monstrosity. There is an apparent gender opposition even in the antagonism of "mother" the computer. Humans are trapped between a primal and bodily nature in the alien and on the other-side face the apathetic machinery of progress in the form of mother and the company. Now why are the destructive forces of progress written as female while the space of regression is shown as male? Even the android Ash is feminized by being an android which is an assuredly impotent thing, indeed he must consume a drink that looks like semen discharge because he cannot produce his own. But I am not writing with the intention of deflecting love from the finer sex. I just think that there are human natures that never change and that portraying a woman in a man's role is not going to improve the world. Maybe men make more money than women in general and that is unfair but what is all the money in the world to a woman if she does not have a man to protect her. Going off of that and returning to Alien I say that it is not a film that gives respect to women. I think that Sigourney Weaver appears in it scantly clad and bra-less. Enough said.Leaving the arena of philosophy there are other details I have left unscathed that need to be addressed when discussing Alien. Firstly the opening shot that pans the spaceship is directly stolen from Star Wars. Next when Cain is attacked by the parasite it melts through his thick visor wall but leaves his face uninjured. When the monster kills Dallas it just is crouching there with it's arms outstretched, in fact never in the movie did I see the monster in the fluid motions of an attack. And finally, although I'm sure I could find more errors, there is the issue of the self-destructing spaceship. Why am I supposed to believe that a spaceship would just conveniently have a self-destruct mechanism, of all the vehicles man has forged thus far from the space shuttle to aircraft carriers how many of them do you know to have mechanisms designed to readily blow them to kingdom come.
Alien is the equivalent of watching paint dry. A spaceship is traveling back to earth with a valuable mineral from another planet. They receive a signal from outer space of unknown origin. Time to investigate this mystery. The crew find a dead alien inside a space craft and when the chamber is opened it is filled with eggs. One hatches and a tiny creature attaches itself to one of the astronauts face. Unable to remove the critter, it finally falls off on its own. The man who has survived the baby monster is eating dinner with his crew mates when an alien bursts from is stomach and runs away, hiding in the star trek enterprise. The uninvited guest kills some of his fellow travelers and further battles ensue. In between, there is a good amount of brooding. Alien is a two hour drag.
Apart from the fact that the cinematography is really bad, which is kind of acceptable for its time period, the movie is plain uninspiring, definitely overrated and a complete waste of time.This offers nothing what a sci-fi horror is expected to deliver. Characters are WAY out of their roles (apart from one or two main actors) and they could not even deliver situational suspence and dramaThe buildup was unnecessary and long. I must say that It's really fantastic plot poorly executed. THIS IS NOT A CLASSIC.


                
Ridley Scott has created only the truest form of fear in movie history. This film shows what if you were in space... alone. No one can hear you, no one can save you. You are stuck with a monster tormenting you knowing that you have no chance.It is hard to know that there is someone out for your blood, but for it to possibly be in the next room with no where else for you to go. You can make one wrong move, resulting in yours and possibly your crew's death. How would you like that? This is why this remains only one of the scariest sci-fi movies.Because in space, no one can hear you scream.


                
