This film may be a classic to most people, but to me it's just another sci-fi flick that doesn't quite shine over other classics, like Planet of the Apes or Star Wars, which were released around that time and with less budget, and way better special effects, WAY better. The part where they exchange the robot head for the human one, was a total laugh. Also, watching it in 2012 and noticing the poorly done effects definitely lowers the vote. If you watch Star Wars, for example, today, you still can be amazed by those incredible special effects, done around the same time (1977) and with less money. So, I think the poor special effects are one of the reasons for this film to be not so great, in my opinion.The idea is great: to encounter an alien form on a deserted planet was not something very common back in 1979 like it is nowadays. It was original and scary. That idea, combined with the suspense atmosphere and the large set designs, provided some good amount of expectation about what's coming next. Sadly, the expectation on the first moments, turned into frustration around half of the movie: nothing happened until the last 20 minutes, so it made the first 90 way too long, and way too boring.The characters are stupid, specially Lambert, who I really, really hate. I didn't get to care for any of these people, so when they die I'm just glad because something's finally happening in this movie.There are a lot of plot holes. For one, if you're going to make an "emergency" detonation system, try to make it fast and simple. The idea for "emergency" is that you have no time for pulling two heavy levers, opening a large chest, reading what you have to do, putting a code, inserting FOUR cylindrical things into holes, opening each one of them and pressing a button. Oh, and then you have to run like 2 miles of corridors to get to the shuttle. But, what if you change your mind? Easy, go back and deactivate the "emergency" system by doing all of the described above in reverse. But, you only have 5 minutes to do it. That's completely ridiculous.Another thing that I disliked, was the fact that while an alien is trying to kill them all, instead of preparing the shuttle to get the hell out of there, Ripley goes off looking for a CAT. Yes, a cat!Bottom line: average movie, boring and long at first just to be a big disappointment in the end. My vote: 4/10.
I don't get the enthusiasm for this movie. As of today it's the #62 movie of all time. I found it had some rather dry boring parts that didn't add to the story or to the mood. Cinematography was amateurish. Plot was straightforward without any interesting points to it. No real character development. I just kept waiting for the beast to kill them all. I didn't really care for any of the characters. A suspenseful movie only works when you actually care about what becomes of the main characters and I didn't feel any warmth to this movie at all.This movie hasn't aged very well either. Looks very 80's-ish. I found Sigourney Weaver's hair to be scarier than the Alien itself.


                
Got to go against everyone here, but another outdated Scott film which left me bored.It took too long to get going, was very cliched but worst of all had no character to warm to at all. Infact it was probably a collection of every type of negative characteristic in people somewhere in someone in this film.A good ten minutes of this film is wasted on not one but two scenes of people searching for a cat. After the tedium of that the attempts to scare was usually in the form of a big bang.Weaver's hardly in it until the last half hour & when she is she comes across as an unconvincing hero(ine). There's little charcter development with her or anyone.As my concentration wained things became a little confusing. I must've missed the explanation of why there was cat on the ship, or what went on at the end with the 5 minute count down to override the ship (when she was trying to escape). Despite all the ammunition there was a amazing lack of enthusiasm to use the gun & on an alien who we never really got to see that clearly.I enjoyed 'Sphere' of all films as I got into the plot and could play along with the mystery, so thought I'd give this a go as it was recommended by more than one correspondant. Unfortunately, not only was there no real suspense or horror in this. There was nothing to entice the viewer to engross themselves in the plot.3/10


                
'ALIEN' was directed by Ridley Scott and stars Sigourney Weaver, Tom Skerrit and John Hurt. When the crew of the Nostromo reach a foreign planet that may contain life, a mysterious life form attaches itself to one of the crew and begins to wreck havoc on the ship.If you enjoy this movie then I envy you. I genuinely do. I just cannot see the appeal in this movie and would want nothing more than to understand it but I just cannot. Nothing in this movie is particularly frightening, the story is pretty bland and weak and don't get me started on the evil lighting. Not to say I can't see any strengths in the movie. Sigourney Weaver was, to start, really good as Ripley and redefined the movie heroine. To be fair, the majority of the cast did a good job and sold their role. Except for Lambert, Lambert can go to hell. The Xenomorph is also one of the best designed aliens/creatures in movie history and I do congratulate them for holding that title. Despite these revolutionary things that this movie did for cinema, it's just not scary. The number one thing a HORROR movie should be to make me scared or tense or fearful but I just didn't. This isn't down to the effects which are actually good but rather down to the lack real atmosphere or anything to make the movie feel more intense. Again, If you like this movie then I'm happy for you but I just don't see what is so good about it.In my opinion, the story for this movie is utter stupidity. When some scientists and astronauts, some of the most capable minds on Earth, find an Alien egg on a foreign planet, and their first thought is 'let's stick my face right into it', you know that this movie is god damn stupid. The plot makes literally no sense and its all down to some of Earth's most capable people deliberately breaking rules to keep them alive. That said, I did like the ending and do see it as being genuinely frightening seeing that in cinema's. That said, I think that it meant less to me for the fact I saw it on DVD, and knew how long was less. In addition to that, they do also kind of build up that something will happen without directly saying it, thus ruining the surprise. Again, I will also compliment the cast for this movie. Pretty much everyone from the wonderful Signourney Weaver to the chilling Ian Holm provided a solid performance and in some ways created the tropes so many Science-Fiction movies would follow today. With the reckless captain, the level headed vice, the crazy scientist - all of that probably derived from this movie and I respect them for that. Now for someone who I couldn't stand in this movie: Veronica Cartwright as Lambert. Screw Lambert. If she died before the script was even written, I would have maybe liked this movie. She was so obnoxious and no annoying and whiny - she puts Temple of Doom's Winnie to SHAME at some points. If that was the point, then fair enough but it doesn't excuse one of the most frustratingly annoying characters I've seen in a long, long time.Something this movie was praised greatly for was it's 'eerie' and 'tense' cinematography. How? I don't get it? Sure the movie is tightly edited and the camera was steady but I don't see how this movie revolutionised how these movies are filmed. That and the lighting was ridiculous. If you have epilepsy, do NOT watch this movie. Don't even look at the box because that might cause seizures. I respect Ridley Scott immensely and love him as a director but I had to look away from some scenes purely because of the lighting, and I've never had issues with that; my eyes are actually more used to glaring lights so it shouldn't have affected me but I thought I was going blind at points.A horror movie should be scary, yes? I've always assumed that is what a horror film should do but from the pedestal this movie is placed on, I don't understand why. I was never, at any point in this movie, tense or scared, or even slightly concerned. This is nothing to do with the effects/alien design(which are both pretty good by the way) but more to do with the lack of atmosphere. A lack of atmosphere can make a movie disturbing but I think it just made this movie less enjoyable. This movie's primary directive was to make me scared but I don't think it did that in any way.In conclusion, I do, to some degree, respect this movie. It revolutionised some aspects of cinema and things like the Xenomorphm, or ship design still echo through the ranks of cinema today. That said, I just couldn't enjoy this movie. I felt no emotion towards any of the characters. I felt so actual care. I just didn't enjoy this movie and it genuinely saddens me to say that because I wanted nothing more than to like these movies. Perhaps I'll enjoy 'Aliens' but I just can't say I recommend this movie.4/10


                
I read all the great reviews on this film and I wonder if everyone but me has lost their mind. At best, this film was average. It had some striking visuals and a few good scary scenes. The problem is, the movie takes way too long to get to those scenes. The characters are one-dimensional, the dialogue is boring and empty (and often incoherent). A lot of the movie is poorly lit, between that and obscure shots of the alien and the blinking computer lights and meaningless images on computer screens and technical talk, there were parts where I didn't know or care what was going on. Very little of it was entertaining, the majority of the film just bored me. The most overrated horror movie ever.


                
Well, I've just seen this film again for the first time for a long time and was sadly disappointed. Some great atmospherics and the basis of a good plot but it is so dated it doesn't really bear up under modern viewing. The technologies used is very dated, CRT screens, no voice activation of anything and the sets were very of their time. Good for plot but not based on anything you might expect. There are flaws such as quarantine rules for extra vehicular activity but no medical facilities available, just hold in the entrance. What got me most was the cardboard characters, in particular the second woman. I can't even remember her name. She was like a 70s doctor who assistant. When ever anything happened it was classic hands to the face and scream. Life and death situation - just do nothing.The obsession with the cat was also cringe-worthy. It was like they'd never seen a 70s sci-fi movie or episode of doctor who. This is one film that could do with a remake and revision of the plot.
It drags. The ending is predictable. There are very many plot holes. That agrees with what a large number of reviewers have to say. I'm not alone. Most of the critics have it right, and it is very odd that it sits so high on IMDb. It does not deserve its elevated spot, above numerous much better films. It is dropping, however.Difficult to know how to fill up the requisite ten lines. Ian Holm was good, the way he acted the robot, long before he was revealed to be mechanical. Rather a dodgy feature of the plot, though. Hurt is always good. Sigourney was good in her part. Have I seen her in anything else ? She is supposed to be in Annie Hall, but I didn't notice her. I did also see The Conquest of Paradise, but I can't say I recognized her. The others were run of the mill. They seemed an irritatingly dysfunctional team. One thing about Ridley is that he's supposed to have been impressed by clunky Stanley Kubrick. Strangely enough, I do often think, when I watch a Ridley Scott film, that he is saying: I see what you mean Stan, but let me show you the way to do it. 2001 also drags.
this film was misdirected, unoriginal, cheaply produced and it all showed. the plot line was absolutely atrocious and although the producers may have added in extra splashes of gore to direct attention from the otherwise horrible performing i do not think it can really be considered to be a horror. i accept that it was going to have a challenge to compete with the seemingly unrivalled success of Star Wars (1977) however to expect to actually give George Lucas a run for his money wit this production was ludicrous. i am not quite sure that i have seen another film with quite the level of subordinate scripting and meaning that does not go directly out of its way to be considered as a joke. e.g. scream


                
I can understand the impact of this film to the moviegoers back in 1979. Back then the form of the alien is not much known. People had to sit until the end of the show to catch the glimpse of the monster. We know that the characters had been killed when we heard them screamed or suddenly the radio went off.But I feel that the younger moviegoers (generation-Y???)nowadays may find 'Alien' boring. First of all the movie move very slowly much like '2001: Space Odyssey'. In addition to this, the alien is no mystery anymore. People can buy the alien figurines almost anywhere. We saw the alien and said, "Hey this alien is cute, can I keep it?"I think it is not very harsh to say that the scary element in this movie is not that relevant anymore. And it can be watched once only to enjoy the suspense.....no good action in this movie, sorry. For action and movies that can be watched several times go for 'Aliens' or 'Alien Resurrection'.


                
Somewhere in Space -2000++. A mining spacecraft is asked to stop by on a planet which was emitting life signals. The exploration of an alien craft found there reveals strange eggs, from one of which bursts a creature that sticks on one human's face then spawns through his body. The creature fast grows into an enormous monster that kills all on board except one. Typical horror scenario, with such an large number of impossibilities and stupidities that it can easily turn to comical (when Waever leaves her gun behind to go and look for her cat, for example). However, the creature is so incredible that it nearly makes up for all the film's weaknesses.


                
"Alien" is Ridley Scott's acclaimed horror science-fiction film about a killer alien on a spaceship. It features excellent special effects and scenes and a clever use of lighting techniques. Sigourney Weaver is strong as the film's lead and Ian Holm is memorable as the ship's science officer. John Hurt is also in the film as the ship's executive officer, but is underutilized in the role.Where "Alien" suffers is in its story or more appropriately its lack of. Characterization in the film is limited and there is only one interesting twist in the plot, which was enjoyable, but represented only a small part in the film. The story is quite run-of-the-mill and barely developed beyond the fact that there is an alien bent on indiscriminately killing members of the ship's crew. The lack of story development made "Alien" seem long and mostly tedious.


                
Before I continue this review, I just want to give a warning to everyone with photosensitive epilepsy. The entire third act of this movie is filtered by strobe lights. If you're sensitive to that kind of thing, then don't watch.Plot and "Characters" - I honestly don't mind slow movies, but this is taking it too far. I'm not asking for nonstop action, all I really wanted was some kind of a plot, tension, maybe some world building, and possibly some character development. Just the bare bones that you'd want out of a movie. Unfortunately, this mess contains none of that. The "plot" can be summed up in one sentence - "dumb people find alien, do dumb things then die." One of the people on the ship turns out to be a robot and it doesn't even have anything to do with anything, it just happens. I've heard people say that these characters are incredibly well-developed, but they aren't. Calling them "characters" is an insult to the very word. There is next to nothing that differentiates them from one another. Instead of dull scenes without dialogue or anyone doing anything, this movie really could've used some scenes where the characters interact, express individual motivations, and maybe get some backstory. The start has a vague plot about getting away from the aliens, but but the time one person is left alive, the editor gave up and nothing makes sense. Even the movie knows its being boring too because Ripley strips for no reason and from then on the movie is filmed in a bit of a sexual manner.Sights and Sounds - The visual quality and the effects and the sound design in this movie are all fine. Nothing great, but not bad. Its actually pretty good, considering its age.This movie isn't scary or interesting. Really it commits the biggest crime that a movie can commit - its boring. It does almost nothing that a movie is supposed to do. Even my dad, who was blinded by nostalgia goggles prior to rewatching, realized how bad it is after watching it with me. Anyone who says that this movie is great clearly needs to rewatch it. I don't care that this movie doesn't have nonstop action - there are a lot of movies with lots of action that are boring. Honestly, I have no idea why people hold this trash in such high regard. Maybe it was good at the time, and sure it had some influence on future movies, but it doesn't really have anything else going for it.


                
You can see more reviews at www.beessquaredbookbuzz.blogspot.com June 9, 2013 I'll probably get a lot of flack from this review and rating of Alien. Why do I say this? Well, because this is like one of the most critically acclaimed and one of the greatest movies of all time and to be blunt I thought it was really boring. I understood how it's a groundbreaking movie for the time what with the special effects, premise, and such but I still thought it was slow. Don't get me wrong, I liked some parts but on the whole I was surprised I didn't fall asleep. Even though I wasn't that impressed with Alien, I'll think I'll get around to watching the sequels. Hey, they can only get better, right? Well, we'll see.Buzz ya later, Beans


                
ALIEN (1979) is an overrated movie....it's success is based on gimmicks which make it a successful video game experience, packed with unending lights flashing and sudden explosions and scary, slimy teeth (the monster has two sets of teeth...one inside of another...the inside set jumps out of the outer set).The science isn't detailed or knowledgeable. The movie simply uses a doubtful damp, dank basement type spaceship filled with wet, unattractive pipes on all walls and ceilings to tell a "Curse Of The Cat People" type story where the scary monster is mostly unseen, in the shadows, and lurking, lurking, lurking, while the actors get more and more nervous...until the monster pounces!"B" movie stuff! Clever and gimmicky...but great art, it's not.The characters are a set of unlikely and predictably uncooperative (with each other) people similar to WWII "B" movies where the bomber planes include representatives of various ethnic groups to sell the war effort to every group which buys tickets to the movies...regardless of how unlikely the association of these groups may be in real life.The hero of the movie is a taller than average actress (Sigorney Weaver...5'10") whose body language is aggressive and pushy....radical feminism was big in 1979, and girls taking over jobs guys traditional had in the past was big theme.....so we got Sigourney Weaver (famously tall at 5'10") served up as the female hero and remaining survivor who vanquishes the hard to get rid of pesky monster who invades several spaceships, and somehow is maneuvered out of the escape vehicle Weaver operates after she blows up the big space ship the monster invaded earlier. The crew was unsuccessful in evicting the monster, and everybody part of the crew dies except Sigorney (who plays "Ripley").Good classic science fiction movies, of which ALIEN (1979) is not an example, provide good and fairly detailed science both verbally and visually, and are aesthetic in a way ALIEN (1979) was not.The difference between George Pal's DESTINATION MOON (1950) and FORBIDDEN PLANET (1956) and ALIEN (!979) is a big difference, and ALIEN looks bad compared to these much better made sci-fi space travel classics.The aesthetics provided in ALIEN (1979) are ugly...director Sir Ridley Scott served up the same thing in his famous (and equally ugly) BLADERUNNER (1981) movie two years later.....the outside of the big spaceship seen when the movie starts is inspired by the ugly 2001 SPACE ODESSEY (1968) hardware store plumbing parts welded together eccentrically design, neither likely, logical, or aesthetically appealing.ALIEN (1979) pandered to political and social trends of the times (the 1970's) when feminism and defaming big business were trendy, and also the fact that video game explosions, flashing light, and bizarre monsters combined with a perpetually moving camera combined with extreme facial closeups flooded with body sweat and whites around all eyes shown were distracting....People bought tickets to movies to obtain distraction (still do), and movies which serve up distraction sell tickets.ALIEN (1979) was a success (still is) for that reason. But it's not good art, and time spent with other, better (and usually older) sci-fi space travel movies (and sci-fi non-space travel movies, too) is a better investment of time and money spent on famous movies which became famous videos.Some famous movies just aren't good art, and it's important to have standards about that.------------Written by Tex Allen, SAG Actor. Visit WWW.IMDb.Com and choose "Tex Allen" "resume" for contact information, movie credits, and biographical information about Tex Allen. He has reviewed more than 42 movies posted on WWW.IMDb.Com (the world's largest movie information database, owned by Amazon.Com) as of January 2011. These include: 1. Alfie (1966) 29 July 2009 2. Alien (1979) 24 July 2009 3. All the Loving Couples (1969) 17 January 2011 4. All the President's Men (1976) 16 November 2010 5. American Graffiti (1973) 22 November 2010 6. Animal House (1978) 16 August 2009 7. Bullitt (1968) 23 July 2009 8. Captain Kidd (1945) 28 July 2009 9. Child Bride (1938) 24 September 2009 10. Creature from the Black Lagoon (1954) ------------------ Tex Allen's email address is TexAllen@Yahoo.Com.See Tes Allen Movie Credits, Biography, and 2012 photos at WWW.IMDb.Me/TexAllen. See other Tex Allen written movie reviews....almost 100 titles.... at: "http://imdb.com/user/ur15279309/comments" (paste this address into your URL Browser)
