This is one of the few sci-fi horror films from the period of the late 70s/early 80s that has really held up with time.On a visual level, the film is highly satisfying. Green and light blue colors are saturated throughout the film, but so grayed that the movie almost appears at many points to be shot in black and white. The miniatures and matte effects used in the original film were quite good.The movie works on pretty much every level, though you can't really say it's an incredible story either. On a sci-fi level, the best parts are the early parts where we first see the alien technology. I was disappointed actually in the print that I saw because I believe it was altered with computers, I remember seeing more matte screens that resembled the HR Geiger artwork when the film was on video. Anyway, the alien technology succeeds on a level never before achieved in terms of showing a realistic alien culture. We can almost imagine these creatures living on this ship, it seems to fit in with the alien biology so well.When they arrive back on their own ship, the film unfortunately descends into a fairly typical horror action film. Perhaps taking a note from Hitchcock's "Psycho", Scott kills off the only reasonably well known actor in the film (at the time of its release), Tom Skerrit, fairly quickly and leaves us with the then-unknown Weaver as the hero. This makes her the first really butt-kicking female heroine of a sci-fi action film, and that alone qualifies this film as groundbreaking.The cast in general is just amazing. Yaphet Kotto, Ian Holm, John Hurt, Harry Dean Stanton -- these are quite simply some of the best character actors of their generation, all gathered for the purpose of making this more than just a typical monster movie. Other films such as "Predator" tried but failed to get a supporting cast as distinguished and talented as this one gathered for a sci-fi action film. The quality of these actors makes the film better not only in the individual scenes they are in (such as Holm's incredible turn once exposed), but also the aggregate total of the film -- because the actors are so good and the characters relatively fleshed out, we can imagine right up until the film's final moments that any one of them could be the one who ends up surviving.Another interesting element not often commented on is the cynical attitude the astronauts have towards "the company", which employs them. From Kotto and Stanton's character's complaints about the hours, all the way up to Weaver's discovery that all of them were expendable and kept in the dark as to the true purpose of their mission (which Skerrit's character seems to also know more about than Weaver's), there is a kind of dark realism here that you won't find in the vast majority of films of this type. It dovetails with the other element I've talked about, the fact that the cast is so good that any one of them could be the "hero" -- this is a very democratic look at the future, one edged with deep cynicism but with an ultimate eye towards presenting a future of real people who are oppressed by situations far beyond their control. It is a far cry from the Utopian dreams of Heinlein and other sci-fi progenitors and represents this film's true gift to science fiction as a whole.
The movie that kicked off a very interesting franchise at the skillful hands of director Ridley Scott. And despite actually being from 1979, then "Alien" is the type of movie that transcends time and keeps being interesting and can be seen again and again.I am not going to delve too deep into details about the storyline, as I assume that everyone is already familiar with "Alien", as it is such a massive giant in the Sci-Fi genre. But briefly summarized, the crew aboard a massive commercial space vessel responds to what might be a distress call from an unknown planet. And when going to investigate, a strange organism attach itself on the face of one of the crew. And after a short time in isolation and as the creature comes off, things seem to be back to normal, an alien creature bursts through the chest of the man, unleashing a dangerous creature to roam the cramped confines of the Nostromo.What makes "Alien" a great movie is the way it is directed and the way that director Ridley Scott manages to build up some great suspense which all are brought to satisfying conclusions and climaxes. And there is a nice sense of fear and claustrophobia aboard the ship as the crew realize the peril they are in.And much credit also go to the cast in the movie, as they really did good jobs with their respective characters and roles. The cast list includes great talents such as Sigourney Weaver, Tom Skerritt, Harry Dean Stanton, John Hurt and Ian Holm."Alien" introduced a very iconic creature which really took hold in the Sci-Fi horror genre. And the design by H.R. Geiger is nothing short of spectacular and really works so nice on the screen. The design is scary, disturbing and fascinating at the same time.While the creature is very interesting, then director Ridley Scott did a good job at not over-exposing it on the screen. And that really helped to build up the suspense and the dread that permeates the movie.If you are not already familiar with this 1979 Sci-Fi horror classic, then it is about due time that you take the time to sit down and watch it, because it is the grand introduction to a great franchise.
Although this movie was probably very good when it came out in 1979, while now watching it in 2009. The movie just seemed too dated, and I don't mean with the special effects, cinematography or anything like that. It's just that this film just didn't add any surprises, even when the audience comes across a certain twist it doesn't add anything to the movie that will add any shock value, the film just felt a bit dull and sort of boring. I can see how this movie would have impressed a lot of people who first viewed it when it came out. But watching a movie that came out when I wasn't even born, it just fell short of my expectation. This film is far from being a bad movie, it was actually good but I just felt that it was a bit overrated. The title of the movie is "Alien", but the audience don't even get to see the alien all that much, well besides that there is little to no tension and most of the scenes are just a group of truckers in space that decides to go investigating in till they come across a unpleasant discovery and investigate some more, but none of it was intense or gripping. Although there are very few scenes of the actual alien, I get the feeling that they went that direction to add more fright, but didn't really work for me. A lot of the scenes were about the crew trying to find out what the alien is capable of. The movie also goes in a direction where you just don't care for the crew that is trying to survive. It was probably a phenomenal movie of it's time and did a lot for the sci-fi horror genre, but I ain't going to jump on the bandwagon and say this movie is the best in the genre.7.2/10
I never was a big fan of the Alien series. Always thought that they were way too dumb. However, i've never watched the very first one; the one which started everything, the original Alien. Until today. And to be honest, i am a bit disappointed. It's a very well made film, even more for the standards of 1979, but to the story itself...well, i just don't care for it at all. Sure, the film has great visuals, the spacecraft is full of interesting details, but the story is dry. The character development is not adequate at all, and this is an aspect which i consider fundamental in any film. We don't have any deep idea of who are the persons in there, or what they were doing, or what they are going to do. Then, the thriller? Almost none. And it's not scary. To the well of the truth, almost all the times the 'scariest' moments were very predictable and even unintentionally comic.But nice. It's a classic, right? Well, personally, i don't give a dawn. Because besides the fact that it is an extremely well made thriller with an Alien as the main villain , It has nothing more to add. Maybe it was very good back in the 70s and 80s, but not anymore. 7.3/ 10


                
This was a good movie. The only thing wrong with it is nothing happens. It takes too long to get where it's trying to go but when it gets there, it's a fun ride. It's a well made movie. The f/x a good for it's time. The make-up f/x were really cool looking. The actors did their parts very well. The script was very good too. The only problem is the plot. It needed a lot more action. I really liked the movies that followed. Aliens IS the best sci/fi around. Alien3 was a good movie that no one really liked. Alien: Resurrection was a really good movie. I loved that one. The whole series is great but this isn't the best. I think the reason it's so highly rated is because it really stands above the normal slimey-alien-from-outer-space movies. For that, I give it credit. For the plot, well, that's another story. Alien B-


                
The only "Alien" related movie I had seen before this was "Alien vs. Predator" and it had terrible acting, a bad storyline, and the times when we actually see the creatures in their element are limited at best.When I sat down to watch this epic movie that started it all, I thought this was going to be next to perfection. Either my expectations were too high or it doesn't live up to it's hype.Pros: - the casting is great and the actors and actresses do well with what their given. - for the time period, the special effects and filming certain sequences were brilliantly done. - when the movie actually picks up, it does live up to it's hype as the sci-fi/horror thriller that was so influential.Cons: - Ridley Scott focuses on landscape shots and scenes that don't really benefit the movie at all. I would say a good 40 minutes or more of this could've been scrapped. - By wasting film with these scenes that drag on and on with no purpose, the basis of the movie is more blurred and unfocused. - *SPOILER* When the creature finally gets on board and starts it's havoc, the movie becomes interesting. Instead of focusing on storyline and the thrill of hunting the alien, it seems like the writers and Ridley Scott were trying to more focused on pointless visual film sequences.I know a lot of people defend this movie by saying that it's a different kind of movie than Aliens or Alien 3, but I personally think this could've been executed better and I hope someday that they re-make this properly.This movie loses a star because of it's very bold "cons" but at the same time, it really IS a movie you should watch at least once to form your own opinion.
Now as you can see by my rating I did not hate this movie. It has a great story and a really creepy atmosphere. The acting is great and the special effects can not be looked down on.The story is simple, a cargo ship picks up an transmission of alien origin, they land on a planet and find a ship. The ship appears to have been attacked and there a bunch of eggs in the cargo hold or whatever it is. One of the crew; Kane(John Hurt) get's attacked by a thing in the egg that grabs his face. And that's when the nightmare starts. Soon there an vicious alien on board and it's all about survival. Now I'll stop right here.What I liked about he movie was especially the acting, believable and it truly gave the movie it's dark tone. I liked the start of the movie when they found the alien spacecraft, and John Hurt's character got infected by the Alien. But that's where the fun ended slightly for me. From that point on it had some really boring scenes. The scene where Brett (Harry Dean Stanton) went to find the cat, was way to long and killed the suspense. We all knew he where gonna die, and prolonging it was just annoying. The flickering lights in the end was annoying and again ruined the suspense. When you can't see either the main character or the alien, well then it's suddenly nothing scary to see anymore.Still there where many good scenes in the last part of the movie (SPOILER alert) the whole robot ash thing was a really clever and unpredictable part. It came as a shock and the effects where great. But just to complain a little more, why did the ship explode three times? In conclusion, once again, I did not hate this movie, I just feel there where things that could have been avoided. but I like the fact that this film has been an inspiration to many other filmmakers in it's following years. If you like this film I recommend John Carpenter' s"the Thing".My verdict for this film is 7/10, I was originally considering giving it a 6, but considering the film's great impact i must give it one star more.
i saw this movie this year and i am one of those newbie film goers.i saw this film because a lot of people said its a classic.i think its a good film even though i am watching it in 2015.i think what makes this film good is the atmosphere,character and the build up to the suspense.the film has less amount of "alien" scenes but the scenes where alien is shown is done well.unlike most films today,the characters are also good and we actually care for the characters.that said,the film also has its cons.the problem that is that its slow in certain parts.the film really takes time to show its dark atmosphere and its characters.some audience may not be able to tolerate these slow parts.but i am one of those people who likes to know the characters and the tone of the film.so i recommend this film for mature audience and not for those kids who love films like transformers 2


                
this movie was terrible, simply terrible! It was absolute torture to look at: people say it's scary, but i call it disgusting. Also, the film didn't have a plot! It was just about an alien that sneaks into a spacecraft and haunts people: seen it! Those persons in that shuttle didn't look like astronauts at all: they just looked like they were in the wrong spot. The film was incredibly boring, too: and when it started "moving along" it just was all about gore and slime in stomach-torturing scenes . Now that's not what i call "scary". This movie doesn't even deserve ONE star.


                
First of all, for a sci-fi movie made in the end of 70s - and it doesn't look and feel silly for the most part - it deserves a high rating just for that. 
We can only imagine how innovative this looked almost 40 years ago. Great flick overall, I only have some issues with the plot which takes away from the experience - it's just too damn unrealistic. By the logic of this plot, the human race has to be the dumbest space-faring species ever, just too stupid to survive. Heavy spoilers: 
Stumble upon an unknown weird sounding signal in deep space, which noone understands. Witout analyzing it, assume it's a distress signal and go to investigate this with an unarmed cargo ship with a crew of 7. Perhaps just to observe a bit closer? Yeah OK makes sense so far. Find out the signal is coming from an unknown planet in an unknown solar system, and immediately decide to land on that planet without further observation or even consulting Earth command or anything. OK, getting sketchy... After landing and partly wrecking the ship immediately go outside in an alien world you know almost nothing about - without any idea who or what you'll be up against. Find an alien structure undoubtedly created by an intelligent lifeform, and immediately climb into it. So yeah then find a huge alien corpse who by the looks of it died a violent death, all the time touching everything. Then go climbing into some dark caves - sure why not! Then find a field of huge eggs and go stuble around them and of course go touching these also - might as well... if you already did all the above! 
In the meantime back on the ship the crew learns that the signal looks like a warning. And although they have live video feed from the team outside, they can't or won't warn the team about this crucial information. And so on and so on... Ripley is the only one with a sense of reason and she does warn everyone along the way... however it's just not enough for all this to make any sense - her very reasonable warnings should already be in the protocol in such cases. Umm.. like shouldn't the safety of the crew and ship be prio 1 etc? The lack of realism also extends to acting here and there - after 2 crew members horribly killed, the captain is still calm as a coma like it's an everyday thing his crew members get butchered by deadly aliens on his cargo ship. He's talking up his plan like he's ordering a damn pizza - without any signs of stress or worry whatsoever. Sure it's sci-fi and about the unknown, but in order to have a better impact an be more submersive as a movie, the plot should still makse sense in the areas that ARE known - like human behaviour and probable space-faring protocols that should follow some common sense. The same events and suspense could have been backed up by better screenwriting - like they would have followed protocols which made sense in the first place - but some things went wrong etc. And the immersion and suspense would have been better because of increased realism. So 7/10 for lack of realism, for an otherwise great ride into the unknown.
Alien is a story of a commercial spaceship which lands on an inhabited planet after receiving a distress signal only to find out it was a warning signal instead. They find an alien spaceship with alien eggs. Soon after they are attacked by alien fetus which brings out the differences among them. They try all sorts of things to get rid of it.
What spoiled this movie for me that it was a blockbuster in its time and in the span of more than 30 years we have seen several movie imitate 'The Alien '. Overall it is a very excellent movie considering the point that it was released in 1979.
I know I'm REALLY late to the party, but I finally watched Alien. I can see now why it's so huge and spawned so many sequels. The film was very well put together, which is no surprise considering it was made by Ridley Scott. The sets were great, the atmosphere was great, the music was great. I was thoroughly creeped out by the alien lifeforms - both because they were really ugly and anything parasitic gives me the heebie-jeebies. The main creature alone looked pretty terrifying. Sigourney Weaver as always was a badass and I really appreciated the grit and strength of her character. She stood her ground against her male counterparts who weren't following the rules and then was ruthless with the monster. It made me happy at the end when she saved the cat. It's not just because I love cats (or because I would also be that person), but because it's important not to consider lower lifeforms any less of a priority than humans. The cat was there, it was alive, and therefore it was worth saving. I don't know if that's what they were going for, but think it is a very good message. The only real issue I had with this film was that the characters made such blatantly bad decisions in terms of the situation, which were clearly made so the story would work. Of course they shouldn't have brought an unknown alien life form back onto the ship. No, they shouldn't have left it mostly unattended and attached to their crew mate in a room that was wide open. And no, when it went missing they shouldn't have walked into the room with no weapons or no way to trap it, all while leaving the door wide open for most of their search. Then they kept separating to find the creature, with no real plan of what to do when they actually did, aside from sending it out into space. They were already told it was pretty indestructible. I would have liked to see more effort put into the escalation of the story in that respect, but as the end result was so good it's something I can look over. I will definitely be watching the other films.
Review (1~5)#Content: Script 4 | Acting 4 | Cinematography 4 | Film Editing 3#Visual: Costume Design 4 | Makeup & Hairstyling 3 | Scenic Design 4 | Lighting 4 | Visual Effects 4#Sound: Score & Soundtracks 4 | Sound Editing & Mixing 4#Overall (1~10): 7


                
Ridley Scott's Alien really is a good film, even though it's sequel Aliens (1986) is better. This movie focuses on Ellen Ripley and her crew as this bloodthirsty alien runs amuck onboard. The movie takes a little while to get itself going, I didn't really mind that when something interesting was going on, but there were a few parts in the beginning were I just wanted them to move it along. I don't mind taking a bit longer to get the film started just as long as you keep me fairly interested and entertained while you're building up to things. The acting is very impressive in the movie, of course Sigourney Weaver is spot on great like always. The other supporting actors are pretty good. The effects are very good for 1979! The special effects in this movie is MILES better and a lot more effective than in 1992's alien 3. The action scenes are filmed well, a couple of the killing scenes are similar to like a slasher/regular horror killing, but then others are incredibly original and creative. I think everyone who has heard of this movie knows what scene I'm speaking about. Yes, it involves a man's chest and an alien. That scene is oh so effective! Very well done shocking scene. Overall this is a good entertaining well acted choice for a watch, but just wait until you see aliens!! 7/10


                
At the outset, I want to say that although I rate the film 7/10, I was disappointed by it. When I first came across the film, its title, its filmmaker and its general acclaim by the public, I was looking forward to something completely different. What I mean is that there are so many complex questions that the idea of extraterrestrial life throws up, and Alien does not as much as attempt to even pose such questions. What is man's place in the universe? What can the form of a living thing (here, the alien's) teach us about being? Science-fiction is a particularly potent literary form to address such questions. And although I sense the influence of that giant of science-fiction cinema, the one that so magically haunts us with its depiction of man's supposed evolution (yes, I speak of 2001: A Space Odyssey), Alien is nothing more than a thriller that capitalises on its setting in deep space, on the terror of being so far away from home.Having gotten the rant about my initial disappointment out of the way, I will now proceed to say why Alien is a good film. It is gripping! The settings are realistic and believable; the actors are great; the scenes of exploration of the alien planet are intense; and towards the end we get a great shot of Sigourney Weaver, her tiny panties almost dangling across her butt, stretching her arms to reach some switches above her, reminding us warmly of the sensuality of the female form after the grisly inhumanness of the alien. But the terror is real! And captivating! And this is what makes Alien worth watching!


                
One thing you can definitely say about Alien is that it's atmospheric. Right from the start when the camera is panning round the ship, you know that you are in for something special.It is also excellent the way in which the tension is built once they arrive at the distant planet. The cinematography was really good and really gave the impression that we are at a desperate and bleak place. I believe that a lot of this is down to Ridley Scott's direction which in Alien I thought was fantastic - some of the camera angles that were used really helped to create an air of suspense throughout the film.The special effects were also brilliant (considering this was made in 1979) and I thought that the alien itself looked menacing - although in all honesty I only thought it looked menacing when it developed to full size. I almost laughed when it came out of Kane's stomach and then shot across the room.The main crew includes Ripley (Weaver) Dallas (Skerritt) Kane (Hurt) Parker (Kotto) Lambert (Cartwright) Brett (Stanton) and Ash (Holm). Whilst all of the actors were good in their respective roles, I didn't feel that any one gave a stand out performance.Alien is technically well made and it certainly ticks all the major boxes; Atmospheric, Tense, Suspenseful, Good Acting, Special Effects & Cinematography. Unfortunately, the only thing Ridley Scott didn't do is come up with a good ending. For me this film had one of the most anti-climatic endings that I've seen. I thought after the way that the Alien was built up and having seen how easily it killed all of Ripley's crew that there might have been a major battle between Ripley and the Alien. Instead of that, we have Ripley running round the ship with the Alien seemingly not bothering to chase her. She then picks up her cat, gets in her space capsule (a few minutes prior to this she set their mining ship up to self destruct) and low and behold there the alien is seemingly wedged into the front of the capsule (for no apparent reason and seemingly with no explanation as to how it got there) then she tries to gas it and eventually fires at it and shoots him out of the capsule and that's pretty much the end. This film could have been so much better if Ridley Scott would have thought more about the ending - I think Ripley being stalked round the ship by the Alien and having a 'proper final showdown' - a physical struggle with it at the least, would have been much more of a fitting way of ending the film as that at least would have added a little tension. Despite the poor ending, I still enjoyed the film and rated it 7/10.
Okay<U+0085>I admit it<U+0085>I'm not a huge Alien fan. Well, of the aliens, yes<U+0085>just not the 1979 Ridley Scott movie: Alien (#1 of 4, so far.)This is how it went down: When I was a kid, I watched all and any horror I could get my hands on. Of course, mostly with the permission from my parents who wouldn't even let me watch Gremlins. Somehow Alien got past me and I must've watched the (far superior, I wouldn't know until much later) sequel Aliens a dozen or 50 times. So, I was kinda used to that one and loved the action and the multiple aliens.See? That was the problem. You sincerely backtrack by watching #2 first followed by the original. The movie is one<U+0085>of<U+0085>the<U+0085>slowest<U+0085>moving<U+0085>pictures I've ever seen. And it only contained ONE alien (not counting the face-hugger or the eggs) that's only shown after a good hour or more passes AND then in only bursts of screen time.When you're a kid, this is un-scary and thoroughly unacceptable. Hence, I didn't care for it back then. What happens when you're an adult, as I am now? Yeah, same. I was unfrightened and bored for the most part.Lucky for the movie, the only real bad thing I observed was the pacing. The "one alien" concept, I accept, was necessary to show how threatening these things were. But also, in 1979 with budgets and such, I'm sure it was also the only thing they could do. (Thanks, James, for the sequel and confidence.)But, by God, the pacing<U+0085>tick tock. I'm shocked this wasn't directed by Michael Mann (Heat, The Insider, and Manhunter,) one of my least favorite directors for his inch-by-inch/minutes feel like hours story telling.Okay, I'll give it to the adults (it is rated R, so I assume – ha – that no one under 17 was admitted) in 1979 that this idea, though not entirely fresh – alien attacks were a 1950s staple duh, might have scared some people because, quite possibly, it was the first hard R gorefest involving an (not illegal, but space) alien with a budget.Also, the movie had excellent acting and rich characters with depth – I've been told, though not confirmed, that the cast didn't care for each other, but you wouldn't tell that here, an excellent score, gorgeous cinematography, fantastic sets and designs and introduced two of the best characters in cinema history: Ellen Ripley (Weaver) and of course the never-ending/hard-to-kill Alien.Up to the point of those last few praises, you'd think I hated the movie. Well, no, but it's nothing I ever want to revisit. I can appreciate all those wonderful qualities, plus, again, I loved the character of Ripley and the idea of the alien<U+0085>but I can enjoy myself tenfold in the follow-up, Aliens.A quick rundown of the synopsis: hard working/middle class space miners are returning to Earth from deep space when "Mother," their ship's version of Hal 9000 or "Computer" (on the USS Enterprise, the NCC 1701 version, not the one where porn's shown freely) intercepts a "distress" call and commands the ship to investigate. The crew's awaken from their cryogenic sleep and are unhappy.Well, they will be soon when one is "impregnated" from a soft alien scorpion. (VERY) soon the full blown alien bursts, literally, onto the scene and it's up to the unprepared passengers to fight off the unwanted guest. Actually, they're more like cattle, until the unlikeliest (in 1979, that is) hero(ine) emerges, warding off both machine, man and beast. Talk about a bad wake up call.Again, the movie is very well crafted – this did elevate the same ole "alien" story with great special effects and we have to thank both Director Scott and Sigourney Weaver for creating such an awesome character in Ripley. But, get a Mountain Dew before watching or have the patience of a hungry tortoise who's a mile from food to get through to the end. Better yet, pop in Aliens. They'll give you the run down on this entire movie in a just a few brief minutes and then you can enjoy all the action, drive and horror the aliens can really produce.
A crew on a spaceship receives a strange signal and they land on a planetoid. One of the crew members gets attacked by something that appears to be an alien life form. Regardless of the warnings of another member, they escort him back into the ship, along with the alien being. From there on they have to face the threat of being trapped in a ship with the aggressive alien.The camera work and the lightning on this one are amazing. What also makes it unique is the outstanding design of the alien character.The movie builds up very slowly and after a short while creates a very creepy atmosphere. Everyone is sitting on needles knowing that the thing is waiting for them. The characters are very believable. All in all its a more than satisfying movie : A true horror classic.
"Alien" was a movie that caused a real sensation.  It is filled with shocks, thrills and suspense.  Sigourney Weaver made her name here as Ripley, an officer on the Nostromo commercial spaceship.  The story follows Ripley and her shipmates on a horrifying discovery, that leads to more and more terrors.  In "Alien," there are many memorable scenes, some bloody, others not so much so.  The imagery provides a good tone of suspense, especially H.R. Giger's immortal designs for the Alien itself.  These images are especially monstrous!  The special effects aren't as impressive, compared to today's digital animation standard, but the blood flowing here still makes a real impact.  This science-fiction horror movie will definitley haunt you!


                
After reading the last comment listed here, where some dude claimed that Alien was actually boring, I felt it necessary to provide a different review.  Alien is a movie that changed the face of Sci-Fi thrillers for years to come.  The director, Ridley Scott, went on to do great movies like Gladiator, Hannibal, and Thelma & Louise; Sigourney Weaver, who plays Ellen Ripley in this movie, was nominated for best actress in the films sequal; John Hurt, famous for being the guy who's chest gets torn apart by the first alien, went on to get an oscar nomination for his performance in The Elephant Man the following year; and the alien itself was designed by famous surreal-artist, H.R. Giger.  What more could you ask for in a film?  What the last guy deemed as "boring" is actually suspense for those with a greater I.Q. that the common Rambo-fan.  Watch this movie, enjoy it, and then carry on to watch the other 3 films.  Everyone of these movies has it's own feel and each is directed by an up-and-coming genius!


                
There is nothing to be said, this film is more than just a horror film, it's become a whole subsegment of our own society. Lines, characters, ideas from this film have all worked their way into our collective consciousness. This film remains as powerful and vibrant now as it was when first released.  A masterpiece of filmwork.  Worthy of being in anyone's collection.


                
This movie is probably one the greatest sci-fi milestones ever made. The plot seems very simple, and indeed it is. But this is not in anyway a plot driven movie. What makes this movie great are its environments brought to life by a flawless and genius direction by Ridley Scott. The characters, all built by strong performances, specially by Tom Skerrit, Sigourney Weaver, Ian Holm and John Hurt, seem completely convincing as 22nd century people crewing the "Nostromo", a titanic starship. When the appearance of the alien comes, the designs made by H.R. Giger are quite notable, making the creature itself also a milestone in horror and sci-fi. The only problem I can see in the movie is the fast pace of the end sequence that leaves behind the questions about the nature of the creature itself, that as a scene shows, is a reflection on a broken mirror of humanity itself. That doesn't stop it from being a great movie.


                
The movie is quite good if you know it's from 1979.At this time they couldn't work with great effects like in the new Alien-films.So with no fantastic effects trying to create a Sci-Fi film where effects are from big importance is difficult.But Scott succeeded, it's one of these movies you know from the first minute on that it's something special.And that's quite right, because through that film Scott created a new genre or at least gave now life to Sci-Fi. Very enjoyable is to buy the Alien-films all together and watch them a weekend through.So you get the story at one piece and don't have to remind yourself everytime new.Also you can see how Sigourney Weaver changes in every film.This shall NOT be promotion, but I did so and was surprised.


                
This film is quite popular, at least judging from it's rating(as I'm writing this, it's placed #50 on the top 250 list). I realize that this was probably a benchmark for special effects when it was made, but now the effects seem incredibly dated(which they don't, at the very least to the same extent, in pieces from the same period, best example being Star Wars), and many scenes seem clichéd today, even though I suppose they were fresh when it was made. I guess the main problem with the thing is that it doesn't age well, but I also think it lacks too much in both character development and humor... just a little comic relief would have made the nearly two hours go by so much easier(for me, this merely gets slower and less watchable with each repeated viewing). Attempts at making you laugh fall flat on their faces. There are far more unintentional laughs to be had, at various corny and odd things(why does this have so much weird stuff in it, and why do the people who love it just accept that?). More often than not, to me(and one person I know who *loves* these movies), this just ends up being too hard to take seriously. I'm willing to entertain the theory that Ridley Scott's stuff just isn't for me, I've yet to be amazed by him. For how much sheer, unsynthesized acting talent this has, the players have next to nothing to work with(they do turn in fine performances). Nonetheless, the film does manage to scare me and provide some shocks, even though I've seen this and the other films at least three times before. The film manages to establish a pretty nicely done, spooky atmosphere that lasts for most of the film, despite its shortcomings and the very formulaic ending. The plot isn't bad, and it takes off almost immediately, keeping you fairly interested. The characters are so-so, though there aren't any really startlingly poorly written ones. The creature effects are decent enough, and they do not fail to impress at least a little. The editing has moments that are just strange, the cinematography has reasonably little to offer. Props to whoever ensured that the realism was kept at such a high level. The sets, and in general the production design, is all well-done(some is nothing short of breathtaking). I've read one suggestion that stories set where this is and similar are more straining on the audience, and they are more likely to be bored, in spite of the potential talent possessed by those who put it together... I'm inclined to agree. There is some language, and violence as well as gore is also featured herein. I have to admit, I see this as valuable more as an introduction to the world of the title creature, and find, for example, Cameron's expansion of, and further adventure within, it considerably more worthwhile. Don't expect a masterpiece, and prepare to test your patience, especially if you've seen many of these films. The "Director's Cut"(though he feels the original fits that bill better... hey, at least it's not as bad as the alternate name, "Extended Version", which is even a misnomer as it *shortens* the overall length) adds a few things, which you may find worth a look, if you like it(not that there are that many, I count five chapters with additions in the DVD's own breakdown). The commentary track is an OK enough listen, some of the stuff said is cool to hear. I recommend it to fans of alien-type science fiction, and fans of sci-fi horror films(as such, it's good enough) in general. I suggest any possible Alien-fans to-be to start with this film, rather than any of the other films. The series works best in correct order. 7/10


                
This would have to be one of the worst sci-fi movies i have ever seen.It took to long to get to the plot, the plot was bad (not mentioning was it is).It wasn't scary, it wasn't exciting, it was boring.The best part of the films is when the credits start, it was still pretty boring then.If you want to watch a good sci-fi movie watch Aliens(number 2) or the fourth alien movie.It is definitely the most boring and worst alien, sorry sci-fi movie out there.Stick to watching star trek or star wars, something good, not some rubbish, cheap film from the 70s.But it was good that some introduced an alien into a movie, but they picked the wrong movie.DO NOT WATCH. BORING.0.5/10


                
