Alien (1979)The First of a New Sci-Fi Horror BreedIt's hard to believe how fresh and scary this movie was at the time, but it's also a relief to see it still holds up as a well made movie even now. Is it a classic great movie? Almost, almost. But not quite, in the end--mostly because of some clichés and goofs in the acting and dialog--although it has really great moments. And it's a great way to discover director Ridley Scott's unique style.Certainly now that H. R. Giger the artist has gotten famous in his own right, the alien itself deserve special mention. And the sets are impressively otherworldly and familiar at the same time--not only the huge and hugely baroque ship, but the interior scenes on the planet toward the beginning. These are marvels whether or not your style (and for my money, the alien is a really improbable type of extraterrestrial, more at home in a comic book Hades than actual space). Another novelty to note, probably a product of the shift in movies in general since the 1960s, is the director's intention to keep things real and everyday. Things are dirty, people worry about their paychecks, and so on. This is a long way from the sterility of 2001 though head to head the earlier Kubrick film is on another level of art. I know a lot of people would rather be entertained, though, and Alien is entertaining. It's fast, it's scary, it's gory, it's messy. It's surprising. It's beautiful. And it spawned a whole series of follow-ups, the next one confusingly called Aliens (1986), also a very good take on the new genre.I first saw this when it came out in Colorado and it was on a huge, curving screen that wrapped around the audience, and I was really, truly scared. Now, thirty years later, the scary parts are still really scary, and it's edited so quickly you won't spend more than a minute on any one scene that doesn't quite click. Horror sci-fi has never been the same since.


                
Rewatched this movie just now, there is absolutely no point in writing a review, because everyones already watched it, right? but i will anyway..Even 35 years on, this is still amazing, if it came out now, OK the alien would be laughed at, special affects is one thing that has improved, but the suspense and tension is something modern movies should really pay attention to. watching this just makes me annoyed we've not had 35 years of progression, just copying and impersonating.


                
This movie is amazing and wonderful, I had a feeling that when I went into this movie I wouldn't feel so scared. Because it came from 1979, but was I wrong. This movie was an amazing thriller and suspenseful film. It felt like I was really in space, but also all alone and running from something that I didn't know. I felt like every moment was suspenseful as the last moment. That every thing led to another. Aliens a movie that shows that curiosity just doesn't kill the cat it also kills us. That being all alone in a spaceship isn't all cracked up as it seems. That even for a 1979 movie it can still scare the crap out of you. Alien is one of the best Sci-fi movie I have seen and also a great film by itself.


                
Different WorldsSpoilers herein.I've just rewatched `Alien,' `Aliens' and `Alien Resurrection.' Considered simply as films, each is a fine film but they come from worlds that are more different from each other than the normative world of now is to the world of any of them. Just viewing them is a course in filmmaking.Ridley Scott's `Alien' is the most impressive, knowing that it was only his second film, that every effect is physical, and that the budget was so low the spacecraft is cobbled together from used aircraft parts. Even at this early point, Scott has the ability to create a unique look and has the mastery of craft to coordinate every element (acting, score, movement) to reinforce that look. That he chose Giger to base the look on was brilliant. Organic darkness -- evil embodied in living things. The alien ship, though only briefly shown, is a sequence that will live way past the time that the monsters of the series are forgotten; that blending of beast, environment and narrative is unique in all filmdom. Really amazing that the sequels didn't go back to that ship. Scott has grown to be one of our best and most original filmmakers -- Alien and `Blade Runner' (with `Forbidden Planet') are the very best `real' scifi films we have, meaning films that are not just adventure films.Where `Alien' is scifi in the service of horror, `Aliens' is scifi in the service of action. Aliens is a war film, and equally impressive as one of Cameron's earliest. Movement and conflict. More emphasis on the familiar is necessary for this approach, so we see the sets and costumes less adventuresome. This is a thrill which uses the trappings of scifi only as another thing with which to impress. The mood created is projected not into the image as with Scott, but into the theater as something to amaze. Cameron hasn't evolved at all from this film, only been given ever bigger effects with which to amaze. So one might consider this his most `genuine' film.`Resurrection' seems to not be as admired by the fan base. But I think it every bit the equal of the other two. In this case, we also have a new director, a European with two fantasy tales under his belt. But those set a tone that is strikingly weird: the tone not in the setting, but in the psychological space in the story. And that's what we have here. In Cameron's film, every character is a stereotype. Here, every character is an anti-stereotype: the black guy isn't jive; the cripple is the toughest; the sex kitten is a robot... even the hero isn't really. This is also the most cinematic use of the camera, using the psychological eye. Scott dwells, Cameron moves, Jeunet examines. He doesn't mind annotating the past films (rather like Van Sant's `Psycho' annotates Hitchcock's).The only negative thing I note in the sequels is that Weaver isn't adaptable enough to understand and get behind these diverse visions. She understands Scott. Cameron doesn't really care, but she is outclassed by Jeunet.Seeing any one of these enhances the appreciation for the other two.
It's kinda funny, when you get right down to it, "Alien" is just a guy in a monster suit terrorizing a bunch of space truckers. But oh, man, what they do with that premise. It's a revered classic for good reason; it draws you right in and traps you aboard the cramped confines of a dingy space freighter while a horrific twin-jawed best kills off the crew one by one. But this thing just oozes atmosphere, from the Nostromo's claustrophobic corridors to the workaday lives of these characters. "Alien" is cold, frightening and introduces one of the great movie monsters. Supreme craftsmanship, all the way.But seriously, if there's any doubt as to the impact of this movie, look up the '79 trailer on YouTube. It was a genius marketing campaign ("In space, no one can hear you scream" . . . there's no topping that), and it's got to be the most effective trailer I've ever laid eyes on.8/10
There has always been one big debate with Alien. Is it a horror film, or is it a science fiction film? The answer to me is simple, it is both. Although, I do believe that it is primarily a horror film. Barry Keith has said that the distinguishing factor between science fiction and horror is that "The appeal of science fiction is primarily cognitive, while horror<U+0085>is essentially emotional." The reason that I think of Alien as a horror film, is that all of the science in it is there to instil an emotional reaction, specifically the emotion of terror. The production design, art direction, make-up, writing, all rely heavily on science fiction ideals and visuals. However, all of these ideas and visuals are presented in a way to scare the audience. The large spaceship with its dark, narrow corridors serves the purpose of a massive, claustrophobic haunted house. The alien is designed to play on the audience's fears. Even the android character is primarily used for scares, as even he takes the place of a villain from a slasher film in the second half of, similar to the alien. If the film were primarily science fiction, all of the inventions and futuristic elements would primarily be in presented to cognitively affect the viewers. Though the film does have some science fiction ideas that aren't meant to purely instil horror. However, none of these ideas have the sense of awe or wonder that is usually to be expected from science fiction. The space travellers in the film are miners who see what they do as labor rather than a journey. The idea of a dirty, muddy, industrial look was foreign to space operas and science fiction at the time of the film's release. This is where the film succeeds as pure science fiction. The fact that Alien is largely a horror film is not a negative at all, as I think it is a great one . As I have mentioned before, I think that film is not the best medium for cognitive art. Books are generally the best as they do not deal with the dimension of time to present their ideas, allowing the viewer to take their own pace in understanding ideals. Alien in many ways encapsulates everything I love about science fiction cinema. The sense of mood created by the locations and cinematography are mesmerizing. Every part of the spaceship feels like its own character, and the superb special effects present them in a perfect manner.'I also feel that Alien is a good example of using realistic acting in a science fiction film, as opposed to Advantageous. Most of the dialogue scenes feel improvisational, and though the actors have everyday looks and qualities, they do not appear or behave "plain", instead they are ordinary, but with character. I personally think that the dinner scene after a crew member has been impregnated by the face-hugger is the best scene in the film. The scene is a perfect example how effects that are not necessarily amazing can be used to amazing effect in combination with great filmmaking. The interactions during the dinner scene, which might be the best scene in the film, feel very mundane and ordinary. It has occurred to me that most of it might had been improvised. Scott brilliantly makes us laugh and take comfort for the first time during this scene before the small alien bursts out of the crew member's chest. We are slowly made to believe that everything may actually be okay with the characters and spend some time with them. When the alien comes out of the crew member's chest, the audience is entirely shocked, and at that point it does not fully matter how good the effect looks, as it was not the effect that made the audience feel something, it was the craftsmanship of the film.


                
This is a fantastic Sci-Fi horror. It ticks every box. The dark, Gothic horror and suspense builds wonderfully. The alien is genuinely frightening and biologically convincing, when it could easily have looked absurd. The plot is simple, perfectly so. The cast are great - particularly Sigourney Weaver and Ian Holm.The real mark of genius, though, is the way the characters get picked off one - by one - by one. It keeps you guessing, and right to the death it's not obvious who will be the last survivor, or even if there will be a last survivor. Downsides? The special effects are, unsurprisingly, ageing. Mostly this is covered up by the fact that we're deliberately only given brief glimpses of the alien. But occasionally the facade slips. For example, there's a scene right at the end where the alien is on the outside of a space-craft and looks like it's being carried around on a piece of string.But special effects will always age and that can be forgiven. It doesn't detract from a movie that fully achieves what it sets out do - keep you enthralled and on the edge of your seat the whole way through.
Deep in space, the commercial vessel the Nostromo receives an emergency distress signal from an unexplored planet. After having arrived and conducted a search for survivors the crew returns home only to discover in the most terrifying of ways that a deadly and seemingly invincible bio-form has joined them, and is slowly hunting them one by one.Terrifyingly claustrophobic is a brilliant way to describe this movie. The tension escalates as the movie plays its course. The pacing is brilliant from master filmmaker Ridley Scott. Sigourney Weaver in her most iconic role does a brilliant job portraying Ripley. The feeling of being closed off, the feeling of the Nostromo being a giant claustrophobic maze in which the viewer desperately wishes to escape make this one of the greatest and most terrifying films of its generation. With shocking surprises and twists throughout including the iconic dinner scene that still to this day can be shocking for a first time viewer. The score of the fim only adds to the tension and seemingly silent but deadly tension that continues to mount as the film plays on, only at its conclusion does the viewer finally feel as though they may take a deep breath. Spawning 3 sequels, 2 cross over films, and a loosely tied prequel, Alien has proved to not only resonate these many years later but maintain its popularity within the mytho's of classic American cinema.


                
A tension-filled, suspense-driven claustrophobic thriller that wisely takes its time establishing the characters and eponymous extra-terrestrial before the killing starts, 'Alien (1979)' is regarded as a true masterpiece of both science-fiction and horror for good reason. The emphasis is never on overt gore or relentless bloodshed (though blood isn't exactly lacking, here), rather it is always placed on the terror of not knowing exactly where the alien is or what it is truly capable of. The film expertly relies on slow-burning suspense and terrific tension to make sure its short bursts of skin-crawling shock pierce through the nail-biting atmosphere with ease, creating a sense of palpable dread right from the off that that never eases even when the crew seem at their safest. 8/10


                
Probably the best Sci-Fi film of the 20th century revolutionizing the genre with a whole array of SFX and good old duck tape.This movie is a favorite among the cinema community, using Ridley Scotts style of suspense and mystery gives the viewer a 117 minute ride with no stops along the way. At the beginning there is build up but its worth every second, there are continuity errors and such but what do you expect from the 1970's.Sigourney Weaver was a great choice at a strong female role which wasn't seen allot in movies back then which later sparked a trend.Overall this move was a masterpiece of its day and still is so for most of the reasons above and more I gave this movie a 8.2/10


                
The movie might have a really slow pace and very few scares for a modern audience to enjoy, but it's likable characters and intense atmosphere make it a timeless original movie that deserves to be watched.Much like a lot of classic horror movies of it's time, what really makes it scary is not what you see on screen, but rather what the characters and the situations they are in make you fell.


                
Ridley Scott's 'Alien' is still his most impressive movie, it was only his second film, that every effect is physical (the opening credits is a camera panning over a painting!), and that the budget was so low the "spacecraft" is an odd mish mash of various components that Spaceballs would spoof with their giant "Spaceball One" ship. More than any other directors I know except maybe Zack Snyder, Ridley Scott has the ability to create a unique look and has the mastery of craft to coordinate every element (acting, score, movement) to reinforce that look. That he chose Giger to base the look on was brilliant. Evil without the constraints of morality conveyed by an organic lifeform constantly dripping goo. The alien ship, though only briefly shown, is a sequence that will live way past the time that the monsters of the series are forgotten; that blending of beast, environment and narrative is unique in all filmdom. Really amazing that the sequels didn't go back to that ship until Prometheus, and it looked like half the audience complained about that anyway. Ridley was forced to add the classic Xenomorph in a tacked on ending sequence because the test audience demanded "The Beast".The movie seems to have a lot in common with "Planet of the Vampires" although the writers deny it.The real reason I like this movie so much was because you had to fill in the gaps with your own imagination. What I filled in was that the juggernaut was an entirely bio-mechanical creation, intentionally crashed on that alien planet. The company then sent the miners, unaware, to retrieve the specimen and bring it back to earth without anyone knowing the better.The movie doesn't work without Ian Holmes. Ridley needed an actor of his caliber to play that character because the audience has to find out the same time the other characters do about his truth.
Unfortunately, although the suspense is good, the climax where the alien bursts out of Hurt's chest just doesn't work now. It is so obviously a glove puppet that it is more likely to make people laugh than scream. Likewise, when it runs away, it's blatantly the glove puppet being pulled along on wheels. After, the film is ruined.In space no-one can hear you laugh!See Aliens for a truly scary and exciting film that has not dated at all.
Director Ridley Scott's well-honed talents of pacing and editing create a tense atmosphere that superbly conveys dread and fear of an unknown, unseen evil entity. In 1979, the technology didn't exist to generate a computer image of a Being from another world, and thank God, because this film would have sucked just like all these post-Alien creature features do. Everyone who loves this movie knows what I'm talking about. Ridley Scott had to be extremely careful not to show a full shot of the Alien, except in very brief scenes, and not to reveal exactly how it moves, because then we would see that it is just some tall, skinny guy in a rubber suit. Nowadays, some computer guy would whip up a really scary-looking, but nevertheless FAKE-looking (yes, computer guys, we can tell) Alien, and the director would not have to even think about trying to breathe life into H.R. Giger's hallucinations to make a successful picture.The dark, cold beauty of this film will never be equaled.


                
The effects really do shine along with the drama and intense atmosphere. I at first didn't like the film that much and if it didn't grow on me I would give it a 7. However looking at it I learned to appreciate the effects and how much atmosphere is built up in the film surrounding mainly the aspect of space and aliens, of course. I really enjoyed the movie however there are some writing issues I have that play into the scenes. They mess up the scenes a little making normal ones drawn out and that bugs me. The pacing can be not the best also. Aside from minor issues like that, I really enjoyed this movie. I love the characters, especially Ripley and the doctor. I am blown away by the alien designs, they truly look out of this world. Endless praise from this movie most of the time. 8/10.


                
Highly recommended movie if you like sci-fi horrors


                
Very scary film, well, it seemed that way as a 12 year old when i watched it. Kind of seems funny now when i watch it. Lol


                
Back in 1979 Ridley Scott brought us his second theatrical film in Alien and he does quite a job in only his second film. It feels weird rating the film lower than the average, but stating that it is highly recommended by me to anyone who loves horror or sci-fi. To me a 8/10 is still a great movie. And groundbreaking as well!A spaceship Nostromo is on a return flight to Earth. The 7 person crew lead by Tom Skerritt is awakened from their sleep early due to a transmission that they need to investigate. It is within this investigation that crew members come across a not so nice alien.Really has a terrific cast also including Sigourney Weaver in her powerful role as Ripley, Yaphet Kotto as Parker and John Hurt as Kane to name just a few. Jerry Goldsmith did the score and he really did create a wonderful, yet at times subtle or weird music score. H.R. Giger did spectacular work creating the look of the alien and the alien ship. Carlo Rambaldi was then brought in to create the head of the alien and one of its secret weapons. The film also does a great job with its use of sounds or concentration on a specific sound in its way to bring terror to the screen. A great scene where the use of sound is quite effective is the one where Harry Dean Stanton who plays Brett is looking for the cat Jonesy. Not exactly sure why there is a cat on a spacecraft, but it didn't seem to bother me too much.Now as well this film along with another Ridley Scott-great BLADE RUNNER has been ripped off so many times, but never equaled. Usually the rip-offs are stinkers. Last night I watched this film with my girlfriend. I have seen the film perhaps 20 times, but she had never seen it. She really enjoyed it, but perhaps through some of the ripoffs she has seen it was predictable for her. I must say though on my initial viewing (think I was 12 at the time) all the surprises were genuine for me. I would also place this film in the list of best Ridley Scott films. I must say though that I see some inspiration within the script written by the late Dan O'Bannon and Ronald Shusett and direction from 2001: A SPACE ODYSSEY. Which is fine by me, because I believe that is greatest sci-fi film ever made. For example the use of having a computer running the ship and really in control of everything was not original. Here it is known as Mother in 2001 the computer was known as HAL. Even the crew not being aware of the full story or every detail on their assignment was not original either. That same thing happened in 2001. I feel I need to make these points, because I do believe O'Bannon and Shusett did create a great terror in space, but some of the plot points may have been borrowed from a groundbreaking sci-fi epic made 10 years prior. But, other things that happen in the film that are original have to do with the alien itself.Before ending this review though I must say Veronica Cartwright who plays Lambert in this film did a great job, because she truly looks terrified many times during this film. Also starring Ian Holm as Ash.So, if you are a horror fan or sci-fi fan I would strongly suggest checking this one out. You might love it more than I do. Then you can start on the countless sequels that follow and continue to be made to this day.


                
One of the greatest science fiction films ever(should make top 5 for most sci-fi fans). Alien starts with a space tugger carrying a small crew in cryo, on way to Earth when the ship detects a beacon transmission and awakes them. They decide to check it out and land on a distant planet only to find a massive derelict ship which has probably crash landed. There they find an alien organism- one which has acid for blood and grows at a menacing pace. This film reeks of atmosphere and to this day many films and video games have been directly inspired by its production design and vibe. Alien also holds the distinction of having, what many people consider the greatest tagline and trailer.


                
Alien is a great film though I personally feel that James Cameron's Aliens is a much better film. It starts with seven crew members aboard a towing hauler, who are suddenly awakened from their deep slumber in cryo because of a distress signal they've received. They land on a distant planet only to find a massive derelict ship which has probably crash landed. There they find an alien organism- one which has acid for blood and grows at a menacing pace. This film reeks of atmosphere and to this day many films and video games have been directly inspired by its production design and vibe. Alien also holds the distinction of having, what many people consider the greatest tagline and trailer.


                
It's been years since I revisited this film. I originally saw it as a kid at the drive in when it was first released. I got my love of horror from my mom, who was always taking us to see things that weren't really age appropriate. Yay Mom! It hasn't lost any of it's intensity. This film is so propelled by the bleak and forlorn setting and mood. It screams desolation--all is lost. Still scary as ever.


                
Alien is a great film though I personally feel that James Cameron's Aliens is a much better film. It starts with seven crew members aboard a towing hauler, who are suddenly awakened from their deep slumber in cryo because of a distress signal they've received. They land on a distant planet only to find a massive derelict ship which has probably crash landed. There they find an alien organism- one which has acid for blood and grows at a menacing pace. This film reeks of atmosphere and to this day many films and video games have been directly inspired by its production design and vibe. Alien also holds the distinction of having, what many people consider the greatest tagline and trailer.


                
The opening third of Alien provides for an immersive, captivatingly well shot and utterly tense sequence of scenes that sets a virtually impeccable standard of quality for the rest of the picture to match. Therefore it is regretful that, to some extent, the remainder of the picture dissolves into an elongated cat and mouse chase that (despite the best efforts of the writers) occasionally feels dull and excessively long and somewhat dilutes the aforementioned immersion and tension. That isn't to deny that a considerable length of the remainder is composed of commendably tense and terrifying moments. Alien hosts a varied assortment of impressive performances, and consistently delivers some of the most intelligently crafted cinematography I can ever recall viewing. Ultimately , I believe that Blade Runner is the more consistent and overall more immersive picture that succeeds in delivering a more alluring conclusion. Alien may be inconsistent experience, though in it's highest quality scenes it's spectacular and reaches near masterpiece status, warranting viewing.


                
