A masterpiece one of the best classic sci-fi horror films from the 70's I have ever saw and experience. The first time I saw this film was in the 97 when I was 13 years old because this film was so popular that time and even today people talk's about it. Watching the first time this film I must say I loved it. I love this film to death of all the sci-fi films today this one is the best one and beats them all. This is the real science fiction film about "extraterrestrial life form" it is interesting, brilliant about time in the space and life form that want's to whip whole humanity out. This is Ridley Scott's masterpiece and one of his best films of all time. Everything about this film is perfect, the script, the actors, puppetry, models, and special effects about Alien design. I would give this movie an 8 but it deserves a perfect 10 because it has a vision of the most imaginative directors on earth. Dan O'Bannon wrote brilliantly a story and screenplay with help from Ronald Shusett. Both of them make a brilliant imaginative story. This film has no plot holes I don't see them. Helen Horton as the voice of Mother, the Nostromo's computer was believable and realistic and well performed. The design for the parasite (the facehugger) was excellent designed and brilliant. Everyone from the cast in here at acting is spectacular and acts believable. I love all the characters: Parker, Brett, Lambert, Ripley, Ash, Captain Dallas, Kane and even Jonesy the cat. He was really trained I love that cat in this movie. The design about the ship Nostromo is fantastic and so is space and the computers in this film. The eponymous Alien and its accompanying elements were designed by the Swiss artist H. R. Giger which the effects and designs were excellent spectacular created in the film. Jerry Goldsmith makes an excellent music score for the film that I have enjoy it. My favorite scene in this film is when Parker torchers with flamethrower on Ash's corpse and burns his remains great a special effect. This movie stars Tom Skerritt, Sigourney Weaver, Veronica Cartwright, Harry Dean Stanton, John Hurt, Ian Holm, Yaphet Kotto, Bolaji Badejo and Helen Horton they are all believable in their roles.This is my favorite science fiction film tough I prefer Aliens over this film (because it is my favorite film), The Thing, Leviathan even The Blob as a horror films because I enjoy them more but "Alien" is my favorite science fiction film the best of it's kind. 10/10 doesn't deserve the hate.
In "Alien" we follow a seven man crew en-route to earth on board the huge space freighter "Nostromo". The crew is in cryosleep, but the on board computer interrupts the journey when a foreign radio signal is picked up. It originates from an uninhabited planet and the crew lands to investigate. There they make contact with an alien life-form...What makes Alien so great is the constant feel of uneasiness. Right from the beginning you have a feeling that something is wrong. The crew is not particularly friendly towards each other, and you truly feel all the in-group tension. The ship itself is a huge worn out industrial-style maze of halls and corridors, and it feels more like a prison than a place to live. It is as if not only the alien but also the ship itself is against the humans. The Alien itself is the scariest monster in history because it is a ruthless, soul-less parasite completely devoid of any human or civilized traits. The design of the monster is a stroke of genius. Sure it has a humanoid form, but it has no facial traits or anything else which could give away emotions or intentions. Its actions reveals no weaknesses nor civilized intelligence. The Alien is more or less the opposite of everything human and civilized, plus the creature is more well-adapted to the inhumane interior of the ship than the humans who build it. To sum up, you then have a setting where the humans are caught in a web of in-group tensions, an inhospitable ship and the perfect killer which thrives in the ships intestines. You almost get the feel that the humans are the ones who are alienated to each other and to their own ship.Ridley Scott tells the story with a perfectly synchronized blend of visuals and sounds. The actors do a superb job, portraying their characters in a subtle but very realistic way. The seven man crew is not a bunch of Hollywood heroes. They are ordinary people with strengths and weaknesses, likes and dislikes. In this way they all seem so fragile when confronted with the enemy. As mentioned the ship is very claustrophobic and Ridley Scott adds to the eeriness by using camera movement, lights and shadows in an effective way. The living quarters are bright and should be comfortable to the crew, but there is something sterile about it all. The rest of the ship is basically a huge basement. The music by Jerry Goldsmith underlines the eeriness so well, and the movie wouldn't have worked without his score. Combined with the sounds of the ship it all adds to the uneasiness. This is not a story about heroic people who boldly teams up against evil. It's a story about ordinary people facing true fear, which is the fear without a face. The fear we can't understand and can't negotiate with, because its only goal is to survive on the expense of us. It's a story where some people bravely fight back whilst others are destroyed by the terror. It's a story where people a killed in a completely random way. There is no higher-order justice behind who gets to live and who dies. All seven characters are just part of a race where the fittest - not necessarily the most righteous - will prevail, and all seven characters start the race on an equal footing. None of them are true heroes, and none of them are true villains. All the above makes Alien so great as a horror movie. The terror isn't just the Alien itself, it's the entire atmosphere which gets so effectively under your skin, that you just can't shrug it off after the end credits like you can with so many other Hollywood horror movies. The title "Alien" doesn't just refer to the monster, it is the theme of the movie and it is the feeling you have during and after the movie. 9/10


                
The beginning of one of the greatest series of all time. This film will always remain a classic. It's scary, influential and insanely entertaining. Not just that but Ridley Scott actually has a great sense of style and mood and he plays with that a lot, to make us shiver. There's also an interesting mystery surrounding the Alien which we know practically nothing about. Sigourney Weaver is just as powerful as usual and really brings strength to the film; they make one. Last but not least, the musical score. Wow! It's fantastic. I think the Alien series is known for that aspect as well. Let's hope they'll continue the series and dang we need it all on DVD !


                
In terms of sci-fi horror, Ridley Scott's »Alien« is as good as it gets. As many people have pointed out, the story is basically B-movie stuff: a spooky monster haunts some hapless people, only this time they're in space. Scott stages the rather simple plot like an arthouse flick, beginning with the slick and lifeless introduction to the space ship Nostromo. The atmosphere is unbelievably tense throughout the movie: from the industrial Nostromo, the stormy planet V-426 to the phallic Alien designed by H. R. Giger. In many ways, »Alien« is the antithesis to Stanley Kubrick's »2001: A Space Odyssey«, the most megalomaniac movie ever conceived. Ridley Scott shows us that space travel won't be about philosophical self-discovery. It will be about dirty, senseless work. Of course, there are also some gender issues at stake here. Sigourney Weaever as Ellen Ripley might be most badass last girl in movie history - and maybe the first female action star that is not reduced to her womanhood. If »Alien« has one problem, it's the fact that it betrays its B-movie roots. There is a wannabe-deep scene near the end of the movie that feels affixed, as if Ridley Scott wanted to reconcile the intellectuals in the movie theater. That wasn't necessary at all. Still, if you're into stylish and evocative sci-fi, horror or sci-fi horror, you need to watch »Alien«. Man, what am I talking about? If you're into movies at all, you need to watch this flick.


                
Alien has a slow and mysterious beginning. It starts like nothing special - some people eating and talking on a space ship. But it gets more intense when they detect an unknown planet and land on it so they can explore it. The audience has to wait more than 1 hour to see the thing they paid for - the xenomorph. And this waiting makes its emergence one of the greatest moments in the cinematic history. Still we see the xenomorph only 3 or 4 times which is quite disappointing but this makes the alien more mysterious and gives the movie a horror character. And of course another reason we see the xenomorph so rarely is because the CGI wasn't very well developed at that time and it was pretty hard to make the alien's appearance. Alien(1979) is a great start for the Alien anthology and even though the bad CGI it's the best movie in the whole anthology. The movie is worth watching.
Alien is one indisputably one of the best science fiction, and horror films ever made. And easily one of the most influential ever. As it basically invented and defined the science- fiction horror genre, paving the way for films like the thing, and predator. One of Alien's best aspects is its amazing cinematography and creature/set design. All of see work together to give the film a visual style that was unlike anything scene at the time and Ridley Scott would re-use in Blade Runner. Alien's magnificent visuals can be strangely credited to Alejandro Jodorowsky, who found and assembled all the different artists used in Alien for his adaptation of the novel dune, which was unfortunately canned before shooting started, but every cloud has a silver lining, and Jodorowsky's Dune's silver lining was Alien. Another one of Alien's best aspects is its pacing and atmosphere, though some people today may call Alien "boring," these people know nothing about film and are not to be trusted. Alien opens with a slow footage of space, as the eerie score plays, open credits come up, and the title is slowly spelled out, this is then followed by a slow montage of the empty ship Nostromo, followed by the crew slowly waking up from cryospleep. In fact we don't see any sign of an alien until 1/3 of the way through the film, and we don't see the main alien until halfway through the film. And this is why some call it "boring," but these people came to see the wrong film, they expected something like predator, a straight forward action film where the hero tries to kill the creature, instead what they got was something more like Halloween or Psycho, a subtle unnerving film that builds tension and doesn't blow its load all at once.The characters in Alien are also far above the average horror movie, they aren't annoying teenagers, or people that we just want to see die. They're relatable diverse logical characters, that have really natural chemistry, as can be seen in some of the films earlier scenes. And another interesting thing about the characters is, we have to figure out which one the protagonist is, it isn't revealed immediately and makes all lot of scenes much more tense because we don't know which characters are going to die. Though Alien begins slow, the final scenes of Alien are some of the most "on the edge of your seat" scenes ever, I don't won't to spoil anything for anyone who somehow hasn't scene alien yet, but you will most likely be on the verge of a heart attack while watching.One final note, I recommend you watch the original version first, and then you most definitely should watch the directors cut.9.6/10


                
This horrifying as well as heart-pounding movie contains shocks , stomach-churning violence , chills , profanity , thrills and results to be pretty entertaining . The commercial vessel Nostromo with a crew in deep-space sleep wakes up and receives a distress call from an unexplored planet . The futuristic cargo ship picks up an unwanted passenger : a malicious extraterrestrial . After searching for survivors, the ill-fated crew heads home only to realize that a deadly bioform has joined them . The merciless alien lives on human flesh and continually changes form . Then the Earthlings have a hard time figuring out the whereabout of the heinous being that is running amok . This nail-biting picture contains tension from start to finish , gory scenes aplenty , thrills , some strong scares , slime , emotion , entertainment and good acting . It is a superb cinematic combination of Sci-Fi , monster movie and terror . This is a brutal , considerable violent and exciting sci-fi thriller that scales new heights of savagery even by the standards of the 70s and 80s . The result is a throughly violent but undeniably thrilling action movie with a strong cast giving sweatily good value to their abrasive characters . Spectacular as well as bloody slaughter sequences took long time to shoot and were extremely difficult to make . Magnificently designed creature by the artist HR Giger , it was conceptual artist Ron Cobb who came up with the idea that the Alien should bleed acid . Extraordinary as well as astounding special effects in the chestburster scenes , the rumor that the cast, except for John Hurt, did not know what would happen during scenes is partly true and it was filmed in one take with four cameras; for instance, Veronica Cartwright did not expect to be sprayed with blood. The ending part is particularly exciting with Sigourney Weaver battling the malicious alien . ¨Alien¨ is clearly inspired by ¨It ¡ the terror from beyond space¨ . Sigourney Weaver breathes fire into Ripley and remaining actors are all magnificent as the crew of a futurist starship such as Tom Skerritt who is awesome in compelling lead role as commandant , Harry Dean Stanton , Veronica Cartwright , Yaphet Kotto , John Hurt and special mention to Ian Holm . The motion picture was stunningly directed by Ridley Scott who keeps everything bouncing at an absolutely frantic pace . Ridley Scott cites three films as the shaping influences on his movie: George Lucas' Star Wars (1977) and Stanley Kubrick's 2001 (1968) for their depiction of outer space, and Tobe Hooper's Texas chain saw massacre (1974) for its treatment of horror .It is followed by ¨Aliens ¨, also visually astounding by James Cameron with Paul Reiser , Bill Paxton , Jenette Goldstein , Lance Henriksen ; Alien 3 ¨ in which the alien regenerates and causes wreak havoc on isolated planet prison , being directed by David Fincher with Charles S Dutton , Paul McGann , Charles Dance ; ¨Alien: Resurrection¨ by Jean Pierre Jeunet with Winona Ryder , Dominique Pinon , Ron Perlman , Gary Dourdan and Michael Wincott . All of them starred by the great Sigourney Weaver who performed one of the best female leads created in years . Furthermore, ¨Alien vs. Predator¨ (2004) by Paul Anderson with Sanaa Lathan , Raoul Bova , Lance Henriksen , Colin Salmon , Tommy Flannagan and ¨Aliens vs. Predator 2¨ (2007) by Strause Brothers with Steven Pasquale , Reiko Aylesworth , John Ortiz , Johnny Lewis and Robert Joy .


                
This one really needs no introduction, this pitch black vision of an unfathomable darkness. If I was asked to run a film class, this would be a prime example to study: collaboration, reinvention, conceptual design that accommodates damage to it, the journey of shared vision from page to space. It does everything right that could easily have gone wrong. The backbone is an extremely coherent space world and mythology, as complicated as we find in Star Wars but with only necessary snippets provided instead of platitudes. On top of that, you have (expertly executed) the age old story of an encounter with ancient evil. But this one has biology, structure that horrifies more. The icing on the cake is a final layer about the nature of the encounter, your encounter with 'alien' vision. Hold this thought.It is amazing to revisit this in retrospect of how much it changed and how much has changed since.In the 1970's, one of the hottest and most troubled film properties for a while was Dune. The scope and detail of Herbert's books called for a a film on a massive scale, a blockbuster, and that was a time when the blockbuster was still a fluid concept. It was a time when you could dream the unthinkable: a 10-hour Jodorowsky extravaganza with the creative involvement of Dali, Welles, Gloria Swanson, Delon, Jagger, designed by H.R. Giger and scored by Pink Floyd. Extensive pre-production work was axed when money decided the venture was impractical, and basically nuts. The world safely went with the Spielberg-Lucas model, nurtured from Jaws to Star Wars. The prevalent business model for a Hollywood blockbuster these days, is a bankable producer-director in charge (he can be a little creative), and contract out the design and effects-work to individual SFX studios. We're getting poorer every year and the products more bland, because of this IKEA mentality.Anyway, the smoke from the colossal Dune collapse turbulently shifted in two directions. We got the two Phillip K. Dick adaptations in the 80's, one of them Scott's Bladerunner. The other is right here. Inbetween, Scott had been next in line after Jodorowsky to tackle and swiftly abandon Dune.What happened, is that a guy called Dan O'Bannon (effects-man in that first Dune) drifted to screen writing to pull himself up from a financial hole. Out of many stories he penned, one was about an alien passenger wreaking havoc mid-space. In its first incarnation, it was going to be a Corman foamcore cheapie called Starbeast. Hollywood tapped the project, considering workingman Aldrich to direct. Daft choice, thankfully axed. This one needed new, excited blood like O'Bannon.Ridley Scott came onboard, fresh and eager from a Kubrick-influenced debut. Kubrick's 2001-notions of cinematic space as a clean and silent roar, elegant design, and controlled visual eddies from symphonic flows of the camera, all of that was carried over into this, and is openly acknowledged in the first shot. O'Bannon(a horror guy) introduced Scott to Texas Chainsaw Massacre and more pieces from the Dune jigsaw: Foss and Moebius were carried over to sketch the world of the film. H.R. Giger was flown in from Switzerland, with alien-designs so disturbing he was held over at LAX.And that is how it came together. The story was recycled from spare parts (Forbidden Planet, Planet of the Vampires), dressed in 'used' scrapyard aesthetic and Giger's diseased-looking biology, and finally given Texas Chainsaw- violence in the engine gears and fabric. And the nature of that collaborative encounter with the product of vision is sketched in the actual film, in the way it made a difference.You have a colorful bunch of professionals in the same 'ship', each one a specialist in his field. Each one has his own logic about what the voyage is all about, but not necessarily equal say. They are earthbound before a beacon signals from the void.It isn't until later that we find out a narrative of discovery had been set in motion around them, and that narrative is controlled by non-human agents, actual devices (Mother - Ash), which is why it's both simple and precise. The actual author won't be seen until Prometheus, one of many things mucked-up there.The discovery is of something that we go on to understand has structure and design, and the instinct to do as designed challenges human conscience. And this is why Scott's presentation matters: it is not a guy in a suit we see, it is abstract shape, pure organism morphing before our eyes.The second expansion is that it is not the story of explanations that matters, but the journey to retrieve new vision. This has been obscured, because that vision is a monster, and because on both ends of that story (Weyland - Engineerworld), you have only vague bits of clearly engineered worlds that we want to know more about (hence, the heavy Alien fanfiction that distracts by too much clarification).It's all here though. The story was something to get you to where the void signals.The real deal is in how we come to terms with something that is new and seemingly dragged strange and whole from the void.And it takes a dissonant - human - element to muck up the precise Weyland gears of the narrative, and actually give birth to the thing. A machine would never be curious enough to touch the egg.This is brilliant. It's all in the coordinated bursts of machine-reason to human-chaos to inscrutable creature-reason and back again, and the way that is choreographed into an environment that bleeds and bursts into our vision (best seen in the discovery of the alien ship). Our vision itself is the alien being born, space impregnated and convulsing with the process.


                
Every time I watch Alien I can avoid the same emotions rushing through my brain: the almost impossible to bear fear; just a spark, a glimps of that monster is enough to give me teh creeps; the sense of adventure that not so many sci-fi movies convey; my deep admirations for the Nostromo, its crew a their inevitable demise...It's as good as the first time and, trust me, this isn't the first time. I've watched this picture too many a time; watching it once a year has become some kind of ritual that must be kept at all costs. If you haven't watched it yet, don't hesitate. Alien is a must for every cinema fan out there!
The wave of horror films from the 70s and 80s was filled with what many would consider classics. Halloween, Hellraiser, Friday the 13th, A Nightmare On Elm Street and The Texas Chainsaw Massacre are all entrenched in the public consciousness and a must see for any film fanatic. But few of these, even the really good ones, rise above the level of 'cult' classic - they have a dedicated fan following and are certainly good films in their own right, but never really rise above their genre. Needless to say, the *true* horror classics hail from the black and white era of the 30s, 40s and 50s, but I'm specifically referring to the 70s/80s wave here. In my book, three of those rose above the level of cult classic, to become true film classics - The Thing, The Excorcist and Alien. And Alien is the one to rule them all.In many ways, Alien is the base on which every sci-fi horror film of the past forty years was built. Every film made in this genre, no matter how innovative in other areas, rips off Alien in *some* way at least. From the unique design, courtesy of the late H.R. Giger, to the bleak and pessimistic future set design - even more so than the grimy 'used future' and interstellar warfare of Star Wars, Alien is the true antithesis to the giddy optimism of Star Trek - and the greedy corporation trying to exploit the beast at the expense of the characters, and humanity at large. Watching it now, it may seem like you've seen all this before - but that's only because so many others learned it from Alien.Story-wise, Alien is not much to look at. Though innovative at the time, it is a very basic 'space-explorers-encounter-a-deadly-organism' tale that we've become familiar with by now. The brilliance lies in the execution - Jerry Goldsmith's creepy score, Ridley Scott's slow, atmospheric direction and the authenticity of the characters. Alien's characters aren't particularly developed, but engaging all the same. We get to know them not through deep backstories or dramatic character arcs, but their interactions - including several improvised scenes - which showcase them as relatable, working class everymen. These aren't the mystic heroes of Star Wars on a quest to save the galaxy, or the elite Starfleet captains commanding a ship exploring the vast reaches of space - these are your everyday working stiffs, sent out to the middle of nowhere on a gig. Space holds no enthralling mystery to them - it's their working environment, much like sailors out at sea. And when they encounter a dilapidated alien vessel on a barren planet, there is none of the exciting mystery of many space exploration tales - rather, there is a sense of impending doom. And we see their very human reactions when they encounter this fearsome extraterrestrial predator - fear, anger and desperation. This is not the childlike wonder of first contact, but the terror of being trapped in a tin can with an animal trying to eat you. As icing to the cake, there is no real 'hero' to the story. Ellen Ripley, played brilliantly by Sigourney Weaver - by now synonymous with the Alien franchise - does not emerge as a 'natural leader' among the group. In fact, she doesn't really lead at all - she becomes the story's sole survivor mainly through happenstance, because she is fortunate enough to not be in the wrong place when the Alien comes out, and spends enough time studying it to figure out a way to outsmart it. Later films elevated Ripley to a more mythical status as the woman who kept surviving the Alien incursions, taking away from her human vulnerability in this film.None of this would be as effective without the film's briljant creature design and special effects. Making the most of its modest budget (reportedly, Ridley Scott built the Space Jockey set without full permission from the studio) and using SFX both sparingly and effectively, Alien has managed to stand the test of time much better than its 1986 sequel Aliens. H.R. Giger's creepy, sexually charged design - inspired both by outlandish fetishes and deep phobias of rape - has not been matched in the decades after, though many have tried. This isn't a cheesy green space invader with a laser gun, but an *animal* - a fierce creature, trying to feed, survive and procreate. The humans it encounters are no mortal enemies or puny natives to be conquered, but either prey or merely in the way. In fact, it isn't really an evil monster - it's just doing what it does to survive. This, in fact, makes it a more effective antagonist rather than if it were just your average creepy space man. Later films respected this core foundation, but unfortunately moved away from the ilusive, deceptive nature of the Alien and turned into insectoid cannon fodder, dangerous mainly because of its large numbers. It's easy to forget that, at its core, Alien is supposed to be about suspense instead of action. No film, both within the series and outside it, has ever matched the briljant effectiveness of Alien. It is a film that was never meant to be A-list, but became so anyway because it was just executed so well. This is truly one for the ages, and a must-watch even if sci-fi and horror don't appeal to you.


                
Usually I don't care for films that have nothing but unlikable characters and a lot of verbal blasphemy, but this was so well done that I just had to have this on a good DVD because I'll always watch this film every few years. It's just too interesting to ignore.The attractions are the incredible suspense; excellent photography and set design and memorable horror scenes. They didn't overdo the action scenes, either, as is so often the case with modern-day films. In fact, some of this might be too slow-moving for today's audience.The suspense, as crew members search for the killer alien, is almost unbearable at times and helps make up for the profane cast, all of whom are low-life people who would never be astronauts in real life. I personally applauded when Veronica Cartwright, who had one of the nastiest faces and mouths on screen, met her demise. The rest of the crew wasn't much classier. Since this movie came out, in fact, the sequels to this plus many other science fiction films seem to portray astronauts as trashy people which is the opposite of reality and just plain ludicrous.Anyway, Alien a memorable movie to anyone who has seen it. Who can ever forget the alien emerging from John Hurt's chest? That's a scene that stays with you forever. Others have tried to imitate the horror of that scene, but never quite been as successful.The restored DVD gives this 25-year-old film a new appearance. It looks fabulous and really highlights the great cinematography and superb direction by Ridley Scott. This is just great entertainment if you want to spend a night on the edge of your seat.


                
Not only a movie, but also a master piece artwork, the beginning of a sci-fi horror movie universe and the lighthouse of the mist oceans


                
This is truly one one of the Greatest Scifi Action/Thriller movies I have seen from beginning to end I was just gripped by the story.There were several interesting points in the story, one of my favorites is how the story is presented in an isolated situation. I won't give anyway too much details I don't want to spoil too much of it for those who read the reviews before watching the movie. I will say that there is a great Twist plot involved and let's just say it's makes for a Great movie.Overall, I enjoyed "Alien," the various twist plots and the way it presents in this sci-fi/Action movie. It is one of the better/great Sci-fi movies I have watched so far and would definitely watch it again to get any detail that I didn't from the first screening of it. I am a hardcore sci-fi dude (Sci-fi/Fantasy) and if you are into Sci-fi as well I'd highly recommend this movie if you haven't seen it already it is really the golden standard for Any kind of Alien movie in my book.
Alien is one of the first movies directed by legendary 'Ridley Scott' (Blade Runner, Gladiator) The film is a classic in the making. When i first heard about this movie i was around 10 years old, obviously too young to watch the movie, now i am 17 and i have watched it for the first time, now twice i enjoyed it so much. This is honestly one of the best Sci-Fi movies of the 70s, probably is my favourite Sci Fi movie of the 70s, and one of the best of all time. The Sequel 'Aliens' (1986) was directed by James Cameron, another one of my favourite directors. Director of 'The Terminator' (1984) which stands as my favourite Sci-Fi movie of all time. The reason i didn't want to see Alien when i was younger, was because i always felt scared of the Alien, i used to have horrific nightmares of them just thinking about them. When i went to Disney world, i have always loved Movies, so i decided to visit a Movie ride, the Alien suddenly popped out of the ceiling, of course it was only plastic, but looked real enough. So i had always been too scared to watch the Movie. I didn't know what i was missing out! As i watched it i didn't know what i was worrying about. It's very different to watching it on Screen than seeing for real. I am nearly 18 now, so i am not really scared of anything anymore, i would definitely go back to Disney and try out that ride again, just to see if it still scares me, I think now i've finally seen the movie i appreciate now that it's not real, and i find it interesting than scary now more than anything, because it feels like I'm in the movie. When it comes to Ridley Scott director 'Prometheus' (2012) a prequel to Alien, that wasn't very scary at all, it was more of a mystery than a Sci-Fi/ Horror i thought. Alien is deifinitely a classic in the making, Don't miss Ridley Scott's masterpiece Alien!


                
This movie predates my childhood, since I was born at a time when horror was sadly beginning to fade into the cliché standards of today's "scary movies." This is the sort of horror movie everyone remembers, and it has stood the test of time like no other movie in the genre (with the exception of, perhaps, Psycho or The Shining) ever has. The phrase 'in space nobody can hear you scream' has never been so effective, and the movie relies on atmosphere to generate this effectiveness. This is a risky decision for any movie developer, since if that atmosphere is not established well enough, then the movie looses all sense of fear and tension. Here, however, this is not the case. The alien is instantly established as a threat - ever since that infamously gory scene in the cafeteria; you all know which one I'm talking about - and this threat, combined with the tight hallways and sense of claustrophobia, is what shapes Alien into the terrifying, chilling movie that is renowned as even more than 25 years later.


                
Ridley scott worked very hard on this movie. It may be a little slow, but ridley scott made sure he told the story right. if your willing to be patient then watching this film will be rewarding for you.the visuals of the film are almost perfect for the time it was made. what really makes the movie is H R Giger's work on the creature and the alien spaceship. With a strong director the artistry came together to make one of the best films ever made.Others may disagree but I wasn't impressed by the acting. Not necessarily because I thought it was bad acting, but because the actors didn't bring much interest to the film for me. I found them very monotone and dull compared to the brilliant visuals.


                
"Alien" is one of the most intense Sci-Fi thrillers to have ever graced the silver screen or the home theater in any format! It is the film's intensity that provides such an incredible draw to this extraordinary film. I was pulled in by the ultra high sense of realism. This film almost feels like a documentary because of a lot of the subtle hand-held camera work (read; not like the shaky, seizure inducing hand-held work of today's films). There's much going on in that film that was revolutionary for the time. Great ideas, design, cinematography, subtle, very realistic performances.Sigourney Weaver stars as Ellen Ripley in her film debut role. Weaver is absolutely perfect for the role, and was practically the first girl-power type female heroine who single-handedly carries this international blockbuster right through until the final minutes. John Hurt also plays Kane to excellent effect, especially in his death scene as he frantically wriggles on the table with the alien inside him. Harry Dean Stanton is brilliant as Brett, as is Tom Skerritt as Dallas. Yaphet Kotto is also perfectly cast as Parker, who provides many on-screen laughs. Veronica Kartwright (who later went on to star in The X-Files some 20 years later) stars as the lovable Lambert, the only other female member of the crew along with Ripley. Ian Holm as Ash is absolutely brilliant in his role as the android secretly sent on board to bring back the alien life- form, while - in his eyes, and "Mother's" - all other crew members are expendable. The acting in this film is really first-rate, which is another big factor in why the film works so well.The art designs are incredible: the entire look of the film, from the commercial nature of the spacecraft to the iconographic alien itself is right on the money. It amazes me how well visually this movie still holds up. It feels as rich and deep cinematically as most anything today due to Ridley Scott's brilliant visuals. You watch this film at certain points and it feels as slick and polished as any current genre film without the hollowness or incompetence. All in all, Alien is a terrific sci-fi horror movie that plays with your senses incredibly well. Nothing happens for the first 30 minutes, and that is exactly the director's intent. By doing so, a feeling of extreme suspense is instantly formed, leaving you on the edge of your seat until the very end.Overall rating: 9 out of 10.


                
Often copied and inspiring countless knock off's and direct to video/DVD dross. Ridley Scott's 'Alien' is arguably one of the most notorious sci-fi chillers out there. Now I know It's very easy to jump on the bandwagon and call select movies a classic and given It's high rating here on IMDb. I could be insecure enough to believe that there is something sorely wrong with my personal taste in movies. But to be quite frank I've never been able to appreciate what it is about 'Alien' that so many other fans adore. Indeed It's exceedingly well directed and the set design, production values are mesmerising and the Alien is the pinnacle of inspired, visual terror. But while it Carred the tag line "In space no-one can hear you scream". A more fitting one should have been "In space no-one can hear you yawn". So why did I find this picture to be such a monumental bore? Well, while the movies plotting is a simplistic and It does deliver what must have been a genuinely ingenious 'shock' about a third or so in to the movie. It's the picture's precision, lengthy slow pacing. A gimmick you could label it I suppose. Utilised to crank up the tension as the crew members of the mining ship Nostromo. Comprising of a cast of talented character actors answering a distress call from what appears to be a derelict vessel on a near by planet. Among the cast are the now legendary Sigourney Weaver as the heroic, feisty Ellen Ripley who would go on to star in the movies three sequels (Alien's bearing the distinction of being the only decent outing). And Tom Skerrit as Dallas who sadly didn't quite have the same success as his female co-star. But is arguably best remembered for his career defining performances in "Steel Magnolias" and and the deceptively cosy mid-nineties television drama series "Picket Fences".When one of the crew Kane (The excellent John Hurt) descends in to a chamber within the enigmatic space craft. He soon emerges from within. With an arachnid like creature locked firmly to his face. Once back on the Nostromo. Attempts are made to surgically detach the beast but to no avail. As doing so would result in Kane's death. When the creature, unseen by the other crew members relinquishes It's all too powerful grip on the incapacitated member of the crew and It is revealed to have mysteriously died. All seems to be well. Paticualrly when Kane awakens from his short lived coma. But he or anyone else are prepared for what is yet to come.It all sounds very well and good. And as said before, on paper this did have the potential makings for what could have been a tremendous exercise in nail biting terror. But with It's lengthy exposition, and all too heavy reliance on building up tension rather than relying on more confrontational encounters with the menacing Alien of the title. It fails to really be the roller coaster ride of emotion and fear that the imperfect but superior follow up 'Aliens' (1986) managed to be thanks to James Cammeron's talents as an action/sci-fi director and screen writer.And while there is the odd flourish of inspired creativity which include an eerie crawl through a labyrinth of air vents as the Alien slowly but surely hunts down It's prey, an ingenious twist which would be expanded upon in the movies sequels and a final "surprise confrontation". It's never quite enough to compensate for the abysmal, tiresome monotony.I'm sure I'm not alone in my thinking as I write this review and although I'm not alone in that thinking I'll have to belong to the tiny few who fails to comprehend what makes this such an iconic, cult treasure. Each to their own I say. But just let me say this. At least it also featured the brilliant Ian Holm as the cool minded, thoughtful scientist Ash. Another fine actor that this film probably didn't deserve.


                
Alien is one of the best sci-fi movies of all time and it also happens to be a horror, making it all the more tense and exciting to watch. Its strength is its patience combined with top-notch visuals and music and an original plot.The look of the movie is incredible from start to finish. The Nostromo spaceship, the interiors, the Alien itself. Much of it was designed by H.R. Giger, a German with a unique and fascinating style. He also worked on Jodorowsky's Dune (which never got made) and you can see similarities in the design. They seem to combine the organic with the artificial and often border on the sexual. The inside of an alien spaceship is full of imaginative and strange details like nothing you've seen before. It's a shame Prometheus was such a terrible attempt at expanding on the story behind it...The score by the prolific Jerry Goldsmith is one of his best. There are faint echoes of more innocent sounding woodwinds with swelling, ominous strings in the background. It's mysterious but captures mankind's natural sense of wonder - it's not completely evil. As one character says at one point, they practically admire the alien, despite its capacity for destruction. We can't help but feel similarly. There's a juxtaposition of beauty and death. In Interstellar as well, the characters go on journeys at the edge of what's possible, seeing incredible things but also facing the serious risk of death. Our universe (and the beings in it) can be a harsh but beautiful mistress.Like all the great horror movies, the monster or threat is only gradually revealed. We're in the dark along with the characters. The details surrounding the alien, how it reproduces, what defence mechanisms it has, what on Earth it even is are very cool. Ellen Ripley (Sigourney Weaver) is a strong female character who is forced into a survival situation. She's one of the few to use common sense throughout the whole movie. She's cautious where others aren't. She know why certain rules are in place and gets frustrated that others would prefer to take risks. As it turns out, she was right the whole time.There are slow shots moving down corridors, letting us take in the designs of the walls, sometimes with emergency rotating lights and gas clouding things a bit. The movie takes its time setting things up and creating a mood. When things do happen, they have more impact because of the calm moments in between. But I enjoy the quiet moments just as much. There's always plenty to take in and ponder.There are many twists and turns in the plot. This keeps things tense - we don't know what might come out of nowhere, who can be trusted, where are you safe. There are some frustrating horror cliché moments where it seems like problems could have been prevented if the people were less stupid at key moments. But we also get to experience some imaginative situations which aren't yet possible with current technology but might well become realities in the near future.I have to admit, I don't find the alien itself scary. But I like its presence and the overall mood of the movie - it's a very well made horror. It's more about suspense than jump scares. It builds up the anticipation and a sense of inescapability. The tone is a bit depressing in some ways. These humans are in the middle of nowhere. But we do get the impression they're heading back to Earth and usually spend their journeys in some kind of cryo-sleep. This movie's an exception to their routine. But a film like Jaws is much easier to relate to while still putting the humans in a setting (the sea) where they're out of their comfort zone.Aliens is a great sequel but the rest are more average. Alien goes down as the best of its genre, a horror sci-fi that takes its time, confident in its story and visuals and creates one of the most memorable movie monsters of all time with characters we care about.


                
At the end of the day, Alien is now roughly almost 40 years old. 40 years is a long time, and we've seen cinema evolve drastically over that period, yet Alien retains everything it had back in 1979.Everything from the atmosphere, the long shots, the slow build-ups, the creature design, the characters, the plot twist, I could go on. It really does become difficult to find flaws in this movie. Granted some of the FX are pretty dated now, but you have to remember how revolutionary they were back in the day.Alien is a masterclass in sci-fi horror, far and few films can claim the level of superiority that Ridley Scott's masterpiece still holds.


                
In 1979, the world was taken by surprise to the best science fiction horror film, the best movie of aliens and one of the best horror movies. Alien is undoubtedly a fascinating masterpiece of science fiction that has absolutely every great aspect to hit us for a century and until eternity, a movie that will be remembered as one of the best of all time, here was born the true King of all the movies of aliens, we will probably never see a movie that has astonished us as much as this, but its legacy continues today and tomorrow.Going to see this movie in its opening day, was to see one of the most terrifying experiences in its time, something so magnificent and at the same time, creepy, a movie that showed us the true meaning of suspense and terror to the unknown.With a slow but entertaining advance, building the characters and the atmosphere, gradually increasing the mystery and beating at the end with the extraterrestrial surprise. Every detail is very carefully designed, with very realistic airs, making us feel as if we were really on board a spaceship, the actors are impeccable and teach the true madness of facing something unknown. The sounds are a masterpiece, with an incredible atmosphere and effects, the size of the alien, the sounds of the ship, doors opening, listening to the protagonist walking, weapons, gears, everything helps to create an atmosphere so dark that it surpasses All expectation, but the final prize, is taken by the Xenomorph, the alien number 1 in the film industry. Absolutely great, any fan of science fiction will find this movie spectacular, even lovers of terror or suspense, a movie that everyone should admire.


                
The opening of Alien recalls another sci-fi masterpiece, 2001 with its slow, labourious long takes that elegantly reveal its world (there's even a deleted Spaceballs-style shot where the gigantic Nostromo rolls over the top of the screen). Scott takes his time to introduce us to little bits of information as we need them - which is why the eventual reveal of Ash as an android is so effective. The assumed knowledge that with space travel comes advanced robotics has us second guessing every move even halfway through the movie. The camera-work is cautious in peering around each dim corner and ledge, as if it was a crew member in itself fearful for its own life. Modern horrors are always rushing to the next gory spectacle, the next money shot. Alien wants to milk every last drop of suspense of the universe's great unknown before it eats you up. The action subscribes to the notion of less is more. The dark shadows of the ship hide the alien from plain sight - an organic evil shifting in and out of tech that for all its advancements is a futile barrier (it becomes a dripping, primordial environment, perfect for fostering life). This is foreshadowed by the way the acid makes it way through several layers of the ship. The actors react to what they see - the shock of a sudden movement or a shocking clue is not overloading by the soundtrack like so many conventional horror movies do. We are shown what we need to see - a glimpse of a tail coiling out of thee darkness, a blip on the monitor gaining on a helpless member, static on the screen - and then the deepest parts of our imagination fill in the gaps. For the more explicit areas the effects are still excellent. One will never forget the first slow crane-up reveal of the gigantic alien pilot chair (I've always referred to this as the dentist chair) - a lifeless shell, but imposing nonetheless. There's a chilling sense of life within the alien baby, the way it abruptly breaches the boundaries of the spacesuit and coils around Kane's neck a little tighter when they try to remove it. A simple little premise renders their weapons useless - they are foolish to think they can capture it with a net and cattle prod, but it soon becomes a nightmare. The bursting of the chest - a bloody, visceral image that has become iconic because of the way it shocks and violates everything the crew thinks and knows of their safety and regulations. Ash's internal organs, a similarly grotesque sight, matched by his chilling mockery of humankind's chances - only a robot would be so gleeful and admirative of the perfect, remorseless organism gaining its survival by cutting down other living things (Asimov's rules come into play here). Much has been made of the clear phallic symbolism - the spitting second mouth like a jutting penis, the vaginal walls pulsating and dripping with life, the impregnation of Kane as a vessel. It does not fully reconcile the act of stripping at the end for me. Weaver was young and pretty enough to be considered a sex symbol and the skimpy display here reduces her to a basic horror archetype - the vulnerable, sexy girl, the last one to be picked off. But it is only a minor grievance - Ripley is established as being clearly the one with the most sense and brains, and the studio obviously had faith in her by keeping her alive for potential sequels. Decades on this is still a remarkable sci-fi horror achievement.
'Alien' is the first film in one of the most well known and renowned film franchises of all time. One of the major reasons why 20th Century Fox green-lit this film was the resounding success of another little film set in space known as 'Star Wars' at the box office. 'Alien' was based on a screenplay written by Dan O'Bannon and Ronald Shusett and was directed by Ridley Scott. A crew aboard the space vessel Nostromo on their way home pick up an SOS warning from a distant planet. They decide to check out the planet and the subsequent events lead to an experience for the entire crew which can only be described as nightmarish. Although Dan O'Bannon and Ronald Shusett's screenplay was great and had thematic depth, for me 'Alien' became the masterful horror film that it is due to one man's visual flair and complete command over the subtleties and nuances of filmmaking and camera movement, and that man is Ridley Scott. This film in the hands of some other director could have easily been reduced to a generic, silly genre film about alien monsters which were released in abundance during the 50s, 60s and 70s. But Ridley Scott made something that truly distinguished itself from all previous alien monster films. The claustrophobic atmosphere that Scott creates is enough to suck the viewer in. The film like most Ridley Scott films looks absolutely fantastic. The visual attention to detail is meticulous. The alien planet looks as real and authentic as any alien planet has ever looked on film. Scott slightly borrows the slow and gradual style of storytelling and tension building that Spielberg used in 'Jaws'. Like 'Jaws', we don't see the Xenomorph a lot. But that adds to the tension, the fear and the claustrophobia. The lighting, the editing and the pacing, all work together to the fullest effect.Although most people make a connection between 'Star Wars' and 'Alien' due to their contrasting styles. Both the films were released very close to each other and both films were set in space. But while 'Star Wars' was a fantasy fairy tale, 'Alien' was straight up horror. I can understand this comparison, but for me 'Alien' shares a deep thematic connection with '2001: A Space Odyssey'. Both films deal with the duel between man and machine and they both explore the question: What it means to be human? Incidentally this was also the basic theme of Ridley Scott's next sci-fi film 'Blade Runner'. After knowing that Ash was actually a droid, on reflection, I do think that the relationship between Ash and Ripley has some similarities with the relationship between HAL and Bowman. Ripley at the beginning refuses to let Kane (John Hurt) in by obeying the company laws while he has the face- hugger on his face, but Ash actually lets him in which might seem to be a very humane act. But later his true identity gets revealed and he has this beautiful monologue about how he appreciates the Xenomorph's perfect body structure and its purity which lies in its lack of emotions and feelings. This film is also undeniably about the ill-effects of capitalism. The Weyland-Yutani Corporation sends this crew to a mission as dangerous as this without informing them anything for the sole purpose of acquiring this alien life form and using it as a weapon. This shows the lack of humanity in the way the big corporation treats its workers. This lack of respect for the workers and the existing class division also gets repeatedly hinted at with Brett and Parker's constant complaints about being underpaid. These workers are made to go through hell and utter madness in distant parts of the universe where they themselves are alien just because the big corporation wants to use the Xenomorph for its weapons division. The miserable plight of the crew in completely mad and alien surroundings has a thematic link with the madness in 'Apocalypse Now' where young men are made to fight in mad environments. To be honest, the Xenomorph is not the villain in the film, the villain is the Weyland-Yutani Corporation.Another very apparent element of the script is the sexual subtext. The Xenomorph and other alien elements and sets were designed by H.R. Giger based on his own artwork which clearly have sexual undertones. Right from the design of the Xenomorph's body to the concept of the face-hugger and chest-burster, there is a sexual angle to the narrative that hints at themes of rape and unwanted pregnancies. Through Ridley Scott's imagery, it is thematically implied that the corporation in the way it renders the human workers expendable is actually devouring them. The face-hugger uses the body of the host to give birth to the Xenomorph, in the same way thematically the corporation is using the helpless crew just to serve its own purposes. Although the human characters in the film don't have a lot of back story, but the conversations that they have among each other are extremely realistic which makes the characters believable as ordinary human beings. Every character gets distinguished from the other due to the naturalistic acting. However for me the two best performances in the film come from Sigourney Weaver as Ripley and Ian Holm as Ash. They play off each other brilliantly. Ripley's character has evolved over the course of the entire Alien franchise. In this film Ripley is the indefatigable survivor.I only have one minor complaint. I think the screenplay and Scott's execution of the scene leading up to Brett's death could have been a little better instead of following a bit of horror trope. However the death itself is chillingly shot.'Alien' is one of the greatest sci-fi films ever made due to the care with which Ridley Scott treated every individual element of the film and also due to every one else who worked with Scott and contributed with their own ideas.
This suspenseful, spine-tingling movie keeps you on the edge of your seat right up to the time it's finished. When you watch this one, you feel like a good friend (by good I mean shrewd in picking movies) has brought it to your house to have a great movie night. In other words, it seems like director had seen it several times before he made it. He is that friend of yours by the way. A huge spacecraft has finished its mission and is heading back to Earth. We the crew members get up from their sleeping pods, they realize the spaceship is out of its course. Apparently it has received a signal from another planet, indicating some alien life form and set off to accomplish it secondary mission: investigating life in space. The extra- terrestrial life they find is by no mean friendly and brings horror into the ship.It's more of a horror film than a science fiction one. I am sure you have seen those horror films in which some people are stuck in a hut in jungle and there is some nasty creature lurking to hunt them one by one. Well, now make the hut full of small rooms and send it to space. This, has provided director with a lot of close-ups which sends a shiver to your spine. It keeps you guessing when something is going to jump into the frame from an angle and kill people on board. But the brilliance of the movie is in what it doesn't show. By this, I mean unlike other horror movies you don't see people running around, crying or screaming ( not that much anyway). Also, when the astronauts find the organism, they do not celebrate nor freak out. They act vary nonchalant like they come across these things all the time. And this, has saved a lot of time and helped the director and audience focus on the story.A lot of unnecessary scenes have been cut out. And there's your good friend Ridely, selflessly sparing you from all the fake screams and tears. At times you guess you are going to see some sentimental crying or other reactions, but it never happens. Well, crew members are scientists and not some clueless teenagers. Sometimes in comedies, actors act normally in funny situations which makes it even funnier. This technique has been applied here and if you ask me it has worked like a dream; a scary one too.Right at the beginning of the movie, the camera is roaming in the spacecraft which seems horrifyingly deserted. While we are curious to see some people or aliens, we reach a room in which astronauts are sleeping in their pods. And when the camera approaches the room, the automatic door goes up. This, throws the audience right to the spaceship. There is another scene in which the senior commander, frustrated to find a way to kill the monster, tries to get some answer form the computer brain of the craft called Mother( discover the irony yourself). He keeps asking about the creature but the computer has insufficient knowledge. Then with all his hope gone he types: 'What are my chances?'


                
The very first movie of the Alien movie franchise and definitely one of the best sci-fi movie of all time and for me, the best movie in the whole franchise. Despite being an old movie, the props are UNREAL. It's unbelievably realistic, fascinating and the details are gruesome yet magnificent.
It's bewildering how someone could think of such story in 1979 where the whole alien-conspiracy was not a hit. and what's more amazing is how clear they plot is. No filler and needless details. The movie certainly gives a very tense feel even until the very end.
If i didn't know what time the movie was made, i would've guessed it was made in the 2000s. Definitely a must watch because it lives up to everyone's expectation. They still put a little bit of moral value in this movie-- that science is not necessary if it means putting humanity at risk. All the casts successfully portray their characters.


                
