I remember when the hype when SPR was first released: " Gawd it`s so realistic , it shows the true face of war , it`s like being there man" I also remember that these claims were made by civilians with no experience of the military or combat ( Maybe the next time a film audience wants to experience the horrors of war, the cinema might like to stick a sniper behind the screen to pick off sundry filmgoers. That would be realistic ) To this day I haven`t heard a single D-Day survivor comment on the realism of this film.Yes I agree that the opening 20 minutes of SPR are outstanding as is the final battle at the end but the outstanding visuals fail to disguise the very average script that is no different from a John Wayne or Errol Flynn star vehicle. There`s very little depth to the story which seems at odds with the anti war visuals.I will defend the film slightly from the allegation of pro American bias. It`s an American film , made by Americans , with American money for a primarily American public. For a more subjective view on the Normandy landings see THE LONGEST DAY , or better still read the book. But the comment on Monty was uncalled for , Bernard Law Montgomery spent 4 years on the western front ( 1914-18 ) he was disgusted by the slaughter he saw there and made needless casualties his main concern. I bet the red army wished for a general like that on the Eastern front. Oh and Monty won the battle of El Alamein , thought I`d just mention it.So just to sum up SPR has some graphic battle scenes overcoming a flawed script. It`s a good film but nowhere near being a masterpiece. Maybe if it`d been set during the Korean war and been a lot more cynical it`d might have been a true classic. But as it is it`s a case of a B movie script saved by a brilliant director


                
Whoa, I have just read some of the other reviews and it seems that if you dont like this film you must be anti-american.Now dont get me wrong, the opening scene was brilliant but to me it quickly settled into being just another war movie albeit a well produced and shot war movie. You know, the good ol' USofA rising up above  insurmountable odds to save the day blah blah blah.I just could not accept the basic premise of the film that several men's lives were to be put at risk for the reasons given, I mean war is war, stuff like that happens.Having said that I could accept this scenario happening today, (re Jessica Ryan) with all the ensuing publicity.I think part of the problem was my expectation. I was expecting a real anti-war film, one that leaves you thinking, you know, that war is bad. This was just another good guys (America), bad guys (Germans) type film.If you want to see a real, and I mean real anti-war film you must see the 1930 version of "All quiet on the Western front". Ask me the ending of Private Ryan and in three months I wont be able to tell you, but our High School teacher made us sit through this when I was about 13/14 and to this day the final scene still jars me.Go see it, trust me, it will move you more than Ryan. (look it up on imdb it has scored 8.2 to ryans 8.3)But whats the use, people who gave Private Ryan a 10 will probably be bored with it because it is one war film that has little violence in it (and it is full of "shudder" Germans).


                
I don't think anyone is ever going to argue how great that opening landing sequence is <U+0096> just the shear chaos in which those men were consumed <U+0096> I found the chaos comparable to the scene in `Platoon' where they assault the V.C. bunker<U+0085>however, it does not (any part of the movie, in my mind) match up the finale of Platoon, in which one is so confused, your heart pounds, and it is in the end more horrifying than any of the combat sequences in Private Ryan.What really got to me about this film, were several things though<U+0085>first and foremost, is the `dumb German' syndrome, which leaves me with a bias feeling.  Why in the end, did Miller, Ryan, and Sarge have know problem mowing down the by passing Germans, then survive the same gauntlet, with almost twenty German's firing at them?Another thing, is I couldn't help but notice how far people flew through the air whenever hit by a mortar, or stepped on a land mine<U+0085>or hit by a grenade<U+0085>so on, so on.  I won't pretend to be a war-vet, or someone who's witnessed this, but it seems unlikely to me.  However, I'll stress my own ignorance, and say `don't take my word for it.'All in all, I found it to be a worthy action flick <U+0096> comparable, in my mind, to `The Big Red one.'  It has sad moments, and moments of brutality, but in the end, just left me with impressed memories of some of the combat sequences.As a sidenote, I think that the best ww2 films ever made are "The Thin Red Line" and "Bridge on the River Kwai" two films that don't deal heaviliy with combat (TTRL more so).  Saving Private Ryan tried just a little to hard to force feed it.  I recomend all of these films, but for your knowledge, those are to me, the best.


                
I give this movie a four out of ten because the cinematography was good. Other then that it was crap. The acting is terrible especially by Vin Diesel, how the heck did he get that role anyway? The plot was ridiculous and boring, the script was very poorly written and over all I am disappointed in both Tom Hanks and Mr. Spielberg. Now I know Spielberg loves to make movies about that era, of course he was too young for that war and too old for the next one, but hey, he's richer then god, he can exploit anything he wants. The movie follows soldiers in the 75th ranger regiment as they land on the beaches of Normandy. (best scene in the movie). Tom Hanks is then given an assignment to rescue Matt Damon and bring him home because all of his other brothers were killed in combat. So almost every man from Hanks' squad dies but eventually Ryan gets saved. The Germans, of course are all incredibly unnattractive brutish men. In reality the war was fought by a bunch of twenty-somethings on all sides who had no idea what they were getting into. But the Hanks-Spielberg team completely redeemed themselves with band of brothers. So do yourself a favor, skip renting this, pay a couple bucks more and pick up all ten episodes of B of B. It's a true story based on real heroes of WWII, and the acting is not bad. Thats all. Save your money if you want to see saving private ryan, wait for it to come on ABC.
The best thing I can say about this movie is that it is passable entertainment which, if you know anything about The 'Berg's intention for the film, was not the point. This movie was released to overwhelmingly consistent reviews which frequently referred to it as "one of the best war movies ever made". Imagine my disgust when I saw it...The opening battle is undeniably brilliant in terms of putting you in the middle of the action/horror, but it relies solely on Spielberg's ability to push the right buttons and is almost totally ineffective on second viewing.Personally, I knew this film was going to be a disaster pretty early on. To be precise, I knew it when, in the midst of this mind-blowing battle sequence, Spielberg thought it'd be fun to throw in a joke about Sizemore being Hanks' mother.WHY?!? He had everyone on the edge of their seat (literally, I remember looking around the theatre and every jaw was dropped) and he decides to lighten the tone by dropping in a fricking JOKE?!?From here the film goes from bad to worse to utter garbage, as we are dragged through a war-is-hell-by-numbers affair. Never one to miss an opportunity to manipulate, Spielberg makes us endure some pretty feeble philosophising, Ted Danson trying to be serious (yes, Ted Danson), a token "death of the youngest soldier" tragedy and some of the most sentimentally contrived dialogue I have ever suffered, which never really stood a chance coming from the worst group of two-dimensional characters ever assembled for a movie.Then there's the premise; a group of men is sent across the country to find one guy because good ol' compassionate Uncle Sam thinks the titular soldier's poor Ma has suffered enough in losing her other three sons. Is this a joke?!?"But it's a true story" I hear you cry. Wrongo! It may have been inspired by a true story, but that doesn't mean that anything beyond the name James Ryan actually existed. The words "inspired by a true story" don't mean a thing these days and, let us not forget, this is Spielberg.Let us not forget indeed, as Stevie does inject some excitement and tension into the action set pieces, even if they are overlong, predictable, and dangerously close to many a scene from many a war movie that came before it. The final sequence falls on its arse before it even begins due to the hilarious, A-Team style montage that precedes it, in which we see our apple-pie heroes create a stronghold from various items they find lying around a conveniently deserted village, before the six or so of them defeat an entire platoon of those nasty Germans.Perhaps the worst crime this film committed was being released against Terrence Mallick's 'The Thin Red Line', and subsequently taking the two Oscars which by right belonged to the latter (Best Director and Best Cinematography).'Ryan's Privates' pales in comparison not just to Mallick's film (as well as to Spielberg's other "classic" manipulative-therapy session, 'ET') but to almost every war movie I have seen ('Cross of Iron', 'Apocalypse Now', 'Platoon', 'All Quite on the Wetsern Front'), even those which do not profess to be the greatest war epic of all time or even take themselves seriously ('Mash', 'Kelly's Heroes', 'Where Eagles Dare', 'The Eagle Has Landed'). One great battle scene does not a great war movie make, but try telling the Academy that.Bottom line? Don't expect more than a sub-par Spielberg offering and you won't be disappointed. Expect a profoundly moving war classic, and you'll be choking on your rage like I was when I left the cinema nine years ago.


                
As a younger man (22) I've grown up in a society was molded to fit baby-boomer self-centeredness.  So perhaps I shouldn't find this film surprising.  But I can't stomach the idea of another generation of people following their twisted view, so here goes...No matter how much you want to stoke your own ego, there is no way that you can realistically equate the men who fought and died in WW2 to yourselves. Give up.  This film is a terrible blow to our veterans.Spielberg tries to make the soldiers seem like they're the same as you and me, but they weren't.  All of the introspective musings in this film would make you think that these guys returned home after the war and started discussing Sartres in their local coffeehouse.  These are 40's people who are portrayed thinking like 90's people.  At least in "Thin Red Line", the film made no effort to portray itself as a true-to-life salute to those soldiers.  "Thin Red Line" was a juxtaposition of a WW2 backdrop with Vietnam-era sentiments, and it made to portent of being anything else.The WW2 generation didn't feel this ridiculous desire to explore their feelings and share them to the point of fault.  They didn't have to connect to their fellows on some mystical, spiritual level.  The entire war did not revolve around them as individuals, nor did they feel the need to ponder some existential connection to the war around them.This film is simply another attempt by the baby-boomer generation to "prove" that they are as good as any other generation before them.  This is their self-centered mythos.  If a film actually showed the superior qualities of these American soldiers, it would destroy that myth.  In truth, the American people felt a duty to their country back then.  And they did not feel the need to wax philosophic at every turn in some attempt to justify the world's existence in the face of how "inconvenient" it may have been to their own selves.  This contemporary psycho-babble had no place in their lives, and Spielberg had no right to put it there.As for the characters who don't partake of this attitude, they are so paper thin that they add nothing to the film except to exacerbate the problem by making the mystics and coffeehouse types seem the more realistic.If you have any respect for America, pass this film by.


                
The movie had incredible special effects and entertaining scenes, however the movie is full of half-truths, lies and propaganda.Truths: There was a US, British and Canadian led invasion of Normandy France in June, 1944.Lies: There was no Private called Ryan who lost his two brothers, however there was a Airbourne soldier lost for 18 days behind German lines, however he rescued himself after walking into US lines, no one set out to rescue him and there was no giant battle in the fictional town of Ramelle.Propaganda: In this movie (besides the opening scene in which hundreds of US soldiers were slaughtered on Omaha Beach) the average US soldiers kills 50 German soldiers, gets shot (falls over dramatically in slow motion with stupid opera music playing), then pulls out his pistol and kills another 50 Germans and then dies dramatically saying something stupid like "Tell my wife I love her". In this movie a platoon of 20 US soldiers, takes out 100 German soldiers, 2 Marder IIIs and 2 Tiger tanks with improvised weapons like wet-sock bombs and Molotov cocktails. Real history accounts SHOW that this never happened! If your into entertaining and action packed War movies THEN THIS IS TOTALLY YOUR THING! A great movie! However 98% inaccurate when it comes to history.


                
I'm a WW2 and war movies fan.I thought I made that clear from the start.I gave "The Dirty Dozen" and "Platoon" 10 points,and I'm not a particularly indulgent reviewer.So,even though it was directed by Spielberg,which I don't like as a director,I had high hopes for it,simply because I saw the beginning Normandy landing scene in a preview and I was amazed by its force and grandeur.Also the actors were terrific,Hanks,Sizemore,Pepper...But goddamn you Spielberg,you really know how to put poop sauce in our spaghetti,don't you? American flag...American flag...old tear-eyed guy reminiscing...comforting family...American flag...a tombstone...American flag...I GET IT, Spielberg,give me a break....then,nice war scenes in Northern France...and the poop sauce really starts to hit the spaghetti...absolutely unrecognizable German Wehrmacht...now I won't rant about historical inaccuracies and plot absurdities ('though there are plenty),but most of those guys looked like zombies,not German soldiers. One thing is certain: Spielberg has no idea about war, not really.He's talented enough to draw it for us,but shallow enough to be clueless about what it is about.So, yes, I watched the Normandy landing scene and the end battle scene 3 times...guilty pleasure I guess...and I fast-forwarded all else...including the very end,which was as melodramatic and pretentious and naive as almost the whole picture.So,4 points for the effort,the actors,the battles...(the spaghetti). The rest was,as I mentioned, poop sauce.
This is a World War II film about a group of soldiers who set out to find and send home a soldier whose brothers have been killed.The battle scenes at the beginning are very good - but that's the only good thing about this film. The plot is ridiculous - the army wouldn't devote soldiers to finding and bringing home one ordinary soldier - no matter how many people in his family had been killed. The film is far too long and a lot of it is slow.


                
This movie completely over rated don't get me wrong the acting is superb but it's the storyline which angers me. This movie favors the Americans way too much. I mean during the duration of this movie all you is is American soldiers and Germans. It makes it look as if the Americans were the only ones fighting the war.My question is where are the British the Canadians and the other various nations that were fighting this war long before the Americans entered. This movie's storyline is completely ridiculous the American Army would not spend that much time looking for one private they have bigger and better things to do.For historical accuracy it 5.5 although the props and costumes and terminology is accurate the entrance where the soldiers are scrambling for safety isn't Americans did have air support but the American pilots were so bad at math the miscalculated and hit there own men.I think this movie is a load of American loving bull and a real WWII movie should covers all the perspectives of EVERY nation not just one. Especially not the one that came in at the last minute.I say this as a Canadian JTF2 corporal.


                
I heard so many great things about 'Saving Private Ryan' that my curiosity for this movie turned to pure shock as I watched it. I have to say that I really do not like war movies, so thats an obvious bias against this movie, but there were sooooooooooo many things about this movie that just made it a laughing stock of me and my friends. The cinematography in this film is simply amazing, in fact i'd say some of the best cinematography i've ever seen, but despite it's technical excellence, SPR is a pathetic, manipulative attempt by Speilberg to make him feel better about himself. The only character development in the movie takes place in the scenes before that particular character's death, it's happens in EVERY case; it's like clockwork. The ending is absolutely horrendously manipulative, and in fact the whole story doesn't really make sense as a result of it. SPOILER ALERT - don't read any farther if ya don't want to ruin the flick for yourself. At the beginning we have the shot of that old man at the grave, then it closes in on him and his memory begins of what happened... the only thing is that we find out the old man is really Ryan, not Tom Hank's Character, so i'm wondering how Ryan has all these memories of the beaches and the rest of the movie. Theoretically shouldn't the 'memories' start when Ryan enters the movie? Oh well, I can see arguments against my point, but the use of some certain camera angles REALLY makes the point of saying that the old man is Tom Hanks. I found this movie, above all things (even manipulative) to be extremely boring. Here's another case of a movie that had a about a 12 minute story stretched out to infinity. There are hundreds of little things that made me laugh about this movie in the wrong way, and obviously I won't go into all of them but I do feel this movie makes the German Armies look rediculous, specifically in the tank scene. There is many shots of the American soldiers running across open areas with dozens of germans shooting at them but they hardly ever get shot, while the Americans seem to hit somebody with every single bullet, and three people with every explosive. Other humorous moments include Tom Hanks diffusing a potentially hostile situation by telling everybody that hes a school teacher and the weak,poetry loving-'i've never shot anybody'- soldier killing a guy for no real reason in the situation. The performances were pretty good, I guess, but the script was so laughable that most of the things the guys say make you crack up no matter how well they say them. If you wanna see a good war movie, see Platoon, or if you hate war movies like I do, and you feel like watching a war satire, check out Starship Troopers.
This is a great movie if you did not see WW II movies before.  I have and this film is unoriginal.  It is not that bad, except the part with the Jewish American fighting with the German over the knife.  I never seen and American lose the knife strugle before in a movie.  I guess that is why they do not make TJ Hooker shows anymore they have been so over done, who would watch.  In the end I like Hanks but that is about it. 4/10


                
This gruesome, big-budget film from Steven Spielberg, is saved only by its skilful direction. I can honestly say that every single other aspect of this film was d-grade. If you are looking for an excellent  modern war film pick up a copy of the SHOCKINGLY UNDERRATED 'The Thin Red Line'. SPR is only famous because of it's highly publicised 'blood letting'. The war scenes are highly graphic and exciting, but it fails to shock us and reveal to us the true horrors of war.  It is pretty clear that the writers took about 25 minutes on a Sunday afternoon in between innings at the cricket to concoct this crap. Tom Hanks, the boring, mainstream Hollywood, 'all American' actor, fails to please in this film (same with every other film he has been in). The rest of the cast are just as bland as Hanks, and fail to give us an interesting interpretation of their already pointless characters.


                
Blood, dirt, dying soldiers and others so scared, that they are unable to move. A dirty little war is going on, and a great film to condemn war <U+0096> well for the first half of the movie. But what happens then? Ryan turns out to be Mr. All American Hero. He doesn't waste a thought for his three fallen brothers, he doesn't give a damn about his grieve-stricken mother (she will understand <U+0096> will she?), but insists on defending that little bridge<U+0085> After Schindler's list and Amistad, Ryan's not Spielberg's best film. In fact, the second half makes private Ryan to any warfilm, the Pentagon or any other war-ministry in the world would be proud of. Just a little war-adventure under the checkered flag. What a pitty<U+0085>


                
"Saving Private Ryan" is an American movie from 1998, so this one will have its 20th anniversary next year. The director is Steven Spielberg and this one is from the years that many probably consider his very best years in filmmaking. It came out half a decade roughly after his probably career-defining Schindler's List. But while I really love the latter, this one here did not make a lasting impression on me at all. I already stated in the title of my review that this may be due to personal bias as war movies are just not exactly my preferred choice. Knowing how it is considered such a classic, however, i thought why not give it a go nonetheless. But I had more than just a few problems with it. Let me mention some. The very long introduction of Hanks' character early on could have been left out completely if you ask me and the movie could have started with the scene where we find out that Mother Ryan lost all her sons during the very same day, which is admittedly not very realistic, even during the days of World War II. And still, it was one of the better scenes nonetheless I believe, probably also because of my aforementioned bias and I was grateful for every distraction that offered more than gun shootings, solider uniform and people crawling through the mud. I am also not a fan of "Band of Brothers", another Spielberg/Hanks collaboration. Hanks was probably the biggest film star on the planet at that time after having won two Oscars recently, so yeah given Spielberg was maybe also at the peak of his popularity, this certainly could have become something tremendous. And I like Hanks. A lot actually, which makes me even more sad this one here did not turn out to my liking at all.One reason may be the runtime. It actually comes pretty close to the 3-hour mark and I felt that it dragged a lot and that there were many lengths. And also that they kept introducing new characters all the time instead of elaborating on the old ones in a memorable manner. Honestly, I felt like I knew almost nothing about all the soldiers in here. It is somewhat interesting because they are played by famous names like Diesel, Ribisi, Damon, Giamatti or Farina at early/earlier stages of their careers, so the cast is not the problem at all. And Hanks also does a solid job with what he was given. The Oscar nomination may have been a bit too much, but well, that's bearable looking at everything the film won. Spielberg Best Direction? Nah. Then again, the technical categories are something that is tough for me to judge, so perhaps these were somewhat deserving. But the nomination for the script sure was a joke and I am not surprised at all that writer Robert Rodat never came close to writing a great screenplay again as obviously he hadn't done here either. I am not mad that the Oscars eventually went for the lighter "Shakespeare in Love" over this one and I am baffled by how many people still say SPR should have one that year. Anyway, I am on the "La vita è bella" bandwagon anyway.Now back to this movie here. I think I have elaborated enough on all the many reasons why I did not enjoy liking this film at all. The story may be its biggest weakness. The references here are actually truly simple, like the group of soldiers finding accidentally the wrong soldier James Ryan at one point. This was also a weak scene and still it was far more memorable than the at least 90 minutes of battlefield action. It gets a bit less towards the end when they find Ryan. Still a long time before the film ends. The frame with the funeral also only works if you enjoyed everything in-between. To me, honestly it felt a bit on the melodramatic side to be honest. But again, I was somewhat grateful for it because it was not just boring random war action. As a whole, I give "Saving Private Ryan" a thumbs-down and I am baffled how people, also IMDb raters, consider this one of the greatest 50 films of all time. I strongly disagree. Watch something else instead and I'd only recommend this one to the very biggest war film fans. Oh well, I guess they have seen it already anyway.
Three brothers in the Ryan family, who have enlisted to fight in the US military in WWII, have been killed in various theaters of war.  As the military prepares to notify the mother of the deaths of her three sons, they discover that there's a fourth brother - Private James Ryan (Matt Damon).  A group of soldiers led by Captain John Miller (Tom Hanks) is sent to Northern Europe to find him, if he is still alive, and send him home.  The film follows there long, hard trek to find this man, and then get him out.This is a great film, like many of Spielberg's are, but I have to say, it is a bit overrated.  There are many great war films, and I wouldn't quite but this one in the top five.  Definetly the top ten, better than most war films, but not quite the top five.The action scenes are groundbreaking; this was a first in what was considered acceptable in cinema.  Spielberg only focuses on this, though. We see what the troops go through physically, but not mentally; every now and then, we get some strained expressions on their faces, but Spielberg never uses his proven film making skills to put you in these guys shoes, to let you know what they're thinking.Consequently, we only get half the story.  How can I put this in the top ten, then?  Because the other half is just done so well.  There are also good performances here - this is the only time I liked Vin Diesel. Remember, i'm not knocking this film - I put it in the top ten best war films ever made.  Definetly a classic.  I just think it's stretching it when people rave that this is the best war film ever.  Don't let this fool you - buy a copy of this on DVD.


                
This film displays Spielbergs childish wiev of the world. A wiev that has done him good in so many films but is fatal for a war epic. He simply is naïve in displaying the friendship, the combats not to mention the actual plot which is near to being silly. That combined with the lame overall acting makes this a grand disappointment. 4/10 because of the cinematography.


                
I saw this movie in the theater when it was released almost 20 years ago. This is what I recall: The first 20 minutes were pretty powerful. After that, not a particularly interesting, innovative or witty script, but still mildly entertaining (considering it's length). What I remember most though, is that the characters (and some dialogue) were clichés....done over and over through the years in American war films. One guy is very scared, another is super violent, etc. I don't remember the details now (it's been too long), but I absolutely cannot forget sitting in the theater thinking, "wow, this is pretty bad - is it going to get better?" Strip out the first 20 minutes and the multi- million dollar price tag (mostly special effects, expensive sets and pricey actors) and what you have is an average 1950s war film.I'm not a Spielberg hater. I thought Duel was fantastic. I loved ET as a teenager and Schindler's List as an adult. I've seen many of his films. I can't say I'm a huge fan, but he's obviously talented. I just don't get the accolades given to this film.


                
Seems like the Spielberg who gave us Sugarland Express, Duel, Close Encounters of the Third Kind, Raiders of the Lost Ark and E.T. has departed our company and has been replaced by a clone who is intent on exploiting human suffering in the name of art and the Oscar. Schindler's List was perhaps the worst example of this trend... followed closely by Saving Private Ryan. Both films were undoubtedly critical and commercial successes. But somewhere, something called a soul may be MIA amidst all the hoopla. Personally, I'd rather watch A Bridge Too Far (again), The Longest Day (again), Apocalypse Now (again), Full Metal Jacket (again), The Deer Hunter (again), and Paths of Glory (again) if I have to remember how horrible war is.


                
It is very clear to me that Mr. Spielburg has never fought in a war situation. The film did not depict D Day as it was at that time. It is clearly relating to the turn of the century, and would be seen as such.Many will think that its success is because it is purely a US affair. I thought there were about 16 countries involved, including the defense team. The battle scenes are over dramatized, and no one seems to keep their heads down to avoid being shot, especially the Germans. Also, as usual, the Germans are depicted as being cowardly, stupid and "not obeying the rules". The whole film is an exercise in American patriotism, as told in American schools. If you must see an American war movie that is realistic, watch Task Force, which is a much more accurate depiction of war. Also, it depicts the Americans getting the worst deal on D Day. Not true. The Germans did.This film is sometimes chosen as the greatest ever. Not by me. I would dearly love to know if these voting systems are stacked.


                
Oh, Hollywood!  Wherefore art thy head, Hollywood?  Could it be up thy ass?The American public are suckers for movies with cool special effects and bitchin surround sound.  We love Saving Private Ryan for the same reason we love the Fourth of July.  When I first saw the movie, however, it was blasting from my larger than life 19 inch Sanyo Television set.  It was less than spectacular.I have to admit the first few minutes were disturbingly real-looking and the buzz is that they are as close a depiction of the events of D-Day as we may ever realize on film.  For that, I give the film the weight of my praise. Without it, I would have voted 2 instead of a 4.  However, once the nightmarish slaughter was over and the film attempted to transform itself from megabudgeted explosion rally into something resembling a watchable war epic it flounders and flails, pathetically begging to be recognized."Look, we've got Tom Hanks and Matt Damon!" it pouts. 
As if we didn't already know this, the film tries to tell us war is terrible.  As the story progresses, it seems to whine about it.[Editors note: possible spoilers ahead]Saving Private Ryan attempts at points to explore the eccentricities of war. Some examples: The guy at the beginning of the movie who is nailed in the head and saved by his helmet takes off the helmet in wonderment and is immediately killed by another shot to the head.  The virgin-to-combat interpreter intellectual who begs for the life of the German prisoner citing the "rules of war" is the one who is ultimately responsible for most of their deaths.  As a recurring theme, the characters wonder why they sould risk the lives of their squadron to search for a man who is probably dead. To these I say, "Please contrive your metaphors and heavy-handed imagery a little more Mr. Spielberg.  Maybe then I wont have to think at ALL during your movies.  Maybe you'll attain a level of patronizing that will remove the need for audiences to realize their own feelings.  Perhaps have someone stand at the front of the theatre with cue cards displaying the emotion you want the audience to experience in each scene. The problem with taking Speilberg seriously about anything is of course his sticky-sweeet sentimentality.  Think E.T.  Think Cocoon.  Think the old folks home skit in Twilight Zone: The Movie.  The only place it has worked well is Schindler's List when, taking a moment outside himself, Spielberg created a powerful and moving drama.  I think this is largely due to Liam Neeson's solid performance. I guarantee anyone with a developed sense of irony and individuality will after seeing this movie on the small screen take their accolades down a notch and stop praising Speilberg for being someone he isn't:  Frank Capra.
The first 30 minutes (at Omaha beach) is absolutely a knock-out!  Incredible realistic scenes! Masterpiece direction by Spielberg! But the rest of the movie is just like any Spielberg film : old stuff with a new feeling. We saw that kind of story a thousand times: Attack (1956) Red Badge of courage (1951) Walk in the sun (1946) All quiet on the western front (1930) There's also a 1919 Universal war movie, Heart of humanity, telling the story of a mother who lost all his sons in World War I, except one... But the Omaha Beach is absolutely amazing! The rest is just Hollywood entertainment.


                
I'd missed this first time around and kept meaning to see it through. After the first twenty minute roller coaster and despite the poor special effects I still had hope. The rest of the film felt like a remake of all those 60s, 70s & 80s 'find something' war movies like The Dirty Dozen! I'd written about all the 'homages' (sniper shot etc), all of which were visually and dialoguely underwhelming. I know Spielberg can be sentimental but, phew it was a veritable lasagne of cheap emotions. And I love John Williams but the pull a tear jerker strings and last post bugles all the time. I love Tom Hanks but I struggled to find him believable a lot of the time. Band of Brothers was light years better but that suffered from patchy acting. Sorry I thought it was dreadful.
The reconstruction is excellent. The visual effects create very accurate images. But it's like "Titanic" in WWII. A lot of movies has been made on that subject and there are lots of true stories that deserve to be told without such sugarcoated style. Maybe if Spielberg had made a remake of "The longest day" with the production used for this movie, he would have made a great movie. He wouldn't have to resort to  the predictable last scene when Pvt Ryan salutes John Miller's grave.
Perhaps having viewed this film at the cinema a couple of weeks after its debut tainted my expectations about 'Saving Private Ryan'. Perhaps the immense amount of hype precluding and following its release built the movie up just a little too much. Whatever the reason, I must admit that I found 'Saving Private Ryan' just a little tedious and pretentious. Don't get me wrong here, there's no genre of movie that I enjoy more than the good old [anti]war. 'Platoon', 'Apocalypse Now', 'Full Metal Jacket', 'All Quiet on the Western Front', '1918: Westfront', 'Stalingrad' and 'Das Boot' (all German productions) are among my all time favorite movies. I like a good, harsh, realistic war movie. And being a product of the electronic generation I can even sit through 'A Clockwork Orange' without even flinching, so the 'realistic' first 25 minutes of 'Saving Private Ryan' was just like water off a ducks back, to use the cliche.What really got to me about this movie was the element of compromise that marred 'Saving Private Ryan'. The introductory shot displaying that oh so wonderful 'stars and stripes' waving in the breeze. Perhaps it was national pride that caused the Second World War? Unforgivable. The return of this shot at the as yet far away conclusion of the film did little to appease my growing sense of ridicule at the film.However, on a positive note that famous first 25 minutes was a fairly fine piece of cinema. Fast, well coordinated, well coloured (not that I really know what I'm talking about here). But after such a fine beginning Speilburg simply cannot stop the movie slipping downhill from here. I got the impression that 'Saving Private Ryan' was two hours of relative nothing buffered by 20 minutes of pro-Yankee violence at each end. And, I'm sad to say, that is how the war came across. The Germans were still faceless, nameless enemies. Nazi's. The German film 'Stalingrad' (which I believe does the whole war thing far better than this effort) gives an excellent insight into the German side of things.So, in brief:* Far too patriotic for a modern day war film* Emptiness in between introduction and conclusion (totaling 2 hours)Still was above average though. But 'Saving Private Ryan' is by no means the greatest war film ever. There are many films which do the whole war thing much more sensitively, poetically, chaotically, brutally, realistically, bluntly, subtly. The greatest criticism I have for 'Saving Private Ryan' is that I didn't leave the cinema hating humanity for what it put all those involved in the war through, and showing what humanity was capable of. Which other movies do. It would appear that Spielberg decided against this perhaps for fear of diminishing his American audience, who might not have flocked to his movie in mainstream numbers if it were to put forward any message that suggested that ALL involved in wars are victims, not just the Americans.


                
