All my life I've heard how funny Monty Python and the Holy Grail was but I had never seen it. Being in college, a group of my friends all wanted to watch it so I decided to join, excited to finally see this movie for which I've heard so much praise. I could see how people find the movie funny but I could not get into it. I kept wanting to leave but was determined to see it through to its end... and actually, I'm glad I did because the ending "credits" where it's several minutes of music playing to a black screen was the only thing that made me laugh from the movie. I respect the movie because it so widely loved so I'm not trying to bash it, yet I definitely think, as with any sort of humor, it is not for everyone. There are countless types of humor: dry, sarcastic, physical, nonsense, political etc. and everyone has their own taste as to which they prefer. With a movie like Monty Python, which has a very certain type of humor attached to it, there are bound to be those who dislike it. I only leave this comment to let those of you who have not yet seen the movie hear a "different" sort of opinion, as nearly all of the comments here highly praise the movie.


                
I'm beginning to wonder if there's something wrong with my neurology, some recently formed gnarled tangle of cells, some neuronal accident, some collapse of axonal hillocks or something. I caught snatches of this film years ago and wasn't too amused. Now I've just watched it as part of the boxed set and it's still not very funny.I guess I get the general thrust, which is a comic undermining of Arthurian legends -- the holy grail, the monsters, the valorous knights in battle, the journeys, and so forth. I'm for the goal but the episodes that illustrate this fictional legend are more silly than witty, like Mel Brooks at his worst.Take one of the first scenes. Arthur and his knights face a French castle and demand entrance. The guard at the battlements points out that they aren't riding horses. There's just some guy clapping two coconut halves together. Everybody knows there are no coconuts in England. The knights are indignant. They point out that the coconut could have been carried from the south by air, perhaps by a bird, maybe a swallow. And there follows an argument with the French guard over whether either of two types of swallow could build up flight speed while carrying a coconut. The dispute goes on for several minutes. It's obviously designed to be funny but it only struck me as silly -- as did the notion that coconut halves could be substituted for horses in the first place.It seemed as pointless as the confusion of the two guards when they received the order to keep the nobleman in his room in the tower, not to let him out until they received permission. It simply goes on too long. Abbot and Costello could have done it.The killer rabbit, ditto. The joke reached its punch line the moment the rabbit appeared.I remember hearing laughter at the back of the theater. Someone must have been telling jokes back there."The Life of Brian" is far funnier, perhaps because the farce has a target that is still alive and spastically kicking. And "The Meaning of Life" was better yet because of its underlying edginess and dying fall.
I was under the assumption that this movie, or one of the "Monty Python" movies, was on AFI's list of funniest comedies of all time.  This is probably the movie, since I also see it as Number 53 on the IMDB favorites list.  Why?  Beats me.Now, I have only seen glimpses of the classic "Monty Python" show.  I think most of the actors involved have real talent.  I've seen Eric Idle, John Cleese and Michael Palin in other movies and TV shows, and think they are all very talented comedians who are capable of making me laugh hysterically. I don't know if the show is any funnier than this movie, but I hope it is. But now that I saw this movie, I'm not too enthusiastic about checking out the show.I didn't think "This is Spinal Tap" or "Caddyshack"--two gloriously acclaimed comedies that are also on the AFI list--were all that brilliant either.  Again, I am part of the minority.  With those two films, I received angry emails by people saying that the humor flew over my head and I should watch those films again to see if I missed something.  Well, in the case of "MP and the Holy Grail," what the hell did I miss???!!!  Let me see:  we have a Knight that says "Ni" and a rabbit that bites people's heads off. Wow!  Subtle!  If those gags flew over my head, then it was for the right reasons.  And worse of all, each gag is stretched out to the point where you just want to punch these actors out.  So you have a lame gag, equipped with a lame setup and lame punchline--let's just rub salt on a wound and repeat it over and over again!  Maybe "Monty Python" is an acquired taste.  Maybe I have to watch several episodes of the show to get adjusted to the humor. There has to be some reason why it became one of the most memorable sketch comedies shows, worldwide.  But that still doesn't guarantee I will eventually find humor in these goofy gags.I don't like to stereotype British comedy, because there are in fact some that I find quite funny.  And their humor is not always bland as a certain number of (American) viewers say it is.  I've seen episodes of "Mr. Bean" with Rowan Atkinson, and think it is one of the funniest shows I've ever seen.  I also like Atkinson's other show "The Thin Blue Line" and "Keeping Up Appearances" (I forgot the name of the actress who stars on the show). But the humor in this movie is as bland as bland can get.  Why build a series of elaborate set pieces when all you're going to have are a bunch of characters doing lame VERBAL gags?  Throughout the film, I couldn't help but ponder, "If only Mel Brooks would've written the script...God, it could've been so much funnier!"  What we have are comedic angles of the tales of such warriors as King Arthur and Robin Hood, and not one satirical jab came to mind?  I'm still a firm believer that there should be a certain element of truth to every joke.  Some good examples are in Mel Brooks' "Robin Hood: Men in Tights" when Cary Elwes (playing Robin Hood) says, "I'm the only Robin Hood who can speak with an English accent" and when the Chief of Nottingham is portrayed as the Chief of Rottingham.And who came up with the decision to show lots of blood?  I know the violence looks fake, but come on!  This is a comedy!  Again, rubbing salt on a wound.I thought the film was lame from the get-go, from the minute they started that running gag involving King Arthur pretending to ride up to the castle on a horse by having his peasant bang coconut shells together to make it sound like a horse trotting.  But as the film goes along, it gets more and more annoying.  It's only ninety minutes long, but it felt like an eternity. "Braveheart" would feel shorter in comparison (because that happens to be a great movie).For those who are fans of the "Monty Python" series, you might want to argue my opinions.  And I'm sure you'd probably take my criticisms for granted. But I'm not going to pretend to laugh and pretend I enjoyed the film thoroughly to go along with the bandwagon.  For those who think I'm a comedic snob, I'll tell you what I think is funny.  "My Cousin Vinny" is funny.  "The Big Lebowski" is funny.  "Analyze This" is funny.  Those are only a few of the comedies I find hilarious.  I can go on and on.  If I don't find these boring, repetitive gags funny, then so be it.  Once again, another comedy I have to watch with someone else to actually get an idea of what is supposed to be humorous.My score:  3 (out of 10)


                
Monty Python and the Holy Grail(1975)Review: There is not much to say about this movie. This is a very stupid and lame movie. The comedy at times (a lot) is forced and the delivery is poor. I hate the knights who say NI. That was funny for about three seconds. However when our hero Arthur deals with the Black Knight, things get funny. The scene alone is a hoot with the best lines in the movie. The Black Knight's reactions are priceless. The scene with Sir Robin was okay although came off as a mildy amusing scene. The ending on the other hand is horrid. I could not believe how bad the ending was. Even my brother who liked this agreed that the ending sucked. Of all the ways this could have ended, this was the worst way. The Last Word: At the risk of being unpopular, I won't let that sway my review. This was merely a lame movie. A lot of this was stupid. There are some funny scenes here, not much but some. Being in the top 250, a lot of you seem to enjoy this. I just did not care for this.


                
King Arthur and his men search for the Holy Grail. Hilarity ensues...sporadically. There are some amusing exchanges of dialog, but collectively the funny bits constitute about 15 minutes of the running time. The rest of the comedy is so forced and tedious, including the overly cute opening credits, that it takes forever for the hour and a half to pass. The prancing about making hoof noises with coconuts is stupid enough, but then there are these lame animations that are not the least bit amusing. The sets are apparently meant to be cheesy, but they are so cheap-looking that most TV commercials have better production values than this eyesore.


                
Why do people find this movie so funny?  I never liked it much, but after about a 10 year break, I decided to try it again.  It was a bit better than I remembered, but I still just don't see it....  Maybe it's just too subtle for me.


                
Seriously rating 8? Why everybody rating this title like that! What was it about? Actually the first 5 minutes was fun but the rest was nonsense why this movie is so overrated!? The comedy was not good at all it had some points but just stupid way to show the facts. It had a good start at the very early minutes but I think they lost the point they lost the subject and then they've started to say nonsense words stupid lines and so on just to finish the movie anyway they can.


                
People will hate me for this but I just don't find this funny. None of the Python movies do I find funny. In fact, they usually make me really freaking mad. I just don't see the point. The sets are terrible, the acting worse. The laughs are usually funnier when your friends do them a day later... Comic Geniuses. Maybe that part of my brain just ain't working because I cannot and will not watch another of these. A few years back I tried watching the sitcom or skitcom with some friends who thought it was hilarious... "aare you guys smoking?" the answer was no. Then one said, only guys find Python funny. Which got a huge laugh because I am a GUY!


                
