I have heard so much about MP+THG from friends that I finally decided to rent it. What a waste of money and time. Much of the humor is dry and/or stale, and the only thing that deserves praise is the classical music score.The dark ages were a fascinating time in which many great stories are set in, even to this day. This movie has plenty of information to weave a coherent plot line around; it just fails to do so. The special effects, well what am I saying- there are no special effects worth mentioning. None of the characters are particularly engaging either.All I can say is this is stale British comedy to the max.
Can I commit heresy by making a small confession? I don't find Monty Python very funny. Neither is Black Adder, and Sgt.Pepper isn't the greatest album ever made.Python is commendable, of course. The sketch show was interesting, and made innovative use of the television format. (I would say groundbreaking but I've seen Spike Milligan's "Q"). Yet funny? Python has always struck me as the very worst kind of undergraduate humour, the sort of indulgent "comedy" that's uncool to dislike in any University.In reality, of course, I suspect the somewhat obvious sight gags and formula juxtapositions are liked by a very small minority. But the ultimate in Emperor's New Clothes causes black t-shirted, Wilde-quoting students to break into peer-pleasing hysterics at a knight who goes "ni!" A worry is that if you don't laugh then you'll be called "thick" or told that you just "don't get it". But I do get it, and it's nowhere near as clever as it pretends to be. The repetitive jokes (Knights on pretend horseback; ironic detachment to death; characters who talk too much), coupled with the attempt at a singular narrative make Holy Grail an exercise in tedium.It doesn't help matters that the six members of the group aren't exactly natural comedians. John Cleese, the supposed comic genius of the team is possibly the least funny. I mean, he's too posh, surely? Posh people aren't funny, that's the rule. Seeing middle-class boy Cleese bullying foreigners and the working classes in the overrated Fawlty Towers inexplicably amuses many. Michael Palin would be a straight man in any other troupe, and is far more suited to travelogues. Terry Gilliam, arguably the most talented and a hugely important director, would be the first to admit he's not that hot as a performer. And Graham Chapman, the tall camp one, must get bored playing the same character all the time. That leaves Eric Idle and co-director Terry Jones as the only members who can genuinely raise a smile.I was amazed to find that this is regarded on the IMDb as the strongest Python film, as I have seen a lot better. Holy Grail is symptomatic of every flaw in the series, with hardly a single joke coming off. Even Gilliam's surrealist animation is lacking here, and the songs are a chore to sit through. The few good gags involve a Trojan rabbit which the knights forget to hide in; Neil Innes singing the uncomplimentary tale of Sir Robin; a copyright disclaimer signed by Richard Nixon, and a Yorkshireman King. However, the only part that made me laugh out loud was the truly hilarious killer rabbit. Five funny jokes. 85 minutes. Oh dear. 4/10.


                
Before watching this film, the only Monty Pithon film I knew was "Life of Brian". I really loved that film, and some of my friends told me that "Monty Python and the Holy Grail" was even funnier. May be it was because I had such a great expectations, but the film really disappointed me.I would't say it's crap, I admit the movie has a few funny jokes. But generally I found it just ridiculous and childish. Senseless jokes without any further objective than ridiculing some Middle Ages myths. And don't misunderstand me, I have nothing against humor that tries to ridicule myths. It's just that I didn't find funny most of the jokes.


                
Monty Python And The Holy GrailIt has an eerie comic tone that may not be palpable to everyone along with its way of conveying the tale, and once the audience goes past that, it would just be jibber-jabber that tickles here and there. The makers being aware of the vision throughout the course of it is what helps install these little moments that may surprise more than amuse someone. Terry Gilliam and Terry Jones have done a decent work on some of the sequences while on some of it, they seemed a bit distracted. On performance level, the actors are hilarious among the supporting cast and even cameos, that marks their impression in a finite screen time. Monty Python And The Holy Grail is a feature that takes its joke very seriously and clears out the priorities within its first few minutes but considering as a whole project, it is unfortunately forgettable.


                
This is just a little kids' movie. If you're younger than 12, you'll probably like this. It's just a whole bunch of hack jokes put together around the story of King Arthur and his search for the Holy Grail. It is also the story of a police search for the murderer of a documentarian and the story of a writer's battle with the sun and some clouds.So like I said, 12 and under.


                
You have to be a die hard -- emphasis on DIE HARD -- Monty Python fan to really enjoy this movie. I came away mostly disappointed, considering its lofty ranking amongst all age groups. This is the movie where we first hear what sounds like horse hooves, but as we see the men coming it is King Arthur, on his own feet, pretending to be on a horse, and his servant following, making hoof sounds with two coconut halves. A lengthy discussion with castle occupants ensues, whether coconuts migrate, and whether a swallow has enough power to weight ratio to carry a coconut to England. This movie must have given Quentin Tarrantino the inspiration for similar dialog in 'Pulp Fiction'.As the story unfolds, and Arthur recruits other Knights for his round table at Camelot, and the search for the Grail, everyone stays on foot, pretending to be on horse. There are many funny scenes, but mostly the 'movie' is an extended Monty Python skit so popular on TV during the 1970s. Regarding the supposed witch the crowd brought, and wanted to burn ... 'What burns? Wood. When you put wood in water, it ... floats. What else floats ... a duck. So, if she is no heavier than a duck, she must be a witch!'  Or the three questions that must be answered correctly to cross the bridge of doom. However, the whole as a 'movie' does not satisfy me, it all seems rather silly, and I cannot give it a very high rating. SPOILER -- Mid-way in the movie, a present time historian is commenting, apparently for this movie, and a character, a knight, runs by and slashes him, he falls, others later attend. At precisely 1:28 into the movie, the present day police show up in motorcars, arrest Arthur and several of his knights, right before they were to attack a castle occupied by insulting French soldiers. Then the cop goes up to the cameraman, puts his hand on the lens, the picture goes white as we see the end of the filmstrip, then the screen goes dark for several minutes while music plays and that is the end of the movie. I believe the Python troupe commented years later that as they look back, they are embarrassed by some of their work, and are amazed that the public reacted so favorably. To me, this movie falls in that category, not a particularly good or funny movie, mysteriously with a very lofty rating on the IMDb.The DVD is just 'OK'.  The transfer is from a theatrical copy, you can see the reel change marks in the film margin, and there are many imperfections. The sound also is rather mediocre.
It's not all winners, no comedy is, but there are enough of them, and enough classic bizarre scenes that it's always a hoot to re-visit this film from time to time. The only problem I have with it are the cheap shots in gives - in typical 1970s fashion - of anything Biblical. But, it's not that bad and most of the film is pretty innocent.It's pretty much one ludicrous scene after another. I mean, where else do you see a knight fighting on after his legs are chopped off, then his arms?!! Or a killer rabbit? It was almost like watching a Marx Brothers film 40 years later with '70s irreverence.Don't let the PG rating fool you. This would be an easy PG-13 today with all the blood, some cursing and the violence. I know some young kids, however - nice kids, too - who love this film as much as adults, so it can't be too offensive.


                
