Over the Garden Wall is a very impressive show. Almost everything is pitch-perfect. It has excellent voice acting, a unique and permeating mood, and it didn't over-stay its welcome. What most impressed me about Over the Garden Wall is both the atmosphere and themes that the show holds. It has a very Kafka-esque feel to it, and the show is excellent at asking existentialist questions. We are purposefully never told Wirt's motivation, aside from 'getting home,' and each episode begins with little-to-no segue from the previous episode, leading us to question if we are going forward or moving backward from our goal. The dreamlike tone matches perfectly, with odd and off-putting parts of the universe just taken at face value, with no explanation. Just for example, there is an episode where a school-teacher runs a school for animals. After class, she instructs the students to go to bed. The animals pass through a doorway, then there's a cut-away to them entering a doorway wearing nighties. Wirt, too, is there, but the transition is so quick and so dreamlike, yet we take it at face value. Consider another thing: we never see Wirt eat, and Greg eats only once - a spoonful of potatoes. What a small touch, but despite witnessing several shot of food set before them, we only once see any put into their mouths. Eating, surprisingly enough, often grounds a person in reality. Another moment that impressed was when Wirt and Greg entered the tavern with people who identified themselves by an occupation or label. The people identify Wirt as 'the Pilgrim, master of his own destiny,' yet this contradicts what we have seen over and over, that Wirt doesn't take control of situations, and is mostly stumbling along from one place to another and playing it by ear.The only thing I could critique the show on is the animation. It espouses the modern style of having your computer-generated characters walk across mostly still backgrounds. It makes the main characters seem a little rubbery and lifeless at times. But, that's pretty typical for modern animation. I guess I also rolled my eyes at the 'liar-reveal' story of Beatrice, but it didn't take away much from the miniseries as a whole. I don't believe that any piece of art should ever be considered perfect, as there are always ways to improve. Nevertheless, I believe Over the Garden Wall is superb, telling a charming, folksy story with excellent voice acting, mood, setting, direction, and music.


                
The previous reviewer might have waited to see all the episodes before writing. The whole concept becomes clear in the last two episodes, with an "aha" moment. We have seen this idea in many movies. In short, it is the "It was all a dream." concept. Very cleverly done, but I don't know what the age range would be. When is a child able to "get it?" It seems that it takes a more developed brain to be able to backtrack through the first episodes to make sense of the story as a whole. As a very mature adult, and lover of frogs, I'm glad I stuck with it through to the end! I would advise watching all the chapters at one sitting. Great characters. Spooky story. Satisfying ending.
I won't point out any new things which aren't in other reviews. I approve every good word which was said about this mini-mini-series. There are 3 things that struck me the most: 1. little brother, his easy-going style, his kindness and in some moments - unexpected, a bit edgy character traits (do not think of him as a numb-nuts). and the teapot, oh my :) 2. the world, its detail, its color and shadows. Simple but alive. 3. complete mix of modern world details and details from others, unknown times in historyBTW. If you look closely you will notice blur at the edge of screen. This effect and music are greatest reasons for the magical feeling :)


                
Last year, I saw the commercials for "Over the Garden Wall", and I thought, "Looks nice, maybe I'll check it out." One year later, Cartoon Network reran the show for Halloween, and after hearing so much praise for it, I recorded the entire series. And, holy cow, was it amazing! This is probably the darkest I've seen Cartoon Network get. The acting was spot on! Everyone does a fantastic job! I also like how they didn't use these big names as promotion for the show. They got Christopher Lloyd, John Cleese, and Tim Curry and I had no idea they were in this until after I did some research. The animation, spectacular! I think the best piece of animation in this is the Highwayman's song, so cool! I'm glad they didn't take the "Teen Titians GO!" approach and use Flash animation. If I did have one problem it'd have to be "the liar revealed" cliché. But that's just nit picking. Overall, if you want a new fall tradition, go buy this on DVD and watch it every Halloween or Thanksgiving.


                
From the first wistful violin tune that gracefully unveils the episode title, Over the Garden Wall entranced me. Of course, the very first episode starts with that excellent intro sequence that begins bizarrely with a spinning piano on which a singing frog delivers the first half of the theme song, The Loveliest Lies of All. The second half isn't delivered until the very end of the series but both are filled with gorgeous little vignettes that have even more significance and nostalgic meaning the second time around. That frog's beautifully rich voice belongs to Jack Jones, renowned pop and jazz singer, who is just one of the voice actors that lend the cast of wonderfully bizarre and colourful characters that much more depth. The main two characters of OTGW are brothers Wirt and Greg, who are trying to find their way home but inadvertently get lost in the woods. Wirt, the elder brother, is voiced by Elijah Wood, who is wears a pointy red hat (shaped after his nose) and is a bundle of social anxiousness and nervousness, not overly so, but in a more endearing way. The second last episode in particular focuses on this aspect of him. The younger brother Greg is voiced by Collin Dean, who provides that childlike delight, wonder, imagination and naivety that only a real child voice actor can produce (looking at you Wreck It Ralph). He wears an upside down tea-kettle on his head, and is the source for much of the humour in OTGW, with his curiosity and innocence that clashes with Wirt's seriousness of their plight. His adorable sing-song voice (and later song) are instantly appealing. Together they set off into the unknown as they meet a whole variety of odd situations and characters. The animation style perfectly blends the mellow beauty and the more sinister eerie settings they encounter. At times the painted backgrounds remind you of Miyazkai films with their attention to detail and captivating beauty. The art direction is phenomenal. As time goes on, autumn becomes winter and the colour palette shits from that of earthly browns and oranges to a colder, darker atmosphere of blues and snowy whites. Although the characters are designed with a more cartoonish appearance, this never derails them from the serious and ominous scenes that showcase real danger for the brothers. There's an assortment of weird and wonderful fairytale fantasy characters that provide laughs but also contemplation and emotion. They feature some impressive voice actors that turn the peculiar, the creepy and the charming beyond a cartoon's expectations. Some familiar names include John Cleese, Tim Curry, Christopher Lloyd and Thomas Lennon, but don't be surprised if you don't immediately recognise them. Over the Garden Wall is dished out in 10 episodes, each about 10-11 minutes long. The brothers go from setting to setting and meet new characters along the way, but it never feels rushed or confusing. They even jump between time periods of old America with a melancholic and fitting soundtrack to match, but lend an eager hand to the audience. Without spoiling anything, often you'll expect the story to go one way but it will go in a completely different and unique direction, but always keeping within its tone. Bits and pieces of their journey may seem insignificant but are quite important later, and the emotional punch of the last episode is one that builds upon the previous stories to great effect. The very last shot is particularly poignant. If you have a spare 2 hours, give this miniseries a watch. Over the Garden Wall will draw you into its magical world.


                
Wow.This miniseries is fantastic. You won't be able to find anything remotely like it on TV. Not only is it well animated but the story is extremely engaging with interesting and unique characters that keep your attention. I must tip my hat to the people who created this wonderful series. Their hard word paid off.Over the Garden Wall is a dark, surrealist horror cartoon that focuses on two boys: Wirt and his little brother Greg. After getting lost on Halloween night, they two of them stumble into the Unknown. They struggle to get back home and avoid the Beast.I will say this. As much as I love this series, I do not recommend it for little kids. Under ten years old, do not let them watch it.This cartoon is extremely dark but it has it's silly moments and some heartwarming scenes. I think what also really makes this series so great is the songs. At least every episode has at least one song and all of them of great. If you love surrealist animation as well as interesting and engaging stories, I highly recommend Over the Garden Wall.


                
This has to be one of the best animated series I have seen in a long time.For a while now have been watching shows such as Gravity Falls, Steven Universe, Regular Show, Adventure Time; cartoon shows that are marketed to children, but clearly carry some great adult themes with them.Over the Garden Wall was recommended to me by one of my best friends, and after seeing the pilot episode, I was instantly hooked. Add to that the simple yet gripping finale, and I am now praising this piece of animation as one of the greatest out there. I only wished sometimes that it would have been a little more darker than it was, but that is just me.The tale itself is an age-old formula: Kid(s) find themselves in an unknown world (see what I did there?), have to find their way home and meet all sorts of crazy people and adventures on the way. But for the more adult viewers there is more than enough to marvel at. It is a beautiful representation of the the spiritual nature of our world, and how every living being, dead or alive, are interconnected. This fits perfectly with my personal view of our world. Every episode is part of the imagination of people or even animals who have been alive on our planet at some point in history. Or maybe even in the future, who knows. Quincy (John Cleese) and his 'ghost' lover come from the early nineteenth century, when capitalism started booming, Beatrice herself is from a time somewhere in the industrial revolution, and I think her anger with the bluebird who later curses her and her family is a nice representation of ho we as a species have come to see nature and agriculture with the rise of factories and such (or maybe Im just taking this too far). If you know what to look for, this series gives some nice social commentary.The music and score are wonderful. The use of old bluesy and folk- country music from the 19th and early 18th century fit perfectly with this mixed display of US American folklore and old European fairy tales. This is only further enhanced with the casting of people like Blind Boy Paxton and C.W. Stoneking, who not only lend great voices and personality (and in Paxton's case, his singing voice in the Highway Man), but whose independent music are great favourites of mine.Finally the animation. Wow. It is simple and yet conveys so much. In the first episode, when the presumed Beast shows up, the animation and style of the weredog was perfectly in the style of the show, yet it's movements and animation were somehow a style in and of its own, and I most confess that he scared me a bit haha. Also the style of drawing when Gregory goes to Cloud CIty was heartwarming to me, as it reminded me of the early Disney cartoons from the 30s and 40s. I don't know if it was done on purpose, but seeing as they used it only in this environment (more than 3 characters on screen, song-and-dance routine), I almost have to conclude that the creators did this on purpose.Finally we come to the greatest aspect of the series, at least in my eyes. The Beast.Over the Garden Wall is one of the few media I know that, while not outright being a horror show, stays true to the number 1 rule of that genre: Never reveal what the monster looks like. And they did this all the way to the end, which I applaud. And even when Lloyd's Woodsman shines his lantern on the Beast and reveals his true looks, it is only for the briefest of seconds, and I spent at least two full minutes trying to pause the screen just right to see what he looked like. And even then, it fitted perfectly with his lore, and still managed to give me the creeps.The animation for the Beast and Samuel Ramey's voice were the perfect match, especially at that moment when Wirt, at the last minute, refuses to give in, are a joy to see. His eratic movement and the changing of the eyes (did anyone notice the weredog in E01 had the same rainbow eyes? Brr...).In the end, I do have to give some minor critique, if only for reality's sake. At times, I found that the creator's took the lore a little too lightly, and I believe the impact could have been a bit deeper if they made it just a bit darker. The core tale itself and the Beast's lore were very simple and they could have expanded on this. It was a bit too easy to figure out what the lantern actually was, but then again, this is a kid's show. These minor, minor points are the only reason I'm not giving this series a 10, and as you can see they are only personal nitpickings.
I entered the world of Over the Garden Wall after I finished catching up with Rick and Morty, a superb animated TV series that prides itself on the feelings of its characters and the darkness of its story lines. This was recommended as a "child-friendly" subsidiary and so I decided to give it a go. Initially, I was dubious about the need to rely on the efforts of two young boys and a bird companion, but this show is deceptively unique and thoughtful. What may seem like an innocent adventure turns out to be a dip into the troubled thoughts of youth and how those feelings affect the circumstances, and it all boils down to the relationship Wirt and Gregory have with each other.Split into ten short chapters, each episode has its own self-contained theme and situation (with the exception of chapter 10, which is a mature correlation of everything), but they connected somehow through a clever continuity referencer character. I struggled slightly with Episode 3 and 8, mainly because they delved a little too far into childish maelstrom, but on the other hand, it's required in this story to show the innocence of these children and to make us care about them. What really stands out in this episode is how the animation accentuates the dark tone, by using significantly dark imagery, such as a horned beast (synonymous with Hannibal's stag). It also depicts dark parallels with the real world and successfully shows how terrifying and uncomfortable these situations are. Chapter 2 and 7 are great examples of this, showing how the unknown can makes us feel unprepared and forced to make snap decisions. The show constantly reminds us of this throughout the chapters, and it allows us to consider the reality in the fantasy.It's the contrast between Wirt and Gregory that's so striking though, possibly because of the age gap, but it's fascinating to see how these two brothers can have such different perspectives. Initially, it's unclear where they stand in terms of each other, but later on it becomes quite clear and you notice how quickly the characters gain depth in development. An experiment in animation and storytelling, most likely, but it's undeniably a successful one. It's funny, scary, adventurous, dark, romantic, beautiful and painful. I can highly recommend this masterclass of animation, but I can't be certain you won't feel changed after you watch it - it has a depth that barely any kids TV series have these days (unfortunately), and to pack an entire series of characters, quests and scenarios in 1 hour and 50 minutes is a crowning achievement.
This is my first time writing a review, and I hope it goes well. Overall.. I felt like the series was a bit rushed. But, with 10 episodes the characters seem vary well developed. With that, I felt like it could have ran longer. It does seem that there are still people interested to know more about this animation world. For me, I felt there was a moral trying it's best to form. Innocence, sacrifice, self-realization, and the greater journey for Greg and Wirt getting home. I really enjoyed "Over the Garden Wall". A good start I would say, and I wish the series comes back!! For other recommendation on cartoons that have good character development and story progression I would suggest; "Steven Universe" and "Adventure Time". Now, child within, off to watching more cartoons!!


                
What can I say about this show? It has to be expirienced to grasp it, because of all these interesting characters which appear in the different episodes.The main characters Wirt and Greg make up this pair of brothers of which Wirt is an insecure but straight one and Greg is a goofball with high spirits. Even though both serve a purpose in the series I kind of hated Greg most of the time, because the goofball role came of not as comedic but just stupid like a no-brain moron most of the time, but he gets better over time.We encounter many interesting characters and scenarios through the episodes on their journey through the forest. Creepy stuff happens and they somehow solve it.An unsetteling feeling hangs over every episode and the gorgeous backgrounds are made with great attention to detail to suit every feeling we're supposed to feel and that is the core purpose of art! One of the highlights of this mini-series.Worth watching for everyone who enjoys well crafted animation and fairy-tales.


                
A cute movie, vivid scenes, bright colors and pictures, covering with mysterious BGM.


                
The animation is fantastic, the plot/story is great, creative and imaginative, the tone of the show is unpredictable; it can go from light hearted and comical to dark and grim, the characters are lovable and the voice acting is excellent. The series is about two young brothers(half brothers) named Wirt who's pessimistic and worrisome and Greg the younger and also friendly and cheerful brother, who are lost in a strange land called the Unknown, meet a talking bluebird called Beatrice(who is actually a girl who was turned into a bird), who helps to get them home, they run into a ghost, talking skeletons who wear vegetables, an elder woodsman and demonic being called the Beast who turn anyone who loses hope into an oil filled tree. This series is like an American fairy tale, the Unknown resembles the old days of America, like the pilgrim era, 1700's to early 1900's along with a large forest of strange creatures. Go ahead and view this masterpiece. I just wish the show lasted a little longer.
So I just got done binge watching this and I was pretty darn impressed. The acting, characters, plot, tone, score, animation, everything was just so well done. I'm not too happy with Cartoon Network as a company and how they handle their intellectual property *cough* teen titans go *cough*, but this show made me think that there is still hope for Cartoon Network, it can actually produce some good stuff when it wants to. But now onto the actual show. The acting was amazing, Elijah Wood was fantastic as Wirt and Collin Dean was surprisingly good for only being 9 at the time of the show's release. The two actors played off each other very well and had a very watchable chemistry, although that might also be attributed to the brilliant writers of the show, who somehow manage to spin a whimsical and imaginative story-line while maintaining the innocent tone of the show. The characters were all written beautifully and seemed very natural and real. The tone of the show was very consistent overall and was nicely contrasted to the story. The score was also awesome despite being a little repetitive at times. And the animation was very creative and smooth. Now that I have said the positives, let me explain why I'm only giving this a 9/10 instead of a 10/10. It was pretty much just the ending. I did not enjoy the "it was all a dream" thing, I thought that for a show this awesome and this unpredictable, going with the most clichéd ending honestly upset me a little. Plus, it being a dream wouldn't even make a lot of sense based on what happened. I just did not enjoy the ending and I think that for a show this good, and this clearly well planned out and executed, they should have thought more about the ending rather than making it the most cliché thing in the whole world. Anyway I still enjoyed this show quite a lot and would recommend it to pretty much everyone. And that's why this gets a 9/10.
The beauty of both the image and the writing us just surreal. This is a work of art from every aspect and should never be treated as a simple "children's show". For a long time, I had no intention of watching this show for many reasons but now that I have watched it in one go (I simply couldnt stop) I must say I was very wrong about not watching it earlier. I was blown away by the depth of it. It has the depth of the greatest movies out there and then some. The way it shows children and how easily can they trust their instincts and go with it but also how grown-ups can ruin them with our negative outlook on life (I dont mean every single one of us, but lets be honest not a single person can say that they didn't suffer as a child from all the comments they got from their parents. Intenionally or not every word a parent says is taken as a fact, which the show perfectly shows).There is not a single moment that I could nit-pick on. 
The animation is exactly what I wanted it to look like.
The acting is spot-on. Not a single bad character. 
It really is just an amazing show but, as I said before the message is what makes me give this such a high rating. Also, the creators thoughts about growing-up and being a kid is there in every moment of this show, which makes this super special. It makes the viewer reflect on his life and see the bad decisions he has made especially in his younger years. Loved it! Brought back a lot of great memories from my early childhood and also a bit from my teenage years eventhough that part was a bit weird for me because I don't remember a time when I was that anxious because of such reasons but I guess it's different for everybody. Simply beautiful. 
But I dont think I as a 7 year old would have enjoy it though, as it has some pretty spooky stuff and also it is quiet depressing at some points, if you remember being that innocent little kid everyone once was.


                
I'm getting this show on DVD this Christmas. I love EVERYTHING on this show!


                
