Just watched the rerun of the pilot for Brooklyn Nine-Nine. I thought it was a marvelous example of why so many people say that current TV comedies are pathetic. There was one small chuckle it got from me during the entire 20 minutes (minus ads, of course).I could not stand the self-proclaimed best detective on the squad. His inane behavior was disgusting and his putting others in jeopardy by stopping to say stupid joke lines right in the middle of apprehending a suspect was less police-like than anything the Three Stooges ever did when they portrayed cops.I couldn't understand the female detective who happily agreed to see a movie with a colleague, then after challenging him to pick something good, suddenly canceled—right after he bought tickets. Before I could figure that out, she appeared to have changed her mind again.The bet about who makes the most arrests between the two detectives was also stupid—anyone can make a lot of arrests. It would only make sense if they were betting on who got the most convictions.When Jake got up at the meeting near the beginning and proceeded to waste everyone's time by talking about trivia regarding old people while he was supposed to be giving a run down on a recent crime, I thought we had tumbled to the bottom of the hill, but alas, it just continued sliding down, leaving me wondering how anyone gets any laughs from this tripe.
I am amazed at how some people think that this show is wonderful.The acting is really unrealistic and there isn't a single pleasant or believable character. It is almost as tho the actors realise how bad the script is so they don't even try to act.I really did try to find some of it (any of it) funny but it simply isn't. The police are 2 dimensional and there is nothing close to any subtlety or humour.I think it may appeal to some children of around 12 but certainly my children at that age would have described it as 'stupid' and refused to watch it.children younger than 12 probably wouldn't understand a lot of the references in it so I'm not sure what audience it is aimed at.blazing saddles it isn't.
I watched an episode and thought hmmm...overuse of quick cutaways, overuse of completely unnecessary panning in and out, poorly set up jokes that weren't funny and have been used countless times. In fact, it resembled another derivative show with the same flaws called Parks & Recreation. What a surprise! This has the same creative team. At least they have saved money by never being original. Even each of the characters is ripped off from other recent sitcoms. Once upon a midnight dreary, as I pondered weak and weary, over many a quaint and curious volume of forgotten lore. As I nodded, nearly napping, suddenly there came a tapping. There, ten lines. Thanks to seventh grade English.


                
I heard recommendations for this show multiple times, so I assumed that, if not intelligent, it would at least be an entertaining enough way to kill some time. I don't see why this is any popular at all. The only character that sort of keeps you trying is the character of Captain Ray Hault, played by Andre Braugher. The calmness and seriousness of an externally macho, internally homosexual chief, manages to deliver quite a few amusing and ironical moments. But the concept gets very old very quickly, and the story doesn't evolve at all, despite of some hints of desperate trying. In fact, the stereotyping of characters in this one is taken so far that it feels far too engineered (which, sadly, doesn't surprise me when coming from America.) I understand that comedy of this format relies on exaggerated characteristics and stereotyping of some degree, but this is a terrible example. The stories, the characters, the behavior, the technical depiction – all of it is so identical to a children's cartoon that it's confusing to see real people on screen! Chaotic outbursts of excessive and incomprehensive yelling, stories that could've been placed to a playground instead of a police department (because what they do there has nothing to do with police work), and boldly underlined "laugh now" -jokes, all only leave you thinking: "Really?" Instead of rooting for a character, you find yourself reaching out for the mute button.


                
I watched all of season 1, and I started to watch the first few episodes of season 2 and then I just asked myself "why are you still watching this crap?" It just was not funny even after watching more than two dozen episodes. I have no idea how this series has lasted for five seasons and somehow miraculously rated an IMDb average of 8.3 unless the rating system is fixed?This series fails to make my funny bone twitch...at all.Two VV thumbs down.


                
Considering this was created by the same writer, Micheal Schur, who created The Good Place I am confused as The Good Place is charming and funny whereas this is not at all. I just don't get the humour here and as much as I try I just can't like Andy Samberg. I had this show recommended by friends but nope just don't get it. Good Place all the way!


                
