After first hearing about Brooklyn Nine-Nine, I was fairly skeptical about yet another attempt on Fox's part to regain their former position as king of network comedy, however; minutes after it had started, I was able to find an affection for this show that I haven't had for a comedy pilot since The Office.Anchored in large part by Andy Samberg's ironic sense of humor, it also features plenty of dead-pan humor and caricatures, much of it being a parody of the typical crime drama.Half-way through, I realized it felt fairly reminiscent of The Office's early days, unbeknownst to me that was intended to channel that style and humor, despite it not being a mockumentary.Personally, I felt it to be one of the strongest pilots for a comedy I had seen in a while. They introduce the audience to the characters in a way that doesn't come across as them trying to bluntly introduce us, as so many shows clumsy do; Shows that tell us how close two friends are in a way real people don't talk, by having one of them tell the other, "I know you said you didn't want to hang out Friday but I'm your best friend and we're going to hang out." Brooklyn 9-9 accomplishes these crucial initial first impressions by not overstating the core personalities of the characters. Half way in, we quickly begin to experience the precincts average day and learn of the quirky interactions that occur between characters alongside the new C.O., Capt. Holt(Andre Braugher). Some characters do leave something to be desired in terms of having something to offer to the show, but the groundwork is solid.There certainly is the expected detective work, but the main focus is the ludicrous and off-beat styles of the detectives. One of the best things I like about this show, thus far, is the fact that it is able to surprise me with its jokes, most of which are not exactly the shock-value type that are only there because they're so random they're humorous. Though as I recall, that style is mixed in with other, more witty jokes.I don't see this as a show that will appeal to mass audiences, simply because it is more quirky and witty, though not necessarily requiring its viewers to think more about the jokes.People who enjoy(ed) shows like The Office, Parks and Rec., Community, South Park, Psych, possibly Modern Family, etc., will more likely than not find something to like about this show.Obviously not everyone will appreciate it, but I strongly encourage those who are interested in watching it, to watch the entire pilot before making a full opinion.In the end, Brooklyn Nine-Nine is a fun and silly satire about the clichés of police shows, while still able to not take itself too seriously.


                
It just became waaay too liberal. I used to love the show because it was meant for laughs and was seriously funny. Then Season 5 came and suddenly they felt obligated to start using the show as a platform for their liberal agenda. The problem is while their liberal jokes were funny in the first bunch of seasons the new season felt preachy instead of funny. I'm over it
First four series were great, but there comes a time with comedy that the jokes are similar and become almost 'expected'. That time has come with Brooklyn99. There is either two courses of action:
Finish the current series and review the writing team and make some changes. Get new writers in with new ideas. It is a risk, but with a new team Brooklyn99 could continue for another 4-5 seasons.
Or.... keep doing what you are doing, watch the viewers drop off every season. Maybe go for another 2 seasons before its cancelled. Which is the mistake most US comedies make. I guess it was good for a while right?


                
I think most of the reviews are over the top in saying that it is exceptionally funny or genius. I found it a tad stupid and unintelligent for the first couple of episodes. There wasn't any link ups between the episodes until the later half of the season and that's when this show makes a good watch. I guess maybe for a funny cop show it could've had a few more characters (perhaps something like Police Academy). On the positive note the existing characters are very carefully chosen and Andy Samberg is the spine of the show. And yes you can watch it with your kids, not sure if I can say the same for many of the other shows airing these days. Anyways all in all a good show to munch your evening snack on.


                
The first two seasons were some of the most brilliant in television comedy; smart,creative, loveable and original but it started losing it's edge after season two and became too predictable.


                
I don't think this is a great show, or even a really good one (so not deserving of all of the awards it has won) but it's pretty good in its own right. The first few episodes are sort of rough (like a lot of comedies' first few are, so no surprise there) but it does maintain a nice sort of balance that runs throughout the rest of the season. I think the cast works really well together, Braugher being my definite favorite. It's nice to see Andy Samberg in a network show that isn't SNL, and nice to see some of the other familiar faces. Seeing how the season ends, I'm excited about Season 2 now. This is recommended, although not to large extents.


                
First of all anyone who says this is the "spiritual successor" to Barney Miller is smoking crack. Barney Miller focused on the cops, the perps, and the day-to-day problems in the precinct (Internal Affairs, Luger, etc.) The Nine-Nine is more concerned with the comedy. If any of Barney's detectives had acted like any of these guys, he would have shot them, or quit! A contest to see who can stay in a chair the longest? The Jimmy Jab Games? Other than A) being funny and B) having to do with NYC cops, the shows are nothing alike.Anyway, that said, this show does have funny moments, and as such it's worth coming back to watch each new episode. But they are mostly just "funny moments." Something about the directing, or the pace, I'm not sure what, always leaves me feeling like it was a collection of one-liners. It's often choppy between one line and the next, it's often too fast-paced for me to figure out what's going on, and some of the actors (notably Samberg and Beatriz) speak so fast that I don't always catch what they're saying.We will keep watching it, though, until it sours.


                
Really didn't like it at first but I do enjoy the show now. It grows on you. It's about silly, quirky people, different enough to not be completely unoriginal, and you kind of have to be ready for that. They become easy to like and it is always good fun.But I do think it is racist, to be honest. (I'm alert to things like this now because I've developed a deep distrust of Hollywood and the pretentious moralising they feed us, when in truth they generally are the extreme in depraved, twisted nonsense behind closed doors – barring the exceptions.) You can always tell if something is Hollywood racist by simply imagining the show with the races of all characters reversed. If it seems like something that would then cause broad discomfort, you got it.It is a pity, but I enjoy the show anyway. I started watching it out of desperation, but it worms its way into your affections, so you probably have to give it a few episodes.


                
I was not expecting much but it is really funny. I am still in the first season but for me it is highly recommended. I confess to you that I did not like that much the main character but it was matter of time for me change my mind. Gina is my favorite one until now because she is really ironic and a little bit bad intended and that is why she is so interesting. Gina is very intelligent and truthful I guess there is more to see about her. I kinda see a little romance between detective Santiago and Peralta I am really hoping that they can be together someday. Back talking about this series in general I found cool that this comedy was really smart in not taking clichés as part of the shows.In the first episode I thought that the show would approach in the fact of the Capitan be gay but it was really intelligent because this thing is not even a big deal until now. So I hope you have as much fun as I am experiencing now.


                
I'm a fan of Andy Samberg, so when I found out that he was going to be starring on Brooklyn Nine-Nine, I was super excited. For some reason, though, I've only recently begun watching the show, but I'm already hooked. This show puts me in the mind of Parks and Recreation (another comedy that I loved), in which the main character is a strange and sometimes irritating but altogether lovable person, working with a team of people that, while they have their own oddities and idiosyncrasies, ultimately work well together. It can be a bit predictable sometimes, but I think that's what works about it: what you see is exactly what you get, and regardless of whether or not you're expecting it, it's still funny.


                
Andy Samberg is the main focus as Jake Peralta the lovable but bumbling "detective" who is a constant wise-cracking presence who solves cases with charm alone. He is supervised by ultra-serious and gay (oft mentioned) Captain Ray Holt who just happens to be an African American. He is played by the ultra-respected Andre Braugher. Jake's tom- foolery does not go unnoticed by the captain and this is a constant source of amusement as the odd couple often clash with each over while they practice their version of police tactics. Not to be out-done, another African American supervisor is the hulking Terry Crews. As Terry, he has more sympathy for the shenanigans of Jake, but can tire of Peralta's immaturity at times. Of Course, a modern show is not complete without competent brunette women who are both sexy and intelligent...especially intelligent. Stephanie Beatrix and Melissa Fumero play Hispanic women who are the brains of the group and do most of the work on the police force. They are both tough as nails especially Beatrix as Rosa Diaz who can barely manage to crack a smile while at work (a common comic device for each episode). The white members of the cast fill out the roles of comic relief to varying levels of stupidity. Peralta's best buddy, Charles Boyle, is a suck-up lap dog who constantly tails Jake and can not do the simplest task without his approval. Then we get the non-stop sarcasm from Chelsea Peretti's character Gina which can tow-the-line from mildly funny to chalkboard scratching annoying. This character could easily be killed off and no one would notice. Finally the dumbest characters have the comedy trifecta: white, fat and bald. Scully and Hitchock do moronic things like drink cups full of tacks and rubberbands, eat weeks old Chinese dishes and lock themselves outside of the office. Hilarious stuff. The only clichés that are missing are the dumb blonde bimbo and Asian guy who is great with math and computers, but sucks at relationships. Though I have to admit the show can be quite funny at times, it would just be nice to see less effort put into the show to demonstrate how diversified and enlightened Americans are today especially if you are a flawless minority.


                
It's a fun comedy with great witty jokes. The acting in general is ok, but Gina Peretti is just awful... it's straight expressionless bad acting.. most of the time is not believable and the rest of the time is plain annoying...


                
I have been watching this show for a while now and I find it really funny and creatively written. I like (most of) the characters and I find myself laughing in a lot of episodes. In each season there are about 6 hilarious episodes, 8 relatively funny ones, 5 'meh' episodes and 4 really annoying and desperate ones. This is where the show falls in quality. It is usually hit or miss each week. There are a lot of funny episodes, and some that makes the writers seem a little desperate for story-lines. I rated the show, in general, a 7. I would probably increase it to a 7.5, but not an 8 just yet. This show has a lot of potential, but it just isn't The Big Bang Theory.


                
Andy Samberg was the best thing on SNL since Tina Fey and Jimmy Fallon so I was pretty excited to see him get his own show.I love it.I watched this purely for Samberg but it is most certainly an ensemble show. The whole season shifts focus between the characters, some in the spotlight and some in the background and vice versa.The whole cast is absolutely brilliant. My least favourite would have to be Chelsea Peretti, who plays Gina Linetti, but Stephanie Beatriz (Detective Rosa Diaz) and Andre Braugher (Captain Ray Holt) have definitely stolen the show for me.While the episodes are mostly standalone, there are some small story lines and jokes that make their way through the season.There are quite a few SNL and comedy guest stars throughout the season including Andy Richter, Adam Sandler, Stacy Keach, Craig Robinson, Fred Armisen and Patton Oswalt.A brilliant show with lots of laughs, bought myself the DVD straight away and I am now watching Season 2 as it airs.Undeniably worth a watch!SEASON TWOI actually didn't like this season as much as the first.The cast is still amazing. I love them as whole, more so when the work together but my focus more often than not is always pulled towards Stephanie Beatriz (Rosa Diaz) and Andre Braugher (Captain Ray Holt).This season, one of the highlights was definitely the feud between Captain Holt (Braugher) and Deputy Chief Wuntch (guest star, Kyra Sedgwick); just the insults thrown between the two whenever they were on screen was just amazing to watch!I didn't find this season as funny as the first, some moments even bordering on the stupid but don't get me wrong, it's still hilariously funny.Still a good watch and will definitely be watching Season Three.


                
