I'm confused by the reviewer (whose comment was featured on the IMDb page just now) who seemingly despised this program and wrote it off, apparently, because he or she felt Andre Braugher deserved better.I find this review odd, because "Brooklyn Nine-Nine" - if nothing else - comes across as a very likable show. Thankfully spared of talking-head interview segments that have dominated the American comedy scene since The Office, this show also thankfully features no laugh track. Thus, it both has the feel of an old-fashioned sitcom without the dated quality of one. It's actually quite a clever premise: it's a "cop show" but set in the workplace environment. This is a clever move as the show is able to subvert some of the stereotypical police procedural elements while also keeping stuff grounded and relatable by keeping the majority of the antics constrained to the police station.The cast is talented all across the board. One thing you might find as the show grows is that Andy Samberg will become more subdued in his approach. I say this because as of now he is clearly the "star" of the show and, as such, he's often given a lot of LOUD dialogue -- but this also happened to the Leslie Knope character in "Parks and Recreation," and she ended up organically evolving into a much smarter and more likable character. I think once Brooklyn Nine-Nine finds its own footing and more firmly establishes its characters, things will settle into place. It's still a bit shaky but it's just the freshman season flaws. Very few comedy shows are at their best in their first seasons.I'm enjoying this quite a lot so far - it's not must-see-TV or anything of the sort, but it's likable, entertaining and shows a lot of promise. The talented cast really elevates the material and the show manages to subvert cop show clichés and workplace TV comedy tropes without seeming overly cynical or snide about it. That's really the best word I can think of summing it up with: likable.


                
Brooklyn Nine-Nine is a show about a police precinct in Brooklyn and it follows a variety of characters, who are a bunch of misfits who when they get to work they do a really good job, there are weirdos, nerds, and one of the most egotistical characters you will ever likely see. Despite this all of the characters are amazing as they are all likable and have incredible chemistry which makes this show one you should watch.It mainly follows Jake Peralta who is a guy who loves his work, is incredibly immature and usually takes inspiration from action films like Die Hard whilst on a case. The show always follows the other characters in engaging and hilarious plot lines which also shows off different traits and experiences of their separate characters. Whilst it is an amazing show, it has it's flaws such as every finale has started to end in mostly the same way and the first couple of episodes of the next series will be centred around this one thing. As with any show there are some episodes that are not as good as the others, however after 4 seasons there are no seriously bad episodes so that is great.One last issue is that there is a duo in the precinct called Hitchcock and Scully who exist solely to be gross out characters (Which I don't particularly mind) and are essentially the exact same character, however they can be really funny and they do have characteristics even though they have the least amount of character development than anyone else in the show. So in conclusion this is an exceptional show which has a wide range of lovable characters and many different kinds of humour and jokes which are usually very funny. If you have seen a trailer for this show and it expect it to be another of those sitcom comedies like, New girl and The Big Bang Theory, it actually has a much higher level of quality then those two. (Personally I really like TBBT even though it got noticeably worse after a couple of seasons and NG I never really liked even though I watched all of the first season)So I seriously recommend this show and would say at least give one or two episodes a watch.Have a good one. :)


                
Who would think of this duo would be the best part of the series. Saturday Night Live's Adam Samberg plays Jake Peralta, a cop in Brooklyn, New York. The precinct gets a new captain played by Emmy winner and Homicide: Life on the Streets actor Andre Braugher who plays the straight man to Samberg's Peralta. Braugher is great in his role and one the reasons to watch and the other is Andy Samberg. I hope this show lasts the season. It isn't filmed in front of a live audience. It's more like other sitcoms today where they film in a studio and on location. It's good to have a sitcom in New York City than another crime drama. Audiences need to laugh more these days.


                
This comedy series always makes me smile. In almost every episode I can recognize my self and just laugh straight out. 
We all have a little bit of Charles boil.


                
After (soon) 6 seasons it should be boring but it isn't


                
What can I say that hasn't been said about Brooklyn 99. For one thing, it never gets boring. Ever. The characters play against tropes in the TV industry, and it is just plain funny. It has a well rounded, relatable, hilarious set of characters along with great actors to play them.


                
This show is very funny, there's no denying that. But the truth is, while it is hilarious, the cop-drama part of it all rivals most cop shows right now. They are smart and the twists are great. But the comedy works hand in hand with it, and makes for a great experience.


                
I have thoroughly enjoyed this show at every turn. The cast is amazing, writing is snappy and fun. This show is also socially conscious without being heavy-handed or too preachy. In that regard, it bests Superstore by miles.Recommended.


                
This type of comedy is very much an acquired taste, so it really depends on whether you like the format. Andy Samberg is one of those smirking love-him-or-hate-him characters and the rest of the cast are largely filler. However, I love this show (still on Season 1) and it's consistently smart and funny. Personally, I think Samberg - as Peralto - is excellent, especially his play-offs with the deadpan Captain Holt and his penchant for creating fictitious names for himself and his team. On every single case.Some of the other characters are bizarre, such as Hitchcock and Scully, who do nothing all day. However, there are some nice recurring characters like the Vulture and Patton Oswalt's vindictive Fire Captain.Brooklyn Nine-Nine is a great show with likable characters and genuinely funny scenarios. Binge- watchable if you have Netflix.


                
Since the first episode it just seemed the characters were too much for me to handle. Every single one of them is a bit strange and/or too eccentric but I got used to it and now I like all of them (except Chelsea from time to time) but key to the show is Samberg and Baugher (who's character is just wonderful) - their chemistry is essential! It is also nice to see Terry Crews portraying a normal (as much as possible) person for once and not an animal on steroids. Still hope to see guys from Lonely Island to do a cameo but that is due for a long time and still nothing... Solid show, solid jokes, solid cast. Keep it going!


                
Brooklyn Nine-Nine is awesome. No laugh track=Win. The cast is great and fit together perfectly. To me Rosa (Stephanie Beatriz) is the best. I think it is sad that the episodes are a bit short, please make them a little bit longer than 20 minutes. Every time when I watch an episode I want to see the next one and then the next one and the next one. After a while I realize that the season is already over, its very addictive. Adam Sandberg sometimes feels a bit forced in being funny, he should work on that. He sometimes should act a bit more natural, same goes for Chelsea Peretti, she always feels forced in her acting. Braugher and Crews are classic, how can Braugher act like this without laughing all the time, so funny. So i am giving this series an 8 because of the sometimes forced acting by Sandberg and Peretti. Other than that it is great and I hope to see more seasons.I definitely do not understand how some people can give this series 2 or 3 stars..


                
This is the typical kind of show I like my day to end with. I watch a lot of movies and at the end of the day, when you're not ready to head to bed yet but you know you won't make a whole movie then this is the ideal show for it. Twenty minutes of laid back and silly humor. And it also does not have a laugh track because let's be honest is there anything more annoying then that? I like to laugh when I think it's funny and I certainly won't laugh on command. My favorite comedians in this series are Andy Samberg as Jake Peralta and Andre Braugher as captain Ray Holt. The rest of the cast is also good. Every comedian plays his character at best. Every episode is a perfect way for ending a day relaxed and with a smile on my face.


                
This show is hilarious, absolutely amazing. To see how far all the characters have come is incredible. Everyone is so lovable and awesome. I really hope NBC will bring the 99 back for a seventh season


                
Great show to watch, very light hearted, great characters and overall great storylines. I suggest you watch this if you are looking for a light hearted comedic with the occasional serious.


                
As with its other seasons, the first few episodes of "Brooklyn Nine-Nine"'s fifth season begins by shaking up its formula before slowly re-adjusting to its own established beats, and it continues to make for a jarring but audacious creative choice on the part of the showrunners. By the time it returns to its established formula, things snap back into focus and the show returns to its strengths: Ensemble comedic acting, extraordinary lighting, clever plotting and a simple but straightforward spirit that often recalls the best of "Spin City." Stephanie Beatriz's Diaz has a number of remarkable sequences throughout and Andre Braugher remains the show's standout performer, but Andy Samberg's charming performance as Jake Peralta is the anchor here.


                
Really good after getting drawn into the characters.


                
Brooklyn Nine-Nine has the unique distinction of being somehow enjoyable and copaganda at the same time. Cast is top tier, writing is consistently coherent, and it doesn't revolve entirely around the characters' egos. And it's not super preachy unlike roughly every single other cop show on TV, which is a plus.


                
Cop shows are not something I particularly love. The routine case-of- the-week format gets very old very quick, so it's up to the writers to create at least one character that will intrigue the audience week after week. Several big shows have done this ("Bones", "The Mentalist", "Castle", etc.) and while it's nice that we have that one character, it's always refreshing when the entire cast is the draw. It's also refreshing when the focus is the characters and not the case that comes up every week. These breaking of stereotypes define "Brooklyn Nine- Nine", a new cop sitcom that premiered last fall. The only reason I hadn't gotten around to watching it was that I was in the middle of a lot of other shows. But with my summer airtime free and the added incentive of Netflix putting all of season 1 up for binging, I decided to dedicate a few days to watching how things played out at the Nine- Nine. In short, it's quite good.I'm not a giant fan of sitcoms. I think too many of them follow the same format far too closely and thus all fall into mediocrity. The times when one sitcom rises above the rest is when at least one character, or hopefully all, have such unique and hilarious personalities that the audience feels justified in coming back week after week. For "How I Met Your Mother", despite the entire cast being absolutely hysterical, Neil Patrick Harris' Barney Stinson was the fan favourite. "Two and a Half Men" had Charlie Sheen (as basically himself, before his meltdown). "The Big Bang Theory" has Jim Parsons as Doctor Sheldon Cooper. All sitcoms need a main star to draw them in. Yet I feel very justified in saying the entire cast is equal in for the audience. While each character definitely appeals to a smaller portion of that audience, the sums make up a whole that is undeniably intriguing and therefore makes you want to keep watching through every episode.So let's list off the cast. The show's headlining star is comedian and member of the band The Lonely Island, Andy Samberg. I've always been a fan of his, so to see he got his own show highly pleased me. Samberg has what I think I'm going to start calling "Star-Lord syndrome". I know "Guardians of the Galaxy" isn't even out yet, but from the trailers I can already deduce this: like Star-Lord, Samberg's Detective Jake Peralta isn't quite as cool as he thinks he is. Yes, he can make a funny reference or spout out a witty one-liner, but all in all he's a man- child living out his twelve-year old self's dreams of being a hard-ass cop. Any guy can relate to that, and Peralta lives the closest type of life a normal guy could get to that classic 80's machismo cliché.The rest of the cast is filled out by Melissa Fumero as Det. Amy Santiago, an uptight, by-the-book cop who is Peralta's partner. She frequently kisses up to her captain and would-be mentor, Captain Ray Holt played by Andre Braugher. Holt is the new Commanding officer of the 99th precinct, defined by his blank stare, empty face and monotone voice. He adds a lot of fun, dry humour to the show that should appeal to say, Aubrey Plaza fans. Joe Lo Trugilio plays Det. Charles Boyle, an awkward yet loyal and determined cop who has a pretty good bromance with Peralta. Initially during the pilot, I thought Boyle would become my least favourite character as he starts off being set up as the slapstick comedic relief, but thankfully that doesn't follow through the show. Boyle is also infatuated with Det. Rosa Diaz played by Stephanie Beatriz. Diaz has the characteristics of a goth. She's mysterious, very smart, and sometimes kind of scary and disturbing, yet she has a heard of gold. Leading this squad of misfits is Det. Sgt. Terry Jeffords, played by former football star and Expendable, Terry Crews. Crews is the oddest cast member of this show to me, as I have never really found him all that funny in any other comedies I've seen him in. Here though, he's finally found his perfect role. Terry is the desk-working squad leader who was pulled from field duty after an incident after his daughters were born, as he became terrified he could die on the job and leaves his children fatherless. And finally, as Cpt. Holt's assistant is Chelsea Peretti as Gina Linetti, a narcissistic and confused intellect who typically annoys the rest of the squad and is childhood friends with Jake. She is by far my least favourite character on the show. I know what they were going for, and I've seen her archetype done before to much better fashion. I don't know if it's the writing or Peretti herself, but I can't stand this character and I wish she wasn't featured as much as she was. Maybe as a recurring, in small doses?Other than all that, does "Brooklyn Nine-Nine" set out what it means to do? Is it funny? Yes, I laughed a good deal through the first season's length and was always entertained. I'm highly excited for the season two, which premieres in two months on September 28th, and I think the cast works extremely well together. The characters are equally funny and as far as I'm concerned, the show doesn't fall into cliché sitcom structures like most do. Here's hoping for a long life for this hilarious new series.


                
This gentle, escapist sitcom - which continues to feel like a modernized, likable "Spin City" set in a police precinct - found its groove a long time ago, and manages to maintain the momentum throughout this fourth season as well. Chelsea Peretti continues to steal scenes left and right, while the show has also softened Stephanie Beatriz's Diaz while relaxing Joe Lo Truglio's Boyle, insuring that the show's interactions don't grow tired and repetitive. The show repeats its own format of writing itself into a corner by the end of the season, so it'll be interesting to see where it goes from now.


                
The third season of Fox's relaxed, enjoyable sitcom is as strong as the first two: It's primarily character-driven, and thanks to a great rotating writing crew and a charismatic cast, there's plenty to enjoy. The series has a habit of writing itself into a corner at the end of each season and slowly dismantling it over the first few episodes of the following season, which here takes a little longer than necessary, but in the end it all works out. The show is best when it focusses on the unity of the squad and there's plenty of that in this season, and Andy Samberg is a generous leading man, giving a terrific comedic performance and also allowing his co-stars to shine as much as him, and the finished product is truly an entertaining ensemble piece where every character is as important as the lead.


                
do not watch the first season, because compared to the 2nd and 3rd it is cringe-worthy, dry and just awfuli started from the 2nd and 3rd season after being advised to from a friend and it was so witty, engaging and funny. i fell in love with the dynamic between the characters and began binge-watching it immediately. I definitely would recommend it for a light comedic relief. I watch it often for stress relief and escapism. Andy Samberg's comedic talent really shines, and is backed up by the rest of the cast including terry crews. The characters are not really cliché either, they have quite different characteristics to your average how i met your mother/friends type comedy show characters.i then went back and watched season 1 and it was no where near as good as the other two.


                
at first watch without subtitle, it is so hard to understand. but as time goes on i reallized that unlike appearances and police identity, all the characters are very erattic and funny. especially even main character, jake peralta is genius and with passion but he has childish character. benefits are Continue caused a laugh while looking at the TV and it will help a lot of English study because of funny punning. Since the episode is short, have fun in the bus while i go to school. and relationships between characters is also appropriate. i want to recommend my friends. next time after the midterm exam, i will watch again with my friends
