If you'll pardon the rambling, here are my thoughts immediately after watching this on DVD an hour ago.......THE STORY - Many of the times, while watching this for the first time, I thought this was almost the re-enactment of Jesus' last day, seeing the phony trial, the trumped-up charges He endured by legalistic, power-hungry religious leaders of the day who had no clue who God is, and then the tragic end to the central character. Apparently, there were a lot of similarities to Joan of Arc's last day and of Christ's day. However, here it's the Catholic leaders who are the 'bad guys' while in Jesus' time it was the Pharisees and the Sanhedrin. Also, with Joan's story here, she is portrayed far differently in her ordeal than Christ did, the latter taking everything in stride stoically while Joan, without any physical beating, still cried constantly and signed some paper in a moment of weakness (although she later recants that, which costs the woman her life.)Anyway, about this film:THE GOOD - Wow, what incredible direction and photography. Scene after scene is pretty amazing and especially so when you consider this was made about 80 years ago! I would like to see the same director and photographer doing work with today's technology.The expressions on Maria Falconetti's face throughout the film are memorable. A sadder, more pained look on Joan of Arc - or anyone else's - I have not seen in a motion picture. She also must have set a record that still stands for the most tears shed by one person in a movie! The woman's eyes were like faucets.All of the faces in here - and the film is mostly a series of facial closeups - are amazing and kudos to Criterion for making a DVD that showed these faces with a clear picture and amazing detail. Director Carl Theodor Dreyer's camera angles still look innovative today. He and Orson Welles seem to share the same love of this kind of photography. I found myself numerous times just shaking my head in admiration for how these characters were photographed.Another big plus for this film was the addition of "The Voices of Light." They made the music score in here fantastic. I can't recall too many films in which I have been so impressed with a soundtrack. The DVD gives you the option of watching this film with or without that audio. I strongly recommend viewers to take the audio.Finally, the story itself is memorable, with a powerful ending.THE BAD - I have to make these comments to be fair and honest. It's not hard to understand why many people will find this film almost impossible to sit through, especially those with no emotional or spiritual involvement with the story. That is because it is extremely slow and repetitive. Shot-after-shot of just Falconetti agonizing or crying and weird-looking men staring at her. If you aren't a devotee of cinematography, this movie could be extremely boring after about 10 minutes.As powerful as the story is, it isn't a movie I would recommend for most people. I think most folks - of any age, frankly - would be turned off after 20 minutes. I understand that. As mentioned, this is not an easy film to view. This might be the longest 80-minute movie you'll ever see, if you aren't into it.OVERALL - Visually and audibly: an astounding movie and one I am glad to have finally watched. If I was wishing to get into the movie business and wanted to learn how to shoot films, this would be a film I would study numerous times. Otherwise, one viewing is plenty. I can only recommend this film to a very select audience.


                
"La Passion de Jeanne d'Arc" is probably the most famous work of Danish film maker Carl Theodor Dreyer. Unlike the typical biographical film, this one is based completely on the court proceedings in the trial of Joan--not some fictional or semi-fictional story written in 1928. This is pretty wild, as many historical films view truth as very flexible--with the real emphasis being on entertainment. If this means inventing characters or changing history--so be it! But, fortunately, not in this film! It's a history teacher's delight! When the film began, I sure was bowled over by the powerful soundtrack filled with Latin liturgical singing. While annoying normally, here with the intensity of the film and the subject matter is managed to work. In addition, the film is an artistic piece due to the director Dreyer's artistic vision. First, his choices of actors was truly amazing--as he chose some of the most amazing faces I've seen in a film--such character, such intensity and such acting from these people is truly amazing. Plus the camera pulls so much from the actors due to fantastic lighting and clarity of focus--you can even very clearly see the pores on many of the actor's faces! Second, unlike almost all other silent films and even sound ones, this one makes great use of closeups and inventive camera angles to heighten the intensity of the action as well as the impact on the audience. The result is a film that hits you in the face--hard, forceful and impossible to ignore. Especially strong in its impact is the execution itself--Dreyer chose to make incredibly vivid (so much so, some might find it very disturbing).Now I must say that although I greatly admired this, there was, at times, a downside. The actress that played Joan (Maria Falconetti) often looked downright crazed--like she was off her medication and reeeaalllly needed it!! While this could actually be true (after all, she was seeing things and having conversations with dead folks), I doubt if Dreyer wanted his audience to think Joan of Arc was nuts--as she so often appeared in the film. This is sad, really, as at other times, Ms. Falconetti did a masterful job--showing great sorrow and crying most convincingly. But, in many cases, after crying and emoting wonderfully, moments later she was staring off into space like she was stoned. I know this film is considered one of the great films of the silent age, but I don't know how this can be based on the truly bizarre and inconsistent characterization of Joan. Yes, I dare question Dreyer's brilliance in this respect. Overall, there's a lot to love and a lot that makes you question the film's "classic" status. Very good...just not great.


                
When the list of IMDb's top films include multiple titles given to animated features and a fair share of movies that are just downright goofy ("Life of Brian", "Groundhog Day"), it's reassuring to find a gem in the mix like "The Passion of Joan of Arc". Originally released as a completely silent film, I opted to watch it with the accompaniment of the 'Voices of Light' soundtrack, which renders the story in a much more spiritual manner.Accused of blasphemy, Jeanne d'Arc (Maria Falconetti) is placed on trial for refusing to recant her assertions that she's had visions of St. Michael, and that she was directed by the voice of God to take charge of her country's army and lead it to victory. In that regard, the picture's principal negative is that it's not placed in historical context, and one does not know the events taking place during the period of time the woman lived. It actually occurred during the latter half of The Hundred Years War (1337-1453) between England and France. Jeanne's involvement in the conflict turned a long standing Anglo-French conflict into something of a religious war, as her importance to the French cause grew over the course of time.One will be struck by the completely one sided nature of Jeanne's trial, one in which every theologian and judge mocked her replies and judged her responses as blasphemous. What's striking is the portrayal Maria Falconetti brings to her character, she is at the same time terrified of her ordeal, but sublime in the way she accepts her fate. It's one of the more impressive performances one would be fortunate enough to see, particularly coming from cinema's silent era. I think it's safe to say that even if one were not religiously inclined, there's an underlying spiritual power and presence that takes hold of the viewer while watching. It's an experience not to be missed.
Groningen's movie scene is always up to unusual and interesting things. I've seen La Passion de Jeanne d'Arc in a church (Martinikerk), with an organ and a latin choir providing the music to this silent film.Jeanne d'Arc is played very emotional though very convincing by Maria Falconetti. Jeanne d'Arc was her only performance as an actress, but you can't see she hasn't done any acting before. She sighs, weeps silently and gazes beyond her questioners. You see her eyes wide open and staring into nothing. She does it all the time, and it might get a little irritating in the end.The other actors too, are very good. Their looks perfectly match their characters, and in the many many close ups you can see through them by just looking at them. Very useful, because a lot of their dialogues do not appear in text screens.Despite of a perfect Jeanne d'Arc and a very good crew of judges, clerks, priests and soldiers, the Oscar for best performance goes to the camerawork. Long and intense close ups, very modern framing and a few shots you can also find in Soderbergh's Traffic.La passion de Jeanne d'Arc is a story with a very predictable ending: she dies. But it takes long before she finally gives up and I believe director Dryer has stretched the story a little too much.It was a wonderful experience to watch a silent film in a church, accompanied by organ music and a choir. But even without those extra's, La Passion de Jeanne d'Arc is a very worthwhile, if not a beautiful movie. It's a shame silent films are rarely shown anymore.


                
when you think of a Jeanne d'Arc movie, you don't expect to see a movie based purely- and focusing just on the trial of Jeanne d'Arc. considering the entire life-story of Jeanne d'Arc, it just doesn't seem like the most likely and interesting thing to focus on. It however of course works well for a more deep, serious and realistic approach and or course also in an original way of retelling the story of Jeanne d'Arc. So don't expect to see a strong heroic female lead but a betrayed, broken, emotional one instead.On top of that, it's a very artistic shot movie, which helps to at all times keep the movie interesting and great to watch.I'd say that about 70% of the entire movie consist out of close-ups. The faces and facial expressions really tell the story of the movie. The movie was also originally intended to be released without any music, to even more empathize on the faces.All of the original shots of the movie were considered destroyed and lost forever before release, which forced the director to completely re-make the movie through re-edits of previously rejected shots. But also this versions got soon destroyed by fire. Therefor this movie was long considered a completely lost one, until an original Danish copy of the movie was found again in 1981, in perfect condition, in out of all places, the closet of the janitor in mental institution in Oslo. How weird is that? Stories like this of course also contribute to the movie its legacy.By todays standards all of the acting performances within the movie can be described as over-the-top. This sort of acting approach was of course however needed in the silent movie era, to make clear to the viewer what the story and the emotions within the story were.I won't go as far as calling this one of the best silent movie out of history, but it's definitely among the artistic most successful ones!8/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
Oak Cliff Film Festival 2018
Greetings again from the darkness. It's a rare treat to watch a 90 year old silent movie. Especially in a remastered format. Especially on the big screen. Especially at a historic theatre. Especially with a nearly packed house. And especially with a live score! The 7th annual Oak Cliff Film Festival, held at the Texas Theatre (opened 1931), afforded just such a treat with its Friday evening screening.Most know the story of Joan of Arc (Jeanne d'Arc), a teenage heroine of France for her role in the Hundred Year War. She claimed that she received spiritual and religious guidance through voices and visions. Once she was captured by English allies, she was charged with heresy and burned at the stake in Rouen in 1431. A quarter century later, the Pope declared her a martyr and she became a symbol of France - canonized as a saint in 1920. Of course, here the story is as much about the film as it is the martyr and historical figure.The eyes are what first grab our attention. The eyes of actress Maria Falconetti as Joan of Arc. It was Falconetti's only screen appearance, and though she spent the rest of her career on stage, this role cemented her place in cinematic history. Without the benefit of sound and voice, the silent era performer had to emote through eyes, facial expression and body movement. Few ever did it better than Falconetti. It's gut-wrenching to watch the church counsel attempt to break her resolve. Our minds hear the intensity of their voices though we only read the subtitles. Renowned Danish filmmaker Carl Theodor Dreyer directs the script from writer Joseph Delteil (taken mostly from the transcripts of the trial), and the cinematography is through the eye of 5 time Oscar nominee Rudolph Mate' (FOREIGN CORRESPONDENT, PRIDE OF THE YANKEES). It's impossible not to notice a style so different from modern day filmmaking. The harsh lighting and almost exclusive use of close-ups and medium shots bring an immediacy of which we aren't accustomed. The single piece set is quite unusual and provides a stage aura. Another thing that stands out is the editing style. Continuity of scene wasn't important here. What mattered was the sense of frantic pacing and over-bearing stress brought on by the rapid-fire questioning. We share the claustrophobic feeling with Joan, though of course, we know where this is all headed.As part of this special showing, the Oak Cliff Film Festival arranged for a live score performed by composer George Sarah, a 4 piece chamber orchestra, and a vocal group accompanying the music. Perhaps this meant even more to me since I visited Rouen last year, and the lasting legacy (almost 600 years) of this courageous young woman is evident throughout much of France. The re-mastered film is stunning to look at, and even more historically important knowing that the film had long thought to be lost to a fire. The story and the film are quite something to experience.


                
Director Carl Theodor Dreyer created a unique experience with this film, employing low camera angles, unique editing, and a ton of tight shots on his actors to get an intensity of emotion from them, Maria Falconetti (as Jeanne d'Arc) in particular. The story focuses on just her trial and execution, which has the advantage that it makes the film taut and Kafkaesque, but the disadvantage that additional context would have told a richer story. Do we really see Jeanne d'Arc here? I'm not so sure, historical transcript notwithstanding, though I did find it fascinating that she refused to change out of her men's clothing. While performances are strong and the film is ahead of its time, the content is dark, and not particularly uplifting, especially if you're a non-believer. There is of course a universal theme in a righteous person standing up to persecution - being mocked, threatened, and tortured - but at the end of the day, it's simple Jeanne, believing she was sent by God, standing up against the established clergy, who, threatened by her assertions, believe she was sent by the Devil. The film never ponders whether both may be deluded, and concludes with her soul being protected by the flames as it rises to heaven. Watch this one for Dreyer's craft and Falconetti's performance.
My theory on why we almost lost this one (most of the prints were destroyed in the '30s):The Great War all but destroyed what was left of a French Enlightenment and democratic tradition that was little more than 150 years old. The culture that had spawned Descartes, Focault, Rousseau and Napoleon was in decline well =before= the huns charged across Flanders in 1914, but it was in a moral, spiritual and financial power-dive and headed down the road into a civil war between the urban socialists and communists vs. the urban and rural landholding, wealthy, ultra-conservative fascists in 1928.The Holy Roman Church retained its power in the provinces, but as urbanization spread, France was splitting into a polarized culture of progressive, anti-clerical urbanites who watched films and listened to the radio<U+0085> and traditionalistic – and politically conservative -- peasants. The great landowners of the northeast had been all but ruined by the Great War, and it would be some time before they held the political power they'd had until 1914.French politics involved endless battles between labor unions and manufacturers in the cities. Fascism was on the rise, but it was a listless, reactive, passionless sort, as opposed to all the excitement in Italy and Germany at the time. The modern viewer may do well to understand this as he or she watches "The Passion<U+0085>" For this is a film of metaphors.The Paris intellectuals of the '20s saw Benedict 15th, and Pius 10th, 11th and 12th during the early part of the 20th century as the popes and anti-popes of Joan's day. Joan of Arc had "led" the pro-papist ("conservative") French forces that installed pro-papist king Charles 7th to the throne during the Hundred Years War against the English in the early 15th century. She may have been canonized for her role in "saving France for Holy Roman Church," but she is also seen by many in France as the savior of the culture in the face of a very serious foreign threat. Some saw French politics in the '20s and '30s as strikingly parallel to the politics of Joan's time. A prisoner of his very divided College of Cardinals (many from the Central Powers), Pius 10th stood on the sidelines as Germany and Austria-Hungary set about dismantling the rest of the Continent. The urban French audiences of 1928, and indeed, the audiences in much of Northern Europe understood the "message" here, depending upon their point of view: Kill the threatening energy of French democracy and give us another "man on a horse" (and good churchman), in this case a war hero named Philippe Petain... the very same Marshal Petain who would head the puppet Vichy government for the Nazis just a dozen years later.


                
While director Carl Theodor Dreyer is probably religiously motivated, the persistent usage of Joan of Arc's and the evil judges' Close Ups, which must be exceptionally innovative and progressive at the time, suitably conveys Joan of Arc's emotional intensity. Towards the end, several incredible external panning/tilting shots from extreme angles culminate the audience's emotion to the apex. It is hard to believe that the film was made in 1928.The version I watched is scored by Richard Einhorn, who blends the Middle Ages-esque melisma with a contemporary post-minimalism taste. The score is composed in 1985 and performed by Anonymous 4, and is impossible to exist as a soundtrack back in 1928, but for the contemporary audience it appropriately accompanies the film.


                
There's no doubt about Dreyer's "The Passion of Joan of Arc" being a work of genuine poetry. Nothing like it had been seen before. The performances are nearly perfect, although Maria Falconetti as Joan of Arc has few light moments, as you can imagine. Dreyer's direction was all new to the screen, mostly low-angle close ups. The set direction was similarly innovative. All the rooms are spare and brightly lighted. Even the torture chamber is clean and uncluttered -- no pots of oil bubbling over a fire, no hairy greaseballs going grimly about their tasks. We get a hypnotic glimpse of a spool of spikes whirling, and what appears to be some sharp and jagged farm implements hanging on the wall.I don't know where the Dreyer managed to find such faces. Some of the bishops have warts that look like boils; some have handsome and earnest features. The dwarf-like low-lifes who tug her from place to place caper and giggle with glee at Joan's distress. BOY, does the church want her to sign that paper that will at once save her life and betray her belief in God's message.But I can't watch it more than once or twice. There's very little in the way of torture -- nothing like today's movies with bath tubs of gore and screams so loud they launch your basilar membranes into a tarantella. Joan is feverish and faints and the good doctors bleed her, as is the custom of the day, and that's it for foreplay.But when she burns, it seems to take forever, and Falconetti's face goes through one expression after another, like a chameleon changing its pattern. It's too painful.Am I permitted to add a little note, not directly related to the film. In the last 1960s, the critic Stanley Kaufmann was teaching film appreciation at Columbia. He showed this movie and asked for responses. They ranged all over, comparing it to Preminger's movie about Jean Darc, the actual historical figure from both the French and English perspectives, and so on. It was one of the reasons Kaufmann was prompted to write "The Film Generation," predicting that in the future classical movies would have virtually replaced literature as the principal art form. Within twenty years, he retracted his prediction, having found that in the intervening years the intellectual reach of his students had regressed to the mean, or perhaps dropped below it. Anyway, you may not want to watch it often either, but you're not likely to forget it.
A fairly well known religious story, French director Carl Theodor Dreyer made The Passion of Joan of Arc in 1928. Because it is silent and in black and white, facial expressions via frequent close ups must convey the sincerity of the subject. Whether she was insane and delusional or was actually hearing the voice of God is up to the viewer to decide. I have to separate my personal views as a retired Catholic from my review. Joan is played magnificently by Renee Jeanne Falconetti, who so convincingly portrays the future saints' emotional character so well. Her performance has been hailed by many as one of the best ever captured on film. The transcript of her trial is used as the basis, with judges on a panel interrogating Joan and doubting her message from above, to drive the English from France. Even under torture, she never relents, and it is not a spoiler to mention the burning at the stake, which is not a secret. The Passion of Joan of Arc is a work of art, regardless of ones beliefs about the supernatural. Ms. Falconetti's last role is a memorable one, which should be studied by everyone in the acting profession for a lesson in perfection.


                
What struck me the most about this movie was how much it reminded me of a black and white television news or court room interview from the 1950's and 1960's. Several times I had to remind myself that this was NOT a pseudo-documentary in that vein. Then it occurred to me that, having been made in 1928, it was before the advent of television,so this bonus effect had not been planned. Of course seeing it on video on an actual television must have added to the effect. The spare, largely blank gray background and closeups of Joan concentrated ones attention on her and heightened her personal pain, dread and tragedy.For me this was a new treatmernt of with new insights into the Joan of arc story.


                
The trial and execution of Joan of Arc. Powerful drama. Starts rather tamely, and it seems like the movie could just be a back-and-forth dialogue between Joan and the judges / priests. However, the dialogue is spot-on, and the verbal jousting is wonderful to behold.Great direction by Carl Theodor Dreyer. His use of close-ups is a masterstroke, giving a great intimacy with and engagement to the character of Joan. Quite gritty, realistic direction too. Very graphic for 1926 - the last few scenes are incredibly harrowing.What makes the movie is the performance of Maria Falconetti in the lead role. Superb, conveying vast amounts of emotion and thought without saying a word. Surely one of the greatest physical drama performances in all of cinema.


                
From director Carl Theodor Dreyer (Vampyr, Ordet, Gertrud), this is a Danish silent film I was really looking forward to watching because of all the critical acclaim I knew it had, including of course it's placing in the 100 Movies You Must See Before You Die book. Based on the real authentic records of the historic trial, this film depicts the last few days of Jeanne d'Arc, better known as Joan of Arc (Maria Renée Falconetti), on trial for the crime of heresy, because she believed it was her mission from God to support King Charles VII and fight or lead in the Hundred Years War, the battle between France and England. In court she is questioned by Bishop Pierre Cauchon (Eugène Silvain) and supported by some as a true saint, and she remains dedicated to her beliefs, and in her cell, while judges try to find evidence to convict her, she is interrogated by priests and attempts to convince her to change her views fail. These attempts include a false letter from the king, and she is denied a Mass, Jeanne does become visibly emotional during trial, with those speaking ill of her strong religious beliefs and the antagonism, she also faints at the sight of the torture chamber, but she does not give in to any demands of a change to her statements. However Jeanne is threatened with the penalty of being burned at the stake, and she finally breaks, allowing a priest to have her sign a document of confession, and she is given communion, but then again Jeanne recants and in the end as punishment is publicly executed in the courtyard at Rouen castle, burning at the stake while a crowd protests. Also starring André Berley as Jean d'Estivet, Maurice Schutz as Nicolas Loyseleur, Antonin Artaud as Jean Massieu, Michel Simon as Jean Lemaître, Jean d'Yd as Guillaume Evrard, Louis Ravet as Jean Beaupère and Gilbert Dalleu as Jean Lemaître. Falconetti gives an extraordinary performance as the title character, you can see all the emotions in her face with the many closeups, it is the only role she ever had as well, this film goes to show that not all films need sound or dialogue when you have a magnificent leading performer, and there are some really good camera angles, zooms, tilts and pans that create the intensity, this really is a compelling and must see classic silent drama. Very good!
. . . as director Carl Dreyer devotes almost the entire 82-minute running time of his THE PASSION OF JOAN OF ARC to extreme facial close-ups. Melle (or Maria) Falconetti as Joan cries a literal bucket of tears here, but that's not the headline. Though SHE is the one eventually convicted and burned as a "witch," her JUDGES THEMSELVES sport every shape and style of mole, wart, and wattle known to mankind, most of them in photogenic extra-large sizes! While Joan's suffering at the stake seems much more prolonged here in 1928 than in most subsequent film versions of her story (and the villagers' post-burning storming of the castle seems like something more suited to IVANHOE), Mr. Dreyer probably thought this was the only way to show how her earthly body could be purified after weeks of close exposure to such odious, Pustulent, venal, prevaricating, corpulent, chauvinistic, hell-bent air polluters at her show trial. One has to wonder if make-up artists were this GOOD in the 1920s, or--as a REAL vampire was found to star in NOSFERATU--did Mr. Dreyer dig up direct descendants of Inquisitors? Probably you need to be a dermatologist to answer this question.
Since it's all been said, I just wanted to check in with my comments on 'The Passion Of Joan Of Arc". I saw it recently and I am glad I did so. For all movie lovers, this is a must-see. I will try hard to avoid clichés and corn, as many reviewers have already used the thoughts I wanted to put down - and I am a movie-lover not a movie critic.It is difficult to remain detached from Joan as portrayed by Ms. Falconetti. She gives an extremely sympathetic and powerful performance and draws you to her. You cannot watch her face without feeling as she does and this, combined with Carl Dreyer's direction creates the illusion of reality and the 'suspension of disbelief' is complete.I thought the use of close-ups was very effective, as much of the film is comprised of them, particularly the harshness of the faces of her tormentors contrasted with the softness of Joan's. I have seen one other of Dreyer's films, "Days of Wrath", and felt the same stark realism and authenticity as depicted here. His films are more than character studies, they are in a sense soul studies. "The Passion Of Joan Of Arc" is the depiction of a true-life tragedy brought back to cinematic life by superb filmmaking.


                
