I'm not easily impressed by a movie. Even worse with an animated one. But this one got me drooling. I picked this one up by recommendation, and I'll recommend it to anyone from now on. I was familiar with the story of the TV series, but that didn't excite me in the least. But at least I knew what I was looking at (and I suggest that people considering to watch this should familiarize themselves with the TV series first).Although the violence is very graphic and the dialog can be a bit of a drag if you lose track, everything else perfectly makes up for it. The animation is fluid, the art is beautiful, the pacing is impeccable and the soundtrack is gorgeous. Now combine all these elements in a single concluding scene, and you've got at least half of its viewers reduced to tears.This movie is very re-watchable. I've seen it at least 6 times already, and I'm eager to watch it again. Like most people advice; you should avoid the dub like the plague, but even the subs can be a bit misleading. I've had the pleasure to have seen 3 different subtitles on this movie, and the degree of accuracy of any of them is debatable. Although the plot doesn't suffer from this, the story and especially the details and references to factual Japanese history do.But this shouldn't stop you from watching this movie, instead, it should encourage you to set out and find out as much about this movie as you can.


                
Forget the famous Rurouni Kenshin TV series. This has nothing to do with it. Well, yes, it's supposed to be a prequel, but the tone, mood and depth of it makes it a completely different story. It's a lyric and very adult tale about love, death, politics and betrayal that deserved, not only a theatrical release, but also massive exposure.Production values are extraordinary and it's packed with more expressive resources than all western animation ever. Look specially for one of the best representations of smell in the history of filmmaking.But the best part is the story. Layer over layer of meaning and symbolism create a tight, dark and deep tale. Nothing is said, nothing is shown that doesn't bear deep significance, be it a cryptic sentence, a shot of a child's toy or a slash through the face.And then there's the fights. When "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" opened everybody talked about how the fights revealed character. Well, Rurouni Kenshin does the same thing much better, and it doesn't need 10 minutes each time. The fights are short and brutal, swords actually cut the flesh, but there's so much being told each time.One of the most beautiful things here is what's left off screen. Rurouni Kenshin is a historical epic, but history isn't shown directly to the viewer, it isn't spelled out for you. We focus on the characters. They go through history, sometimes they even change it, but we are not shown the politics and the fights for power. We stay with Kenshin, an assassin, a mere pawn in those fights. We see the killing and then we hear the vague echoes of what it causes. The story is moved forward, but we have to build it back together with the information we receive through Kenshin's eyes. Yes, this is what critics mean when they talk about a `demanding' film.Rurouni Kenshin is a work of art. Well worth your time and money. It comes in two one-hour volumes (two chapters each), but the best way to experience it is seeing them all back to back, as a two hour feature film. Two thumbs up and go get it.


                
I used to tune in Kenshin the TV series on Cartoon Network. I hated it. I hated everything about it because it was so cheesy. I just didn't like it, but I was curious about the storyline. I checked a few anime trailers and I discovered Samurai X: Trust and Betrayal. At first I thought: 'Wow, is that Kenshin? He looks different. Wait, this looks a whole lot more serious than the TV series. I must watch this!' So I borrowed it from my friend and noticed how very well done it was. VERY well done. It gave nobody mercy regardless if they're bad or good. This isn't the type where everybody dies either, but the storyline is also twisted but it fits in at the end. It gets you thinking one thing, but the real story is about something else. I love it. I love it because it's a story about love. That's all it is! A really well done love story. In all, i think I've watched it more than six times and I still cry watching it. Don't get me wrong guys, this isn't a chick flick. It's action/romance/etc etc.. it can fall into a lot of genres. But in all, it's a great anime about love and life.Even though I gave it a straight out 10, but I have to complain about one thing: characters... Most characters you didn't get a chance to know which you wish you did. But maybe they went into that during the last of it that continues after this. Who knows, anyway, good anime. Definitely recommended to people who aren't very fond of anime.


                
What you would call me if i say there is no true love? ...A fake? a fool? i was watching the ninja scroll OVA before this ...halfway down the line i got bored with all the mechanical gadgets used extensively in the scroll . I felt disappointed , and decided to quit it.Then, i just thought .."lemme check this so called kenshin as well" (sarcastically). To my amazement i was glued to my seats after experimenting the first few minutes . what a score ! man o man. what a storyline..boy o boy! what a scenic..girl o girl! Believe me . i was so touched by the movie that i missed my dinner ! i wonder how people make such movies that can take your soul away..


                
*contains lots of spoilers* Rurouni Kenshin was the first anime that I ever saw. It's definitely my favorite. There's many people who post here who seem to think that the anime is how the story went. It's not really true. There was the Maiga which the anime was based on. That's why there's this "change of tone" from being happy to serious. I think Kenshin's a great story... it's exactly as it says: Romantic Tales of the Meiji Era. If you read the comic book, Kenshin doesn't die at the end like in the 2nd OAV. However, together, the anime and Maiga make the story great. It's really intended to give a sense of the emotions of this one man. Every character along the way has some sort of tragedy surrounding his or her life. Kenshin's parents and 2 brothers died of cholera when he was young and he was sold by his relatives as a sort of slave. Everyone who cares about him or who he cares for seems to be killed. He tries to help the world through the use of his sword skills learned from the egotistical-but-truly-loving Hiko. Kenshin tried to bring about a more peaceful and democratic era in Japan as a hired assassin. It wasn't that he was mean. It was that he was just so innocent and didn't understand the ways of the world. He was too honest. Kenshin killed to try to save the oppressed. In doing so, he really wasn't pleased. The death of Tomoe's fiancé, Kiyosato was one that Kenshin remembered because the fiancé was so determined to live. It brought back to Kenshin a thought that he had expressed to Hiko before he began his apprenticeship with the sword. Kenshin had said that in the end, there were no bandits or family - they were all people. This was the idea that people all have the same desires to live and love. Though they are your enemies, there are also people who care about them. Kenshin is deeply affected by this idea (depicted by the fact that he is surprised by the scratch, has the constant reminder of the bleeding, and puts a flower on Kiyosato's dead body). According to Japanese culture, Tomoe should have committed suicide being that her love died. This is why she had the knife <U+0096> it had been given to her by her fiancé's family. Tomoe was too strong-minded and instead, decided to try to seek out and kill the assassin who killed Kiyosato. Tomoe eventually fell in love with Kenshin and the whole conspiracy brewed with the group that she had signed up with. An important point is that, before Tomoe's death, Kiyosato appears (ghost) with the ground cherry flower that he had promised to bring back for her. This was the same type of flower that Kenshin put on Kiyosato's back after he was killed. It becomes like one of those interpretation questions that they ask you in school: did he appear to say that Tomoe should kill herself and be loyal to him, or was he saying that Kenshin was a good man <U+0096> only confused <U+0096> and she should save him because the past is the past? While Tomoe is dying, further question arises as she puts the other part of Kenshin's cross scar <U+0096> was that a symbol of forgiveness? Was she nullifying the curse that Kiyosato placed because of the other question? Or was it that she was to give Kenshin something that would serve as a permanent reminder of her? Did Tomoe still hold a grudge or did she love Kenshin? Her final words were "gomenasai anata." In Japanese, the word "anata" is a word for those who you have much affection for, but is also a term for strangers whose names you don't know. Tomoe's meaning is up to interpretation, but her affect on Kenshin is obvious. Kenshin truly loved Tomoe. He learned how to care about others again. He saw what pain it was for her to have lost Kiyosato and what pain it was for himself to have lost her. Kenshin wanted to redeem himself for all of the people he had killed, but that was not the biggest thing that affected his decision to become a "rurouni" (actually, Nobuhiro Watsuki made that word <U+0096> it doesn't exist in Japanese language <U+0096> it's a combination of "rurouni" and "samurai" <U+0096> at least that's what he said in a comment in his Maiga). The real reason why Kenshin became a rurouni was because he felt great sorrow for those who had cared about the people he had killed. This may have spawned from Kenshin's own tragedy of having lost his whole family. Kenshin knew that what he did affected many people. Check out my comments on the series and stuff on the page that's: "Rurôni Kenshin: Meiji kenkaku roman tan" (1996) TV-Series 1996-1999
Samurai X is my fav. set of anime movies. The movies make you mad, happy, and even sad. I've cried every time I've watched the ending of Samurai X:reflection, i'm afraid to watch it now. Samurai X: trust and betrayal tells the story of how he became the hitokiri and how he fell in love for the first time and felt pain for the first time. Samurai X: reflection, looks upon kenshins now painful life away from kaoru with his disease and it also looks back on his past at some of the major events. this set of movies are very amazing and will not upset.But of course to understand some parts of Reflection (such as the parts in the past) it might be good if you watch the t.v. series, Rurouni Kenshin.but, either way, these movies RULE!


                
I used a method once to determine whether a movie/video worth watching or not; the soundtrack! If it's able to evoke certain mind picture, then I'd check the video. This is one where such would work wonder. Compared to the TV episodes, the OVA use full classical theme instead of pop or electronic (there's a reason why every great/grand movie soundtrack is done in classical). If the soundtrack catched you, be sure to check the entire OVA. Whenever you listen to the soundtrack afterwards, the images will stick with you and the soundtrack will keep its echo


                
This anime deserves an all 10, even if you take each category seperatly. The animation and music is just beautiful. The story and the characters feel real and moveing. The visual storytelling is well implied, And the swordfighting is the best Ive seen in an anime, for realism and feel. You cant recreate the first time you saw a film, but still, I will have to watch this again and again... I have high hopes for the secound OVA... Average 10(10)


                
There can be no equal.Ruroni Kenshin OAVs simply blow everything else away.  I still shake my head in amazement at this truly awesome mini-series.Set in Kenshin's past, the OAVs focus on how he became the Hitokiri Battousai, the best fighter in the world, and his time during the uprising in Kyoto to depose the Shogun.For all intents and purposes, the Kenshin OAVs are simply one movie that has been split into four 1/2 hr parts.  It could easily stand up as a movie if put together, and should be considered as such.  Unlike the actual T.V. series, this four part mini series takes a more somber and dramatic approach.  There is no joking around in this mini series, not even one "Oro" (not to say that the joking around in the regular series isn't great). The scenery and shadowing of the animation depicts the emotion of the piece perfectly.  The music score is absolutely brilliant in its simplicity and the mood that it sets.  The story itself simply blew my mind away.  All of the characters were extremely well developed, as I have come to expect from any Ruroni Kenshin series.The Ruroni Kenshin OAVs are simply a masterpiece.  It easily competes with any non-anime movie, and I think it deserves to be considered as one of the greatest films of all time.  Every time I watch this "movie" I am left in awe.


                
..but in a way, much more suitable. Kenshin the ex-hitokiri bauttosai would definitely has not only a visible scar on his face, but the pain he inherited from Tomoe that is reflected on his sad face.Definitely bloody, any romance scene is modestly done, and the whole animation is made in the most realistic way possible.SPOILER: I can't help but to relate what kind of pain it must have been like. To be attached to someone whose fiancee you killed without realizing it, to discover one day that that you're the one who took her happiness, to be willing to die for all the pain you have caused, and in the end to see right in front of you when she sacrificed herself dying from your sword in order for you to keep living...this is on the list with bebop, ghibi's works, and grave of fireflieswonder what's the outcome of the duel between bauttosai and Saito, but since they both exist in the tv series, it must have been a draw. If I could relate to any character, that would be Hiko for he's completely aware that a sword as means to protect will always bring pain and the sword user is not excluded. Hence, he chose to stay away from "real life." Definitely there's arrogance, but not ignorance.
when I saw both tv series and the OVA, it's almost like 2 different character/story...the tv is nice for an entertainment and good laugh... the OVA is for die hard movie goers who appreciate taste of depressing, heart breaking, and life reflecting movie. The tv series makes you think/see how cool katana at work is (with all the "magical" stuff), the ova will show you the brutality, madness, and sickness.
I heard about this OVA two years ago. I have been a long time fan of the series and when I got my copy, I was blown away. It's totally different from the series in terms of art, mood and presentation. This is Kenshin Himura at his best, definitely not for kids as the OVAs' storyline deals with his dark and violent past as a hitokiri. I was even more surprised when I learned that some of the major characters and events in the story actually existed and took place: the Shinsengumi, the Choshu Clan, Katsura, Okita, Saito, the Ikedaya incident. This is a must have for all fans of the series and non-fans alike. Worth every buck and a gem in your video collection.


                
When people think anime, they think Akira.  That's a shame.  Where Akira was dull and uninspired, this 4 part OAV has a quality and charisma that all movies have tried for ages to achieve.The story is a complex weave of simple ideas, and the art is nothing short of beautiful.  The main characters are charming, believable, and interesting.  The soundtrack is just below Nightmare Before Christmas's for the greatest ever.  This movie just does no wrong.Well, maybe a little wrong.  Some of the characters aren't in the movie very long, but are referenced through dialog quite a bit.   It has a Robert Jordan-level of having to refer back to who is who.  However, I didn't really mind this.Other than that, the only other flaw is that it will never actually make it to American TV or Theatres due to the violence and adult themes.  That is a TRUE shame.


                
At this point the only thing better than the original Rurouni Kenshin TV series is this prequel OAV series.  People may pass over this because it is a mere 4 episodes long and figure there isn't much to it.  Let me stop you from making a major mistake.  Pick these videos up, you won't regret it. Despite only 4 episodes, this series packs in a lot of information and I do mean a lot.  It traces the events leading up to Kenshin's rise as the most deadly and fearsome samurai in Meiji-era Japan and what ultimately spurs him to renounce his ways and become the peaceful wanderer known to us in the television series.  Now to that gut-wrenching part.  This series is a far cry from the television series it precedes.  There is no comedy here, but there sure is a lot of violence and the blood flows freely for most of the 4 episodes.  More shocking than Kenshin's relentless killing though, is the what happens at the end of the 4th episode.  Your jaw probably will hit the floor.  Other than the amazing plot there is a lot to look forward to.  The animation is superb, eclipsing anything I have see recently and sometimes you begin to wonder if you are looking at photos, not drawings.  The music also fits the series well and has a tender yet sad feel to it.  The last thing is, DON'T miss this!


                
Although created after the TV series, this four part original video animation takes place in the past of Himura Kenshin, the TV series' main character. First off, the animation of these OVA is different from the TV series. While the TV series is more colorful and characters are drawn with more straight lines, the OVA looks more 'real' in a sense. While the characters look different you will still be able to recognize them from the TV series. Secondly, what I find separates these from the TV series is the change in the presentation of the story. The TV series features often uses comedy and is not extremely violent (sakaba sword). Well there is absolutely no comedy used in these OVA's and to fill the comedy intense scenes of action are added. Before you go jumping at conclusions this is not just pointless violence to attract a specific audience.  In the TV series Himura Kenshin was a rurouni(wandering samurai), but before he was a rurouni, he worked for the Meiji revolution as their best hitokiri(assassin). I would like to reiterate these OVA's are not intended for a young audience. What also really fueled my interest was the music playing throughout each thirty minute animation. Deep drums to lightly dancing flutes, the background music casts the feeling for each scene. Put together with the highly serious and dramatical animation there is nothing I can think of to compare.The first ten minutes of the first OVA will stun you and the last ten minutes of the fourth OVA will leave you in a daze. I highly recommend watching these to anyone who is looking for a strong two hours of viewing intensity. And those of you who have seen the TV series would truly be missing out by skipping over this OVA series, which can almost be called a prequel.Just in case my review convinced you to watch these, you can find these Rurouni Kenshin OVA's soon(I hope) on DVD by MediaBlasters.


                
Rurouni Kenshin:Trust and Betrayal has to be one of the most interesting and powerful anime films I've seen! I am not very familiar with the plot, but the characters were very complex and were developed excellently. Hardly any movies make me cry, but this film was very close to making me cry (seriously!!); this may be a little over the line, but I think this movie is quite comparable to the greatest Disney classics such as Bambi,Beauty and the Beast, etc. The reason: because it shows a ton of realism and sophistication not found in a lot of animated films today (well, Hayao Miyazaki's films are very impressive, too.) So, overall, this beautifully animated film is highly recommended by me and I too wish it had more exposure like Miyazaki's films do.


                
First off, let me state that this is my favorite movie to my favorite series. It has beautiful artwork and awesome sound.The soundtrack is also extremely well done. The story is great too! It's basically the makings of the best movie ever. Plus its much more gritty and violent than the series. It tells you how Shinta became Kenshin and how he learned Hiten Mitsurugi. The ind is sad because Tomoe is killed by Kenshin!!!! She dies trying to stop him from killing more people by sacrificing herself. If he keeps killing he will supposedly become crazy, which is why she does it. At the end of the movie Kenshin fights in the actual battles and fights against the Shinsengumi, etc. A few more minutes, end of the movie, credits roll.
This movie has a somber undercurrent all throughout. From the bloody opening with Seijuro Hiko (Kenshin's master), Kenshin's discovery (as Shinta) in a field of dead murderers and victims, and the relationship between Kenshin and Tomoe (who's original lover was killed by Kenshin)...one gets the sense that this tragedy could not get any more difficult to bear.As viewers progress through the film, they will share the senseless feeling about Kenshin's bloody deeds and Tomoe's pain at losing one lover while gaining another surrounded by so much death.Revolutions may frequently be bloody, and Kenshin's acts fit in that respect, but for so much killing to come at the hands of a traumatized boy makes the viewer pity him and hope he finds some semblence of a real life...an opportunity that Tomoe can present him.I watched the un-broken version that joined Trust with the 2nd part, Betrayal...where we find the old story of Kenshin's past coming back to tear his world asunder, leaving him to start his quest for pennance once again.


                
This is the best anime OAV I've ever seen! It's an excellent OAV about feudal Japan and the work of the rebels trying to replace the old government. Kenshin Himura is their assassin (and later on bodyguard). During one of his missions he runs into a woman, Tomoe, whose background is kept a secret until the end.


                
My first introduction to Rurouni Kenshin, one of the first Japanese anime I've ever seen and oh boy, what an anime! It surely sparked something in me.I probably watched this when I was about 12 or 13 years old with my older brother (around 14 or 15 at the time) and none of us really knew what we were watching, what was an anime or even a manga.I instantly fell in love with this film and yes, if you put the 4 OVAs together what you get definitely qualifies as a film.First off, I honestly think that this is a very strong film with an excellent plot, great character development, amazing animation and fighting sequences especially for that time, a lot of depth, great music, solid dialogues, themes, amazing tension, I could go on. You definitely don't have to be an anime fan to love this though I would say that the unique style, pace and tone of the film is not for every one.It is a pretty dark, gripping, tragic and yet beautiful story that nails fighting scenes but is far from revolving around it. In fact, if you get into this expecting to see a lot of fighting you might be sorely disappointed, do not expect comedic relief, or tons of dialogues either.I won't waste time fully comparing it to the original manga or anime series but will say that this story is much more realistic and definitely darker than its original medium. So I can say without a doubt that it offers something COMPLETELY different to the viewer.The films gets a bit slow at some point because it establishes something important for the rest of the story and after seeing it I'm sow glad that it did.I can't possibly write a proper review for this work of art because to this day, it is still my favourite anime film and one of my all time favourite film period. Thus, it holds a special place in my heart that might influence my review. However, putting all that aside, the fact remains that I still believe that this is Anime at its finest and that it delivers outstandingly in every aspects.Final Verdict: 10/10. This rating is not an attempt to evaluate the actual value of the film but merely reflects my own appreciation of it. I gave the highest note because of important this anime is to me and not to say that it is absolutely flawless.


                
During watching the whole Rurouni Kenshin series, I felt it is missing something. I think it was not serious enough, too over the top and childish. This movie fixes it all. It presents emotions and violence in a much better serious way, without the over the top stuff. Also the animation quality is way higher. If you had the same problems with the series as me, I guarantee that you will love this movie. If you have liked the series exactly as they are, you will probably miss all the fighting scenes with "super hero moves" - here it is mostly just brutal and efficient killing. It is a different genre than the series. I wish the whole series were like this.


                
This is for only the OVA series of Kenshin(includes the first 4 OVA's).This is the most bad-ass anime I have seen.Great story line, gory beyond belief(but if you can look past the fleeting moments of violence you are treated to a sensational story, definitely not for kids)I recommend for anyone that watches anime, and worth a shot even if you don't.one of my top anime picks of all time.


                
The Beginning Tales of Rurouni Kenshin, his Days as Battousai the Manslayer: the assassin life he lived before his retirement, the woman whom he fell in love, and the origin behind his cross-shaped cheek scar
10/10 classic ... romantic w/ bloody style


                
First, let me review the quality by departments: 1. Graphics. The graphics is beautiful, combinations between photographic elements and animations really set the dark, violent, yet beautiful pre Meiji era portrayal. Any scenery was made with careful details, and I should say this is one of the best illustration of its time. You will not find any unrealistic fight scene in this OVA, the fight scenes are fluid,simple, beautiful, yet violent and violent.2. Story. For those who have watched the main series or read the manga, then you might have some idea how the story goes. But in this OVA, you will find a distinct feel you will not find in the manga or main series (especially because this OVA is the prequel to the main series). For those who have never watched the main series or read the manga, you don't have to worry. This mini series actually delivers a proper introduction to the story, and a flow you can follow. But you have to realize before that the mini series itself has a background: civil war in japan set at late 1800's and the country was split into two. The story is not a simply adaptation from the manga, it covers the development of who was Himura Kenshin was to the man he became to. More than the manga, this mini series give you more thrills, and feeling to it. If you are looking for a story with clear character development this one will not fail you. Because this is a character driven story, the strength of the story lies on the two characters: Kenshin & Tomoe and their tragic relationships.3.Audio The soundtrack is outstanding, memorable, and gorgeous. The thing is, I need to emphasize on how the dialog was delivered. I watched it the first time with Original (Japanese) dub and i will not give any complaint it was perfect, you can feel the emotion, thrills, anxiety while you won't find it in the English dub. Not only you will find some of the main dialog was deviated but you can't feel the same feeling when you hear the original dub. I recommend you to watched the original dub with subtitles, more literary translation is better than a deviated scriptThis is definitely one of the best animation ever made. If you look for a tragedy, this one is for you, you'll be taking the agony to your life and maybe reflect it. If you look for love story, you'll find so few have deep story as this one.


                
I watched this when I was a kid in 2001. It was a show I could never forget. In 2013, I rewatched it moved me to tears and made me realize how special a scarf can be. Even though it was made in 1999, but the animation, story telling and details are impeccable. For a viewer who watches carefully (after a few runs), you see the little hints and inferences that when pieced together, tells a story of great love and sacrifice. I guess they are right, works of classics can never die.Cheer to that.And I'm going to add 1 more line just to hit IMDb's requirements of 10 lines -_=


                
Samurai X is the movie prequel to the anime series Ruroni Kenshin. The movie is loosely based on actual events that took place during the feudal era of Japan. The story is about Kenshin, an assassin trying to make the world a better place by the end of his sword, killing whoever is in his way. The film shows his trial and tribulations with what he is doing and how he comes to terms with himself. This particular anime has first class animation that makes the picture look amazing and the fight scenes are the best I have ever seen in an anime before. This is a very bloody yet thought provoking movie that earns its rights to be consider one of the best anime films ever. This film is nothing like the free spirited and almost heartwarming anime series it is based off of. Every scene is vey intense even though the characters might not be doing anything important. What makes the movie so great is not those awesome action scenes or the complex character development that Kenshin goes through but it is the ending that really delivers. The ending is truly moving and ironic at the same time and it leaves an impression on you that you can't forget. This great movie will go down as the best of the best and rightfully so. If you are in the mood for violent, sword slashing, though provoking, intense drama then this is the movie for you.5 out of 5 starsCool factor: Violent and Bloody but Brilliant at the same timeLame factor: Can be slow at times


                
