It's stunning, is it not, that if a film isn't in English the English speaking audience all of a sudden think it's art?It's stunning, is it not, that the most boring of films will be heralded as 'deep' as long as the pace is slow?It's stunning, is it not, that an audience will marvel at how shocking dog fighting is and yet applaud a film which uses dog fighting as a dramatic device.Wake up people. They didn't fake those dog fights!What a pathetic bunch of nasty characters. Octavio forces himself on his brother's girlfriend and subjects his pet to cruelty. El Chivo kills for money and has no concept of the value of human life. Valeria is a vacuous idiot who falls for a sleazebag who leaves his family in a classic example of the small head ruling the big head.Now, I have no problem with unlikable characters, but at least make them interesting!It may not have come from Hollywood, but it's still big budget trash.


                
A movie shot in ugly, unsaturated greenish-black colours with a jiggly camera that shows dogs being ripped apart has three serious marks against it, right from the start.  It tries to harrow us with sheer length (two and a half hours is a long time under the circumstances), and in this it succeeds: after the truly horrible bit (in part three - you know the scene I'm referring to), I found myself taking an interest in the story at last, perhaps from a lack of anything better to do.  But it's too little, too late.  The three stories have nothing to do with one another (they coincide spatially at one point - big deal), and they're simply laid before us, without art, like three uncut, rotting slabs of reality TV.  If this film were a physical object there would be policemen standing around it saying, "Move along, nothing to see here."  And they'd be right.


                
Before I saw this film, I thought of myself as a fan of Gael Garcia Bernal. Now I just don't know. I had seen Y Tu Mama Tambien a few days before & just adored Bernal. So I rented Amores Perros, and I was DEVASTATED! There was not a single character that I liked, and the whole movie upset my stomach. That it upset my stomach should say quite a bit, as I have watched "Last House on the Left" more times than I can count. The only redeeming feature of the film is its innovative storytelling. All the characters are doomed and unsympathetic. At no time did I truly understand the characters, nor did I want to. This has got to be the most joyless piece of cinema I have ever seen. In general I love foreign film, but not this tripe dressed up as art. I have read other's comments and find it shocking that this sort of ultraviolence and cruelty to animals is acceptable. I give it a 1 out of 10, only because of the narrative element I mentioned earlier.


                
Movie is so awful and so fucking long...don't watch this piece of shit! around one-third part of movie is dedicated to a dog who is stuck below floor...and this movie doesn't make sense at all...after watching it I was like what the hell was the meaning of this movie!


                
By the end of this long and horrible movie, the teenage Latinas in the row in front of me were laughing it was so awful. At least they managed to keep their sense of humor.To be perfectly fair I will say that Amores perros has the most convincingly violent scenes of dogfights and car accidents I've seen in a while. If watching dogfights and car accidents interspersed with soap opera sex is your thing, this is the film for you.


                
If you like slow, boring, formulaic indie films desperately trying too hard to shoestring together unrelated stories in a sad attempt at conveying something "deep" then this is the movie for you. For me however, if I want to watch something as meaningless as this movie I'd rather just be entertained by a bad Hollywood action movie. Watching Amores Perros is a chore to say the least. And as for the violence it is sparse and hardly anything for people to be shocked about. What is shocking is that people on here are actually posting that it is hard to watch because of the violence and crying about animal cruelty. Please, most of the scenes with the dogs only show them wrestling like 2 friendly puppies then cut to some staged scenes with fake blood. So, if you are one of those people considering getting this because of the violence just rent a National Geographic or pour some ketchup on the person next to you instead. My only guess as to why this is rated so high is that non-Spanish speakers are watching this without subtitles and just assuming it must be deep because, well, aren't all non-American films deep?
A movie that stands out in Mexico. What a surprise. I totally agree with it being an intelligent attempt to reach super production levels, of course, stealing ideas of Film Noir with no remorse. This comes as proof that Mexico, if attempting to ever reach a deeper level in cinema, have to rely in items that sell : Cruelty, blood, gore, etc... commercial items. nowhere good enough for a well-crafted story. "If you can't develop a good story, splash the screen with blood and gore and thee shall triumph" seems to be Inarritu's philosophy. He was great at radio, he should stick to that gift.Definitely it's a good movie compared with all the trash Mexico renders year after year, but this is also proof that if you are influential in the industry and have connections, it doesn't matter if you have a tad of talent, Inarritu is living proof.There are amazing talents in Mexico, but if they're stories are well crafted, it doesn't matter if they haven't sold their souls to our monopoly (people in mexico know who I'm talking about). For international movies, Amores perros is but another piece of film noir gore rendering tape.Sexo Pudor y lagrimas, another example but of a different kind. in general I don't think Mexico will ever acquire the level we once had with comedy films like those with Pedro Infante, Jorge Negrete, Joaquin Pardave, just to mention some. This is a shame, I'm twenty-six and can see that already.Mexico, wake up, we're still swimming in mud when it comes to film industry. Let's wait and see what other piece of c**p is rendered by our corrupted industry. Even more of a shame it s to acknowledge that this movie will become a school that will finish killing every instinct of a good movie with young filmmakers who get to break into Mexican cinema.Any objections, there you have my e-mail address so be my guest, I welcome all feedback.


                
Before renting this movie I read the box cover. The cover said it would be something like pulp fiction. With different plots mixed together it sounded like a good idea. The only problem is: This social drama is really very slow and has nothing to do at all with pulp fiction and its great characters or Tarantinos brilliant story telling.At about 48 minutes I realized my mind began traveling to more interesting things like getting another movie into the player more and more. The story isn't interesting at all and it is told in a boring way. The actors are ok but the characters they represent lack of interesting attributes and style.Not worth seeing. My Rating: 1/10


                
I'm a critic for my own online review site, so I try to see all of the movies I can, but I must say Amores Perros is one of the worst films I have ever seen. It is totally pointless! I don't care how many critics liked it, the film just flat out sucks. It attempts to be Pulp Fiction for 2000, yet it has no witty dialogue, no funny lines, no great cast of actors, and not even close to the same quality of music. It's overly long, there is way too much swearing without any purpose, too many gratuitous sex scenes, and too much violence. I love films with a lot more violence than Amores Perros, but in those movies it was appropriate and necessary, making for an interesting plot at least. There was nothing at all interesting about Amores Perros. It bored me to tears. I cannot even believe I threw away 2.5 hours of my life watching that steaming pile of dung. I'd rather watch the grass grow for the same amount of time.


                
This may be a great film, but I simply could not stomach the dog fighting aspect of the story and had to stop watching after 30 min. This is really saying something since I have watched countless "bad" movies and read bad books, and always finish them despite not really enjoying the experience. Maybe if I could have held on, I would have been able to take something way from the movie in total, but as a dog owner who has lost dogs to natural causes, seeing cruelty towards dogs was too unsettling to permit me to continue watching.While the dog fighting is simulated and the director cuts away from it quickly, it is still very disturbing, especially in the impression it leaves. Having read the plot synopsis, the dog fighting plays a lesser role in the other 2 vignettes of the movie, but I would not recommend anyone with a dog to even try and watch this. Certainly dog fighting is a problem, and it is more culturally accepted outside of the USA. I don't need it depicted on the screen however, even as a vehicle to carry a different storyline. My suggestion, especially for anyone who loves animals, is to read a plot summary and not put yourself through the film. Maybe pick another of Alejandro González Iñárritu's films as an alternative.


                
this is a depressing movie, but unlike 'requiem for a dream' for example which has other traits like an interesting soundtrack, Amores Perros is just depressing full stop.SPOILERS - depressing highlights include a female model amputee whose life gets worse when her dog gets lost under her floorboards. a jilted revolutionary who hates the world and likes to kill people. a trailer trash family, one member of whom cheats on his wife-beating brothers broad wife. he fights his dog for cash, stabs someone and then has a car crash that neatly brings together each depressing strand into one turd whole if this wasn't enough, there are some totally unnecessary scenes of dog fighting here. we all know dog fighting is rubbish, so do not have to see it over and over. why not use sound creatively instead? apparently no animals were hurt in this. although numerous dogs were clearly tranquilised and put under a great deal of stress and anxiety. so that's alright then..overall this is a nothing movie lacking any artistic merit.


                
¿Why The People Is Fascinated With Gael Garcia Bernal? Perhaps his terrible acting skills has certain charming. He must be replaced by anyone else and the movie could be better than this. Way Better!!!!!!!!!!! The rest of the cast is great,but this movie is still a mess: macho displays,high levels of sex drive, dog fights, a total reflection of Mexican Folklore in a three stories cross by a brutal accident. The action is good: The murder scenes, the crashing cars, the spirals of self - destructing behavior never stops. Dogs, dogs,dogs, metaphoric dogs giving the Pitbulls a bad name. Iñarritu's torture continue with (21 Grams) but that's another bad story. The moral is: Love's A B***h indeed.


                
What would you say if I told you that I watched a movie the other day where they tranquilized children and splattered them with fake blood while they tossed them around carelessly? Pretty damn twisted don't you think? So why was it acceptable to do that to the dogs in Amores perros? Dogs are very much like children they love and look up to their trusted caretakers. Yet the trusting dogs in this film are being abused for the entertainment of humans, not to mention their lives were at risk. How is this ethical for any living creature? "No animals were harmed in the making of this movie"? By whose definition? However dogs were in fact tranquilized for the death scenes. Although the dogs were "unharmed", tranquilization is not allowed under the AHA (American Humane Association)Guidelines for the Safety of All Animals in Filmed Media. AHA believes that tranquilization of an animal is a risk that they do not recommend for the purposes of film-making. Also, AHA's Guidelines are not utilized in Mexico. For these reasons, AHA has rated the film "Questionable". If this type of treatment is inappropriate for a human being (brutally being tossed around in the back seat of a car while tranquilized) it should not be done to animals either.


                
Of course all 3, Babel, Crash, & Amores Perros are awful. Not funny bad either, like so bad that you want to break the disc in half. I will never understand the people who like this film, or the other 2 listed. I like nearly all the top #250 films outside of those, but not pieces of crap like this. Furthermore, who leaves a f'in dog in the floor and does nothing about it? Yeah f'in right, like they don't have any neighbors in that building who would get tired of a dog barking for days on end? Furthermore, how is the dog magically not hurt in the car crash when the car was hit on the side where the dog is? The model is nearly killed, but the dog is fine?!?Seriously, save 3 hours of your life and watch something else.
