I think we're talking about one of the best Mexican films ever (i say so, knowing there's been excellent Luis Buñuel films as well as Arturo Ripstein ones, like 'Principio y Fin' -Begining and End- that is this director's highest peak (based on the book by Naguib Mafusz)and Emilio 'El Indio' Fernandez ones that i don't personally like that much (even though he received the Golden Bear in the 'Berlinale').Being surrounded by terrible Mexican movies, 'Amores Perros' was so refreshing and remarkably above every expectation that everybody could have about a first-time director (even though he was well-known for his wonderful work at advertising (changing the way ads were made in Mexico) and as a radio DJ in a WFM radio station that contributed to change radio in Mexico, too, along with Rock 101. Gonzalez Iñarritu (in cooperation with his almost personal screenwriter, Guillermo Arriaga) creates such a complex yet flawless history based on three individual ones that converge not only in the dantesque (reference to Dante Alighieri's style, The Divine Comedy) car accident, but in their perception and description of how love can be harsh, as well as life itself, of how love can get to be a bitch, a struggle.First Story ('Octavio y Susana') is about Octavio's (Garcia Bernal) obsession with his sister-in-law, Susana (Vanessa Bauche), but it's also about the violence, about an illusion, about betrayal, about loss. This is also reflected in the character of Octavio's dog, Cofi in a parallel relationship with his owner while he seeks his own destiny, having lost everything, he'll have to redefine his life. This parallelism also occurs in the second story('Daniel y Valeria'), an almost surreal one, where Ritchie being trapped underneath the condo's floor represents how it's owner Valeria (Goya Toledo) is trapped in a relation with Daniel that grows sicker as her injury (caused by the car accident) gets worse. The removal of the gigantic advertising of 'Enchant', the scent campaign that she used to be the image for, from the view of her balcony represents their decline: Daniel (Avaro Guerrero) left behind his marriage for this superficial mirage kind of dream, and she will have to make a whole redefinition of her life after losing everything. The dog-character parallelism with the main characters of this film can also be noticed in the third story ('El Chivo y Maru'), where 'El Chivo' (Emilio Echevaria), a former College teacher that left it all, family included, to become some guerrilla terrorist (is there a symbolism for Subcommander Marcos, from EZLN?), and now finds, by losing it all (all of his dogs being killed), but finding a new reason, new company just before a hit-man-type mission where he sets a confrontation between two brothers in such a biblical style the chance that none of the characters from the rest of the stories had: redemption. That's when he decides to retrieve some of the things he has lost, like Maru (Lourdes Echevarria -Emilio's actual daughter in real life), by at least apologizing to her, and redeeming himself finding a new life. It's clear that he'll stop being a homeless, because by the end of the movie he's got plenty of money. This story is one step ahead of the other two, cause after the loss they are all victims of, 'El Chivo' is the only one who gets that chance to start from scratch once again. Huge merit to Emilio Echevarria's performance for making believable the only character that was in risk of not being plausible of the film. Because of the relation within the characters, their dogs and their own love personal story, the title is, too a big success (both in Spanish and in English). Of the episodic narrative structure of the movie (a few critics in the Cannes Film Festival compared it with Tarantino's Pulp Fiction), it can be said that besides making it more beautiful and complex, it's also necessary. One can't figure a way to resolve the situation other than this one. The thrill, the shock would never be the same. For example, if each one was a short film instead, it wouldn't work the same way as the whole movie.In the film, Gonzalez Iñarritu allows himself to appear a few times: in the editorial where Daniel works, for example, verifying a magazine cover; having some of the TV spots he made in the 90's when he was a publicist shown in the movie; and in the last scene, 'El Chivo' names the dog he rescued (formerly known as Cofi) as 'El Negro', Iñarritu's nickname.


                
A masterpiece. Plain and simple. This picture transcends any language and culture, making us all be able to relate to each of its characters. I don't buy the comparison to Pulp Fiction or any other work. The disregard of chronological scene order and intertwining storylines have been occuring in films for years. Its done for effect here, is all.Alejandro Inarritu simply lets his actors take over and finishes off a puzzle that is almost complete as a result of the writing and acting. Not to denigrate his work, of course. After all, the ability to trust your actors and let them work is key to being a great director. BTY, more films need to be made in Mexico City, the largest in the world.


                
The more i see Amores Perros on DVD (I am proud to make this DVD as my private collection) the more i am moved by the director's work. The film maker is so honest in his film making. I think it takes a lot to give such a BRILLIANT cinema. This film tells three different story at the same time. Past, Present and Future is the judgment running in all the three tales.The performances are very natural and awesome at the same time. Gael Garcia is the best amongst all. Vanessa Bauche is also good. The camera work and technical aspects will be remembered through this film always, As they give a noticing turn to Cinema History. This film is according to me the years best reviewed film.This film MUST be kept in the film making museum (If Exists) so that different film makers learns different things and levels of film making. A film that is a Classic. And Classics are never RE CREATED. Be it 21 Grams OR Babel (Of course i've not seen BABEL yet).


                
Of course I watched Pulp Fiction and when I first saw this movie, it was on TV on local station. Later bought DVD, and watched movie a couple of times and realized, in some way, that this film is even better than Pulp Fiction. It's more human than any US multi-plot-anachrono-psycho-thriller film that I ever watched. Acting is very intense, young Bernal and old Emilio especially, and the cohesion of the different-class stories is excellent. Also I must say that the tempo of a movie and soundtracks of the song are doing just in a right way. Comparing "Crush" to this masterpiece is like comparing Coldplay to Radiohead in rock music. Although I never saw a Mexican film before (only their moronic love-story series), I felt like I was right there in Mexico city, while watching. Brutal scenes for the first time in my life, make film more realistic, instead of making distance from the real life. Everybody is so edgy in this movie, but in a natural way. Great atmosphere, great film indeed.


                
As far as I'm concerned, Crash, which won the Academy Award in 2006, was a rip off of this film. Hard to prove...but just watch Amores Perros and see for yourself.This film is superbly acted and directed. The love of the animals is obvious and heartfelt, and is key to the humanity at the core of this movie.I picked this movie because I really am a fan of Garcia Bernal...but all the other actors, to a person, are extraordinary. It is a gritty and realistic story that deserves to be seen.I will watch more movies by this director, and will look for movies with these actors. No longer is Garcia Bernal my only favorite Mexican actor!I just don't get WHY more people don't see the similarities to Crash...sheesh! It's a travesty.


                
I bought this movie on DVD few weeks ago and I must admit that I really like it. It is not only an excellent film with extraordinary performances but also a captivating movie with 3 different stories with the connection of the dogs. All the actors play their roles brilliantly. Thanks to all these things I highly recommend this movie to all the people who love good movies. Thanks to this film I am starting to love Mexican films and Mexican actors, specially Emilio Echevarria, recently seen in 'The Alamo', film which I did not like at all due to the way in which the Mexican soldiers are portrayed, but this is not the case. What I am saying is that 'Amores perros' is absolutely recommendable to all those people interested in good movies.


                
This movie should have won the Cannes Festival, it's one of the greatest Mexican movies ever made, and one of the better films of all time. It's about the sadness of love and of the human life, it shows like no other movie how hard life can be in big cities, like Mexico City


                
Fans of this kind of jump-cut editing will no doubt compare Amores Perros to Pulp Fiction, and that is a fair assessment of this film. Set in a hot, dry climate pulsating with malevolence, Amores Perros features a similar array of simmering malcontents, wealth, poverty, violence and sex. Where it differs from Tarantino's film is in the strong emotional draw of the characters.Gael García Bernal performs wonderfully (as always) as the unlucky Octavio, and he gets a lot of the screen time in Amores Perros, but the real hero here is Emilio Echevarría, who pulls off one of the most astonishing on-screen transformations in recent memory. His wordless performance alone is worth watching the 2 and a half hour film for.Interconnecting the three stories is the theme of dogs. All of the characters bestow a kind of love upon the animals which is not bestowed upon the humans. When they die, as most of them do, we are saddened beyond the brief shock of a human death or, as is the case, a terrible car crash. Dogs are the redeemers, too, of every story.This is a long film, and slow moving. Whatever you might hear about it it is much less violent than most Hollywood films, which revel in casual slaughter. The car crash is horrific, and makes me want to drive at 5 miles per hour in a Volvo for the rest of my life, but generally this is not a violent movie.Shot in beautiful, trembling, leached colour, it is an achingly beautiful film to watch. With the strong performances and literate screenplay it makes a very fine movie. Probably will become a classic in a few years. Oh, and it knocks the socks off Pulp Fiction...


                
From the very first second of "Amores Perros", something happens. You get sucked into the movie and your eyes become aroused with the incredible direction. The movie is an awe-inspiring set of plots joined together in an amazing editing process that draws attention to every cinematic aspect possible in movie-making. This is a movie that I saw with very high expectations and ended up getting way more than I bargained for. From the stellar camera-work to the flawless cinematography, the movie is almost a friendly gesture in proper film-making.The movie begins with a car chase. A kind of reminder of the movie Reservoir Dogs (especially with a dog in the back seat!), but quickly becomes something else. The swinging camera throws you back and forth and you actually feel as though you're about to lose control. A car chases from behind and then begins to shoot. You almost duck to avoid the bullets. The car gets closer and you press your foot against the ground hoping that the chased car will go faster. A bus comes out of nowhere and you hold your head hoping the car won't crash into it. It doesn't and it turns outrunning the chasing car, until finally the car crashes into another car. Inside the car we're introduced to Gael García (Octavio), who's later shown as a money hungry young man who uses his strong dog to fight and kill other dogs for money. He protects and seduces his sister-in-law, attempting to allude her away from her crazy husband. The car in which Octavio crashes into is Valeria (Goya Toledo), a supermodel who breaks her legs during the accident and eventually becomes an amputee. She struggles between living as a cripple, her husband who's had a history of being a disloyal husband, and her dog stuck under her floor. A homeless person passes by as the accident happens on his way to kill a man for a good price. He sees the accident and rescues the dog in Octavio's car, shelters him and breeds him. These three stories are connected by one single crash (this may be why so many people hate Paul Haggis' version), and their life is a fitting perspective of the movie name (Life's a Bitch).The dogs in the movie are a strong motif that celebrate life, and undertake a more tragic idea of fate. Director Alejandro González Iñárritu knows that this isn't a story with three different short stories. He quietly connects them with subtlety, all the while reminding us that they are a result of something completely different: the tragedy that is life. Alejandro portrays class struggle in a realistic way. He shows us that the dirt poor will do anything for money, the working class will be happy but will go that extra mile to please someone, and the high class will always be unhappy unless they keep getting more and more. In one beautiful scene, the homeless guy - El Chivo (Emilio Echevarría) calls his daughter and tells her that life is unfair, that he didn't have money so he got arrested and couldn't face her until now. The message of the whole movie is so thought-provoking it almost makes you choke. The whole system of life is just one big circle and everyone is somehow struggling with the same problem.Octavio is the fifth wheel in the movie. He becomes the reason for Valeria's accident, and El Chivo's sudden decision to not kill the man and finally face his own daughter. Within reason, Octavio is the central character. And although we never really know what happens to him after the accident (aside that his brother dies and he once again gets turned down by his sister-in-law and leaves), we almost know that the result will not be good. The same is the result with Valeria's story: we see her husband struck with anger as he finds out she is now an amputee, but we don't know if he will leave her or not. Especially because his former wife is begging him to come home. The only story we feel any optimism for is El Chivo's. Ironically, he's always been the one who has the word 'unfair' stamped on his forehead."Amores Perros" is as deep as it is cinematically beautiful. It shares a very interesting idea and thought about the world, and challenges us with eye-squinting visuals. Performances that leave your jaw dropped, and one hell of a thrill ride. One of the most suitable titles for a movie, it defines new cinema in a completely strict manner. Aside from that, it's a good thing there's a disclaimer saying "no dogs were harmed", otherwise it would have been hated by the critics.


                
At 2 hours and 33 minutes, you would think it would be hard to sit through the whole movie, but that's not the case with this film. The first scene grabs a hold of you, and only barely loosens its grip during the movie. Each story is mesmerizing and you stay determined to see the outcome. The first story is one of the most stunning of the three. However no story is really over when the next begins. The three remain connected. The dog fights are a little uneasy to watch, but it isn't shown on the screen for more than 21 seconds. I would recommend it to anybody, unless you can't stand to watch a dog getting shot.


                
Although the film had a unique quality all of its own, both stylistically and structurally it felt like a cross between the 3 Colours trilogy and Pulp Fiction - and for me that was a positive thing, because both of these were great works of filmmaking, and the idea of 3 linked stories, if done well, can be far more satisfying and entertaining than a straightforward movie. In fact, I don't know why it isn't done more often. But 'Amores Perros' definitely transcended its sources, and the crucial role of the dogs as a mirror for the humans at a stroke gave this file an originality and depth to make it stand out. For me, two of the most moving scenes were when Richie is finally rescued from beneath the floorboards, and then when El Chivu comes home to discover what 'Blackie' has done to the rest of his dogs, which in retrospect, was probably the film's key moment. In fact, despite all the canine gore, I think that dog lovers (myself included) get more  out of the film than those indifferent to them, as there's more emotional involvement.I also loved the contrasts of the different sections, from the frantic pace of the first story set in the lower end of Mexican society, to the more measured, 3-Colours style approach of the story of Daniel and Valeria, to the final segment which blended the two. I felt this approach worked perfectly, and unlike some of the comments here, I don't think any story went on too long - in fact, this was one of those films that was so good that (a bit like Traffic), I would have been happy for it to carry on another half hour. The characters were all utterly believable, and one of the joys of a film like this is gradually being shown how they all link together, even if they don't know each other, and understanding how one action leads to a whole chain of events which touches the lives of everyone. In fact, ultimately, 'Blackie' is responsible for everything that happens in this film!A real pleasure to watch - if you want a film that has your brain chewing over it for hours afterwards, go - and enjoy!


                
I really liked this film.It gives us an intimate glimpse inside three different stories/lives co-existing but unconnected at the same time.The film is wonderfully shot and with great cinematography which really brings the lives of the people and the city into your front room.This film feels so natural to watch as if you are seeing real events unfold and the clever way in which the three stories interconnect at different points only goes to re-enforce that feeling.A lot of films like this get bogged down in trying to deliver some great life message but this film gets it spot on by just giving us enough to let our own minds and imaginations finish the story.If you are not a fan of foreign language films you should still give this a try as it's a great starting point to develop an interest in world cinema. The first thing you will notice is how great the acting is, with the performer never intruding on the role, like is currently happening in Hollywood films.


                
Iñarritu's first film, Amores Perros is probably the best one of his death trilogy (followed by 21 Grams and Babel), it shows three stories, all concerned with love and dogs. These stories get united while the movie advances. The acting in this movie is very powerful, not forgetting how Iñarritu directed this film, so deep and strongly. Considerated as one of the most powerful movies ever, and nominated for many, many awards including the Academy Award for best Foreign Language Film, and winner of 11 Ariel Awards (Mexican Movie Awards), this movie proves that Mexican cinema is very alive and deep. Alejandro Gonzalez Iñarritu introduced himself and Gael Garcia Bernal in this masterpiece, and won respect worldwide.


                
Hollywood does not make movies like this - its honest but made with good quality editing, thoughtful directing with attention to the smallest detail. The dialogs are very true and row; there are no Tarantion's clichés here. The cast is excellent - and you will end up thinking if they are acting at all.


                
This film is so good I feel compelled to comment.The only film I've ever seen that even vaguely reminds me of this is El Topo,a Spanish made film from the 70's. While I could feel a little of Clockwork Orange, the message of Amores Perros is more evolved and less tangential.Through 3 separate stories, the filmmakers of this well-acted and craftily produced challenge-to-our-senses convey the same unavoidable truth: no one escapes the price for their actions.In grand allegory and shocking visual depictions, specifically of horrific and incredibly insensitive (to us) dog-fight settings, we are forced to accept this undeniable part of our existence. Each one of the characters undergoes severe inner and outer turmoil within the framework and context of their own life.The lower economic class is pervasively plagued with stereotypes and dead-ends. The limitations of the ghetto become apparent in the predisposed perceptions and corresponding acting-out of roles we see. Young women are wantonly lusted after in this undeniably male-dominated society, yet the mothers of these same men are devalued to the point almost of non-humanity. Their own self-worth and lack of virtue is just as meaninglessly predicated. These men display absolutely no sense of loyalty or appreciation for anything but immediate gratification; even among brothers. Morality becomes secondary to the law of the street; easily replaced with a clear "take what you can get" system of belief.The altering sociologic strata of the settings portrays a cross-cultural inevitability that everything catches up with us sooner or later. A successful businessman who leaves his wife and children for a beautiful woman finds he has stretched himself to the limit,and feels trapped by his own sense of responsibility. In another vignette a man who befriends dogs rather than humans rockets into reality upon the discovery of a quasi-victimless crime. With an inability to punish what he sees as the equivalent of brainwashing in dogs, he feels compelled to face the shame and the pain of confronting his own regretful past. An eternally optimistic young man who characteristically replaces hope with the facts, suffers incredible disillusionment through the impossibility of his dream.Not all suffering in this movie comes at the hands of one's own mistakes or misdeeds. Accidents and unfortunate twists-of-fate play themselves in award winning manner.The violence and pain of this movie happen in the mind as much as on the screen. With such redeeming value as the movie has, you may be able to force yourself to watch for 3 hours.It's not easy to do.As difficult as it is to witness the message of the film, the graphic illustrations are blatant and without apology. Perfectly fitted for the subject it addresses. No matter; it's not nearly as bad as what we experience in our own most dire moments. The film's horrors simply occur in concentratated form.I was left with a feeling that our time without struggle should be cherished. And as a result,I came away accepting the easily mouthed, yet painfully experienced, tenet that our darkest hours serve us by providing relativity to our lives.


                
Alejandro González Iñárritu's debut feature film 'Amores Perros' to me is one of the most remarkable film debuts there is in terms of direction and as an overall film. While he hasn't made a bad film (his weakest 'Babel' is still very good), even if some of his films are very divisive, 'Amores Perros' to me is his best.It is a long film but don't let that put you off, 'Amores Perros' makes the most of the running time and rarely does it feel drawn out or overlong. The middle act is quite as good as the rest of the film, the pacing drags a bit but not enough to bring the film down too much. The first story is absorbing but even better is the magnificent last one. Even if they are purposely not likable the characters are compellingly real.Visually, 'Amores Perros' is a very well made film. Very atmospherically lit, edited and designed. Not a fan of the hand held camera technique but it's very cleverly used here, with an intriguing documentary-like style, and is not abused. It's beautifully scored too.Scripting is complex and absorbing, and the way 'Amores Perros', exploring love, desire, desperation and traumas, is told and constructed allows for many disturbing, shocking, suspenseful and moving moments. It's very thought-provoking too and has real immediacy, as well as hard-hitting emotional power, vast emotional range and is uniquely twisted. Iñárritu's direction is exemplary, even early on his style is well established.Acting is very good, especially Emilio Echevarría.Overall, a masterful feature film debut and a masterpiece in its own right. 10/10 Bethany Cox


                
Amores perros leaves the audience with a need to improve and live our life better each day.  The harsh reality is, we dont know what will happen tmrw. Our life can change in a second, and although we may be experiencing pain, the future will bring us hope for a better tmrw.  This movie captures lifes uncertainty with biblical undertones."If you want to make god laugh, tell him your plans". Is God in charge of our lives or are we?The common theme within the three interlaced stories are dogs.  The story that stands out from the rest is the tale of "el chivo" the old hitman/assasin. A man with no emotional connection with humans experiences the very pain that he himself inflicts to others, when the dog he nurses to health  murders El chivos family of dogs. The main reference to this act is that "dogs resemble their owners"Beautifully acted, wonderful cast, great direction, great cinematography! You must watch this movie with an open mind, concentrate on the performances of the actors, put yourself in the characters frame of mind and then you will truly appreciate the story of this movie.It is not tarantino, neither is it trying to be. It is in a class of its own.


                
After "Como Agua Para Chocolate" about 9 years ago, there were a lot of hopes for a revival of Mexican cinema. Since then, not many more Mexican films gained much international or even national success. I hope "Amores Perros" reverses that. Most of the important points about the film have already been made. I will just add it is a very realistic portrayal of life in urban Mexico, especially the constant friction between social classes and the sexes that is so tangible on the streets. Also the incredible strains on family life in an environment where everyone is trying to get ahead is also apparent.I saw the film twice, once in the cinema and once at home on cassette. The version I saw at home was subtitled very loosely, I think you have to know Mexican idioms very well to get some of the meanings in the conversations. Many Mexican slang words have a double or even triple meaning, even the title "Amores Perros" is impossible to translate. So maybe some people miss parts of the story or subtexts because of that.


                
Recently compared to "Pulp Fiction" for its structure, Amores Perros is much more complex and serious. The dogs are allegories, of course, for all that is wrong with the world (and Mexico in particular) but this is a multi-layered, beautifully acted, jerkily (and grittily) shot film by a director who knows exactly what he wants to say and how to say it. Some images are startling (blood flows like spitting butter over a griddle in a restaurant shooting) and heart-rending (an unrecognised old man waves uncertainly to his long-lost daughter through her bedroom window after years of no contact). But there is also humour and love amid the constant betrayals and carnage. And, also, there are the dogs.


                
5/3/01 was the last day of Chicago's Latino Film Festival, and I spent the preceding month viewing a lot of excellent latino films.  Now being a "mexican-american," and speaking both languages fluently I know that the majority of Mexican films are about mariachis and drug traffickers.  So a good friend of mine told me we should go see this movie, "Amores perros ." He did not tell me it was a mexican movie, for if he had I would have missed the best movie I have seen in a very long time.  This movie is incredible, the intensity, drama, and dialogue all flow so well.  You must see this movie!  If you have a problem with subtitled movies see it twice.  Even if you don't have problems with subtitles, see it twice.  This movie is a masterpiece.  The first great movie of the twenty-first century!!


                
This movie might seem to violent for some people, but who are we kidding, life itself is more violent that any movie, reality overlooks fantasy. The climax and the point to this movie is to realize how rotten we humans can be but at the same time we all deserve a second chance and we all need a reason to fight for what we want, even if we go wrong sometimes.


                
"Amores Perros" is, without question, a marvelous achievement, a powerful work that stands alongside such other brutal/poetic world classics as "Forbidden Games", "The 400 Blows", "Winter Light", "Los Olvidados", "The Tin Drum", "L'Argent", "Das Boot", and "Underground".  Most professional critics have been too simple-minded to compare this film to anything other than "Pulp Fiction", to which it has absolutely no thematic connection. I'm pleased to see that several reviewers on this page have noted the true influence at work here - the late, great director Krzysztof Kieslowski and his screenwriting partner Krzysztof Piesiewicz, to whose magnificent "Dekalog" and "Trois Couleurs: Bleu, Blanc, Rouge" "Amores Perros" is indebted.  Which is an acknowledgement, not a criticism.  "Amores Perros" tells a trio of interwoven tales questioning man, God, faith, family, and love through a stunning combination of expert direction, writing, editing, cinematography, scoring, sound, and acting, creating a truly classic work that needs no comparisons.  Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu and Guillermo Arriago have created a masterwork.  Bravo!  Not to be missed by the serious filmgoer.
"The greatness of a nation and its moral progress can be judged by the way its animals are treated" - Mohandas Gandhi


                
This could easily have collapsed into three stories whose little morality plays resolved themselves at the end; to the filmmakers' credit, they don't. Nor does love. Or hate. The two are so intertwined in this film it's hard to pry them apart sometimes. The handheld documentary style gives an immediacy to the surroundings, and the action is so continuous and hard hitting, in one quiet moment, a ringing telephone is enough to startle. The script is smart. No easy answers here. As many have noted, vicious dog fights play a big role, but there's no preaching about the sport. It just is. And we see, inevitably, that the handlers are no less animals themselves. It's the dogs' world.


                
It's unfortunate that "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" stole the thunder from this year's foreign film category for Best Foreign Language Film. What an amazing piece of work. Everything was top-notch, from the Faulkner-influenced style of story-telling, to the cinematography. This is three seperate, yet intertwined stories that very easily could have been confusing and lost it's audience. But what happened while watching this film was anything but. From the opening segment, the audience is deeply engrossed in this film, until the very end. If this film is exemplary of the type of films an audience can expect from Mexico, than I'm anxiously anticipating the next film to cross the divide. A MUST-SEE.


                
"Amores Perros" is a raw and visceral experience. Real passion, intelligence and craft has gone into making this wonderful film. By contrast most other films of the last few years seem bland and antiseptic. The film places the viewer right in the heart of urban Mexico, and amidst this teeming environment the characters' lives play out - full of immanent (and often eruptive) violence and feeling. The film has one of those episodic structures familiar from "Traffic", "Short Cuts" and "Magnolia". Yet it is a superior work to all of these films, not only because it feels less contrived, but also because it is blessedly free of the kind of characters who spend far too long hand-wringing and feeling sorry for themselves. Refreshingly, "Amores Perros" is not concerned to dissect "dysfunctional" people or "dysfunctional" social systems. It pulls off that rare trick of seeming to issue from right inside the worlds it portrays, rather than standing apart from them. This may well be an illusion, but that of course is what makes the achievement of "Amores Perros" all the more impressive. (It is also one of the only films I have ever seen that uses animals to signify in a way that is neither sentimental nor monstrous.) 10/10


                
