I like foreign movies. I'm Finnish so I watch practically every movie with subtitles because we don't do dubbing in Finland. So this review isn't about that. I have seen movies from all around the world so I don't care about the language.Anyway, when I started to watch this movie I thought: "A Mexican movie, that's interesting!". Well, it turned out to be something else. When the first hour had passed I wished the movie was over. I felt like it's been two hours at least! The beginning was actually quite ok because of the action but then the pace slowed down and the movie got REALLY boring. The characters just kept on talking and talking and...aaargghh!!! The story went absolutely nowhere!In Amores Perros there's several stories told at the same time. I guess they tried to rip off the idea of Pulp Fiction but it just doesn't work. The stories have nothing to do with each other. And the beginning? Once again the same thing repeated: they show what happens later and then picture cuts back to a situation that happened earlier. A bit used idea don't you think?What is the basic idea of this film? It's a movie about dogs. It's a movie about people loving their pets. Who the hell wants to see a movie about dogs?! I don't! I can not comprehend why this movie gets an 8.2 rating from you!In conclusion, Amores Perros is WAY too long, WAY too slow and the plot is WAY too idiotic to raise my interest. 2/10 is my rating.


                
Embarrassingly derivative of other works, Amores Perros had me wondering if perhaps the filmmakers name was not perhaps a pseudonym for Steven Soderbergh or Quentin Tarantino. Others may enjoy the director's technical proficiency, but they would have to have the capacity to ignore the hack-like vibe at this film's core. At times, the re-hashed vibrancy of the film had me hoping it might actually be a comment on the aforementioned filmmakers' tradition of stylized pomp, that it might pull away from its pure film-making pizazz -- but, no. Instead of substance, there lay another sequence of pure, exhilarating kinetic energy. The problem with that energy is that it focuses on characters so disagreeable, engaged in activities so repellent, that I simply could not are very much about them. However grim the outcome, the shallow characterizations made it difficult to tie any semblance of emotional commitment to them. The actors try, but ultimately fail, to flesh themselves out. The way the script functions, the inhabitants of this world are doomed to be seen as archetypes, rather than authentic humans, in instance after instance of harrowing circumstance. Then there's the overlong running time which the film struggles (and fails) to justify. Having to put up with the unrelentingly nihilistic subject matter is like repeated lashings in the face with a wet shoelace -- having to endure Amores Perros' length seems an excessive punishment to an already forgiving audience. Two-and-a- half-hours may be an acceptable running time for films that have the weight of history behind them, but this is ultimately a student exercise in how to use style to convey mood. For all its kinetic, stylized energy, this is just a one-note tragedy; a violent, expensive Spanish soap opera with an excessive running time.


                
I don't understand why this film is so highly rated on IMDb and also on Rotten Tomatoes. This film was painfully boring and annoying. Three are three stories in this film, which are inadvertently connected to each other through an accident, that changes life of all the characters altogether.I liked the first story, but the downfall is that it was very lengthy. Second story was the most exasperating. Third was also too boring. I don't even want to discuss the stories. This film was 154 minutes long which is very long time. And, too top it all everything is quite predictable, the only difference is that it takes quite a time to watch on the screen what we already know.This is also one of the over-rated foreign movies, which doesn't live up to the high ratings. I'll recommend to skip it. But, anyways if you want to waste 150 minutes of your life,and you don't have anything to do that may worth your while, I can't stop you.


                
There is too much violence in this film where everyone treats everyone else as an object.  Claiming that no dogs were hurt during the film is hypocrisy when dog-fights and dead or dying dogs are presented for shock/entertainment.  At least two humans were hurt during the screening I attended.


                
A good idea and very good acting go overboard in this failed attempt to tell three interlocking stories.  The middle story is awful and the acting of the couple that performs in that story is amateurish, specially Goya Toledo is terrible.  One commendable thing is the performance of the old man (El Chivo), too bad his great acting is lost on a picture that could have been good but couldn´t rise above its mediocrity.


                
Get ready to Fast Forward. The first 50 minutes are great in every way. Then, we get thrown into nonsense about some stupid super-model & her ridiculous dog Richie & her dim-witted married lover. Everything that happens in the next 45 minutes is NONSENSE. They both have fine-to-great jobs but they can't seem to afford or understand how to do anything half-way intelligently. The can't even a afford a decent doctor. If Mexicans are this stupid & their doctors that bad, no wonder many Mexicans prefer to live in a US prison than to live in Mexico City. The only defense you can make for the middle episode is that it must be a surreal statement on the stupidity of the very concept of a "super-model". Unfortunately, it is surreal how bad it is & how amateurishly heavy-handed the symbolism is. If they re-release this film with the entire 2nd episode removed, I might give this 8 or 9 stars. It may seem harsh to give it only 2 when only 1/3rd of the film stinks, but when you release a film with 45 minutes of NONSENSE in the middle, you lose credibility & respect.


                
