After the success of "Adventures", "The Return of Sherlock Holmes" is a continuation of equal excellence in Granada's series adaptations featuring the great Jeremy Brett. It still marks a period where the makers were still at the height their talent and inspiration at filming Arthur Conan Doyle's stories.Jeremy Brett returns as Sherlock Holmes. His magnetic portrayal is undeniably memorable and very authentic. In my opinion, he is heads and shoulders above any actor who played him before, and will remain a tough act to follow in the future. Brett's Holmes can be pompous, twitchy, detached, but also deceptively charming and humorous. He is always a treat to watch, even though his growing illness would to start to lessen the delight of his performance in the later years. However, in this volume the energy and vibe he brings is alive and well.Edward Hardwicke makes for an excellent replacement to David Burke in the role of Holmes most trusted companion, Dr. Watson. Burke's Watson was younger and more charismatic but Hardwicke's is more thoughtful and genuine. Since Holmes on hiatus for three years,it would make sense that Watson would be older and have a different outlook on things. Although his approach to the character is different, he fits into the role so well that Burke is hardly missed."Return" continues to show the producers skills at adapting Arthur Conan Doyle's stories. Episodes such "The Empty House", "The Abbey Grange", "The Silver Blaze", "The Second Stain", "The Musgrave Ritual", and "The Devil's Foot" are all excellent and rank among some of the best that Granada ever made. The costumes, locations, art/set direction, music, and photography are superb. Also, the acting from the supporting casts are of high quality. During this series, the first two Holmes feature films were produced which include "The Sign of Four" (without a doubt the best adaptation of the classic novella) and "The Hound of the Baskervilles" (Not a definitive version exactly, but pretty good nonetheless). "The Return of Sherlock Holmes" is a great second volume if not the best in the series. Even though, the next two volumes from Granada would begin to rely on Conan Doyle's lesser tales and Brett illness would start taking its toll. Still, this and "Adventures" proved that the early years of Granada adaptations were its golden years making it among one of the all-time great television series of its kind.
