I was a huge fan of the first season of Wentworth Prison when it was shown on Channel 5 in the UK last year. I thought the series proved to be a great 'standalone' drama with high quality production values, excellent writing and acting. The series at the same time also paid subtle and gracious homage to Prisoner, a special and ground breaking show. Well the second season doesn't disappoint, building on the quality of the first season, and it is mostly down to the clever introduction into the Wentworth mix of one character - Joan Ferguson. Pamela Rabe is simply brilliant as Joan Ferguson - taking on the mantle of one of the most iconic of TV characters and breathing a new 21st century life into her is no easy job, but Rabe achieves it, obviously relishing the opportunity to play such an unusual female character. Rabe's on screen presence, controlled physical stillness and a real glint in the eye hides an obvious wealth of feelings, which comes out in small doses throughout the season, in carefully played scenes where unexpected kindness and sincerity adds real depth to an already complicated individual. The 'new' Joan Ferguson has obvious OCD and abhors physical contact. Her compulsion to control every part of her environment (including her office) her staff and prisoners is wonderfully realised by Rabe, with a series of subtle physical ticks, cold stares and calculating mental games with everyone around her. Great use is made of prison security cameras which become Joan's 'All seeing eye'. Clever adaption of surgical gloves is used as a visual tease (and a wink) in the early episodes of what is to come from Joan later on. The writing, production and cast are universally excellent once again, with particular mention to Nicole da Silva and Danielle Cormack who play Frankie and Bea. As in the first season, the use of slow motion image capture and end sequence music is particularly effective. I for one can't wait for season three.


                
IM an old prisoner fan. queen Bea and her mates were fantastic. I was a bit reluctant about the remake. But i have to say its been amazingly good, gritty and fully entertaining. Wentworth is on its way to being just as good as prisoner cell block h, don't be put of because its not the same as the old one , in a lot of ways it can be better. you'll love it. The prison looks good. No wobbly sets. Some of the characters are still here, well in fact most of them are, You will find some have just been switched around. Its set before the original one. It gives the viewer a better idea of how and why things came to be, that in its self is making the whole first season.


                
I put off watching this for a long time, under the false impression that it would just be a different version of 'Orange Is The New Black' (which I do love, but am not really searching for shows similar to it because I don't particularly like jail/prison shows) but man was I wrong. It is NOTHING like OITNB. Their similarities begin and end with it being set in a female prison.When I finally gave in and started watching, I was instantly hooked. Each episode is filled with action and drama and plenty of moments that make you either laugh or cry. The characters are unique and truly wonderfully played, you will quickly grow to love or hate each of them (sometimes both!) and as you learn their backstories you get a sense of really knowing and understanding them. There are some scenes that will literally have you on the edge of your seat, with your heart racing, yelling at the TV. After finishing this, I had to go find 'Prisoner Cell Block H' and give it a try. While it's nowhere near as good as 'Wentworth' (in my opinion) it was definitely neat to see the differences between the two. I'd definitely recommend Wentworth to anyone, I can't think of anyone I know who wouldn't like it, all of my friends who have watched it agree that it is one of their all time favorites! You will be kicking yourself for waiting so long to watch it!


                
Just finished episode one of "Wentworth", the 2013 remake of the totally brilliant Prisoner Cell Block H, The characters names are the same, Erica, Vera Bennett, Bea Smith, Lizzie Birdsworth, Doreen Anderson, Mr Fletcher, even Frankie Doyle.The first episode leads us down the route like the first episode of the original with some surprising differences, and one huge change from the original, which you will have to watch Ep1 to see, it came as a shock and surprise to me, and I loved it, it made sense to do it this way.As long as the great writing and acting continue then Wentworth Prison will last for many many years, it would also be great to see some faces from the original pop up albeit as someone else, how about Val Lehman as governor, now that would be amazing.If you want a really gritty drama, that harks back to the 80's but is new, modern and right up to date, along with great acting and writing, then this is definitely for you, currently it is on Wednesdays Channel 5 10pm (UK), go on, you know you want to.


                
When I read the summary for Wentworth I thought it was going to be an Orange is the New Black knock-off, but I was wrong. Australian prison drama Wentworth is a ruthlessly dark. It's tragic and gripping, it has a lot of characteristics of OZ. Wentworth's careful plotting is a great example of what can happen when a show actually tries. It's smart and well acted. I actually prefer this show to OITNB. It has more depth and character, it just more real and gritty, like OZ. After each episode I just wanted more and more. It nice to watch a show that isn't over advertised or filled with famous names to rely on viewer ship. Superb acting from all of the cast.


                
A brilliant prequel to the fantastic series Prisoner Cell Block H. The focus of this series is basically how the young, innocent and abused Bea Smith becomes the infamous 'Top Dog' and Prison Officer "Vera 'Vinegar Tits' Bennett becomes the nasty biatch we all know and love from the original series. While the main focus is on telling the story of Bea Smith and Vera Bennett, each episode tells a different story about how the additional prisoners became imprisoned.If you loved Prisoner Cell Block H then you really will love this! Not only is it interesting to see how Bea and Vera become the infamous characters we love, the acting and stories is just fantastic. While this is a prequel it also stands proud in it's own right as a fantastic and powerful Australian drama. I definitely can't wait for season 2 to come to the UK!!To the reviewer complaining that the characters are a "complete contradiction to their original"...I don't think you understand that this is NOT A REMAKE of the original but a PREQUEL TO THE ORIGINAL! The characters are completely different because they are possibly 20 years younger than they are in the original! If you loved Prisoner Cell Block H and you're interested in how and why the characters you loved became those people then this is ESSENTIAL viewing!


                
I started watching this a few days ago in Netflix. I'm in the US. I couldn't stop until I had finished season 2! It's definitely better than Orange is the New Black. It has much more depth & character. It's just more REAL, although not what prisons are like here in America. I first started watching shows about prison when Prison Break came out on Netflix, and I quickly became hooked. I know that one was entirely fiction but it was a fantastic program. Each episode kept me on the edge of my seat. While Orange is the New Black isn't bad, you're often left knowing that more happened, that there were things that were omitted either from the book or the show. With Wentworth you never get that feeling. You get to learn what these people struggle with, not just the prisoners, but also the guards and the administration. I can't wait til season 3 comes out, and I hope it gets released on Netflix!


                
Only started watching Wentworth Prison a few weeks ago and so far I have loved every minute of it as I have caught up to where its currently at (Series 4, episode 7). It's definitely one of my favourite TV shows right now and I'm glad it has already been renewed for a 5th series at least.The basic premise is the life of the inmates but after watching a few episodes you soon realise its much deeper than that. We see their lives inside and out as well as the prison guards who all add something a little different.The main characters all have strong development as the series goes on so it's important that you find some of the characters likable as you will certainly be learning a lot about them. The Freak is one of the greatest TV villains of all time & Bea is a character that we see evolve massively. The supporting characters are all great too.All of the story lines are captivating and most of the time I didn't want the episodes to end, I would usually watch 3 in one sitting. Each season seems to have one main story line but there is always something different going on elsewhere as well. Sometimes its shockingly violent but sometimes we just see the characters having a laugh. The tone of the show can change at any given moment.There is plenty of twists and turns as characters come and go and relationships are ever changing to the point where nobody knows who to trust.Overall I really liked the story lines and each character brought something unique to the show. Would recommend everyone to give this a chance. 10/10, top show.
My dad had recommended me to watch the Wentworth Prison TV series and I had fallen in love with it since the first episode. I had stayed up late just to watch some more episodes, I was that intrigued by it. I love Wentworth Prison and the characters in it, however I have to say I have fallen in love with the character Franky Doyle, she is one of the best bad ass characters in the series. It's also incredible with the effects and acting, even though its a remake of the series Prisoner: Cell Block H. I'd have to say it's much better and more violent, which is just perfect. This also shows how girls can be as bad ass, just as boys, which is another amazing thing due to these series. It has an amazing story backgrounds for the characters and it's very superb of how they hold the characters along through the series.This programme has become my second favourite and I hope this programme never ends.
I was a big Prisoner fan when I was a kid. I was a bit unsure how this would pan out but it really is quality television. Great acting, casts and filming. The main characters are strong and lets face it Frankie and Erica are sexy, even if you aren't a lesbian lol! No wooden acting here, it all flows really well. It would be good if it had more blackfella's in the cast but am proud we are represented anyway, regardless of it being a prison show! The cast has been really well chosen and the show is far from trashy in fact it has a lot of class!Anyway a great show have a look for yourself, it pays respect to the old a cast and also sheds its skin at the same time! Awesome!
A brilliant remake of a classic Australian drama. If I only had one word to describe this series it would be "gripping". From the first episode you connect with the characters in such a way that their happiness is your's and their trials and tribulations have you wringing your hands with anxiety.I loved Prisoner when I was younger and it was on reruns, but this series smashes it out of the ball park. It makes Orange is the New Black look like Sistehood of the Travelling Pants. Imagine a female version of Oz with the character driven story lines of Lost and an all star Australian cast.It's one of those shows where the season finale ends and you're basically bereft at the thought of waiting 9 months for the next season. The international success speaks volumes to the universality of it's themes. C'mon season 4! I wanna see The Freak walk through those gates!
As of season 3 10/10 Loving the growth of the show. Season Three is gold Spoilers::: I feel for once I care about the screws even; before they always seemed a little wooden Vera aside. But the men have stood out and I'm routing for Fletch of all people and his widowed on/off mate Will.I loved Frankie's parole hearing - classic Will they ever wake up to Jess? jeez and always Bea has her own troubles but is always on hand to help her crew.Pamela's interpretation of the Freak will give you nightmares and her slap is epic.
This show is so good. Im so be eager for Tuesdays to role around to watch it. You will not regret this show. Just watch the first two episodes and you will see. To the makers of this show thank you so much. I have been catching up on this show faithfully. I was once watch an episode and I jumped out of my seat with excitement. Thats how awesome it is. I tried watching this show about 6 months ago but I didn't get past the first 20 minutes because I had things going on and I forgot about it. I'm glad I did because it came in my life when I needed it the most. There is also an 3 season currently airing on TV. It is Australian so it may be difficult for some people to catch up with but the first 2 seasons are out there. People watch this show. I don't care how you find it but watch it. I encourage you to at least give it until you finish the first episode. Do not judge this show until you have watched the full first episode or if you can the first two episodes.


                
I first watched this show about a month ago and have become obsessed with it! In a months time I have rewatched it with my mother AND have started watching it again with my grandmother. Since Netflix only has seasons 1 and 2 I had to go online to watch all of the episodes of season 3 that have aired and I just can't get enough. I rewatch the episodes at night too! My obsession is enhanced by the character "Franky". Ugh I loooove Franky <f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+008D>. But I mainly decided to sign up on IMDb just to say that the few people I saw who said this series is terrible are MORONS! I am sorry but you have a serious error in judgment if you don't fall in love with this show! I totally understand that everyone is entitled to their own opinion but to say that people shouldn't even bother watching this show is ridiculous. As a matter of fact you are doing people a huge disservice by trying to deprive them of this MAGNIFICENT show! Australia I have got to give you props, you have created an amazing show and it just might be my all time favorite (and that says a lot).


                
Definitely better than "Orange Is The New Black". I was hooked from episode one and I'm one of those people who judges the writers and directors when it comes to films. I'm also a little "OCD" when it comes to continuity and I have to say, they did not let me down, not even one episode, not even a second! The writers really "kept it real" and didn't glorify women's prison at all! There are twisted scenes through this series. I just hope they don't lose focus on the story and where its taking us. This is not a comedy, although there are funny moments, but its dark and real. It kept me glued to my seat, I literally watched two seasons in three days. The writers did a excellent job keeping all of the characters involved and letting us understand their pasts. This series could last a long time if it plays out how I think. Anyway, I hope I can find this on demand here in America because I can't wait to see Ferguson go down! MUST WATCH! 10/10
i love this show i wouldn't change a thing keep on with it love it love it I'm so in love with this show just sucks i have to wait till it comes onto netflix to watch it i wish we got that channel in Montana but we don't but for people saying this show is nothing there wrong its just how things go and i cant wait to see season 3 and 4 and so on so please keep the show going cause i cant get enough of it. I was kinda shocked that Bea did the things she did i thought she was a little smarter then that but i think i would of don the same thing she did after ever thing she has been through jail is a hard matter and this show goes to show you what can happen and the story line rocks i just can get enough of it I'm so excited to see what happens in season 3 its going to be eciting and amazing hope things don't go the way i think there going to go but we will see thanks


                
I have seen this show compared several times to Orange Is The New Black for good reason. They are the same general genre of women in prison with the main character being a middle class white woman who is not really a criminal but not exactly innocent either. However that is where the comparisons end. OITNB is a breezy comedy where most of the core cast are innocent victims of a unfair and unfriendly justice system while Wentworth's core cast are outright criminals where even the most "likable" characters like Liz and Doreen have committed very unlikeable crimes. Also the actions and even inactions on Wentworth have far reaching consequences that often don't get resolved in a single episode or even a season. The best example I can come up with is Liz lagging on Frankie's drug trade in season two has consequences lasting through season three for more then one person on the show. Wentworth is a brilliant show that should be watched by anyone who likes a well told drama with women leading the action. In my opinion it far exceeds anything OITNB has done.
I watched the first 3 seasons of Wentworth and was impressed that a show I had never heard of was so good. After watching season 4, I have to say it was not as good as the first 3 but of course that all depends on if there is a season 5 or not. The first 3 seasons were non-stop intensity in which the characters developed both per episode and over the long story line. Season 4 completely switched gears and slowed down to where it was all about getting to the season finale. The first 3 seasons were so good, and the ending to season 3 so good I didn't actually think there would be a season 4. Now the only way to truly earn the 10 star rating I gave it based on the first 3 seasons is for them to make a season 5 and get back to the heart pounding pace at which Bea/Red takes on the world. It was nice to see her come to terms with many things and peace with many people in season 4, but it was to focused on the psycho ex-prison governor Furgeson. They should have just let her burn at the end of season 3 and let season 4 pickup where things had been going so well. On behalf of excitement of the first 3 seasons I'm giving the show a 10/10 rating. If there is no Season 5 then this rating will be update to reflect the serious change in what was the best prison drama I had seen to date. Makes OITNB seem like a kiddie show.
I remember the original Cell Block H series and when I heard about this series I was a bit sceptical, no actually I was a LOT sceptical about it, hence the reason why it's taken me three years to watch the first series on Amazon Prime and I have to say I was blown away at just how good it really was. I started to watch Wentworth about three weeks ago and I am totally addicted to this show.There are more twists and turns than an Olympic Bobsleigh course and it all seems perfectly plausible. The show is written to such a high degree that it is easily the best drama series I've watched in years and that takes some doing. The acting is probably the finest I've ever seen and the show really does produce some classic edge of the seat watching, good enough to compete with any of the blockbusters Hollywood can produce,even the soundtrack is of the top quality that fits in perfectly with the events in the story lines.I've just watched the whole of series 1 and 2 and I am completely devoted to this show. Forget about 5 star TV this is 10 STAR. Going to start series 3 tomorrow and I can't wait. If you don't watch any other drama series for the rest of your life, watch this one YOU WILL NOT REGRET IT!


                
This is hands down one of the best series I have ever seen. It does not compare to any other "prison" shows or movies I've ever watched. In the first couple seasons the ending of the episode would leave my jaw dropped. There are so many crazy events that happen that just makes the actors that much better. Each episode leaves you wanting more. I wish they would play it here in the US but I will always find a way to watch. Everyone I know who has watched it has loved it. It doesn't drag at all and you find out back stories fairly quickly. I highly recommend this series for anyone looking for a suspenseful, entertaining and powerful story. It's definitely a "must watch" show. If you're on the fence about starting the show, I can promise you wont be disappointed.


                
Wentworth is a brilliant show. It is about power, sociopathy and the continuum of good and evil that women inmates deal with. Every episode compares and contrasts the lengths that the inmates will go to, to survive and get what they need. Though the warden (and later inmate), Ferguson is clearly psychopathic and somewhat psychotic, her devious psychological manipulations are a wonder to behold. She has no capacity for empathy and has a razor sharp ability to discern and exploit weakness in others. The show is full of role reversals and surprises, twists and turns.The women are all criminals, but they are all victims too.


                
I never write reviews. ever... in fact i created an IMDb login solely to vote for this show cause it needs more people to watch it.I use IMDb daily to get ratings of movies and TV shows; seems to be the only true rating of how good TV shows/movies are.But this show, is amazing.I have watched a lot of TV shows including all the current top ten of all time (imdb of course).Wentworth should be one of them.....its amazing.i have to give it a 10/10 even though thats impossible (nothing is perfect)it should be a 9.6-9.8.they need to market this TV more and get more people watching it.


                
I've rated this series with a 10 before I've watched season 5. When I started with the very first episode in season 1, I was barely gripped by it. But then I got into it, the longer I watched, the deeper. I think I was an addict latest when I watched the finale of season 2. The whole series is based on the story of Bea Smith, who comes into jail as a more shy woman, who then develops more and more strenght. She changes through season 1 to 4 and I loved to watch her. Every season has its own highlights and reasons to watch it again and again and again. But then... *Spoiler!!!!*....they killed her in the final of season 4. They said this was necessary to keep the series fresh. BS I say! Season 5 proved that this was the worst decision ever. Season 5 is boring. It is like watching any of those ridiculous series, which are usually shown before noon. I can only recommend the first 4 seasons - they are highly addictive and I don't remember how many times I've watched them so far. But I surely won't ever watch the final of season 4 or whole season 5 again. It is a shame what the responsible people made with this former outstanding show.
I looked at the summary on Netflix and initially was reticent to watch this, having watched 2 episodes of OITNB, and did not care for it. SO GLAD I hit the play button! Long review short, this series has it all. Exceptional acting talent, writing talent, directing talent, story line and character development, I could go on and on.... This is so superior to our prime time offerings, it is insane..the Aussies ( and a certain Kiwi) are putting their mark on the map. I binged watched 4 seasons, and am now realizing what a HUGE following (and so well deserved) this series has developed. Told everyone I know who appreciates a good story and acting to watch it and they have all become hooked. Watch it, you will not regret it, and it will elevate your expectations of good drama and acting. These folks knocked it out of the park. Everything else now pales in comparison... Thanks for all the hard work from all involved that went into this series. Looking forward to Season 5...even though it will be a long wait...2017(2018 for Netflix?)


                
All I gotta say is I am ashamed that I didn't find this series earlier. Got it recommended to me earlier this year and decided to search online to watch episodes of the show, and Oh my, it is one of the greatest shows I have watched in a long time. Hopefully it lasts a few more.


                
