A tense, thrilling and grasping TV series. Very much underrated. I love prison based shows so i was a huge fan of this. It got straight to the point and doesn't disappoint. I cannot wait till its back. I also watch Orange is the new black but this concept is different because its more serious. You cannot compare the two even though both is based around womens prison unit. You do not have to like a certain genre to watch this or be super intelligent, you can simply enjoy it. I'm really upset hardly anyone I know doesn't watch it which is why i had to write this review as to why everyone should! Again like any other show there are characters you love and hate which is awesome I get so attached to them. It is not a typical storyline in an everyday prison is what i loved.


                
What can I say a very good story line from the start explains all about Bea in greater detail. I watched the original prisoner cell block H I found it really good would be corny to watch now but was really sad when it eventually finished, however, on the bright side now I can really say this show as far far exceeded the original show. The actresses who plays Bea Franky and Ferguson are just brilliant and they make the program riveting they have also have really really good story lines many are very true to life. Really hope they carry on for many more series its one of the best shows to come out of Australia. Wish they could make the series longer, but really well done and carry on with the good work.


                
Looking back now, Prisoner was a laugh riot. Dad and I were laughing when they repeated the original series, again, that seems so cheesy now, if of course unrealistic, judging by the larger than life plots, and some highly and insanely unlikely scenarios, that caused a bit of eye rolling. Oh, how times have changed. This new, better series is more modernized as now having security cameras with much better looking women and better actors, although the ones from the original must be praised too. Don't fault them, it's what they had to work with. We retain our chief characters from the original, though some, altered, here and there, especially Vera 'Vinegar Tits' Bennett, played wonderfully by a familiar Seachange face. Danielle McCormack holds her own, very strong as Bea, and a much hotter looking Frankie Doyle, is a very animated and absorbing character, wonderfully played by De Silva, up there by McCormack. Even the brief Jim Fletcher character is reprised by McCleod's Daughter's Aaron Jeffrey. But it's Pamela Rabe as the notorious Joan Ferguson, who's really scarring and creepy to the max. I was impressed and admired her take on the role, that's so creepily haunting, I prefer her to Maggie's Kirkpatrick's portrayal. It's great to see different actors do the same role, putting their own spin on it. Hey if they copied the other actors, it would be boring, and unwatchable, but when actors breath a lot of originality, life and traits into that role, you know it will be, and I'm not just saying that about Rabe's, but her performance was the one, who had the real effect on me, that sly smile, and those unreadable expressions in that steel gaze of hers, that only leaves you wanting more. This is one of those successful remakes, a much scarier and tougher Prisoner this time around, some women you don't want to mess with, the much younger ones, some real cuties. Hey, if you want laughs and escapism, just go back to the original, as this one, a much more serious and intense series, is far different from what went on 24 years earlier. Excellento.


                
This has been one of the best tv shows of all time. Not just in Australia, but worldwide. The first five seasons were extremely well written, well acted, well produced. There really isn't anything bad to say about the show except what happened to season 6. Did the show fire a group of very talented writers and replace them with writers of limited talent?


                
The only reason I am giving this show a 9 is because I can not call it my absolute favorite, but other than that? Superb!Intelligent dialogue, complex characters, evolving and intriguing story lines...most importantly - realistic! Oh, and did I say Pamela Rabe? If you just started watching, wait until this lady appears on the screen portraying the villain of the show. What a performance, every frame she occupies makes you feel uneasy...her rigid demeanor and at first seemingly unemotional behavior in contrast with her inevitable meltdowns is something utterly terrifying to watch... If I had to compare her portrayal of Joan Furguson in the series to another performance, I would say Javier Bardem in "No Country for Old Men"...the same menacing tension that comes every single time the camera lays its lens on him is present in Rabe's performance. Just brilliant! However, she does not get all the credit...I honestly couldn't find one actor in this series who wasn't utterly "inhibiting" their character.A must watch for all prison themed TV shows and great TV in general.


                
This is an awesome series. One of my favs. The season 1 was good. But season 2 is what really defines this show. The season 3 is great too and waiting for season 3 finale. I have watched Orange is the New black on Netflix but Wentworth is far superior than OTNB.I liked OTNB season 1 but 2 and 3 are OK. The characters of Wentworth are very strong and that's the reason why this one is impressive. I will definitely watch season 4 :). Here there are more than one protagonist and each one delivers it to perfection. I like the way the show has given weightage to the officers , not just the superior officer but also the lower ranked officers. The twists and turns, the tension, the comedy, sweet happy moments and emotions, all add to this amazing show.I won't reveal anything about the show here. Go watch it and you will not be disappointed.


                
Stumbled upon this gem accidentally and was immediately hooked. Strong characters and a gripping storyline.They could have done a better job of explaining why they wrote couple of characters off in the first seasons which were vital to the storyline. They just vanished into thin air, kinda felt messy.And in all honesty, they should have concluded this show by Season 5 when they wrote off 3 main/strongest characters: Bae, Franky and the "pshyco" we all loved to hate: Ferguson. The remaining cast don't have the same strong attributes to carry the show on their own and they introduced way too many new characters which I never cared for.Really enjoyed the first 5 seasons, struggled to go through 6th but overall - excellent series.


                
This is an Australian drama that initially focuses on the journey of one particular woman in prison. In later seasons the story becomes more multifaceted into the lives of many different characters in the prison and the guards as well. It is well written, interesting and realistic for the most part. It is also considerably darker than Orange Is The New Black. Very entertaining and keeps you captivated.


                
Since this show is from Australia and I am from Canada, this show was fairly unknown to me. However, a friend recommended this TV show. The show was available on Netflix which made it very accessible. This is the best TV recommendation anyone has ever given me.The story-line has some similarities to 'Orange Is The New Black' referring to a female prison and the difficulties. However, this show is far superior compared to OITNB. The storytelling, character development, and tension building is amazing. The season arcs and pay offs are very satisfying. The stand-out performances are Kate Atkinson (Vera Bennett), Danielle Cormack (Bea Smith), Pamela Rabe (Joan Ferguson) and Robbie Magasiva (Will Jackson). However, all the characters become more engaging and interesting throughout the series.I highly recommend this show to anyone reading this.


                
Wentworth is a show that initially focuses on Bea Smith and why she was put in Wentworth Prison. The show takes place in Australia. Often times, I get skeptical of non-US shows. It's not because I don't think they are good, but rather I cannot always understand what is being said due to the accents. This did not seem to be the case with Wentworth. I rarely had trouble understanding what they were saying. It was more the slang or different words used as opposed to not being able to make out the words. The show went on for 4 strong seasons and grew to not just be solely about Bea Smith but other inmates and guards. I have to say I don't know how accurate of a depiction Wentworth is from a real women's prison in Australia, but it seems to be a lot nicer than anything I would expect to see in the US. You really grew to enjoy the characters and care about them. There were good story lines that kept you wanting more and some of it really hit you hard. I was interested to find out this was modern adaptation on an old Australian Soap Opera, Prisoner which took place in Wentworth Prison. A lot of the same characters, but I am sure a different development as soap-operas are done quite differently than drama series. I really find myself interested in other Australian or New Zealand, etc. TV shows. Enjoy.
I watched the first three seasons on Netflix and thought it really good. It definitely drew me in. It's very gritty and, though I wouldn't know, I suppose this is what life in prison is like. These women are not very nice. To survive you have to be part of a gang. And you don't do something for nothing. There is a lot of intrigue and tension. Well worth the watch. The characters grow and develop. Franky Doyle (played by Nicole deSilva) gets the award for being the most cocky – she ain't afraid of nothing! Perhaps the two lug-head male prison guards are over- bearing – I got tired of seeing them punch each other out.This is not "Orange is the New Black". That was a bunch of sissy girls. These girls are mean and tough.


                
I only managed 2 episodes of Orange is the New Black, just to see what all the fuss was about, then returned to the comfort of my old friends in Prisoner Cell Block H, which for all its bad acting and women who never lowered their voices below a shriek, was a far better show. To say that an almost 40 year old TV series is still around and still popular is saying something about how good it was. Mrs. Davidson with her lacquered hairdo and pearls pursing her lips and saying 'I see', kindly Meg's soprano shriek, Vera Bennett, frustrated spinster who regarded the prisoners as less than human, Franky Doyle, Noeleen Burke, and of course, Bea - Queen Bee, slamming down the electric steam iron for emphasis. Unforgettable characters who MUST be watched by anyone who has not yet seen 'Prisoner Cell Block H. Every episode is on YouTube.When I heard of Wentworth I was initially reluctant to watch, having seen so many dreadful updated remakes of popular shows in the past. Throw in a lot of four letter words, lesbianism and a rape or two and it is 'up to date". I was very pleasantly surprised by Wentworth as it is not the typical remake, possibly being due to Australia not being the USA. At first I was a little concerned with the characters being so much younger than their namesakes in "Prisoner' until I realised that it is set about 15 - 20 years earlier which enables the writers to set the scene for the original series. We learn how the characters ended up in prison and how the dynamics and pecking order came to be, in the style of Godfather II. Once again, the Australians are showing the USA how it should be done. I was however, put off by the color shifts. I don't know whether it was an artistic conceit or whether Australia has a problem with the processing labs, but going from a bleached blue light for outside scenes, to intense green inside the prison, to a golden glow for the past was very distracting. The clothing worn by the inmates changed from a deep green to light blue as they passed from the inside to the exterior shots. There was also too much violence and lesbian activity for my taste, especially compared with the jolly boarding school atmosphere of the original 'Prisoner'. I would have preferred more subtlety and implied sexual activity and menace rather than being beaten over the head with it. Overall, the casting was superb and the actors did a wonderful job, but I would recommend a new cinematographer. My only other criticism is, and it is a mild one, is the casting of Lizzie. I realise that no one could follow the great Sheila Florance with her elderly lifer adding comic relief with her 'strine' comments. Even the reason for Lizzie's jail sentence was black comedy as she was a cook on a sheep station who put rat poison in the stew served to the shearers to teach them a lesson - I think they had been giving her a hard time. Lizzie was drunk and overdid it. On the occasions when Lizzie was allowed out of the jail she would head straight for the nearest bar. When she was finally released after about 30 years she had no idea how to cope with the loneliness on the outside and quickly got herself put back in jail - a tragi/comedy which dealt with a real problem.


                
The start of this show, as in most, gives you context into what the rest of the show which can be frustrating and somewhat tedious. But once everything kicks off it is a no holds bar assault on the more realistic side of female prison. It is very brutal, raw, but at times it feels forced and unrealistic, but that added drama takes little away from this awesome addictive show. A great fun show to watch. It's pretty bare bones at times and even graphic, and that is what makes the show above the rest of the other TV dramas that are around at the moment. Wentworth destroys Orange is the New Black in a lot of ways, but can also learn a lot from that fantastic show as well. A good one to watch inbetween the seasons of Orange is the New Black.


                
I came so close to not watching this show due to the show known as Orange is the New Black, yet now all I can say is "Blue is the New Black"! Wentworth is a great TV-Series, quite possibly one of the best since the TV Show "House", yet I sit in awe wondering which story was first?When Orange is the new Black hit within the United States, it was the new thing, or as Wall-E shows "The New Blue", those the story seems to be a lower grade version of what Wentworth Truly is. The first 5 minutes into Wentworth, I was Hooked! This show was none stop as a story like this should be, it wasn't just a candy coated money machine. Wentworth brought forth a beautiful cast, an actual story which stayed true through all episodes thus far, and it was from the minute it started better than most US released TV-Shows.So I started doing some digging before I started this review and once again I see the same pattern with the search engines as was done to the original "The Girl with a Dragon Tattoo", it's as if this show is supposed to be hidden. Why? I cannot wait for the next season as this has become one of my favorite TV-Series. I watched every episode back to back the same as I do every series, I was on the edge of my seat the entire time. Great show!


                
So much better than OINTB. Great plots, script and acting.


                
This show is MUCH better than Orange is the new Black. The storylines are compelling and believable and unlike OTNB it doesn't rely on nudity and sex to make it great. Ofcourse the show isn't the same after the exit of Bea Smith but still worth watching!
Thought I'd hate it. Absolutely loved it. Brilliantly written. Brilliantly acted. Just brilliant!


                
This show stays with you long after season 6 ends. As soon as the haunting intro music starts you'll know that your watching something unique, great and unlike anything else. The show takes you inside each of the characters lives and the minute you think you know them, they take you further into their lives. I started watching and before I knew it I had watched the whole series. I can't wait for season 7. Well Done!!


                
I'm an ambassador for wentworth. Made everyone I have come across watch it. It is simply the best tv show ever! This is my first review after many years on IMDB. However, season 6 is making me so weak! What is happening!? They have to find a way to bring Ferguson back. I always wait for all episodes to come out each season so I could binge watch the goodness but not this season! I watch it every week just hoping that something great will happen. It's been incredibly boring and this pains me so much. Im hoping that a writer will see this review and revive such a great show. It is usually the end of a thing that is better but with season 6, the first curve episodes were better. Absolute downward spiral.
It's amazing how the writers can keep this interesting, season after season! The characters are so real I forget it's TV. Love the Aussie dialect!T And I love the surprises at the endings of the season. Serason 5 did not disappoint. I watch Hulu and NetFlix because they are bringing these non-US shows to TV, these are so refreshingly different from what we usually see. I also like a lot of the EU and Turkish shows - excellent entertainment, worthy of binging!
