My nephew turned me on to this show. My initial reaction was positive. I was entertained. However, this show quickly loses it's appeal. The show quickly became played out. OK, I get it. you act like teenagers and have the buddy thing going. the constant overacting and ridiculous laughing is annoying. Three of the four stars have very limited comedic range. Their pranks are predictable and increasingly redundant. The only redeeming humor potential is the genuine reactions of the mark. At this point, it is not the absolute worst show on television, but I would only recommend it is you were stuck in bed post op and high on pain pills. They are likely nice people and not as annoying in real life. I respect their drive to cash in on their 15 minutes of fame. However, they would likely be more successful is they quit with this nonsense and develop a new series. They could create a similar family friendly prank show, utilizing various families as a cast. Family friendly shows have longevity. Also, if they cast new families each week, they could become executive producers, cash in, and stop overacting or staging annoying laughter!!! Take my advice!! I am smart. :)


                
I'll be honest: When I saw my first episode back in season 1, I laughed like I rarely do. I kept on watching, season after season and, while I laughed now and again, the funny moments seemed to be more and more distant in time. It might be that this gang with a ridiculous stage name is losing its spark.Or it might be something far more dramatic and sinister: it seems that, in an attempt to squeeze out a laugh by any means necessary, they are recurring more and more to the use (or, rather, misuse) of food and other consumer's products. I really can't see how wasting food or any other resources in an absurd and ludicrous manner is funny, unless you are 8. OK, I'm probably talking to an audience here within the range of that mental age, but still, that doesn't change the facts.Wasting food, wasting anything, while most of the population cannot even afford to get the minimum necessities to be able to survive is outrageous. I can't recall if this show was always like this, but I don't like that one bit. Being irresponsible and behaving like a clown playing with what could be another person lifesaver is but a grim distraction of reality, aimed to those who couldn't care less about the suffering of others.Donating any sum of money to a charity doesn't take away those facts, by the way, but only adds to the hypocrisy and nonsensical reality society creates.It's hard to believe that people, particularly young impressionable individuals, are exposed to this and even cry when they see the gang live. What kind of twisted system we live in, when a teenager cries because she is such a huge fan of these, rather mediocre, individuals? Well, I guess Enrique Iglesias and such achieved that many decades ago, anyway.Finally, these people claim to be friends. Really? With friends like these, who needs enemies.


                
