Impractical Jokers is simply four guys going around the city of New York and key spots in New Jersey doing outrageous challenges trying to embarrass each other. Incredibly hysterical. Recommended for everyone. It's guaranteed 30 minutes of non-stop laughter, and a hilarious punishment for the loser who couldn't complete all the challenges. MUST WATCH 10/10. Joe Gatto, James Murray, Sal Vulcano and Brian Quinn are four guys who just like to mess with each other. They humiliate each other so often. They hassle Brian in looking like Rosie O Donnell, Murray on looking like a ferret, Sal for being a nervous wreck, and Joe is just really good at handling the attempted embarrassment. On truTV every Thursday from 8-11 pm. Overall, this show couldn't be funnier. The guys go from simple tasks in the park to working at movie theaters, pizza parlors, and white castle, which may be some of their funniest material. SO FUNNY


                
Impractical JokersIt may come off as a flawed and stupid at first, but if you get into it, Impractical Jokers makes sense and does not at the same time and till then it won't matter since you will be having an awful lot of fun.


                
I have seen every episode of this show a dozen times and as much as it makes me laugh, I can't pretend it's real.For years I always gave these guys the benefit of the doubt every time they proved they were fake but I can't do that anymore.The thing that bothers me the most about them pretending this show is real is that they waited three seasons before they admitted they are a comedy troupe.They purposely hid that fact so no one would catch on to the show being fake.I guess they figured no one would ever question how they have fifty cameras and the "innocent public" never sees them.How do they stand twenty feet away from a guy in the park(holding microphones and cue cards and cackling like elderly witches) and no one ever notices?To make things even worse, the "punishments" never even appear to be real.One time they had Rosie O'Donnell show up and not a single person in the audience reacted like a huge celebrity just showed up.They just sat there quietly.In another episode one of the guys got "tricked" into wrestling Tommy Dreamer.If you believe any wrestling organization would let a minor celebrity enter the ring without some training, there is no help for you.Despite all that, it's still really funny.Watch it.


                
