This is another of those "snipe hunt" movies. I don't know how people pick them to play jokes on others, and I don't care, because the people who rave about piles of crap like this are totally psychotic.It's the story that takes forever to tell, and just wastes your time. A man has a gorgeous young super model wife he wants to kill so he can beat up a pale, homely mistress. The two women conspire to kill him, but you'll fall asleep long before anything ever happens. Yes, you're right. This movie makes no sense, and it makes no sense that a bunch of yokels rave about it, but after watching it, you'll know that those yokels were laughing at you all the time, tricking you into watching this ordeal.I could elaborate more, but suffice to say this is beyond boring. For the first 40 minutes, absolutely NOTHING happens, and you just want to get your hands on the jerk who tricked you into watching this, holding your bag for the snipe that doesn't exist.There simply isn't a single saving grace to this pile of trash. Be forewarned, you will realize you went on a snipe hunt if you try to watch it. I doubt you can stay awake through it in one sitting, though, unless you're a complete masochist.


                
MISTAKE#1. At the end, when the headmaster checks the radial pulse of his wife..... SHE WAS BREATHING! YES. Please watch it again and you will find her breathing normally.MISTAKE#2. Who can give 100% guarantee that SHE WILL "DEFINITELY" DIE OF AN HEART ATTACK AFTER WATCHING THE "GHOST"? What if she doesn't die by chance?There were high chances of her getting nervous and cry for help.Then everybody would come in and he would get caught red handed.SO WHY IN EARTH, SOMEBODY SHOULD GO FOR SUCH A PLAN WHERE THERE IS NO 100% GUARANTEE OF GETTING AN HEART ATTACK?MISTAKE#3. What was the detective doing there at the end? That means he Had thought of it earlier.... NOW, IF HE HAD ANTICIPATED IT EARLIER , THEN WHY DID'NT HE WARN THE REAL VICTIM?Sorry Sir.... I didn't buy this. Although It is not worth of a single star, but I gave it to level down the high rating of 8.1 And again, Sorry for that...My rating is 6/10
it is a good movie where the director tries to trick the audience, some may not be fooled. he makes it interesting throughout most of the film but the ending was disappointing to me. the acting was okay except for the main girl, she was good. the very end, the director tried to add a second twist, but i think that was just kind of dumb. it is a good movie where the director tries to trick the audience, some may not be fooled. he makes it interesting throughout most of the film but the ending was disappointing to me. the acting was okay except for the main girl, she was good. the very end, the director tried to add a second twist, but i think that was just kind of dumb.


                
