The story presents an era of total surveillance where anything not in line with the will of the party leaders is punished. Arguments do not exist, just the use of power. I think the story is valid. However it only reflects how people from the West can imagine, interpret and understand life in East Germany. During watching this film I had ambivalent feelings. Ulrich Mühe's performance really gives an authentic example of a Stasi officer and gives us a real feeling what the totalitarian system means. However I think the film lacks authenticity in some sense. Only those feel this subtle lack who have lived in an Easter European country. As a verification I guessed which actor has grown up in East Germany and which not. Then I checked their biographies that 90% confirmed my guesses. Those who have not grown up in East Germany only act. Those who lived in the totalitarian system really give us the authenticity. In summary, I think this is a very good film and the only I know of that exposes the surveillance of totalitarian systems. The performance of Ulrich Mühe as Hauptmann Gerd Wiesler alone make this film worth seeing. For those who might be interested in the topic I recommend reading the book Celestial Harmonies: A Novel from Péter Esterházy and its second part (Celestial Harmonies: A Novel (P.S.)). In film you could watch any film from Krzysztof Kieslowski, Péter Gothár or Péter Bacsó.


                
Can you imagine a world where people are continuously spied on, where the police set up surveillance equipment in the attics, where even typewriters are registered and, in spite of this,a world accepting of refugees? I am not talking about science fiction. I am talking about real life, the real events that took place in East Germany before the Fall of the Wall.While I was watching 'The lives of others'I couldn't help comparing it to another film, 'Good Bye, Lenin'; both are widely applauded approaches to the recent history of East Germany. But I think one of them is definitely superior to the other; read on if you'd like to know which.Both films are German and were released more or less at the same time -around 2005- and they share factual accuracy and the atmosphere of that historical period, although the first one takes place mainly in the years before the Fall of the Wall and the second, in the years immediately after. Both films have a lot in common, such as an appealing theme, plausible dialogues, lots of moving scenes and convincing acting. In spite of sharing a common theme, they have different approaches, since 'The lives of others' shows the story of a playwright who is being spied on by 'the Party'. What is a cold relationship at the beginning of the story turns into sympathy, what seems love turns into treason, what should have been informing on somebody turns into respect and admiration. On the other hand, 'Good bye, Lenin!'is very innovative mainly because it has a large dose of comedy, which is remarkably powerful. When his mother suffers a heart attack and awakes from a coma seriously weakened, Alex, the main character has to pretend that nothing has changed, that East Berlin is the same as it was before the Fall of the Wall, because a great shock like that could cause her death, so there he goes doing the impossible to keep the 'status quo'. This situation leads to entertaining scenes and appealing dialogue. In addition, both films were recorded on set and on location -we can enjoy watching what Karl Marx Allee looked like almost thirty years ago.However, although both films portray our recent history very convincingly, I strongly recommend 'Good bye, Lenin!'because it is funny, moving and grabs your attention from the very first moment. And it can also make you think!


                
The first scene is amazing : you're watching a STASI class, where an interrogatory is meticulously analyze and deconstructed with a scientific method : if the person calms down after a while, she's lying, if she tells the exact same story twice, she's guilty... After this introduction to the method, we're about to watch its application. But unfortunately, watching the live of the others without interfering their live isn't that easy. And the cold Stasi agent will share empathy for his future victims.The way the inhuman agent (greatly plays by Ulrich Mühe) slowly becomes an anonymous hero ( he'll stay a serial number to the end, hidden in the shadows of more brightly people) to the contact of passion, love and art (music, theater and literature), symbolized by the couple he's suppose to watch, is very convincing and greatly develops. The direction of the movie is sober and matured, the actor are all good, and the script is clever enough to give an impression of realism to the all story. For all this "objectiv" reasons, this movie is definitely a good movie, and you leave the theater with the impression of having watch a serious piece of art of quality. But still, you wondering... If it was so good, why haven't you really been moved by the story, why this indifference toward the characters, why have you watch it with so little passion ? Of course, the theme, the period and the atmosphere of the film appeals sobriety, it's voluntary made that way. Right, but still, you can't help having the impression that something is missing to this movie, that this lack of passion doesn't necessarily have to move from the characters to the spectators, that the description of a cold and sad age doesn't have to be manufactured that way. In fact, it's madness this film lacks : it's missing a surprising event that wakes the spectator from the monotony of a "interesting" feature. Of course, this could have broke the harmony and unity of the movie, and make another "Black Book" instead of a so "well done" piece of art, but at least, you wouldn't have the impression of watching a nearly scholar movie, made by a good student, who gives you everything you're waiting for in a German movie about the STASI setting in 1984, and doesn't really leave any room to surprise.


                
The story unravels nicely although a bit too slow for my taste. Yet I really like how the opening exposes the meticulous practice of the Stasi. The introduction of the characters Dreyman and Sieland is also nice, especially if, like me, you watch the movie without any prior knowledge toward this movie. The transition that Wiesler undergoes during the movie is portrayed nicely. This is even better because the movie uses less scene montages. The depiction of Grubitz's dangerous character through bits and pieces scattered along this movie is also nice. I like how Ulrich Muhe played the calm yet meticulous and then the affected version of Wiesler. Martina Gedeck also shows a good performance and went total on this movie. Sebastian Koch does well in completing this movie with his performance of quite an undecided character.


                
First of all: Yes, it is a very interesting film and it is worth seeing. I think it is a good start for thinking about the DDR, I hope it is a start for "Aufarbeitung". There has not been a real discussion about what happened before 1989, yet. I am thankful that the film gives a kind of insight and an emotional impression. I doubt that most of the people would feel emotionally involved when reading a nonfictional book about the German Democratic Republic.There are a lot of things I could name which I liked about this film. Ulrich Mühe and Ulrich Tukur are great actors, I always enjoy watching Ulrich Mühe. I think some of the actors playing bit parts are really worth to keep in mind: Ralf Ehrlich who appears twice (he is the one who tells the joke about Honecker); Volker Michalowski who plays the expert for typewriters; Marie Gruber (she must be the one who plays the sad neighbour with the secret) and the prostitute... I cannot find the name of the actress at the IMDb.I believe other will emphasise what they do like about "Das Leben der Anderen" so I would like to write down what disappointed me. The soundtrack music was much too strong for my personal taste. This is the problem with most Hollywood films or films in Hollywood style: There is so much music in the foreground that it leaves no places for your own thoughts, ideas, impressions and feelings. Sometimes the music *dictates* what the viewer is supposed to feel and how he should react. To explain my problem I always give the example that in some scenes the viewer is simply forced to grab the next handkerchief. Most people might enjoy that, but I do like to *choose* how I feel when watching a scene. I want to be able to concentrate on how the actors deliver the scene, how it is put in pictures and everything else the is to notice beside that overwhelming music. Maybe you get an idea what I try to say.I do not want to be mean but I have to say... to the end of the film I had the impression I was watching a kind of "Schindler's List" about the DDR. (I won't explain that to Spielberg fans!!!)Still I do believe it is a start. I hope there are more films about that topic to follow!


                
I saw this film yesterday, because I heared great things about it. After I've seen it, I don't really get what's so great about it. Sure, it's a good movie, but an 8.5 average is a bit exaggerated in my opinion.To me, the plot wasn't very original and so predictable. The story of the strict stasi, who slowly turns over to the other side, because of the man he has to watch, to me is a bit corny. I could guess everything that was going to happen. Because of that, the movie didn't really have my full attention for one single moment. And even though the director gives the viewer a good insight in how it was back then, I feel like he could have brought it with a more original script.Also other things don't really make the movie brilliant. Although the acting was outstanding, the music and most of all the camera-work weren't that great at all. I would call it average. But like i said the outstanding actors and the historic insight it gives, make up a lot. therefore i would rate it a 7.4 or something. 8.5 is way too much.
Winner of Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film, The Lives of Others has a very serene ambiance when compared to other entries in the spy genre which are usually filled with chases, action or violence for this German drama tries to paint an authentic portrait of life in East Germany and is a silent observation of human nature.Set in 1980s East Germany, the story of The Lives of Others (also known as Das Leben der Anderen) focuses on the monitoring of East Berlin by agents of the Stasi; the secret police, and concerns an agent who's tasked to conduct a surveillance on a writer & his lover, but over the course of his duty ends up becoming too infatuated with their lives.Written & directed by Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck, The Lives of Others is crafted in an incredibly calm n composed manner, and presents the filmmaker in firm grip of the story he attempts to bring to life on the film canvas, which sounds even more astonishing when noted that it is his directional debut. And the proper execution of other aspects only work out in its favour.Set pieces & locations do evoke an authentic-looking atmosphere of East Germany. The camera-work is carefully employed as the movements are static for the most part, use of lighting & colour tones is skilfully done, and the drama is captured in fine detail. Editing unfolds its 137 minutes of runtime at a very relaxed pace, and the performances by its entire cast is simply outstanding.On an overall scale, The Lives of Others is an engaging drama that manages to create & sustain its tension amazingly well, gets better as the plot progresses, and concludes its tale in a very satisfying manner. The script is definitely its biggest strength and rest of the stuff is wonderfully handled too but its glacial pace & quietness did bother me at times. Not as rewarding as I expected it to be but definitely a work of pristine quality that deserves a broader audience.


                
In 1984 East Berlin, an agent of the secret police (Ulrich Mühe), conducting surveillance on a writer (Sebastian Koch) and his lover (Martina Gedeck), finds himself becoming increasingly absorbed by their lives.Apparently, this was one of the first post-Berlin Wall films to be a drama rather than a comedy (such as Wolfgang Becker's "Good Bye, Lenin!"). Certainly the best, if not the first. Today it is somewhat hard to imagine that not long ago Germany was split, with two sides spying on each other, when they were really one people under two governments.Roger Ebert gave the film four stars, describing it as "a powerful but quiet film, constructed of hidden thoughts and secret desires." Very esoteric, Roger. There is certainly much more going on than is openly expressed in the film.


                
It is overrated because critics talked about a poignant masterpiece, and it ended up being just a well-done yet trivial political drama. When it gets to the Academy, I have quite a lot to talk about. In this highly personal review, I have to discuss the Oscar thoroughly, since "The Lives of Others" won the 2007 award for Best Foreign Language Film, in a monstrously unfair prize. Have I seen all the other contenders? No, but I've seen one, that being "Pan's Labyrinth", and the quality of it is so superior to this overrated German production that the latter should't have even been nominated beside the former.Don't get me wrong. This is not a bad movie. On the other side, all the buzz around it (the Academy Award, high scores at the IMDb site, superlative reviews) made me expect a flawless work of art, while this is just a good political drama. There are many average things in "The Lives of Others", enough to make it pretty much like a trivial movie. The screenplay has plenty of redundancies (the fingerprint, some over-explicative lines, the excessive ending), sign of a cowardice that aims for giving lazy audiences a circular, closed plot. Many explanations are passable, and most of them weaken the narrative, which could allow mystery and admittedly unanswered questions.Another problem is the lack of rhythm of director Florian Henckel Von Donnersmarck. The first hour is incredibly slow, focusing only in the spied couple, and, all of a sudden, things start to happen every minute, to maintain the grasp that wasn't achieved in the previous moments. Many of the plot twists are, as already cited, unnecessary, and some are pretty formulaic. For an example, the discovery of a character that knows about the wiretaps, and the encounter, where a plan unravels, is derivative from countless movies. Another case is that of Wiesler's trajectory: far from his unexplained fascination on Dreyman and Sieland, the big issue about his character is the ending. That kind of redemption is derivative as well, a huge copy of Hollywood's formula (here goes a hint for why the Academy gave the prize to the film) <U+0096> and the last scene is so artificial that it almost ruins everything that was constructed until there.While formulaic, trivial and occasionally exaggerated, the screenplay has its assets. Other characters, especially Sieland and Dreyman, have much better conclusions (and the latter's one is the best turning point of the movie, and a strong moment). On the other side, the distinct issue that Georg discovers, because of his friend's death, is not an easy choice to facilitate his decision to publish a critical article. Some dialogs are brilliant, like Wiesler's second interrogatory, which makes an elegant connection with previous lines and delivers tension and even frustration. More tense moments are unevenly scattered throughout the projection, but work wonders, thanks to Donnersmack's good direction, whose highlight is the deft use of the sound: the score is not only distinct, but well-placed. Silences are blended with noisy moments or clean dialogs, and the cork scene is the most relevant one: it marks the time when Wiesler has heard too much.Wiesler hears all that he needs for his job, but it ends up being too much for his convictions. Something in him tells that the Stasi is wrong, and that Dreyman mustn't be stopped. Some part of him wants to save the couple from the closing menace, and the viewers are not given a straight reason. The best aspect of the screenplay is the unexplained motive, portraying, maybe, Wiesler's own doubt as to what makes him be so fond of those people. Mühe plays this role wonderfully, portraying the spy as a cold man at first (cold but not dead, since he is shown with a prostitute), without many emotions to show. Later, on the other side, his lack of expressions is used to hide feelings. Paradoxically, doubt and confusion are present in his blank face, as if he doesn't dare to feel anything before knowing what it is (the last scene, as bad as it is, confirms that), and that results in beautiful, long takes of his null expression.Stealing the show every time, Ulrich is the very best cast member, but the others do not disappoint. Koch portrays Dreyman as a great defender of the party in the beginning, but his intellectual mind manages to find, in a strong sentiment of loss, the wit and courage to criticize the system he used to defend, and, ultimately, leaves the doubt: was he just faking his support to Communism, or did he truly believe at its leaders at first? Actually, this asset is more of the screenplay than of the actor, whose work is adequate, never outstanding. In Sieland's role, Gedeck has some beautiful moments, as a woman whose loyalty is always tested, and whose choices are not always altruistic. Her ambiguity appears as strong as Dreyman's, and relates to his in an elegant way. Two other important characters, Paul (Hans-Uwe Bauer) and Albert (Volkmar Kleinert), have small roles (too small, let's say), but amuse because of the first's subtle irreverence and for the second's subtle melancholy.Had the screenplay tried to avoid stupid clichés, easy resolutions and over-explanation, this would have been a true comment-inducer. As it is, occasional assets cannot hide all the triviality that reigns over in the film. "The Lives of Others", curiously, was awarded for following some strict Hollywood rules, and not for being a respectfully distinct foreign film. It is just a good political drama, with some comment on the German History and decent character development. The Oscar shows again how intolerant it is, awarding a good movie while a truly masterpiece like "Pan's Labyrinth" is put aside because of its daring format. The Academy proves that it doesn't praise originality, nor even quality, but adequacy to its prehistorical single-mindedness.


                
To be taken back to the brown and greyish days of the German Democrat Republic is a fascinating trip, which I enjoyed in the same kind of voyeuristic way as how I imagine Stasi agents followed the lives of the citizens of the Workers State. After watching Das Leben des Anderen, I didn't just feel I had seen a movie about 1980's East Germans, I felt I was a 1980's East German, my blue Peugeout was a lightbrown Wartburg, my lovely wife was an undercover agent. In other words, the movie caught me with its accurate realism.My few objections go on the ending, and how I feel the director doesn't have much faith in the historical insight of his audience. Not a few times we had to be reminded that Glasnost and die Wände was on its way, so I guess not even Paris Hilton would miss the point. The film was already on the wrong side of two hours, so a couple of the final scenes could easily have been cut out and a little more could have been up the viewer. I have felt this lack of subtility in other German movies and I think it's a shame.Those are just minor flaws though and it's by far one of the best movies I've seen this year.


                
Top 250: #53?! 8.5 points?! What?!Are are you kidding me?! This is absolutely ridiculous! That movie never deserves such a high ranking! How many really, really good films didn't even arrive on the Top 250?! But this overrated work did it?!Do you really think this movie is better than 'Ben Hur'(#138)?! Do you really think this movie is better than 'Blade Runner'(#104)?! Do you really think this movie is better than '2001: A Space Odyssey'(#80)?! Yes?!? O.k., your problem!'Das Leben der Anderen' is solid, but not great!And i'm telling you why:This movie tries to tell the change of a fanatic, heavy-handed Stasi agent into a refined, freethinking good man. So far, so good.The movie is at least 2 hours and 17 minutes long. But it doesn't take nowhere near enough time to focus on his most necessary point, the psychology transfer of the agent! Instead of it concentrates in his solid, but not very groundbreaking, background story about wiretapping, trust, betrayal, the Stasi and the inhuman system.And do you know why? Because it was too difficult for the director! He runaround it. His own issue. He just uses some cheap tricks. He shows us, how the Stasi agent steals a book, written by the famous Heinrich Böll, whose works were forbidden in the DDR, from the author. And after that there is one shot where he reads a poetic part from it. While he's wiretapping him, he listens how beautiful his subject can play piano. Pling, Pling and suddenly he has become a different, better person who helps him. That's it. And that's too easy and too fast. And finally rather cheap.The viewer doesn't get involved in a man's internal duel. We don't really understand, why he turns off from his principals. Of course we understand ourselves, that we (or most of us) don't want to live in a communistic system, but we can't empathize with this man about his change.Mr. Von Donnersmarck doesn't make us feel he says us to feel.But without making the experience of feeling, which could be told with the help of tools of a sensitive direction, this is not big cinema.In his most important point this movie is weak, skin deep and unconvincing!!That's my true opinion about it.P.S.: I think one of the main reasons for the huge success of the film is, that there's been no film before, which concerned with the explosive Stasi theme. Although i think it got over-hyped and pushed by many IMDb-users from Germany.
This film is unquestionably well put together. It has all the elements in place, a good story, good actors, good directory of photography, good set design and good music. So how is it that this film is 'overrated'. Simply because it receives overly gracious marks being that it is a foreign language film. This film is quite comprable to "good luck, good night" or other past regime type thrillers. For it to be considered #55 on the IMDb list is too high in my mind. Is it one of the best 200 films of all time, perhaps, I would be forced to say yes, like most people because you just can't think of a better German movie, Run Lola Run was an fantastic and fun film but this is truly a piece of stern and forthright filmaking. If I have to rate the film it is a 7 of 10, losing points for it's somewhat lackluster pace and also for it's lack of humor and exciting events until the finale sequence, I hate to say a film is lacking anything because a story is a story and what it has in it, it has in it, but this film wouldn't have suffered from an exciting or pointed moment of tension if the middle of the film. I believe #55 is a little too high for this film to sit but it was overall a very solid film. (note these comments come after seeing the film 4 times)


                
Firstly, as I see, most of the good things are already written down in other comments, so I guess I'm the one who pulls this down a bit. Yes, now, just after seeing this, I guess it's a bit over-hyped. But that's a good thing.Please note that I live in Hungary (you know, highest suicide rates... even after 20 years, we still are in the top 10) so I've seen a lot of films dealing with agents, stasi, both dramas, comedies, or comedic dramas. Because of this, maybe I've seen this film a bit differently.For an average movie-goer, where Lives of Others mostly fails is the original, film-like dramatic storytelling. Most of the plot twists can be guessed. Supporting characters, and even some not-so-supporting, are one-dimensional. Dreyman remains totally uninteresting. But surprisingly, in this movie, this is the part, that is the less important one. Lives of Others is probably the one, and icon-like movie every post-communist country should make, not for the global market, but for themselves. Dealing, and accepting the past, that the dictatorial system wasn't built up of some leaders, not even party members, but thousands of people, is a trauma, that we couldn't accept until now. Where Lives of Others truly shines, is the completeness of the story. Revealing all the sides, all the emotions, figures and personalities around an institution like the STASI, and this is the point. Not the actual story.I'm glad that it had an impact like this in the USA - as anyone can read from comments, most of the Americans taught that a communist nation was an absurd, funny, sometimes hard, but overall likable system. I truly hope this movie will shed some light on something else.Please give a minute thinking of the fact, that in these countries lived millions of Dreymans.


                
Das Leben Der AnderenThe affection and journey of how the lead character draws out to the couple works more than anything ever for he too is in a similar condition to the audience and hence it becomes almost impossible not to be effected by it. Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck; the writer-director, has written a complicated character driven feature that is smart front the first frame until the curtain drops and only if it had better editing on its side, it would have easily entered the major league. Ulrich Muhe has done a splendid job since he didn't have much verbal content in it, he still expresses it beautifully and is supported decently by Martina Gedeck and Sebastian Koch. Das Leben Der Anderen is a thought provoking feature that screeches onto one's heart for it goes into dark places that you may be familiar with but still never experienced like this before.


                
'The banality of evil' meets the insidiousness of applied state power.
Really excellent drama and some skillfully applied suspense.
Much deeper than just a Stasi cat and mouse game.
High praise for this by many who claim familiarity with the East Germany of this era, so, apparently the authentic feel is actually, um, authentic.


                
Since about 2004, Germany has been producing some interesting films looking at and reworking its history (Sophie Scholl, The Downfall, Napola). This is one of the first 'serious' films to go into the dark aspects of the old East Germany. It's all about the Stasi (secret police) undermining and ruining people's lives, in this case the lives of prominent writers and actors. In the process -- and this is one of the unbelievable parts with no known historical precedent, as far as I'm aware -- the main surveillance person (Ulrich Mühe) warms somewhat to his victims and sees the emptiness of his own life.Unfortunately, the film muddies the waters by making sex a major motive. This is unnecessary, irrelevant and also without much historical foundation.It is very well acted by all concerned and successfully conjures up the required atmosphere.It is one of those very 'small', low-budget German films (like Sophie Scholl) that in Britain would be a TV film and would never make it into a cinema. Presumably for financial and prestige reasons, films like this are shown on general release in cinemas in Germany.In fact, it does not require a cinema at all, since there is nothing that calls for a big screen. My tip would be to wait for it to come out on DVD.


                
I was disappointed on seeing this film, and surprised that it won the foreign-language best-film Oscar in competition with 'Pan's Labyrinth', since PL is a far better film, with imaginative depth and visceral feeling quite lacking in the worthy German semi-documentary.The odd thing is that the two have a similar theme, resistance to totalitarian rule -- and both after the fact, since both the East German Communists and Franco's Falange have passed into history. The difference between them is the difference between fact and myth. Fact can be compelling, but surely not so much so, after the fact; myth is always compelling, before the fact or after, and 'Pan's Labyrinth' is myth, folk-tale, Marchen, full of motherhood, blood and mandrake root, grim and beautiful by turns.


                
Sebastian Koch, the central figure -- well, one of the central figures -- is a talented actor with one of those plausible European faces and demeanors. He's not gruffly sexy like George Clooney. He's not smoothly handsome like Tom Cruise. He has utility features that can take any part that requires a sympatico character.In "The Lives of Others" he's a playwright in the 1980s stuck on the wrong side of the Berlin Wall, haunted by the Stasi, the State Security Police, because the possibility exists in the minds of authorities that he and any other artists must secretly harbor dissident thoughts, and we can't have that.So the Stasi plant bugs all over his apartment and install a monitor in the cellar, Hauptmann Gerd Wiesler, who signs his reports "HGW".The authorities are right, in a way. Koch and his live-in girl friend and star actress in his plays, do have a lot of politically active visitors. Pretty soon, Wiesler, that joyless cellar rat, is witness to all kinds of subversive conversational exchanges in addition to frequent "vigorous intimate events." But a strange thing happens. Wiesler, an almost stereotypical bad guy who never smiles or cracks a joke, begins to change as a consequence of looking into the unrestrained life of artists and intellectuals. It's like the Heisenberg principle in reverse. Observing the object results in a change in the observer. And Wiesler starts altering his reports, leaving out any suspicious conversations, listening raptly to Koch's piano playing a moody and elegant piece written by a friend and titled "Sonata for a Good Man."There isn't space to outline the entire plot, which is deliberately paced and clearly not intended for kids munching popcorn and getting high on energy drinks. You have to have patience for events to unfold. And unfold they do, with increasing rapidity, until there are some exceedingly tense searches for hidden objects, some self-indulgent squealing on the part of people who shouldn't squeal, and penultimately a cothurnal accident and the death of someone who has been squeezed beyond endurance by the state.In the denouement, some years after the wall falls, Koch decides to look up his own Stasi file in the archives. There he learns the truth. Every guilty move that he, his lover, and his friends made, was overheard by Wiesler, the pale slug downstairs, who decided to save Koch's Speck. The pages of the report are signed merely "HGW XXVII." But Koch is inspired to find out the name and identity of his underground friend and savior, although he doesn't contact him.In the final scene, Wiesler, now a humble mailman dragging himself through the graffiti-ridden slums, wanders into a book store and locates Koch's new book, "Sonata for a Good Man: A Novel." The dedication reads: "To HGW." The clerk asks if Wiesler would like the purchase gift wrapped and Wiesler, without expression, replies, "No. It's for me." I found that ending both clarifying and emotionally moving. There were no more loose ends.It's a powerful film. I recommend it but, as I say, it requires some attention, especially for the first third, which moves along slowly. The last half picks up. If you make it that far, you probably won't want to leave it without seeing the end.
I enjoyed watching this film.I Liked it's kinda ' slow ' tempo...the rhythm of the movie.... The greatest Actor in it IMO was The guy who played Wiesler...the Stasi apparatchik who at the end showed he still had a ' feeling heart ' left for the life of other people.The end was touching to me...( where he finds the to himself dedicated book by Laslo...)I found the portraying of Life in the DDR well executed...the burocratic inhumane atmosphere in which folks east of the German wall had to live...The everyone is listening - choking - sphere....One scene , imo , was'nt too well done ....the scene where the 'betraying' actress runs out of the apartment and got killed by an on-storming truck.then we see laslo coming down and holding the dying woman..after that the Stasi gang comes out of the building and are reacting very unnatural IMO to the scene that plays in front of their eyes.... I found this scene hard to believe...but an entertaining movie anyhow... and reasonably well done.


                
I expected "Das Leben der Anderen" to become one of my favourite films after watching it. Even though being a well-made it missed something.First of all, the performance of the actors was brilliant, with Koch and Muhe standing out. The cinematography and the whole atmosphere were also impressive. Off course the last scene, with Wiesler buying Dreyman's book, was very clever and made me smile widely.The plot was really original, but it still lacked more agonizing elements. Also, it seemed to me that Wiesler sympathized with Dreyman rather easily.I certainly recommend this movie to anyone who wants a quality film. However, some people may find it boring.
If you are in one of those foreign movies phases, I would recommend watching this.It has its depth, and its completely realistic.People living under a socialist regime, are brought to the belief that their country is protecting them.They trust the government in everything, and the ones that think differently are evil, and should be removed.This movie is a portrait of the bad aspects of living in a Socialist country. There are good things I'm sure, but don't expect them in this movie.7 out of 10, not really for the masses, but for people that can understand how it is living under constant pressure.


                
A movie I'd long been intending to watch, Das Leben der Anderen has many accolades to its name, not least of all its Oscar. Add to this the generally intarnishable excellence of modern German cinema, and you have a sure recipe for entertainment.An exploration of Cold War Germany, Das Leben der Anderen is the story of GDR espionage officer Gerd Wiesler in his duties spying upon playwright and actress couple Georg and Christa-Maria. Initially a faithful servant of the East, Wiesler is slowly romaniticised by the ideals subtly instilled within his subconscience by those he surveills.As one might expect from a film set during this era, Das Leben der Anderen is heavily political. We see this immediately expressed through several characters, primarily Wiesler. Cold, austere, and unemotional, he shows us the filmmakers' view of East Germany and its agents, conveying to us the sinister notoriety of this infamous entity. It takes perhaps half an hour of the film's running time before we observe a trace of humanity within the character: a veritable needle in a haystack of socialist stoicism. The gentle unravelling of his personal life is wonderful, giving us a detailed picture by showing a blank canvas. As Wiesler's vacuous life of monotony and iciness rolls on, the shared life of his assigned targets seems ever more appealing, the romance between them something entirely foreign and unknown to him. This juxtaposition, purveyed through colour schemes of respective apartments as well as the actors themselves, is for me more appealing than the film's significant political commentary. The extent of the effect of Georg upon Wiesler, despite the fact that they never actually meet, is fantastically enthralling, slowly coming to show us the human side of the previously authoritarian figure. Undoubtedly, the praise for this belongs to Mühe, his performance calm, collected, and capturing. As well as the gripping characterisation, the film's plot is involving; a well paced drama that effectively shows us life behind the wall. The film is rife with subtle but touching moments, beautiful in their simplicity and impact. Not least of these is the closing line, its delivery absolutely perfect and hard-hitting. Tonally, the film is consistent and insistent, evidencing the eagerness of von Donnersmarck to tell this important story.Accurately portraying the concomitant fear, uncertainty, and disillusion of the GDR's command, Das Leben der Anderen propels us effortlessly into the world of its characters. Slowly and comprehensively crafting a complete picture of its main character, one which gradually affixes itself forever to our affections, this is a very fine film indeed.


                
I am happy for the German film business which is doing better and better, and Americans like this movie even though it's not about Hitler! But I think it is a bit too sentimental. It tells a touching story, but of course it takes the story of a Stasi who is really "good on the inside." But I would rather see a movie about the truth, about how the stasi was mostly not so moral. But I guess it's nice for people to see, because they think that if they were in his shoes, they would also be "nice." But the movie never really explains why he decides to be a good person, so it's just "boring guy is a good guy"...I think it is better in subtitles, because in German it felt sort of obvious, but when you read subtitles you think it must mean more!


                
When I watched the first trailer of "Das Leben der Anderen", I wasn't excited at all about this movie which isn't surprising since I consider myself everything but a fan of German movies about German past. Then I learned the rating my favorite critic gave it (5/5) and became curious about this movie. So a friend and I went to see it and I gotta admit, it's quite a decent movie! At least, far better than the (in my view) horribly overrated "Goodbye Lenin". The story is exciting and keeps you fascinated till the credits roll which isn't standard, these days anyway. The actors are all together nothing less than terrific and there lays the biggest quality of the movie. The camera and the score aren't very good, neither are the settings. And the story, as well-written it is, has it's black sheep. For example, and this is a big SPOILERnow so watch out, dear reader, the suicide towards the end. Yeah, it's dramatic and surprising and all that but too constructed and built to fit in the realistic and authentic world the film claims to portrait. Next big SPOILERcomes right away, when I find myself obligated to complain about the first hour of the movie when the tough and rough Stasi agent Wiesler almost immediately falls in love with the lifestyle of his target. There it appears just too obvious that the length became a problem so the director had to rush through this part. The SPOILERS end here. In the end what's left is a nice movie about loss and love in a place ruled by observation and terror. It claims to be like "Full Metal Jacket" but has more of the modern tales by Zemeckis and Besson. Besides these difficulties in matters of identity, it remains a good drama!
This was an interesting film for me. I didn't really know what to expect going into this film. I loved the dull, muted coloured scheme. It really conveyed the bleak living conditions within East Germany. Sure this film isn't the easiest to follow, but it is gripping and engaging. It is a revealing look into one of humanity's darker moments and it treats everyone involved with humility and respect. It is a powerful tale about a man caught in between loyalty towards his state and loyalty towards his fellow man. It is an understated, but very powerful drama.Read my full review here: http://goo.gl/byRMDe


                
