I am still quite speechless. Overwhelmed by how utterly compelling the story was and by how emotive the acting story was. Floored by the unbelievably great character development. This film is close to perfect. It is a spiritual cousin to 2004's magnificent Downfall and shares a lot of similarities with Paul Verhoeven's stunning Black Book from last year, not just because these films share two actors. This multi-faceted character driven masterpiece really is as good as it's hype says.Sebastian Koch in particular absolutely shines. He is one of the best international actors working today and he follows the brilliance of his role in Black Book with the lead here. With his bohemian, dishevelled good looks and brilliant charisma, he's the best German-speaking actor since Bruno Ganz. But he is far from the only good actor in this movie, Ulrich Mühe as the State Security (Stasi) agent whose task it is to monitor Koch's suspiciously free thinking playwright, brings another near perfect performance to the movie. Agent Wiesler initially appears to the audience as the polar opposite of Koch's character. With his grey button down clothing, closely cropped hair and consistently emotionless face he symbolises everything about the overbearing untrusting Socialist government of East Germany that is wrong. He could easily have remained that character throughout the whole film but he becomes the surprising emotional centre of the story and the line between heroes and villains is significantly shifted (something which extends to the supporting cast as well. Truth be told there are probably only two characters in this film whom I didn't have to rethink my opinion of). Weisler reveals himself as a lonely, isolated man who risks his entire career as his attitude to his subject changes from one of mistrust to one of near-adoration. There is an undeniable link between the two characters even though they never share a single scene and Georg Dreyman (Koch) doesn't even find about Wiesler until the last 10 minutes of the movie, which leads us up to what should go down as one of the greatest endings in cinema history. Just thinking about the final spoken lines brings the tears to my eyes.As I said, without a doubt one of the greatest movies I have ever seen. And as much as I adore Pan's Labyrinth, this one really did deserve it's Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film of the Year. An absolute masterpiece.


                
This film, set in the theater world of the mid-1980s, was particularly satisfying to me because I was a producer of avant-garde theater through the 1980s, based in San Francisco but often on tour -- including to international theater festivals in West Germany, communist Poland and communist Yugoslavia in 1987. Although my experience as an American was of course very different than the experience of these East Berliners, there is a mood and sense of personalities in this film that I found authentic and familiar. The people in this film feel like the people I met in the festival bars and refreshment centers for participating artists and on panel discussions in those festivals. Many commenters here have noted the important character change of the Stasi agent, attributing the change either to his growing appreciation for the humanity of the playwright and the actress, or else complaining that the transformation is unpersuasive. So far as I've read in the comments, no one has focused on the key scene. When the Stasi agent hears the playwright and friends planning the suicide article to be smuggled to the West, he writes up an accurate report on this and hastens to his boss's office. Up until then, whatever sympathies he may have developed for the playwright or for the actress are inadequate to deter him. But when the agent enters the boss's office, the boss doesn't immediately give him a chance to give the report or to say anything -- instead the boss immediately launches into a discussion of a new study analyzing how to interrogate and intimidate artists and writers. The report categorizes writers and artists into 5 basic personality types. The boss says the playwright is a "type 4." He describes how the prescribed approach to intimidate "type 4" writers will result in them losing hope and never writing again. Only after hearing this, and realizing that his report exposing the playwright as the author of the suicide paper will result in the playwright being crushed emotionally and never even wanting to write anything new, does the Stasi agent curl up the report in his hands and decide not to give the report to his boss. The agent's precise motivation is unclear. But it cannot be merely that the agent wants the playwright to be able to continue writing new works. The agent must know that the state will never let the playwright do another play or publish anything, if the playwright's authorship of the suicide paper is known, and yet the agent was ready to expose the playwright anyway. So the agent's motive for suddenly deciding to hide his report is not merely because the state will put the playwright on a blacklist and block him from publishing or getting plays produced. Thus it must be that the agent is motivated to change by feeling a general revulsion against the idea that the state should employ the crushing of hope, of creative spirit, as a strategy for responding to a dissenter whom the agent knows is a genuine supporter of the regime but who sees that it has flaws. It is the fact that the state will destroy the playwright's very desire to write, that causes the agent to change. It isn't clear whether the agent would draw back from inflicting that kind of punishment on any artist, even one whom he felt to be a real enemy of the state, but it is clear that he can't bring himself to inflict it on a man whom he feels is a "good" man like the playwright. And the agent believes the playwright is "good" because the playwright supports what is good about society, tries to correct what is wrong about society, is loyal even to a friend who has made powerful enemies, and treats his lover with compassion even when it appears the lover is betraying him.And the irony -- a good irony -- is that by acting to preserve the playwright's desire to write, the agent winds up being the focus of the playwright's novel -- a novel born of a desire and drive to write that the agent himself kept the state from destroying.Thus it seems to me that the real message of this movie is that even the most unimaginative, bland, uncreative, rigid people -- such as the Stasi agent -- should appreciate and protect the desire that drives creative people who are also "good" people to create works of art and literature.
Mediocrity, thoroughness, morality, power. These words come into my mind after seeing this very German movie, which is otherwise also a great movie. It has a great atmosphere, giving back the grey world of the DDR: grey buildings, grey Trabants and Wartburgs, grey people, a country ruled by mediocrity even in its colours.Nevertheless, a thorough world: the Stasi thoroughly maintains the files about the many suspects, the agents thoroughly install the bugs in their flats and thoroughly watch them. (Later in the unified Germany they thoroughly maintain the very same files and make them open for everyone. A thorough nation, the Germans.)But the Germans also value morality and this is also evident in the movie. The moral awakening causes the otherwise conformist writer to challenge the Communist power and the very same moral attitude causes the much less typical and much less anticipated awakening of the Stasi agent watching the writer. The latter transformation is clearly more exciting, as the grey, mediocre, thorough and lonely Stasi agent, the loyal servant realizes the real nature of the Communist power during the observation of the writer and her wife. In the end he also challenges this power in his own humble way. The story should also be instructive for us Hungarians, as it shows an example of how a nation should handle its dark past. The Germans already did a fairly impressive "brainwash" after WWII to reach a catharsis on the sinful Nazi past and they did a similarly impressive moral confrontation in the 90's with their Communist past and the Stasi. I envy them, because we Hungarians have failed in this. The Germans consistently opened all the Stasi files, and allowed everyone to go and see who had been watched and who had been the agents and the informers.In Hungary, this did not happen. What happened instead was that many of the informers became prominent politicians (other professions exposed to the public like artists, journalists, church officials were/are also heavily "infected") and the files were used to blackmail them, or to get rid of them in a few occasions. Not exactly the right way to purify the society. And the society is indeed far from being purified: they just do not really care if it turns out that some prominent person was an informer back in the Communist era. So, when such files come to the public, the former agent just says some weak excuses ("I was forced into this" and " I always tried to defend the people around me" and "I never wrote anything harmful", etc.) and then everything continues as before.This was what happened to Oscar-winner film director István Szabó whose story is particularly striking. An article was published in a weekly uncovering the fact that he was an informer back in the early 60's. His personal post-scandal behaviour is a typical example of trying to get away with feeble excuses. The reaction of the society was an example of accepting these cheap excuses without criticism, just because Szabó was an otherwise famous, talented and popular person, a "nice" guy.And this is a pity: Szabó is one of the few informers who could have stood up and confess his "sins" without losing his authenticity, because Szabó the artist has done the confession. His best films showed how the power can corrupt talented but weak persons, how one can lose one's integrity. He got his Oscar for exploring this very topic in Mephisto, (and he got Oscar nominations for two other similar movies with Brandauer). And then he did confront this issue even more explicitly in Taking sides, too. And he did it in the right way, exposing all the complexity and all the moral issues. So, it is indeed a pity he could not do it in the right way in his personal life. And it is indeed a pity that we Hungarians could not do it the right way. The Germans did.
I am a huge fan of German intellect. Their Philosophy. Their Literature. Their Science. One thing relating to the Germans that I am not that big a fan of is their entertainment. And my impression is mostly limited to the free television progammes they offer and honestly I get verily bored by those when I stay there.But with so much hype associated with this movie (being included in most of the top 10 lists of movies after 2000), I couldn't resist my curiosity and decided to go for it. I am so wrong about German movies. This one in particular is definitely one of the best movies I have seen.Before the Germany reunification, East Germany had this totalitarian government that was accused of infringing privacy of the citizens putting them into 24 hours surveillance to monitor any anti-government activities. The story involves an interrogation and surveillance specialist STASI (State Security) officer given a task of monitoring the life of a writer. But soon he discovers the misuse of power of the higher officials for personal benefit and his faith in the system withers down. And more he listens to the life of others he gets slowly absorbed in their lives living it with them. But the question was how far he could go?The direction is absorbing. The performance of the actors are fantastic. Remember 'The Green Mile'? This movie grips you like that one. It starts slow but becomes so engaging that it drags audience into the movie living with the actors. I was moved and intrigued with the dilemma each character was facing. I was living the lives of others.(Originally posted @ weirdo-on-movies.blogspot.com)


                
I have already found a lot of useful comments on this film, so my intention is not to repeat those comments. For me, this movie was really good, so I am a follower of the positive reviews I have read.What I would like to do, is comment on the negative reviews I have read about the character development, and in particular the role of Ulrich Muhe (Hauptmann Gerd Wiesler).A lot of people state that the transition from a very strict Stasi agent to the helpful 'friend' isn't realistic and human. When you look at how extremely strict and haunting the man was beforehand, he just couldn't turn into a good guy all of a sudden, they say.I disagree with that. When you look at it from a psychological point of view, it makes clear sense to me. It is very well known that just before a person admits his wrongdoing, he is at his most extreme in denying it! The more he is confronted with the fact that his methods are unethical, the more he will try to find arguments to defend his methods. A great example of this is the scene where the student in Wiesler's class comments on the brutal interrogations Wiesler has pulled off. Wiesler answers by saying that this is just the way things go in the DDR, and that the student better get used to that.Another example of why the transformation of Wiesler is so credible, is the fact that he hasn't got a life of his own. This is perfectly illustrated by the scenes in Wiesler's home. Every evening he returns to his home, finding it empty. He cooks (awefull) for himself and orders prostitutes to satisfy his sexual needs. In that particular scene he even asks the prostitute to stay longer. This illustrates even more how lonely the poor guy is. Also, this loneliness and 'lack of own life' perfectly illustrate the title of this movie. Wiesler doesn't have a life of his own, and therefore 'lives the life of others' when he's sitting in the attic listening to the lives that happen beneath him.A final argument for the credibility of the transition is the piano play Georg Dreyman plays after his good friend, the director and writer Albert Jerska, dies: 'die Sonate vom guten Menschen' or 'The sonata of good people'. This is the key moment for the transition. Wiesler then perfectly realizes that his work is pointless and unethical. That by doing it, he will never become a good man, and will never have a worthy life of his own. He is confronted with the rich life of the poets and artists, and discovers how beautiful a normal and free life can be. From that point on, he changes radically, and decides that he is no longer a part of an unethical, inhuman system. To me, this all perfectly fits.In my opinion this is one of the best movie in years. And I hope that I have offered clear arguments on why the transformation of Wiesler is not a wrong and unrealistic move, but instead a great enrichment of the movie.


                
This is an absolutely fantastic film, with a very suitable soundtrack and great performances from the whole cast, which performs perfectly. Little things, like facial expressions, reactions, etc. are so important on the big screen, and are so difficult to get right. It says a lot for the talent on set that this film was an absolute joy to watch, especially as all these 'little things' were executed to perfection. As Wiesler grows to love his subjects, it is, of course, a gradual change, and Ulrich Muehe, with the help of a tender and fantastic script, pulls his character off so convincingly. What is very interesting about this film is the way in which it portrays West Germany. Von Donnersmarck has not directed a love-letter to the West; he portrays its faults just as he portrays those of the East, and of the Ministerium fuer Staatssicherheit (Stasi), and there are some very thought-provoking issues and ideas within the film. Ultimately, whether the right thing is done or not, a transformation occurs within the film, one for a more fulfilling existence. I'll leave you to decide whether or not it is for the better, but I truly believe that this film is an enriching experience for all who watch it. You really get the sense that the actors cared for the themes and issues that the film raised, and this can only ever make a film better. The film is not without tension, which is expertly tackled by fast editing and music, and not without sadness, loss, and pain. Characters are more deeply explored than you first realize, and, often, they are not so different. They are, after all, all socialists. Not often does one come across a classic film, one with just the right amount of classiness, messages, and imagery, amongst other things, and it is a genuine pleasure when one falls into your lap. Watch this film. I promise that you will not be disappointed.


                
Films like "The Lives of Others" don't come around very often, as the film industry is dominated by loud Hollywood blockbusters with no real substance (Helena Bonham Carter would agree with me :) this, an overlooked film because it's foreign and quieter than dominating films, deserves a much wider audience. Anyone could watch "The Lives of Others" and be touched and perhaps moved by the wonderful acting and deeply drawn out characters (unless you're under 5, but we'll let you off!)If you appreciate fine acting, this is a great film to watch. Because in foreign films you can't understand what they're saying (generally) I usually find it difficult to tell if they're acting well or not, but in "The Lives of Others" you can tell that they're delivery and performance is fantastic. Right down to the main characters walk! It also helps it to flesh out the wonderfully drawn characters. They're in-depth and you find yourself being emotionally attached to them as the Stasi man watching them! You increasingly want to see more of them making for truly compelling viewing!The directing also adds to how compelling the film is. It's very delicate and clever in the way he tries only to show the couple in the way Wiesler also sees them, so when his shift is over, we as an audience also stop seeing the family which helps us to understand how Wiesler is so compelled with their lives and also makes it exceedingly gripping! Although, I think that the directing could've afforded to be more intense than it was, but that's only a small flaw.The writing is incredibly intelligent and also gives you good insight to the split Germany before the Berlin wall came down. It's interesting and moving with a very touching ending. The screenplay also doesn't fear about delving deeply into the characters either. It's full of excellent characterisation and brings up some delicate themes in the correct manner."The Lives of Others" is a truly masterful film, every element that makes a classic film comes together perfectly. I can bet that in 50 years time "The Lives of Others" will still be watched and cherished. It's just a shame it doesn't get the recognition it deserves! Even if you don't feel that "The Lives of Others" isn't your thing, please just give it a go and I bet that'll you'll be moved and compelled by the experience. A must see!


                
I had heard about this this film over the years and the animation that it inspired in people had drifted in and out of my consciousness, I must watch it..and then, I did, and it surprised me, it shocked me and it stayed, like a stain on my mind, difficult to wash away, nagging with layers and meaning. An incredible study of selflessness, selfishness, sexuality, relationships and despair, and yet there is in the bleached out cinematography, and the bleached out humanity, a wisp of hope and retribution. I won't add a spoiler, but if you like, it's denouement in the real world only adds to it's tragedy and it's lingering like smoke on your clothes after a night in a bar, a memory full of the joy of experience and the pain of experience.


                
The Lives of Others/Das Leben der Anderen<U+0097>the title of this striking German film points to the vicariousness of a world dominated by suspicion and surveillance. In East Germany before the Berlin Wall came down the STASI, the state police, wanted to watch everyone. In 1984 a file is opened and STASI men are set to work watching a man and a woman who are above reproach. In the paranoid world of the eastern zone, innocence itself, as in Kafka, is suspicious. In charge of the case, code name "Laszlo," is a certain Weisler (Ulrich Mühe). And those thoroughly bugged and listened to day and night are Georg Dreyman (Sebastian Koch), a noted playwright, friend of the Chancellor, politically correct in the eyes of the regime, and his beloved girlfriend Christa-Maria Sieland (Martina Gedeck), a famous actress. Behind this particular project are political higher-ups, sly and manipulative, jealous of each other's positions, kingpins of a system that in a few years will toss them out. This is a paranoid 1984 not far from the one Orwell imagined. When Weisler's men bug Dreyman's flat, the lady across the hall sees them. Weisler tells her if she speaks a word to anybody, her daughter will be thrown out of the university. One of the officials wants Christa-Maria. Now that she is vulnerable, on the examination table, so to speak, he can move in on her. It's only a matter of time before somebody will be begging for mercy.Weisler is a rigid mole, but he has sensitive eyes. Like the Wall itself, his vision will crumble and we will see it happen. Weisler is a teacher in the police school, but Dreyman's life becomes his teacher. Dreyman is tall and glamorous. He sheds his middle class origins by never wearing a tie. He makes love to a beautiful woman who Weisler later declares to be a great artist. Weisler has to make do with flabby prostitutes on a tight schedule. Dreyman introduces Weisler to the humanizing value of music and poetry; he listens to a certain sonata, and he begins to read Brecht.Weisler and Dreyman are both flawed heroes. The bad men are Oberstleutnant Anton Grubitz (Ulrich Tukur), Weisler's threatening supervisor, and the loathsome "Culture" minister with police powers Bruno Hempf (Thomas Tieme).The question may arise in our minds: if Dreyman's so above reproach to the East Germans, how shall we admire him? But this film deals in nuances, moral ambiguities through which despair can turn to hope. The sonata was given to Dreyman for his birthday by a blacklisted friend and mentor, Albert Jerska (Volkmar Kleimert), and Jerska's suicide leads the playwright to risk smuggling facts and an impassioned protest to the West. Dreyman does become admirable to us. But so does Weisler, the STASI agent, because by this time he wants to protect the objects of his surveillance, and to protect them he arranges to be the only man on the case. Dreyman evades exposure through Weisler's silent help. But there are casualties. Christa-Maris is catnip to the fat cats, and she's caught in the middle. Weisler covers his tracks, but his superior knows he's done something, and Weisler's sent to steam open letters in a cellar for the rest of his career. It's there that we see him get the extraordinary news four years later that the Wall is coming down.The Lives of Others is free from the melodrama of pursuit and torture, but it knows the terror of the sudden house search, the second knock upon the door; of extortion, humiliation, and betrayal; the soul death of the creative person silenced, the calculated draining away of the will to act. It's a movie of dignity and hope too, though it speaks of long gray subterranean exile. The music Jerska gave Dreyman is called The Sonata of a Good Man. A chance remark by one of the fallen officials years later leads Dreyman to track down the facts (accessible now) and to write about them. When Weisler speaks the film's final lines, "It's for me," they're among the most resonant in recent years. The Lives of Others is a little long in places <U+0096> it threatens sometimes to morph into a mini-series <U+0096> but its restraint and quietude make for an impressive cumulative effect, a sense of the prevailing grayness and rage totalitarianism generates. It's specific to the place and time, but gracefully universal, and it reveals the tall German with the aristocratic name, Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck, to be a world-class director.
so I finally got to see the film everyone has been talking about. I have also seen the talk show in which the director gets into an argument with East-German actor Henry Hübchen. I must admit the director comes across as arrogant bordering on annoying. He is obviously a wunderkind or something but he is actually such a smart-ass that I can't imagine a character less likable. Watching his discussion with Hübchen made me want to boycott the film (even though I adore the actors in it, Martina Gedeck and Ulrich Mühe)I am glad I didn't. It may not be historically accurate. I am from East Germany but I am too young to know. Yet, most people say the GDR as portrayed in the film was not the GDR of the 1980s but rather the (Stalinist) GDR of the 1950s. In the 1980s, most actors, singers, the famous people were able to extort the GDR government as they could just go west and embarrass the officials. If the writer/actress couple were really as famous as the film suggests, in 1984, the GDR officials would have given them anything they wanted. (the pivotal point was 1976 when dissident Wolf Biermann was denaturalized)In that respect, I understand Hübchen's criticism. He said he lived in the period and doesn't agree with the way it was portrayed. He fears that the will now stand testimony to the era and people may well think that this is the way it was. His grandson asked him why he didn't do anything about it, how he could live in a system like this etc. I suppose he is afraid Donnersmark steals his biography, in a way.However, it is still a work of fiction and people who watch a film should know. It is a good film, if overly dramatic, a little obvious, and Hollywood-IA. It has some great moments, actually. Mühe is fantastic as the man in grey.So, it's definitely worth checking out. I have a feeling it may get more appreciation abroad than in Germany. It was obviously produced with the foreign (esp American) audiences in mind. And I think it may translate pretty well into foreign territories as it gets enthusiastic notices from critics abroad.My favourite German film this year is still Sommer vorm Balkon, yet it appears foreigners don't get the subtle and sweet Berlin humour.


                
A deserving Oscar winner if ever there was one, though I was never one to pay special attention to the Oscars, I was almost shocked by how perfect this debut movie by a 34-year-old director very nearly was. Set in East Berlin in the mid-80s, some five years before the infamous Wall crumbled, it follows the STASI as they plot to find incriminating evidence against playwright Georg Dreyman, who'd been the regime's darling until a ruthless minister frivolously develops a lecherous desire to possess his girlfriend, renowned stage actress Christa-Maria Sieland. Though both Sebastian Koch (last seen by me as the Nazi Captain Müntze in Verhoeven's Black Book) and Martina Gedeck are excellent as the central couple trapped within the STASI's web of eavesdropping and paranoia tactics, the real hero and star of the movie is without a doubt Ulrich Mühe. I had last seen in Michael Haneke's Funny Games, where he played Georg, the unfortunate husband and dad who comes to a sticky end. In The Lives of Others, Mühe memorably fills the shoes of the STASI agent Gerd Wiesler who listened to Dreyman's daily life through the bugs in his flat. Balding, physically non-descript Wiesler conveys more with one subtle shift of an eyeball than the whole stellar cast of an Oliver Stone movie. This actor is so charismatic, he blows even the undeniably talented and handsome Sebastian Koch clear off the screen. In this movie not only are things seldom what they seem, but humanity and redemption can be found in the most ridiculously unexpected places.Shocking, humane and moving yet never predictable, heavy-handed or melodramatic, the movie is also blessed by a solid script, a very plausible storyline free of plot holes and an immaculately researched scenario. I've read that both the movie's director and Mühe remember their experiences living in the Communist regime. Though the former was still very young, he claims to clearly remember the climate of paranoia he grew up in, while Mühe later discovered that he had been spied upon by his own wife! Oddly enough, one accusation levelled against the movie by some IMDb reviewers is that of misogyny. Being normally very sensitive to a discriminatory portrayal of women, I was very baffled by this. I've come to the conclusion that some touchy viewers expect their movie characters <U+0096> especially those of women or ethnic minorities <U+0096> to be paragons of virtue or role models, rather than simply human beings with flaws and plausible weaknesses. In my view Christa-Maria's main sin was not to be "weak", as some other viewers here claim, but simply "human". If anything, the movie also provided a damning portrait of the brutality of the regime against women.Perhaps my only, very minor complaint with the movie was its ending, which felt a tad rushed - though it was a beautiful ending all the same - uplifting and sad, poetic and yet also grounded in the starkest reality.


                
I am not going to repeat what everyone else has already said as I agree with most of the comments. I have just seen it at the Toronto Film Festival and out of 24 movies I saw.... it far exceeded anything else I saw in the 9 days and can only say it was my #1 favourite. I feel fortunate that I live in such a multicultural city that we have this fantastic festival to see films such as this.I regret that I had to miss the Questions and Answers at the end of film as I had another film to get to. I would love to hear what was discussed if anyone else was there and would like to get back to me or post on board. PLEASE AND THANK YOU... sh


                
Just finished watching this film and I have to say it was fantastic. I'm a man that watches all sorts of films. Sci-fi, comedy, fantasy, action etc. But I rarely watch European cinema or subtitled films. But this...it blew me away at how good it was.The acting by all the cast was great, Martina Gedeck, Sebastian Koch...just brilliant, but Ulrich Mühe, top performance as the Stasi officer. I don't want to add spoilers, but I I will say this, Out of the thousands of films I've seen, this is one of the best! A must watch for anyone, even if you don't usually watch subtitled films!


                
I'm a big fan of German movies, I always have a feeling of a very deep and human message that they can only understand and express. This movie might be about moral dilemmas, but does moral dilemmas really exists? Do we really have a difficult decision to make when we know what's always the right thing to do? This in my point of view is the real thread of the movie, moral choices. What's the right thing to do? To who we owe a good moral act? Can we be part of something that might be immoral and feel good about it? This movie is superb! The final line of the movie almost made me cry alone in my room. Very moving story, with great actors and a superb direction. I would watch this movie again and would definitely share it with a lot of people. The Lives of Others is now one of my top 10 movies of all times.


                
I can honestly say, this is one of the finest examples of European film. The story is so dark and heart-breaking. In the UK and Northern America, we miss out on so much fabulous cinema because it is not in English, because we are too lazy to read subtitles, or learn a foreign language, but this masterpiece, this work of art, does not disappoint. It is not a film you enjoy. You will not call it your favourite, discuss it with your friends, or even watch it regularly. You will however be filled with the harrowing knowledge it gives to you. The awful state of affairs in GDR in the 1980s. It will rock your soul. Your very conscience. You will be gripped, unable to look away, and yet desperate to go back to the ignorance of our sheltered lives, after all, isn't it bliss?The story follows the surveillance of a playwright and his girlfriend in 1985 in Eastern Germany, and how the Captain in charge of the operation becomes intoxicated by their lives, and as such, begins to cover up the very acts he is meant to report. It eventually ends with him preventing the playwright's arrest by hiding the evidence that would have him convicted. The evidence in question a type writer that wrote an article that uncovered the policy in Eastern Germany of no longer recording suicides. The information on where this typewriter was hidden came from the girlfriend of the playwright. She kills herself, overcome by guilt, only for the captain to have already removed the evidence. The ending of the film, several years later sees the Playwright review the files on the surveillance operation on him in a united Germany and he discovers the work of the Captain who had in many ways help conceal the evidence. He finds out who he is and tracks him down. He sees him but he does not approach him. We then see the Captain who is now a postman of some kind walk past a book shop with the playwright's photograph and novel in the window. He goes in and opens a copy to see that is devoted to him. His code name. He buys a copy and the cashier asks him if he'd like it gift- wrapped. He replies: "No, it's for me."It is the most beautiful ending to a film I have ever seen.
It is the second time I have seen this movie. When I first saw it I remember feeling upset by the idea that just a little more than 20 years ago, in the heart of a civilized and enlightened Europe, there dominated such cultural repression and such terroristic means of questioning. Not that history of the former DDR was unknown to me, but probably because undeveloped at school, or probably because a little disregarded also by cinematography, it was rather upsetting. On a second watching, having assimilated the strong impact of the first one, I could better analyze the quality of the movie from a cinematographic point of view, and really appreciate it. It has a solid structure which makes every shot perfectly match with the whole, and contributes to an overall clear, lucid and perfectly built drama. The story proceeds with a quick pace, each scene is the preparation for the next one, everything is under control and follows a well marked and gripping path. The cast is simply outstanding: the actress playing Christa Maria is truly convincing in showing her deep inner laceration between her love for the stage and her love for Georg, the handsome and attractive dramatist, who knows where the right side lies, but finds it hard to assert it explicitly. But who leaves the most emotionally powerful mark is Ulrich Muhe interpreting Wiesler: he stirs thought and emotion, he is so dramatically contained, as his character requires, but, in a single hint at a smile (whe he reads Brecht's poems), conveys such a desperate yearning for true life, I think an Oscar deserving interpretation. In the end, a movie I would absolutely advise: it is intelligently thought-provoking, intellectually honest, and solidly built: a high-level piece of cinema. Really worth seeing.


                
This a movie that had to be made and must be seen by as many in the world as possible. If I were to comment much on the story, it would become overly political so I restrain. The movie is political but it says more about conflict of conscious and redemption than it does about political beliefs. A powerful story of tragedy and triumph, of greed and grace, of love and deception. It is a story about the cost of sacrifice and the cost of compromise. The screenplay is masterfully written and and the story carefully directed. So good is the crafting and telling of the story that the movie transcends borders - any audience can appreciate it. The art direction was very well balanced and added to the emotions the story brings out. Its only obvious weakness in my opinion were the few times it lacked continuity causing the editing of some sequences to be a bit awkward. For those who believe that government knows best and the populace needs the government to care for its needs - they need to see this movie. For those who believe in individual liberty and freedom of expression and decent at all levels - they need to see this movie.


                
Even though The Departed may be judged by most to be more powerful and shocking, this film shocks but it also saddens, and then encourages the heart in a unique way that senses-bludgeoning films like The Departed cannot...in the inexorable and certain life-draining way that only stories detailing the harsh realities of a life without hope can do, and then which show a complete about face and tell the resulting story of total transformation and its effects on the same people. Always difficult to do, but was done with brilliance in this film.Most of this film was about people's unhappy lives without hope under Socialism, but then come the transformations, individual and national, that change everything. This film develops the story of dreary but threatening communist "hope oppression" better than any I can remember since the '50's film, "1984". Without hope to encourage us, what else is there to the real value of life? The very soulful and talented Urich Muhe(his features hint of Kevin Spacey) plays the role of a hardened national police captain who is the central screw on which the story turns, a totally committed socialist party cop who undergoes a complete, but not overtly joyful, change of heart that works to alter forever the fortunes of the story's foil, a writer/playwright of increasingly "questionable" political views who, as a result, becomes a central target of the Stasi, the national security police that was shown to be ubiquitous and all-powerful, and every bit as formidable and scary as the outrageously inhuman "Big Brother" that terrified citizens in "1984".Early on, Muhe played the police captain as a Jack Webb/Joe Friday-type cop.....humorless, cold, stiff and ruthlessly committed to doing the best but also the meanest job he could do in a mean business to root out any and all political dissenters. Muhe's role interpretation in his gradual but complete transformation to the other side personally and politically was nothing less than acting brilliance, and probably the best acting of the year in any film. Don't miss it, as you will be missing rare acting greatness if you do, and at least the equal to the brilliance of Massimo Triosi in Il Postino.Also, along with the greatest movie-ending lines in history, the very last line in this film summed up everything that happened before in the best and fewest words possible, and it will surely move you greatly, not only from immense sadness and pity for what happened to the disgraced former cop but also from great hope and gratitude for the people in this world who finally see the true light as did Muhe's transformed police captain, and then put it to work bettering the world even though the personal cost may be great. An heroic act of course, but even more, one worthy of emulation by all of us."The Lives of Others" was so emotionally powerful throughout but nearly overwhelming at the end, as it showed so well one of the greatest life-lessons that can be learned by anyone, and one never to be forgotten....some of your good deeds will be rewarded in some way.(added 1/23/08: one of the best movies and lead role acting in decades. Urich Muhe died recently, and what a tragic loss of talent and person. His death makes me also sadly grieve the similar fates of the magnificent Massimo Triosi of Il Postino, and the creative genius Adrienne Shelley of Waitress....both also died much too young right after their highly acclaimed triumphs in those films.)


                
It has been suggested that the story of Hauptmann Wiesler (Ulrich Muhe), a senior, dedicated and zealous Stasi East German (DDR) secret police officer who starts to empathise with the subjects of his investigation is rather improbable, but to me it rings true emotionally.His subjects are Georg Dreyman (Sebastian Koch), a playwright currently in party favour, and his actress lover Christa-Maria (Martina Gedeck). Sooner or later, an inhabitant of the chill world of secret policing with no private life to speak of sent to investigate "artists" is going to feel the warmth and charm of the milieu he is spying on, especially where, as here, he soon realises that his superiors' motives for the investigation are corrupt.Apologists for the Stasi (and given it employed 100,000 and had at least 200,000 informers these are numerous) say the DDR was a system that ran according to laws which were designed to protect society, but as is inevitable in totalitarian regimes the laws were perverted by those in charge to serve their own ends. Thus loathsome culture minister Hempf wants to get something on Dreyman so he can have the lovely Christa <U+0096>Maria all to himself, and Wiesler's slimy boss Grubitz is only too happy to oblige.Wiesler's conversion from dedicated servant of the regime to furtive dissident is an amazing process to watch, and Ulrich Muhe, who happens to be an "ossi" (former DDR resident), makes it very plausible. Despite tragedy, the movie has a surprisingly upbeat ending. The complacent Hempf believes people don't change but this does not mean they are entirely predictable.We see a fair amount of the Stasi at work. The rank and file are not portrayed as monsters, or automatons, just ordinary workers prepared to crack jokes about their masters at work. Most of what they do is minor harassment directed towards encouraging conformity. It is not hard to break the rules in a society where you need permission to subscribe to a foreign newspaper. It is an interesting irony that one of the catalysts of Wiesler's silent rebellion is the work of Bertold Brecht, at one time an enthusiastic supporter of the DDR.Whatever you think of its politics, this is a very fine film, with not a single one of its 137 minutes wasted. It is certainly an antidote to the "ossie" nostalgia said to possess some residents of the former DDR and wonderfully satirised in "Good-Bye Lenin". But it also asks all of us how would we behave in similar circumstances. If it might be to your individual advantage (and to the disadvantage of your enemy) would you do it? The Stasi had even otherwise loving couples informing on each other. We can only hope that, despite our own overzealous secret policemen who are doing their best to undermine our civil liberties in the name of anti-terrorism, we never get to such depths in this country. I do hope Phil Ruddock (our Attorney-General) gets to see this movie.


                
Generally, I thought this was a great movie, very well done, very suspenseful. The ending was a great bit of closure - a nice touch where Georg could let Wiesler know that he knew what Wiesler had done for him. I would have liked Georg and Wiesler to have a conversation, but maybe that would have been too much of a Hollywood ending.My main negative about the movie is that I didn't understand why Wiesler was so affected by the lives of Georg and Christa-Maria. Clearly his life was empty, but he was an experienced agent and had spied on many people, which probably included artists. I didn't see why he would feel such sympathy for these two to the point of putting himself at risk. But if you just take his feelings and reasons for what they are, the film works very well.I saw von Donnersmarck interviewed (in English) and was surprised at his American accent - evidently he lived in New York for part of his childhood. I recently saw "Downfall" (Untergang) and "Head-On" (Gegen Die Wand), which were also excellent movies. I'm glad to see that German films are achieving international recognition.
A film which must obligatory be seen by anyone who claims he adores cinema. It's a masterpiece. It ends and you need at least a minute of time to realize what you have just seen! One of the five best foreign language film I ever watched. It merits of any praise. It is fully emotional and didactic in the same time. Sebastian Koch is exceptional in his role. I just don't have words for Ulrich Mühe, an excellent performance. Do not think that I exaggerate.. Just pay a visit to your nearest theater and find yourselves trapped in directing that masterly created by Florian Henckel. It is also a non-Hollywood production which proves once more that it isn't needed millions of dollars to create an outstanding by all means film.I am sure you will enjoy it..


                
A creepy and innovative political thriller, set in a shadowy period in recent German history. With a run-time of over 2 hours, the film doesn't let you take your eyes off even for a single momentOther than Donnersmarck's brilliant direction, the movie's fascinating and morally complex characters, acted out flawlessly by the three leads, keep you involved right from the beginning. (Note: Though there might be a few historical inaccuracies, like the Stasi security might not have been that severe in 1984 exactly, but may have existed much before it, and many others. So, the movie should be seen as a work of fiction, not some historical account.)Deeds done out of good intentions always pay off; even if they don't, you're free from any sort of guilt or regret which might follow if you had done it the other way - A Must-watch!


                
I remember when this came out it got quite a lot of critical acclaim. Of course it never made it to a cinema near me and so when it came up in the TV listings it became a 'must see' for me. I'm really glad I saw it, it's somewhat different to what I was expecting (in a good way). I know there are a few out there that are afraid of subtitles, so I should tell you that yes, it's in German with subtitles. For me, this isn't a problem, but with a long film (as this is), I find I sometimes have to take a break to rest the brain for a few minutes. I found it to be a really engaging drama that has some truly powerful scenes and some great performances. Here's a brief summary before I give you my thoughts.It is East Germany in 1984, five years before the Berlin wall would fall. The East German people are constantly watched by the secret police, The Stasi. Anyone deemed to have strayed from the party line was arrested and interrogated. They could even end up in jail. When playwright, Georg Dreyman comes under the spotlight of the Stasi, at the behest of party official, Minister Bruno Hempf, Hauptmann Gerd Wiesler is assigned the case. Dreyman's apartment is bugged and Wiesler begins to listen to the comings and goings in the flat. Dreyman lives with his girlfriend, actress, Christa-Maria Sieland, who has a big part to play in the events that unfold. As time goes by, Wiesler begins to empathise with those he's listening to. He realises that not everything has to be reported, to the extent that he even scales down the operation so he alone reports on the couple. He uses this position to protect them when Dreyman begins to do things the party really wouldn't like. I will leave my summary here so as not to be subjected to a 48 hour interrogation by them Spoiler Police.This is a very well made film, although I did find the surroundings very stark, but then again, I guess that's just realism. Great performances all round, particularly from Ulrich Mühe who played the rather serious Hauptmann Gerd Wiesler with great dignity. I thought Sebastian Koch as Georg Dreyman and Martina Gedeck as Christa-Maria Sieland were both superb. Ulrich Tukur did a good job as Wiesler's boss, Oberstleutnant Anton Grubitz, as did Thomas Thieme as the loathsome Minister Bruno Hempf.I was surprised how much emotion was brought out both in, and by, this film. In the end it becomes a very heart-warming story. The beginning, on the other hand, I found really hard to follow, but once it settled down it was much easier. It has a slow, deliberate pace, but I didn't find it a chore to watch. I did find it was a little long though, but the extra scenes at the end are a real pay-off. So, if you're not scared of subtitles, and you can spare 137 minutes, then this one comes highly RECOMMENDED.My Score: 8.5/10.IMDb Score: 8.5/10 (based on 93,806 votes when this review was written).Rotten Tomatoes Score: 93/100 (based on 150 reviews counted when this review was written).


                
The Stasi existed to protect the Communist state of East Germany from its perceived enemies both external and internal. That state is long gone, as are the Stasi, yet their existence still chills and fascinates.Step forward Florian Henckel Von Donnersmarck with this drama of Georg Dreymann (Sebastian Koch), an East German playwright put under the surveillance of a superkeen Stasi officer, partly at the behest of a government minister who covets Dreymann's actress girlfriend (Martina Gedeck) and who would be grateful if the playwright were got out of the way to give him a clear run at the woman. Unfortunately for the libidinous minister, however, things do not quite go according to his plan.This film's strengths are many - plausible story, subtle and appropriate music, suitably drab sets and camera-work <U+0096> but it is the performances that really captivate. Sebastian Koch and Martina Gedeck are excellent, but Ulrich Mühe is simply flawless. We watch as his character, Stasi Captain Gerd Wiesler, makes the transition from unquestioning zealot to sympathetic collaborator who realizes at last that the system he has believed in all his life crushes those who do not fit in with it. It crushes him too, eventually, but in a noble cause that leads to a worthy end and an unexpectedly touching conclusion.I am lucky enough to have sufficient grasp of German to watch this in the original, but, even if you can't, this one will grip you from start to finish. It is a deserving winner of the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film of the Year in 2007 and is strongly recommended.Rating: 9/10
In 1984, in East Germany, the popular actress addicted in pills Christa-Maria Sieland (Martina Gedeck) becomes the pivot of an investigation of the successful writer and her boyfriend and mate Georg Dreyman (Sebastian Koch) by the secret police. The Minister of Culture Bruno Hempf (Thomas Thieme) and former lover of Christa orders the ambitious Chief of Police Anton Grubitz (Ulrich Tukur) to find evidences that Georg is not loyal to the party to get rid off him and stay with Christa, and the efficient agent Gerd Wiesler (Ulrich Mühe) is assigned to conduct surveillance on Georg's apartment. Wiesler does not find any evidence that could compromise Georg, until the day of his blacklisted friend and director Albert Jerska (Volkmar Kleinert) commits suicide. Georg decides to write an anonymous article to Der Spiegel about the hidden numbers of suicides in East Germany. However, Wiesler becomes fascinated with the lives and thoughts of George and Christa and covers his findings from his superiors."Das Leben der Anderen" is another powerful German movie, showing the repressing and corrupted system supported by fear in East Germany in times of Cold War. This movie is practically perfect: the screenplay and story are engaging, disclosing a triangle of love that causes a political surveillance of an innocent man based on several characters that are perfectly developed. The pace is neither slow nor fast but very adequate, and uses an awesome cinematography. Therefore the work of the director and writer Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck is outstanding. The performances are top-notch, but the actor Ulrich Mühe is amazingly perfect, deserving an Oscar, and Martina Gedeck gives a great credibility to her abused character. I usually watch many movies , but "Das Leben der Anderen" is certainly among the best recent movies I have seen, if not the best. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil): "A Vida dos Outros" ("The Life of the Others")


                
