I went into this movie'with high hopes. I'd seen positive reviews and heard it favourably compared with Serenity - a particularly favourite of mine. I left the cinema bored and irritated. This film was so derivative, frankly I'm surprised that anyone gave it more than 5 stars. Opening scene? Indiana Jones and the lost Ark. Badies? A leather clad Darth Vader with runny mascara. Emperor? Check. Secret about the father? Check.People have said that they felt the characters were fleshed out.. Are you out of your minds? "I lost my mother". "Really? I lost my wife and child" "That's nothing. I was cut up and put back together so many times AND I was bullied". "Well I used to be a shrub and was transplanted without permission". The special affects were massive and continuous and - in the end dulled the senses. There was the inevitable Ninja babe and cutesy furry character. No one meaningful died apart from Darth who got fried in blue fire.. why he didn't just grab on and share the magic I don't know. Lastly there was no sense of tension. We all knew that the goodies were going to survive. There's a sequel to make right? I could go on and on but I won't. I went to see this in hope. I won't be seeing the next one unless Joss Whedon is put in charge. Sigh another wasted two hours of my life.
Before i went to this movie, i saw the review's of others, and my expectations went a bit up, i thought man really need to see this movie, if its as half as good as everyone else says, but ti totally was not. I was laughing at some jokes, but overall was 5% of the jokes funny.The film didn't even felt exciting, by the characters, full with stupid jokes and arrogance, made me not feel up for them, it didn't felt like they would "not make it" and then "oh they made it" feeling and , like (containing spoiler) at the end, was really surprised how they won Ronan, i mean he started to dance, and sing, and after turned out to not be a human but a half human, half alien who could hold that stone, that end was just so cut off, and so surprising stupid. it didn't felt like action movie, shooting and effects does not give you action, action you get from the feeling you felt for the main characters, and i did not, and this new arrogant, cocky jokes, just stupid, like new spiderman, ruined just like that. And the emotions, man rally, felt like every body is soft, then they are arrogant, and then again stupid, and it rally didn't felt like a comedy, it didn't felt like action, and it didn't felt like drama (i don't know what this film is).
First, don't blow up if you disagree with this review, but I was rather disappointed in "Guardians of the Galaxy". Like, I would guess everyone of you, I was very much looking forward to see this movie.However, within mere minutes, this film felt like a "B" movie with an "A" level budget (search all of the "B" Sci-Fi and Fantasy films that were released in the 70's and 80's!). The only difference was the money that was clearly put into this movie (the dialog, while many, I'm sure, had a good laugh, was cheesy to me, with pop culture reference jokes that just don't belong in a Fantasy film!).During the course of the movie, I kept being reminded of the "Star Wars" films -- and not the latter three! Yes, much of the film seemed to borrow from "A Phantom Menace" and "Attack of the Cones". But, worse, over and over, I was getting deja vu of... wait for it... "Flash Gordon"! Yes, a great, but very much "B" movie, from the 80's, that, thanks to the recent hit, "Ted", made a return to our pop culture radar. The final battle, didn't make me chuckle, but groan with it's similarity to the final battle in "Flash Gordon." If you loved this movie, great. Everyone has their own tastes. I'm just warning those who haven't viewed "Guardians of the Galaxy", and are considering going to see it because of all the money it's made. Wait until it comes out on DVD.
So, according to this film's IMDb rating, it's better than Aliens, Apocalypse Now, Ben Hur, Back to the Future, Heat and 2001: A Space Odyssey. The list, I'm sure, goes on. Now, this film was not without charm, but I think people owe this a little more thought. I had no expectation other than to get baked and see some vapid 3D spectacle and, in that respect, this film definitely delivered. However, had it not been for the cushy recliners in the VIP theater and the fact that my friend drove, I may very well have left somewhere in the giant head part (and I sat through Anger Management). The comedy was so contrived, they might as well have thrown in a "don't go there" and a "talk to the hand." A motion picture treatment of Robert McKee's "Story" would've been less formulaic than this rubbish. The millenarian reactionary in me revels in society's departure from cultural excellence, recognizing this development as an unmistakable sign of our collapse, but the rest of me is scared and confused.
I was so excited to watch the movie because everyone hyped it up so much, but was extremely disappointed by the first hour of watching. I was expecting something more out of it and I wholeheartedly believe the rating misrepresents the movie. It is definitely overrated and over hyped. The narrative is too set up, I feel like the story was written around the purpose of having the 4 characters together. It is boring to watch as the audience already knows what is going to happen half way through. The love story is so cliché I just can't. I'm pretty sure this is a crappy review but I can't concentrate on one thought as I'm half way through the movie right now. I love Marvel Movies but this one just killed me, I'm so bored I don't even want to finish it. Definitely DO NOT RECOMMEND watching.
visually this movie was amazing. The little raccoon guy and groot looked very real and i laughed a few times. It was interesting for the movie score they used of all these 1970s-ish funk tunes when the guy put his Walkman on.BUT............We get a "Star" studded cast of C and D list actors/actresses oh and Vin diesel we're in for a treat he should go back to racing cars in the fast and the furious franchise. Sure Tom Cruise or someone every drooling idiot knows has to be in a movie to be good. BUT It's too long the story is the same old crap year after year as if we're renting our movie tickets. Seriously why not be the bad guy and destroy a galaxy or two and watch him slaughter a bunch of people and focus on that.I wouldn't give this movie past a 4 star. It doesn't deserve the current 8.9 though. 5 is watchable and if it wasn't for who I went with I would have walked out. I barely watch TV so this is an honest without any brainwashing hype review.


                
Guardians of the Galaxy is unoriginal, insubstantial and most significantly, it's not funny. Once touted as their riskiest film to date, it is artistically and politically as conservative a film as Marvel Studios has ever made. The disappointment of the space adventure is that it is little more than a retread of a pedestrian formula, the numbingly predictable scaffolding of the comic book and superhero genre, hidden under the disguise of a broad comedy. The film's jokey banter, self-referential tone and pop culture references are smoke and mirrors used strategically to distract us from what is a threadbare narrative of unimaginative climaxes. When the film pauses briefly between action sequences lifted from Star Wars and the digital imagery of video games like Mass Effect it is to pursue an ideological viewpoint that doesn't inspire or rewrite the blockbuster but merely redecorates it. The film's values for family and nostalgia are not to be mistaken for depth or thematic goals but compulsory staples of Marvel's production line, the intention of which is to preserve the genre's wide commercial appeal while drastically limiting the variety of what mainstream Hollywood chooses to explore. The film is an adaptation of Dan Abnett and Andy Lanning's comic book with James Gunn directing and co-writing the script with Nicole Perlman. It opens in 1988 with a young boy named Peter Quill listening to a cassette tape in a hospital. His father is absent and his mother is on her deathbed. Under insanely melodramatic circumstances, she passes away right before he can take her hand. After he steps outside the hospital he is abducted by an alien spaceship. The film is extremely vague about what happened next and what his reaction was to being taken away as a child. Instead, the story forwards twenty-six years later to when Peter (played by Chris Pratt) is now a trained smuggler and explorer of alien worlds. He is also still carrying the same cassette player with him, allowing him to play many of the film's retro tunes. Peter stumbles upon a magical orb of power, which he learns is too dangerous for him to sell. It is wanted by a powerful samurai-like villain named Ronan the Accuser (Lee Pace). Also in pursuit of the orb are a number of different misfits including an alien named Gamora (Zoe Saldana), a fast-talking, aggressive raccoon aptly named Rocket Raccoon (voiced by Bradley Cooper) and his anthropomorphic tree friend Groot (the voice of Vin Diesel) and a muscular warrior named Drax (Dave Bautista). Each of these characters has different reasons for wanting the orb or for stopping their enemy Ronan as they become the guardians and protectors of this space world. What Guardians extracts from this plot is not to parody the superhero genre like Gunn's previous film Super but to continue Hollywood's two most formulaic and overused ideological goals: individualism and the restoration of the family unit. Although the guardians are touted as being misfits and losers this is not a character study. The guardians are more like action figurines, distinguished by their bizarre appearances, catch phrases and one-liners, while their suit gadgets and weapons become a cliché expression of how individual talents can save the world. Initially setting the film in the 1980s is also crucial to understanding Marvel's ideological complacency. This time period means that much of the film is encompassed in Reaganesque values, who in his terms in office stressed the importance of sustaining the American family. The guardians reflect this ideology because a number of them are tormented by comic book clichés like avenging their families who died at Ronan's hand. Dead parents syndrome is abound. Similarly, the guardians become integral in resolving Peter's desire for a new family, which is climaxed by possibly the most unintentionally Freudian moment in a superhero film. An extended hand from one character to Peter recalls memories of his mother. But Peter Quill's transformation from a womanising man-child, into a more caring, selfless family man, is not a change at all. His arc is merely synonymous with Hollywood's narrow and formulaic ideological aims about the goodness found in people when conforming to Western and Christian values like the family unit. The reason Marvel has employed an immobile, nostalgic lead character is because they want the adult audience to have a synonymous emotional reaction. As they are unwilling to change the formula of these films, the studio risks losing its adult audience as they grow older. As such, everything here is geared towards the past and makes no promises for future directions of this genre. The director and his writer know this because in a deliberate move to make adults comfortable with being adolescent again they resort to including "mature" references and jokes about The Maltese Falcon, Jackson Pollock and a soundtrack comprised of hit tunes from the 1970s. In the end these are superficial additions, aimed to nudge the nostalgic ribs of the adult audience and to deter us from how dreary this action-comedy formula has become. The narrative in Guardians is terribly slight, running out of steam before the end and padded extensively with tension-free set pieces where characters are rarely hurt. Much of the exposition involving the film's forgettable villains is confusing and rushed, especially for people like myself who haven't read the comics. It is also unfathomable that after this many films in Marvel's universe they are still relying on something as derivative as a MacGuffin device to rigidly string action sequences together. The most telling moment throughout the whole film though is at the story's apex, when Peter confronts one of his enemies and says that he is distracting him. It is a moment of Meta fiction because comedic elements like this are simply papering over what has become formulaic and all too predictable from Marvel.
I read the reviews and they were fantastic. I've love all of the Marvel movies so far and have always preferred them over the DC comics movies. I read how funny and snarky the script is and how great Chris Pratt and Bradley Cooper are. In contrast to what I'd read, my actual reaction to the movie is that I didn't believe any of the characters (except Groot. Loved him), I didn't believe any of the relationships, and I didn't care about the quest. I generally like snark, as I can be snarky as well, but I thought the script was pretty lame. I hope the sequel will be better. I place the blame squarely on James Gunn, who directed and wrote the script. There is nothing on his resume that should have led anyone to believe he could handle a big budget, special effects laden, tentpole movie.
Come on this a Marvel Movie. Where is the quality. OK I will give the good, the bad, and the ugly.The good. Special effects were great, I love the Racoon and Groot characters. Love the ship fighting scenes and love the landscapes.The bad. Story wasn't that great. It is predictable, boring and tried to throw in a love story too soon with no character building. A lot of the fight scenes were not great, especially between the two sisters. Some stuff don't make sense. One of the best actors wasn't even on screen. Vin Desil should of been a human character and not stuck saying "Hodor" as his only line. Now the ugly. It seems like they spent all their money on cgi and $1 on makeup. Spray painted humans = an alien? No joke, there's pink, green, blue, red, Easter colored aliens disguised as human beings or something. The villains are all bad, as in stinky bad. Think of Nero & Khan from StarTrek were bad ass I don't want to mess with them type. RONAN? Wrong cast, poor face paint, poor acting, not menacing, poorly introduced and on and on. Sorry but he couldn't even harm a fly. Wait a min, he did kill one guy, one..... I love Marvel movies. But this is a a poorly directed and acting movie with stupid plot holes and characters and crappy makeup. "I am Hodor!"


                
Well, that's just this! The power of Hollywood (nice pics, nice Fx, good realization...and good musics from the 80's) but nothing else than a Disney-like Scifi movie. With such kind of material, you'll get a better movie: Gravity. But here, it's a big trap to sell us the good clichés ('lying is bad', 'robbing is bad', 'respect and love your family in a pinky world', 'the bad guys with big heart', bla bla bla) but dish out in a common way fighting and battle (without blood drop, don't worry)!! 2 or 3 funny things but too much laborious to set basic characters history...and, of course, all elements are present to run second part: "looking for my father!! (tears)".


                
Ugh OK this movie was a great sci-fi film, but bad comic film!, This is to be expected from Marvel as of late, the CGI mixed with one liners are Marvel's bread and butter, they fly through every movie with same repetitive formula without any real direction. This was a film I had high hopes for , but was completely disappointed with how they butchered the characters and turned this into a Serenity Sequel rather then a Guardians film.Mixing and matching story arcs from the Annihilation and Infinity Gauntlet (which predates the current Guardians tandem by 20 years), was a cheap and lazy move by the writers. Not to mention the shameless portrayal of Ronan the Accuser as a merciless madman like Thanos, rather then a noble warrior king that he is .In the end it was a decent movie worth the price of admission , albeit a far cry from the Guardians of the Galaxy fans deserve.


                
The productions values were good. The acting was good enough. The film got off to a promising start. I had quite a few laughs, as it is quite funny. But, it just wore me down. After about 45 minutes I did not care about these cardboard cutout characters, with no emotional depth, background, or substance. I admit, I am not a comic book enthusiast, and therein lies the problem. Movies like this one are hard for discerning adults to sit through. The writing was pretty mediocre, at best. Comical at worst. I wanted so badly to walk out, but I went with a friend who wanted to stay, and he regretted that move also. So, see it if you love comic book characters. If you don't, avoid this bloated behemoth.


                
I watched this with my wife and two of our teenagers - all of us had great expectations, we'd heard the hype and seen the previews, and it looked like fun. All of us were disappointed. Now that we've all watched the movie, the consensus is that we got burned by the Marvel brand name. At some level I believe that's why most people are watching this because let's face it: only Marvel comic fans are likely to know the story, so what better way to inspire movie-goer confidence than to stick that red and white logo all over it? It works at the grocery, and it works in Hollywood.The first 20 minutes are fairly ho-hum. And that's the problem; the ho-hum never really goes away, but at least after those first 20 minutes you have an idea as to what's going on. There are an awful lot of cool looking characters, an awful lot of story ideas, some spectacular special effects and... and... that's about it. The writers never bothered to tie these things together in a meaningful way, but you're already watching the film because of that brand name. You thought Marvel wouldn't do this to you, and they did. You can't stop watching the train wreck because it's fascinating, although you'll probably have a bit more trepidation before the next Marvel movie.If I had it to do over again this would be a miss, and I'll be sure to tell anyone that I hear is planning to watch it. If you're on the fence, there are better movies to watch. If special effects and explosions are what you want, then maybe this will get it for you. But have your phone handy, because Marvel phoned it in.


                
This review says everything I felt about the movie: http://www.imdb.com/title/tt2015381/reviews-626In addition, it felt to me like the makers of the movie did not even want to create something genuine. They took all the clichés from past movies and mixed it into this one. Easy money. The humors are not funny at all, and everything is predictable. Like in the referenced review, the characters are too simple, and all of them are a cliché. Especially the "big moments".I really wonder how this could get such a high score.And it's definitely not a sci-fi...
Although somewhat entertained throughout, I wasn't that impressed by this one. The acting was fine. The soundtrack may not be as good as fans make it out to be but it was still pretty catchy. Also the cgi looked pretty good. However, I felt like the movie was trying way too hard to be funny. Even though it's suppose to be this very funny movie, nobody was laughing at the theater I was in. The comedy was very forced and I felt that it wasn't really necessary half the time. At the beginning of the movie. I thought it was going to be a deep movie but after the first 20 minutes, my hope was gone. It ended up being a misguided action movie. The unmemorable super villain was another misstep. And that's another main flaw in the movie. Character development was minimal and I felt no emotional attachment to half of the main characters. I did enjoy most recent Marvel movies but this was just okay. It was a forgettable entry in the marvel series and it didn't do it for me.


                
Guardians of the Galaxy is not a serious sci-fi film at all. In my opinion it's 80% video effects, 10% script/sceneography and 10% humor. If you're looking for an epic, serious universe story alike Star Wars, this is NOT it!The acting is okay and of course there are some nice video effects with explosions, animated creatures (who are really well done), and space environment, but there are also poor looking characters with make up and lenses, starting more to look like Star Trek. From what I gather this is kind of a parody of the typical American "hero"-story, with all the dull comments and royal soundtrack. If you want yourself some action, a few laughs and kind of cool explosions and fights, this movie will do. But I doubt it will be anything that will touch your heart in any way, or be a movie you will remember whatsoever.


                
Yeah a superhero dude with an annoying cgi raccoon, a dumb tree guy who always appears to be clumsy, a babe and a wrestler loudmouth. Yeah I've heard it all and seen it all before in other superhero movies....I have to say some of the jokes were funny but I felt most of them were too forced at the same time...Yeah not the best parody type of movie Ive ever seen, I send my apologies to the fans out there but sometimes movies just don't work out for me!


                
It was okay. It wasn't terrible, but neither was it great. It felt more like a letdown than anything else, not being angry or joyful about it, just disappointed, because I really wanted to like it and tried hard to like it. I'll explain why it was disappointing:The movie tried very hard to be funny, and at times it was. But me and most of the audience laughed at only 50% of it, the rest felt forced and unnatural. With the funny moments, they were forgettable. I mean with Transformers 4, there was one moment that will always be remembered. The moment when they are in the hall with the old Chinese ladies and Stanly Tucci says "How do you say get the *beep* out of the way in Chinese?" that was worth remembering, the middle finger thing and the blacklight joke was like, meh.This movie was forgettable, unlike Captain America: The Winter Soldier and The Dark Knight. There was nothing that stood out like those two. With CA:TWS, it had my heart racing with emotion about whether Cap was going to succeed in getting the third Carrier locked, or he would fall and HYDRA would succeed. And the Carrier's being destroyed had been so powerful. The final action scene was very predictable, and you knew Ronan would lose in the end. And the other predictable part was the switching with the Blue guy in the end.The characters also gave me no reason to cheer for them either. What makes Cap 2 so great was that I was rooting for him to take down HYDRA, but this was difficult to like them.Peter was interesting and funny at times, but wasn't really likable. Gamora was just there and don't ask questions. Drax was okay, Groot I liked a bit but just felt weird with only "I am Groot." Coming out of his mouth. Raccoon was okay, but not great or impressive. The action was also not impressive because I have been there and done that many times earlier in the year (Edge of Tomorrow and Captain America: The Winter Soldier.) Vin Diesel was a complete waste. I'm actually starting to think they just used him as a marketing tool (Slick Disney.), I mean come on he only said like 5 words the entire movie. I wished his voice was used more other than "I am Groot." Lajohn was right about this probably having no legs in the long run, because when we left, no one really cared about it in the end. I could hear people around us and there mood was just, meh. There was not any clapping at the end either unlike some places.I wish and I was hoping that it would be groundbreaking like Critics and everybody here on the forums said. But once again, I have been duped by Disney.This was most definitely overrated by critics and audiences alike, the same way MOS, TDKR, T:TDW, IM3, IM2, were overrated.And it's not like I'm trying to hate on this movie. I don't hate it, but neither do I love it. When I left, I was just sad. I didn't hate the movie, but neither did I love it. it just felt like a letdown from Marvel, and a disappointment.The final rating I would give it is about: 5, maybe 6/10.This movie though does make me appreciate the fact that Avengers: Age of Ultron is coming very soon! Which I can't wait for! And its ties to MCU weren't spectacular.
I went to see this with two of my friends, one of which had already seen it three times. I went in really excited as for a new age sci-fi with Michael Rooker and Vin Diesel - i was wary of the rest of the crap cast- and the trailer did look half decent. I tried really hard to enjoy it, but it was just impossible. about an hour through i told my friends i was going to the bathroom but I ended up going out to the bathroom, going to the claw machines, walking around the shops for a bit, just so i didn't have to sit through more of this awful and monotonous movie. its honestly just part of the new fad, where posers are too deep into the fandom that they use ignorance as fuel to the empire and cant admit to the obvious faults of anything in the genre. The characters were bland and nothing new (you've seen it a million times in all the new Marvel/DC fad films). the storyline with the mothers death was an overused one, but it could have worked if they didn't use it as a crutch implementing more emotional elements to the film. The cheesy clichéd script and phrases were just tedious and annoying, as was the whole film.


                
Did not enjoy this movie. Many of my friends thought this movie was the best of all Marvel movies, but I was incredibly bored.Action scenes were inCREDIBLY dull. I started getting restless because they seemed so mindless and uninspired. None of the characters did it for me. The talking raccoon was funny, but not that funny. The most entertaining and profound character in my book was Vin Diesel's, that should say something.Maybe I am a complete dolt who has no taste, but this movie was just not fun to watch. It felt like a chore to finish the EXTREMELY long running time.. Basic problems were that the movie was too long, dull action scenes, and limited character development and interaction.Don't get me wrong the soundtrack was sweet, but this movie is no where near as good as the rating here on IMDb. THE BEST PART OF THIS MOVIE WERE THE SONGS FROM 30 TO 40 YEARS AGO...THAT SHOULD TELL YOU SOMETHING.
The Guardians of The Galaxy has been heralded as "The Greatest Comic book Movie of All Time" or "The Star Wars of the New Generation". I greatly admit without bias that those claims have been GREATLY exaggerated. This film follows the Marvel film formula to a Tee. One-liners, average acting followed in suite with flash effects. Unfortunately it did exactly like other Marvel films did and sold well , beyond any real rationale .When I went to see this film I was expecting the Guardians Of the Galaxy , I use to read. Instead what I got was a mash up of classic Science-Fiction shows and films of yesteryear. I.E.-Star-Lord was Captain Malcolm Reynolds (with a Sony Walkman) Kree soldiers representing the Minbari from Babylon 5 Star-Lord's ship thanks via Boba Fett's Slave II.All of this would be easily forgivable if the acting was not so horrid. Pratt did little more then sell why he is a great second rate Sean William Scott.Zoe Saldana proved why she is giving soap opera actress's a run for their money. But truth be told Dave Batista, Bradley Cooper and Vin Diesel were the highlights to this clusterf&*ck of a film.Although the special effects offer some nice eye candy and the action sequences will almost have GOTG comic fan's ignore the complete lack of connection to the source material. But distractions are all they really were and in the end it worked (again) for Marvel.Seeing Ronin The Accuser portrayed as fanatical tyrant as little more then Thanos's lackey was a far cry from the noble warrior king fans know him for in the comics. Groot saying "I am Groot" as his only language and his partner Rocket Raccoon portrayed as little more then bounty hunters (Chewbacca and Han direct connections no less) was something that threw me off. But hey in film you have to adapt to entertain, but among the pile of classic rock, product placement and Saved By the Bell like plot development, it losses it's creative license.When we next see the crew of the Serenity maybe it will somewhat resemble it's title and we get the real Guardians of The Galaxy.
-Spoilers? Kinda- Marvel, having spent the last fifteen years or so spitting out mediocre movies with an exception or two, are rolling in a significant amount of cash. Along with the island-sized money piles they already had from the comic book industry, they're more than capable of throwing however much money they need to make a film look great. Not only that, but ***THEY PAY PEOPLE TO GIVE THESE FILMS GOOD REVIEWS ON WEBSITES FOR PEOPLE TO BE FOOLED INTO WATCHING***. Guardians of the Galaxy is one of these.However, it's looks do not transfer over to it's movie quality. If you don't have much patience for movies and don't mind noises and colors bashing your face for two hours, this is a movie for you. As for the rest of us, don't waste your two hours. The characters are bland, the comedy is mildly funny but at the wrong times in the movie, there's a blasphemous amount of bad acting (Apart from Bradley Cooper), and the plot line is just.. Awful. It's Cinema Shorthand for -Insert reason to make movie here-. Doing things that have been done before isn't a bad thing, but the whole movie acted like this was a brand new concept. I felt like I Was watching a Scary Movie # version of Thor the Dark World. Or any preceding movie with the same exact plot line.Glaze over the good reviews, these are people paid to review the movie positively. Try a different one.


                
Guardians of the Galaxy had the potential of being a great movie. There were really good tools for it, but it just failed in the end. When it comes to the galaxy side of things, this movie was its only hope, but I think it failed at that. This movie didn't look serious at all - just silly jokes all the way throughout. The only good thing about the movie was the villain called Ronan, but he could've been portrayed so much better. He's one of the more underrated and underused villains within Marvel comics. Whatever glimpse we saw of Thanos in this movie, though it was good, it just wasn't enough I'm afraid. It would've been nice to see him at least a few more times just to spice the galaxy up. I don't understand how people can enjoy such movies, when they don't know much about such superheroes, factions or groups in the first place, and Guardians of the Galaxy is one of them. People just enjoy is for the sake of it, and I'm not buying with that. Personally, I'm not really a fan of Guardians of the Galaxy, yet I was still hoping of a really great movie, but it just wasn't I'm afraid.


                
After being disappointed by many of Marvels most popular films, I thought this one was going to be different and an improvement to their franchise, but sadly I was disappointed. It was the same old lemming attractor with a foundation in mindless action and awful special effects/cgi that the masses seem to be sucked into and infatuated with. One good note was that they brought some more obscure characters to the screen, and unless you are a comic book fan you've probably never heard of them. The soundtrack was also great and got a lot of attention. Obviously people have never heard good music before and maybe it will give them a little change in their tasteless ways. I was really rooting for the film the whole way, wanting to like it in the end, but it just didn't deliver. I enjoy Chris Pratt but most of it just wasn't very funny, had terrible fake-looking visuals, cheesy speeches, a typical Marvel slacker-playboy turned hero, and uninteresting villains. As a sequel is inevitable, maybe I will just hope for improvement though I don't really have a desire to see it after this flop.


                
A rag tag group of misfits try to defend the galaxy - that's the basic plot, though it's stretched to breaking point.There was so much hype surrounding this film upon release and for the sequel that followed that I thought I'd better check it out.And what I found was a decent film, certainly one of the better Marvel film adaptations, full of good music and a sense of humour that is lacking in some of the other similar films.Despite good performances from all involved I can't say it's a film I'd ever wish to see again, but it was enjoyable enough.


                
