The plot was predictable. The characters aren't original. I guess the younger crowd and die hard fans will probably like it but as an avid movie fan Guardians kind of disappointed me. Acting was kind of terrible too. Bautista played Drax as if Drax was TRYING to sound intelligent. He couldn't pull off the smart brute. Zoe tried too hard to be bad a$$ and it wasn't natural. The Collector... Don't get me started... What reason was there for The Collector to even open and show anybody the Infinity Stone? It's a super powerful object that he knew was very powerful, why show Thanos' daughter or the outlaw? The bad guys were the worst, so campy. Ronin reminded me of a pro wrestler during an interview. Like Ultimate Warrior on a rant. Only good acting came from Thanos and Rocket. Yep, the CGIs. The final battle was whack. The ships lined up to form a net to stop the super ship and the good guy ships were below shooting bad guy ships who we're dive bombing the city. The worst was when they tried to replicate that scene in Avengers when Hulk was slamming Loki around but instead it was Groot shooting his tendrils through a bunch of bad guys and skewering them then slamming them unnecessarily back and forth against walls. The ending was so cheesy when John C Reiley was all sappy about his wife and kid being saved who they showed in the end as a woman and her daughter who earlier was part of a scene where they were almost crushed. Booooring.... The movie wasn't terrible but after reading the super reviews on IMDb, I had to say something.
So , I was yesterday to see this "big" movie, which has a rating of 8.7, close to "The lord of the rings" movies, the same as "Matrix" or "Inception" and even better than "Seven" or "Usual suspects". It should be good right? Doesn't matter that Marvel made only crap movies, most of them anyway, with a few exceptions, some of the first Spiderman movies and some X-men movies, maybe they nailed it this time.So, the movie starts and after the first scenes, we see our hero on an abandoned planet, dancing as he goes to collect the item he came for. He is not thinking that while he is listening music at his headset, someone may be nearby. Anyway, he got what he came for, and the scene is very similar to the one in Indiana Jones. No surprise, this entire movie is a rip -off of other movies, you have you hero which is a smuggler and becomes one of the good guys (Star wars), you have a pair, a raccoon and a tree, only the raccoon understands the tree (Star wars), again, our hero out of the nowhere falls in love with the female(again.... Star wars), only in Star Wars, the process was more real and more fun. Also, like other Marvel movies, the characters do illogical actions in the most important moments. Gomora after she fights to the death with her sister trying to cut the power, tries to save her when her sister was holding on the edge of the ship, while Peter Quill and the others were waiting for Gomora to cut the damn power. Another stupid moment was when Ronan, at last he lands, but he doesn't destroy the planet, the thing he wanted the most to do, no, he looks at our hero dancing... speechless... And how did Drax survived when he and Ronan are hit by a ship at full speed, piloted by raccoon?So, Guardians of the galaxy is a movie full of meaningless special effects, explosions after explosions, characters that are poorly written, actors that don't act very well, a poor script and ideas borrowed from other movies.Conclusion, another boring movie by Marvel, highly over rated, I don't know how, I think Marvel fans are overzealous or the people are just getting dumber day by day.You wanna see a good sci-fi movie, watch any of the Star Wars movies.
Typical over-hyped, overrated blockbuster movie. The movie tried to be funny and serious at the same time, sadly it failed at both. I'll make it very simple.Story premise? Cheap emotional scene with an undeveloped character that i couldn't relate to. Four characters get together without any build up for them, rather it feels because the plot demands it. Character development doesn't exist. Story is very simple: good guys vs bad guys. (enjoyable for kids) Story isn't plausible, especially at the prison, it doesn't make any sense how each character behaves, and how the prison authority handles it is cringe-worthy. Also it's full of plot convenience and scenes which insults the intelligence. Filled with one dimensional characters, this movie has no depth at all, it is just mindless entertainment and the problem here is that it is generic, i have seen it many times before, so this kind of entertainment is outdated and i'm annoyed at how Hollywood is over- using this. Villains are as usual stupid and the good guys are underdogs who win and repeat jokes after each dangerous situation, such original WOW (sarcasm). Soundtrack is very bad. Visuals were great and had some innovative stuff.Guardians of the Galaxy is the typical blockbuster movie we get each year which only relies on good visuals and some mindless action.4 points out of 10 only for the visuals.


                
Lots of eye candy which I hadn't seen before, but not very convincing behavior of the characters, and with a really disappointing ending: would any bad ass really be so easily distracted by somebody moving so silly in front of him that he stops making his final sway? No way.The music was disappointing. The incidental music as such is good, but the 70's music they used doesn't fit the movie. Only people who are prone to nostalgia, will like it. But even most of the people who remember the songs from the days they were hits, won't really like it, because the songs generally don't fit the scenes. It also shows that most of these songs are already completely forgotten.Yes, I know I will get a ton of reactions by people who claim they remember the songs. But, hey, there are billions of people on earth, even a few hundred who react here telling me the songs did ring a loud bell, don't convince me.
To start, Chris Pratt did an excellent job with this film: he is the only detail of this production that carried my attention (oops sorry I didn't know how this machine worked--middle finger joke). At a length of 2 hours, I found myself stretching, and uncomfortably shifting in my seat, because I did not feel captivated by the trash before my eyes. Too much flashy CGI, and not enough character, intelligent dialogue, or a story worth watching.The story adds another chapter to the Marvel universe, as it seems every Marvel film is all tied in to a greater over-arching story, dealing with infinity stones, and control over the universe. These films created by Marvel, and now especially this film, Guardians, are nothing more than over budgeted daytime drama, like Days of Our Lives, Bold And The Beautiful, etc. The scripts of these daytime serials seem to carry the same story for years straight, and so do the scripts for the Marvel serials. Guardians of the Galaxy could easily have an hour edited from its run-time and placed on Saturday Morning TV as a made for television movie for children. My 6.5 year old son loved this film. My wife (who enjoys Marvels Avengers) fell asleep in the theater, and I found myself enjoying watching my son laugh, only, hoping for this film to end.To Marvels credit, the Thor films are incredibly entertaining, but are almost ruined by the lead character Thor.So, the only reason to see Guardians of the Galaxy, is to watch children laugh, because this is the level of comedic and script writing talent that exists for this trash for cinema.
I just got back from seeing _Guardians of the Galaxy_. Despite overall positive reviews and stellar recommendations from people whose opinions I value and trust, I found it only so-so at best. The humor was sophomoric—which I expected—but what I didn't expect was how boring it was. To be effective, humor relies on the element of surprise, and with only one or two exceptions, all the jokes were so blatantly broadcast that there was no opportunity to inject the unexpected.In addition, despite a good cast, the acting was flat and one-dimensional. Michael Rooker (Yondu) put in the best show of any of them, and he was really just a blue Merle from the AMC series _The Walking Dead_. Apparently, the director's idea of instilling dramatic tension is to shout, in a rather flat manner. The characters, protagonists and villains, were all overly familiar stereotypes, and there wasn't a single moment in the development of the plot that was not predictable.I am, frankly, surprised at the reviews this is getting. I was expecting a silly, rollicking space opera and instead got a noisy, explosion-ridden pastiche that bordered on tedium. Evidently, a lot of people are more easily pleased than I.


                
If you like a movie with special effects, make-up, lame jokes and a cool soundtrack this is a movie for you.I prefer a story however, so sorry, but can't rate this higher. Tried to watch it two times and fell asleep both times. However, a a lot people fall asleep on movies that I like.I'm just really tired overall on the world of Marvel. The first movies they made were really interesting but I feel now that all movies are like "a higher power" which never really gets explained. Marvel has generally went from making the best super-hero movies to "superheroes who can't stop telling corny jokes in a green-screened environment with a cool soundtrack".


                
First let me say that this review is not meant to dissuade anyone from enjoying this movie or going to see it...after all we each have our own tastes and preferences which apply to a myriad of things in life. Yet I am not one of those that liked or enjoyed "Guardians Of The Galaxy"...I know...shocking!!! I had misgivings about this movie since the beginning, but after all the hype it has been getting recently, and at a friend's insistence, and against my better judgement, I went to see it...and boy do I regret it! It was underwhelming to say the least!"Guardians Of The Galaxy" is yet another big, blockbuster, popcorn behemoth in the increasing tradition of movies that like to keep pretending that they stand for something or possess a deeper meaning than the actually do! Do not be fooled into believing, guided by the cries of joy and applause it is getting, that this is some kind of irreverent, anti-establishment, rebellious, subversive movie, a proverbial cinematic middle-finger to the franchise, re-boot, sequelitis infirm and moribund Hollywood! This isn't the wink, wink, nudge, nudge (thank you Monty Python for that one!) kind of film! As many of its $100 or $200 million dollars plus budget counterparts, this is yet another blighted vomit fest of explosions, special effects...a thunderous, meaningless, meandering cacophony of irrelevant sights and sounds, all neatly disguised under a thin, and I mean very thin, coating of substance! It is populated by characters I didn't care for, a story that left me somewhere from indifferent to bored, accompanied by direction and production values that fit into the cookie-cutter mold of the Marvel- Disney juggernaut! The only reason I did not give it a lower rating than 4 out of 10 was that sometimes(though not often enough)some of the humour and jokes hit their target, and I thought that Groot was mildly interesting.It will surely make money and win accolades, blah, blah, blah...but for me as a moviegoer, this flick, "Guardians Of The Galaxy" or as I re-named them "Turdmasters Of The Universe", will fade from memory and join the ranks of a sadly increasing list of movies I won't care to remember I have ever seen.
I'm really confused at the glowing reviews of this movie. Dull characters. Dull story. Just dumb. I practically fell asleep. Considering I'm a huge fan of James Gunn since his Troma writing days (and to show I'm a fan, anyone else notice Lloyd Kaufmann's cameo?). This one almost put me to sleep. And for those who've claimed it was laugh out loud funny and the audience was behind it 100%...a few chuckles here and there, but the audience I saw it with, walked away confused.There is going to come to light that the majority of the reviewers were paid sponsors of this movie. Something fishy about it all.Anyways, Chris Pratt is good in the role. He is pretty good at playing the 80's character turned into the future, and still retains a 80's face. Rocket (voiced by Brad Cooper) is funny when he needs to be, but is a one-trick-one-line pony. Groot and Zoe Saldana's character are cardboard. Boring stupid forced Shakespearean relationship between sisters. And blah blah blah. Dull is the word. I'm honestly shocked so many people glowed about it. Something is clearly not right.


                
In a galaxy far far away, a part human, a green lady, a brute, a talking raccoon and a walking tree set out to save a purple stone, which can cause a purple explosion, from falling into the wrong hands. That is Guardians of the Galaxy. There is nothing more to it.All the characters are one-dimensional with generic interests in the mission; Peter Quill, the part-human outlaw (Chris Pratt), Rocket Raccoon (Bradley Cooper) and the magic tree (Bruce Willis) are only interested in the payoff and of course in the end they change their motive to saving the world, without any apparent reason. Gamora (Zoe Saldana), the obligatory lady in the team, knows how evil the villains are and wants to stop them. The extremely annoying Drax (Dave Bautista) wants to avenge his murdered family. And the villains want the purple stone to take over the world. Why do they want this particular stone, don't they have any other explosives with them? Who knows.There is the overused cliché of circumstances bringing the motley bunch of heroes together, them having an adventure and becoming friends at the end of it. But none of them share any chemistry between them and is it hard to see what made them become friends. Not that we care though; we know they would all end up as friends and so they do.We don't care about anything else in the movie either. We hardly know our heroes and since it is the Marvel Universe, we know none of them would die. The planet, the villains are threatening to destroy is alien, we know nothing about its denizens and again, we know it is going to be saved. The stakes never seem high.The movie, however, is visually pleasing. 3D has been used innovatively. CG is realistic and the worlds created using it are beautiful. The action is good. There are some funny moments and good one-liners. There is nothing new though. It has a run-of-the-mill feel to. Watch it if you like generic action flicks or a die-hard fan of Marvel comics. Give it a skip otherwise.


                
I was absolutely amazed by "Guardians of the Galaxy"....amazed at how bad it was after hearing how wonderful it was.People in all seriousness are discussing whether or not this film is the new generation's "Star Wars." Have the people who are discussing this even seen "Star Wars?" They must be thirteen years old.Indeed, thirteen year olds and younger are the only demographic I can possibly imagine liking this film. It struggles to achieve the same sense of whimsy and humor that infused the original "Star Wars" trilogy, the Indiana Jones movies and even more recent super hero films (see "Hellboy II" for a film that perfects it). But it fails miserably, mostly because the cast doesn't have the talent or the chemistry to pull it off. Chris Pratt creates a vacuum at the film's center -- he doesn't have the screen presence or charisma to carry it. And he's surrounded by a film that just starts in the middle of a dumb story, as if everyone coming to see it is already an expert on this particular series, even though it's one of the most totally obscure of any of the superhero stories. And the action sequences are a frenetic muddle made worse by the 3D. When the biggest asset in your live action film is a CGI talking raccoon, you know you're in trouble.Seriously, I am a big fan of the Ratchet and Clank video game series, which this movie put me in mind of, but R&C (a video game!!) has more humor and narrative cohesion than this film.Grade: D+


                
What's everyone raving about? It is clear as day to me that this is a satisfactory movie at best and a dull movie at worst. It is not a great movie or even a very good movie. I realize I'm in the minority, but this movie was basically a remake of Flash Gordon (1980) combined with the Power Rangers movie with a few added clichés from Star Wars. While they were playing those 70s hits, I kept hoping for Queen to sing "Flash! Agh! Savior of the universe!" That would have actually been funny.It's a mess story-wise. It doesn't define it's world; if anything can happen for any reason (or no reason), then nothing's compelling or suspenseful. Action sequences are indecipherable in terms of cause and effect. I kept thinking I should be caring more. Like when the sisters were fighting. There seems to be some history there that made the fight meaningful, but it didn't register. The villain, a ripoff of the Emperor, Skeletor, and Ming, isn't interesting in the least. His motivations are never firmly established.


                
Guardians of the Galaxy is everything wrong with today's movie industry and last decades. The company have all the funding they need to produce and hire writers for a solid movie, but yet they end up making something that just looks pretty but with no substance.That's how this movie felt like to me in general. While it had some moments that made me chuckle for real, that was about it. Otherwise it felt like I were watching a movie built up on logic you'd see in an anime where logical train of thought and actions are neglected in the "power of friendship". Which was a real turn off together with the constant clichés in the dialogues. Marvel had the potential to deliver a great movie, I really do think so. But the fact you had to endure the childish plot devices, villains with all talk but no brain and bad writing makes this a movie I'd not like to see again. Taken into consideration and defence for the movie though, it IS aimed for the younger audience albeit the majority of people who knows about GOTG since Marvel's comic are adults by now.


                
How could a film with a talking raccoon be bland you ask? Well, they did somehow manage it.This film was recommended to me by a colleague, whose word I trust. I watched it on an average HD TV screen and appreciate that this may have diminished the impact of the effects.I found this film nondescript - and I was more captivated by the dinner I was eating while watching it. In fairness, it was a cracking curry with succulent tender chicken that melted in my mouth. The accompanying sauce had a lovely buttery tang to it that complimented the meat beautifully. This film didn't really stand a chance.The start was good and I was rooting for the film after a nice opening where our protagonist lost his mum and got kidnapped by aliens straight after. It just never really takes off after that. The relentless wise cracking jokes come thick and fast but none of them are particularly funny. Think 10 jokes for the payoff of one slight titter.The story ambles along with a highly original plot about an evil scary person seeking out an object of unfathomable power (oh by the way if you're one of those people that don't "get" things, this is sarcasm. The plot isn't original. It's bloody tedious and the same plot as 95% of every other sci-fi films and fantasy adventures) - with the goodies trying to stop him. The action scenes came at us non-stop, just like the wise cracks, but it is all shoulder shruggingly typical of every other action film in existence.There are a whole variety of wafer thin "characters" that we meet along the way. There are also lots of clichés, a horribly unconvincing and contrived romance, and a ludicrous end.I'm honestly at the point where seeing films like this with a rating of higher than 8 leaves me utterly baffled. Does IMDb collectively have zero taste? This film is the "Masters of the Universe" of 2015. It's eye candy for the intellectually bankrupt adult, or the easily amused child. At least Masters of the Universe had Skeletor. That's a baddie I can really get behind.I convinced my sceptical girlfriend to watch this, and my credit in the film picking stakes took a huge hit. After it ended, I got that scolding "told you so" look, and what could I say? She was right. This is rubbish. Don't believe the hype.
I just heard it should be a great film. Well, it wasn't. During the first 90 minutes i couldn't get rid of the feeling that Disney sent Marvel some people to make the film more about cheap humor and family action than a real superhero action film. A merely explained universe and situation and just in the end some action that fits the effort taken for the nice effects. For me the first scene was OK, i hoped they would explain the personality of Peter Quill and his motivation. But you only get a plot hole of 26 years which is never filled. It is just a cut into nearly 90 minutes of cheap slapstick and mediocre action with nice effects. Too much time of the movie is just about bad jokes and slapstick comedy as well as 'action' scenes which were really disappointing for me. Far too late towards the end it got better and in fact really nice - just to end with again bad comedy scenes during the credits. Afterwards when thinking about the film i had so many unanswered questions.. What is that treaty of peace they are talking about all the time? Why is this whole galaxy mostly about awkward colored people? How is the earth involved into this galaxy? What has Peter Quill to do with this Planet he saves? What is the motivation for Ronan? He is just evil, right? They wasted too much time on bad and (for me) misplaced comedy instead of explaining more about the whole universe and how they got to this situation and in fact what the situation really is.. The best thing about this movie is the maybe great story to follow this when Peter finds out about his father and the bigger evils in this universe than Ronan..
This movie is a real nuisance. It is very well written, funny, has a perfect editing, good dialogues, irony - but transports a nonetheless crude ideology of war and the esthetics of weaponry and death. Thus it insults the intelligence of anyone who is not into ego-shooters. It pretends to undermine clichés but finally consists out of nothing else. What a bitter disappointment after great movies like the latest X-Men etc. Are the other people who rated it so well really not aware of its message? Wage war at any cost against your enemies! No need to understand their reasons! Fight till death! Thats cool! And, surely, protect the holy values of the American family.


                
The best actor was a tree being with a three word vocabulary. The lead actor's character is basically playing Stifler in Space to the extent that he even looks like Seann William Scott. Why not cast Scott instead of someone who is obviously still learning how to act? The dialog was weak and often inconsistently assigned to characters. Although the beginning was decent, I quickly lost interest when a hooded bad guy spoke and sounded exactly like Star Wars' Darth Sidious. Then a huge bad guy showed up with a face that looked exactly like Hell Boy. I read several reviews that said this movie was hilarious. Seriously? The second half of the movie must have been a real hoot, because in the first hour (before several of us in the audience left), I chuckled once. I cannot understand why there are so many positive reviews for a movie that, although contained decent special effects, was riddled with horrible acting and worse writing. If I had $170 million dollar budget, I could have made this much more entertaining, and I'm not good at nothing. They got my $8. Hopefully, they won't get yours too.
It's a typical action, action, action movie. To me that means that the movie is just a collection of action sequences, without must thought given on how to get from one action sequence to the next.The good part of this movie is that the glue holding the action sequences together is fairly well done. They use a lot of humor, which is why some people have enjoyed the movie. And some of the cast are 'characters'. You know - interesting beings.The downside is that 20-30% of the action sequences are fluff. Totally unnecessary to the story. At one point I leaned back, and considered how I could while away the time until the current action sequence was over. IE it was boring. Zoom, zoom, bang, bang. Seen it.Another part that I disliked was all the time that went into setting up for the sequel. Leaving some loose ends is one thing, but this could have just as easily been called "Part 1".


                
On the same night his mother dies a young boy named "Peter Quill" (Chris Pratt) is abducted by an alien UFO. Several years later he becomes a thief working for an alien by the name of "Yondu Udonta" (Michael Rooker). However, when he steals a valuable piece of merchandise known as an "infinity stone" that Yondu had his sights set on he soon finds that he has a price put on his head. But bounty hunters aren't the only ones looking for him as a savage warlord also wants the infinity stone and sends a beautiful assassin named "Gamora" (Zoe Saldana) to bring it to him. Anyway, rather than reveal any more of the movie and risk spoiling it for those who haven't seen it, I will just say that fans of CGI and action will probably love this particular picture as it has lots of both. Unfortunately, other than perhaps the presence of the aforementioned Michael Rooker and Zoe Saldana, I honestly didn't consider this movie to be as good as the marketing and hype surrounding it. The humor wasn't that sharp, the overall plot was rather predictable and neither the CGI nor the action managed to maintain my interest that much. Accordingly, I rate it as slightly below average.
After hearing a lot of praise for this movie, and my friends encouraging me to watch it, I decided to give it a try. Seeing so many comic-based movies so far, I hoped this presented something different, however, I was left disappointed. To be honest, I slept throughout parts of the movie (the last case was the singing scene in the Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey) and kept looking at my watch to see if there was any ending soon. I'm not saying the movie was downright bad, as it had some real cool action sequences, but at certain points I struggled to keep my eyes open. Before you say I will do better to watch other genres, I loved all X-Men installments and the Batman trilogy. Maybe it's just the case that I wasn't familiar with this subject. I hope the second part will be more interesting...


                
I decided to watch this because even though the trailers for this movie looked AWFUL I still sat down to watch it when it came out on DVD because even though aside from Captain America 2 Marvel has been making really bland movies I would still go in with an open mind. However with this said even though I might tear "The New Star Wars" to shreds (I really can't believe people are making that comparison!) I still think there is some good in it.So the plot is that it literally opens with a kids mother dying of cancer (I mean nothing, zero build-up, zero substance to the scene at all, she just dies - I don't think she even gets a name aside from "Mom") the boy runs out of the hospital to get abducted by aliens with strangely nobody noticing even though it looked like he ran about 100 feet outside the door.20 years later he becomes the poor man's Han Solo except - not really giving a crap about anything, just makes remarks and steals crap. Then he takes an orb which a villain (for the instance that I forgot his name I'll call him "Mua-ha-ha-ha-ha!") really wants who's an alien that believes he's above another alien race... for SOME reason and as the boy and an unlikely band of heroes run around trying to give the orb to someone for profit while trying to kill "Mua-ha-ha-ha-ha".Okay, one of my biggest problems with this movie is the villain - He's the blandest goddamn villain I have seen in a while. I referred to him as "Mua-ha-ha-ha-ha" in my plot description for a reason and that reason is that he is a one note character and he somehow seems to be even more "I'm evil because I'm evil" then the cartoons and comics they made in the 1960's. It just seems to me that the should define their villains as a bit more then that - maybe give them a bit more tact, maybe fool the heroes into thinking he maybe trustworthy, give them motivation, reason, have them be sympathetic, even just telling the actor to have as much fun as possible in the role - Just something other then a guy trying to be a Bond villain for 2 hours.I also have to say something - The universe they live in is really poorly defined - If anyone asks me to "Read the comics" then can I tell you 2 things - I have never read a Guardians Of The Galaxy comic and that this is an adaptation and adaptations do not come with the footnotes in the original text about where they are in correspondence to anywhere else, what these races are, who genetically altered a raccoon, why they did it, why a walking talking tree is there, what is the name of the green people, why are here humans there and why some of them see themselves as superior to others.Okay, now I'll tell you what I like about this movie. Well aside from The Collector I enjoyed the art design, I think that even though I didn't enjoy the comedy making a light-hearted adventure is actually a rather refreshing change of pace from some of the other movies on the market, the Special Effects are really good and even though I said I didn't like how poorly the world was defined I enjoyed the fact that each world has it's own distinct look and feel, even if it isn't original and I did enjoy the actors chemistry together even if I didn't like the jokes they made.So even though I don't like this movie I'm not going to go all out in saying it's bad. There are things that I liked. But I wouldn't really hold onto this as a series of movies - again maybe I'll watch them when the DVD comes out. So I would say that this might be considered by some to be worthy of the Top 250 or the next Star Wars (I really can't get over people saying this) I still think that maybe if your looking for a no substance light-hearted adventure then this is for you.


                
I came in to watch this movie and had some expectations. But this movie is just a below average.I was so much bored in between that eyes were closing. Special effects were looking all fake. Characters jumping, you could make out the ropes tied. The background was all bright colourful giving a fake effect nothing looks like feel of original. I don't know what special effects they have used.Many times it looked like shooting has been done at home with normal camera. just could find 3-4 good scenes and nothing else. Same old boring romance, emotion which didn't add up. Acting wise i found the Tree and the animal only good. I really don't understand the high ratings of people. This is not even a time pass movie.Lots of dragging story. One scene where space carft bursts in air but people will be safe and no scratches lol, lame. Would say watch and see yourself, not a good movie.


                
Why are cocky, quippy superheroes so annoyingly popular right now? Of the protagonists, Rocket and Quill are the worst for it, where it feels like every scene (no matter how serious) must come bundled with a dumb joke. The characters and performances in this film are fine at best, and at worst they're Chris Pratt, who clearly couldn't care less. Genuine character moments are either forced, like when Rocket gets drunk and gives his sob story, or deflated by a joke, and it feels like the characters don't really change beyond Marvel's usual learning-to-work-as-a-team arc. It's a shame, because on paper the Guardians are a colourful and varied cast of characters.The story is also kind of lazy, and it's the sci-fi world-building that holds it up most, with lots of "Star Trek"-esque aliens and cool locations. I like Nebula and Gamora's sibling rivalry, and the separate directions in which it takes them, but I don't like the awkward love story between Gamora and Quill, the mostly unfunny dialogue, or the cheap dead parent backstory. There are far too many moments that want to be epic or cool, but moments like that come naturally, not because you force them. The only people who feel like they're in danger are nameless Nova pilots or Xandar citizens, but never the protagonists - despite moments where they seem like they're about to die, Gamora and Groot each survive once and Quill twice, so there are no stakes.The soundtrack is something people love, but it's just a playlist of recognisable songs, and most of them only fit the scenes they're playing over in the vaguest sense of mood. It's a cheap tactic to make the film seem quirky and colourful. Speaking of colourful, the cinematography can be gorgeous to look at, though it's let down by poor-looking energy VFX (lasers, holograms, etc.) and too many things cluttering the screen during action sequences.Marvel's tried-and-tested formula is just repeated here, but with extra pizzazz. It's a story about people working as a team to defeat a one-dimensional villain, and it has all the beats of the most average adventure film imaginable. A handful of beautiful visuals and some neat sci-fi world-building aren't worth it.4/10.


                
As most of the audience out there, I enjoy Marvel films. They're cleverly written to please the viewer a brain-resting title that makes you feel accomplished, part of something bigger and, most of all, doesn't make you feel uncomfortable. I wasn't dying to watch Guardians of the Galaxy for two reasons: I didn't know about that specific Marvel group of heroes and the marketing image built around it gave me the feeling that it wasn't for me. Something changed, several people made positive comments about it therefore I watched it. I was pretty excited at the idea of another brain-resting enjoyable marvel film (you know where I'm going here). The all film was a disappointment. Chris Pratt didn't get the sympathy he was desperately looking for with his melancholic mix tape. Rocket the raccoon tried to lift the humor of the film with few quite amusing episodes, but overall he also didn't make me want to care. Neytiri.. oh no, I meant... Gamora was cold an distant from the story itself. I felt I spent two hours watching at the desperate attempts of the cast of getting my attention, when I could really only focus and enjoy on Vin Diesel's brilliant performance. I don't know if it was a poor script or if James Gunn didn't feel as inspired with this cast as with Sarah Michelle Gellar and friends. Maybe it's just the fact that not all the characters from the Marvel jar of Superheroes can be turned into cinema. I was disappointed, therefore I will a bit more doubt the Marvel productions coming up next.


                
Guardians of the Galaxy is a mildly fun sci-fi adventure film, that has some heart but lacks a quality story and misses the mark quite a bit.The Peter Quill character couldn't really command the screen. Gamora was pretty non existent, she is basically just used as a sound board, why Zoe Saldana I ask? Drax had me worried to begin with, but got better as it went on. Rocket and Groot, the cgi characters were the standout, there really is no film without these two characters, providing comedy and heart. All the other characters are terrible and just eat away at the enjoyment.Some fun is had and the ending is good, but with an empty story and many wasteful scenes it fails as a whole.Drax: Where did you learn to do that? Peter: I'm pretty sure the answer is: "I am Groot".
