I was very excited to see this movie. I love sci-fi and super hero movies and considering the glut of them out there, this one was sure to top them all. The good thing is that this movie does not require you to know anything about the back story, the characters, or even what the heck you're getting into other than it's a sci-fi super hero fantasy world. It reminded me of a Firefly meets Indiana Jones combination.The problem I ran into is that it was quite formulaic, quite a bit predictable and overall tried a bit too hard to be funny at times. I'm a big sci-fi geek and am able to suspend disbelief for the sake of entertainment but the character makeup made them look, well, made up, like I was watching a play as opposed to a feature film. Maybe the fidelity of films are getting so high that it's difficult to mask the makeup, but it just seemed like too much of a distraction to me.In no way am I saying this movie is bad. It's very good. Just not great. Maybe if I was fan of the characters I would have enjoyed it more, but overall I couldn't see it as the smash hit 10/10 everyone is giving it.


                
I saw this movie the other day, and I liked it...it was pretty fun, but as I walked out I said to myself, "why is this SO popular?" I don't think this would be even a quarter as popular as it is if it were not a Marvel movie. I think people see the Marvel logo and rush to see it. I have good friends that saw it that don't like science fiction at all. It was a good movie but it's wasn't that great...I personally thought Gamora was awful, while Drax was surprisingly really great!What do I base my opinion on that this is only big because it's Marvel? Serenity/Firefly....almost the same thing, yet Serenity didn't make hardly anything. I wish movies could be judged based on their stand alone quality, and not just people that live and die by Marvel. I did enjoy the darker side of the movie, it didn't feel like the typical Marvel movie which can get kind of tiring with all the puns, and kiddy humor. Did anyone else feel the same? Just ask themselves why this is doing AS well as it is? I am a DC girl, but I enjoy both. My favorite is Superman, and my second favorite is Captain America


                
Trust me when I say this is the worst Marvel movie ever. Massively overrated. Doesn't even qualify to compete with The Avengers or X-Men. It is probably on the same level with DC's Green Lantern. Totally painful to watch. At best it's a copycat of Star Trek franchise.Marvel has been surprising me for the couple of years, in a good way. They've managed to keep their form with Guardians of the Galaxy, but in a very very bad way this time. Is this a TV movie? No. It's a high profile space movie. Then why does it feel like a TV movie? Because every single thing in this cinema is a STEREOTYPE in one way or another. I've enjoyed few of individual moments. But mostly it was painful for me.The only reason this film has managed to stay above Green Lantern in my book is Bradley Cooper. He is better than his usual this film. Final Verdict: 41%. CRAP may have been too strong word. Okay, it's not crap. It's just a very poor movie.


                
Leaving the Avengers behind, GUARDIANS OF THE GALAXY heralds the 2nd phase in the Marvel's silver screen expedition as IRON MAN (2008, 8/10) kick-started the 1st phase. But who is James Gunn? whose director résumé only encompasses the gooey horror SLITHER (2006) and a superhero indie SUPER (2010). Watched it in 3D, the film is a hyper-diverting adventurer amalgamated with slick action set pieces, legit humor and emotion and spectacular visual impact, the chemistry among its quintet coterie is potently pleasing, the comic timing is on the nose, and the most euphonious trait is its 70s-retro soundtrack, which is a killing nostrum to identify itself among Marvel's other imposing juggernauts. It is hard not to compare this to the STAR WARS series, an inter-galactic combat assembling unlikely heroes (various species) to prevent an evil (and dark elfish) super-villain, Ronan the Accuser (Pace), whose intent is to acquire a mighty orb (the McGuffin) to rule (or destroy) the universe. As the first chapter, naturally, it turns out that Ronan is merely a minion, there is much more overpowering force behind.The team includes Peter Quill (Pratt), aka. Starlord, a 30 something human; Gamora (Saldana), a green-colored assassin trained by Thanos (an uncredited cameo by Josh Brolin); Rocket, a cybernetic raccoon (voiced by Bradley) and his best friend Groot, a creature with the appearance of a walking tree and limited vocabularies (the viral I'm Groot! voiced by Diesel), and Drax the Destroyer, a red-tattooed brawny muscle (Bautista). The film is at the top of its game when the 5 gather together, bickering and jesting, they never take this saving-the-universe deal too serious, unless things deteriorate into the moment when self-sacrifice is exigently needed, surprisingly Rocket and Groot are granted much more humanity than their human-shaped comrades. Even in the crucial showdown scenes, when Starlord and Ronan stand face to face, a playful stunt conveniently eases audience from the edge of the seat, if the characters themselves don't engage in the plot, why should we the rubbernecks? Bad-drafted villain is always a frailty in Marvel's kingdom, Ronan is so plainly written, the supposed career boost of Lee Pace is still unaccomplished, so is Hounsou's Korath, while Gamora's vicious sister Nebula (Gillan) is in no better condition, but at least her storyline will continue. Yondu Udonta (Rooker) is between friend or foe, whose sentient arrow is the wow factor one wishes it will keep shooting in the next installment. Benicio Del Toro as the Collector and Glenn Close as Nova Prime, both have meager screen time, no chance to run the show. Aimed to nostalgia and accompanies Starlord's Han Solo carefree flair, the mix-tape hits from 70s are unexpectedly well maneuvered, devoid of a present-day background, it is a smart move, and more poignantly, the obsolete Walkman emanates a strong connection between a guilty son and his deceased mother, no upbeat rhythm can beat that! No wonder its soundtrack is already a No.1 selling album in USA.In conclusion, the film is an above-average marvel production, great job for Gunn and his team, establishes a ragbag of lovable roles besides the Avengers assembly, and it has the prospects to be the STAR WARS of this generation, intriguingly, the rebooted Star Wars sequel is also heading towards us, soon we will find which one is the bona fide winner. But one must confess, Marvel does have an upper hand with the ultra-success of this picture.


                
As could possibly be expected, fighting over earth was always going to become a little repetitive so now the galaxy needs to be defended, or guarded as it were by a ragtag collection of miss-fits called simply enough the Guardians of the Galaxy.These guardians are a collection of lost souls led by earthling Peter Quill (although he prefers the more swashbuckling moniker, Star-Lord); the green skinned and highly dangerous Gamora; a vengeance fueled warrior Drax with his blue muscular body adorned in red tattoo's, a psychotic yet industrious raccoon called Rocket and his side-kick the walking tree named Groot. They are brought together by accident and happenstance to save a planet (not earth, surprisingly) from the villain of the piece, Ronan the Accuser.The story is part Star War, part Raiders of the Lost Ark which I would prefer to consider an homage while some are suggesting a blatant rip off (although the Guardians in comic book form actually predate Lucas and Spielberg's respective films). What happens? Well in a nutshell, Quill finds an item Ronan needs. The hero is compelled to work with Gamora, Drax, Rocket & Groot to get out of trouble and before you know it we have a team with the best parts of each malcontent brought to the fore.As far as performance is concerned who were my favourite characters? Groot and Rocket Raccoon, the animated characters voiced by Vin Diesel and Bradley Cooper respectively. Some would say Mr Diesel had the simpler challenge as his walking tree didn't say a lot, in fact hardly anything. But he conveyed his emotions using only a few words which made for a truly intriguing and amusing character. Bradley Cooper continues to go from strength to strength in every role he inhabits on the screen and again here he was as lively and interesting as he was in American Hustle or Silver Linings Playbook.Former WWE wrestler Dave Bautista acted about as well as anyone you would expect with that kind of background but his character is meant to be a moron so he's believable. Zoe Saldana as the assassin Gamora was competent as both a fighter and the romantic interest. The term "coloured actress" is never more accurate then when describing Ms Saldana given her (blue) role in Avatar and (green) in this film. Surely she would be begging her agent to find her a role in a black & white film so she can avoid arriving at the make-up trailer before sunrise? The lead and hero of the film is the "Ravager" Peter Quill (or Star-Lord) played by Chris Pratt of Parks & Recreation fame. I was surprised to see Pratt in the role as he has always seemed more of a side-kick or comic relief kind of actor. In Parks & Recreation he plays a no-hoper but I suppose he did it pretty well if I assumed he was just that? According to his bio, Chris worked out and dieted for 6 months to lose nearly 30 kilos for this role which left him with 6 pack abs and the ability to flog his exercise regimen on late night TV for the rest of his life... but I digress. In this role he was okay. Perhaps they specifically wanted someone a little rough around the edges or basically unknown? Who knows what Matt Damon or Johnny Depp could have done with this character? Alright they probably would have done it better but Chris tried hard.Overall the acting (from the human characters) was okay but could have been better. I actually blame the director & writer James Gunn as it felt for at least half the film the actors were compelled to deliver lines with Shakespearean passion and it wasn't until the second half of the feature that they were allowed to loosen up. Special mention should go to Michael Rooker, Glenn Close and John C Reilly. The veterans played their small roles comfortably and with a charm the lead players weren't afforded.If I have a major complaint it's with the villains. Ronan the main baddie for this effort and his superior Thanos (presumably the bad guy for the sequel) are so dreadfully one dimensional that it's impossible to understand why they would have any supporters. Why would their battalions of soldiers fight for them? Just to defeat people they didn't know? To destroy planets and ruin the lives of anyone who comes near them? Sure it's why people join the US Republican Party or the NRA but this is a fantasy realm. It's completely impossible to imagine the bad guys being anything than exactly that so as soon as we were introduced to the evil doers the result of the film was obvious. If there was a saving grace for the bad guy team it was Nebula (played by former Dr Who side-kick Karen Gillan) who as the half-sister to Gamora gave us the only evil character we could imagine changing sides and having any empathy.The Guardians of the Galaxy is a quirky picture with plenty for everyone. There's plenty of colour and movement with loud bangs and explosions for the younger generations along with a few good laughs for the rest of us. Was it motion picture history? No. Does it stack up against the great Sc-Fi or adventure films? Not really but myself, my wife and two teenage daughters happily repeated our favourite moments on the way home from the cinema so we certainly got our monies worth from an action film that didn't take itself too seriously and will more than likely do it again when the sequel hits our screens.
this movie is so overrated, I said my peace, and don't care what other people say. There are no strong performances by any of the cast. Why was Bradley cooper in this movie. Plot was the worst of any marvel movie to date, including Daredevil. Okay that was mean it was better than Daredevil. But i think the worst thing about this movie is how so many people are willing to sacrifice themselves proving how good this was. lines and lines of hate rants to people who are just voicing their opinion. Not everyone has to like it. Also it is worth noting that the villain in this film Ronan was very cartoonist and generic. nothing against Marvel in this point, James Gunn has a history of this with his movies like Slither, and super. Not a bad director, but has a lot of development to experience.


                
I'm not quite sure what this movie was trying to be but I watched it as a comedy. A Stan Lee comedy.It starts out in 1988 and a young boy's mother is dying, then he is outside and a giant alien spacecraft abducts him. Then the movie switches forward to present time, 26 or so years later, and the boy has grown to a 30-something Chris Pratt as Peter Quill on some planet far off in the galaxy. He has turned into some sort of mercenary who can retrieve things at the request of others.Zoe Saldana, all in green skin makeup is his nemesis Gamora, who eventually warms up to Peter after he saves her from certain death in the vacuum of space.There are a number of strange and dangerous characters, such as Dave Bautista as Drax, Vin Diesel voicing the tall, woody plant form known as Groot, Bradley Cooper voicing the short, raccoon-like creature known as Rocket, and a host of others.The action goes from one strange planet to another, all the while playing up dialog for laughs when it could. I'm not quite sure what to think of it, but one thing is certain, it gave my subwoofer a great work-out!
To be fair, Marvel announced many moons ago that it would be taking "liberty" with the stories it gives a green light to be made into film. That is all well and good, because the characters in this film are as pointed out elsewhere "not well known". Indeed I do not think that many in the movie going audience will be, aside from the old school comic fans.That being said, let me address my qualms with this film. I hate to be "that guy" here but I love film as most of you do, so lets have at it shall we? This film was far to quickly paced for all that it hoped to encompass. It felt like one giant set-up scene for comic relief which it used in grandiose fashion as it replayed the same set-up formula over and over. There were some splendid shots in this film completely ruined for me at least by the entry of yet more misplaced comedy. There was little if no serious context in the film at all, a fact for which I am disappointed. No amount of cgi can make up for the abuse of a film element that plays on ad-nauseam until no hope remains for anything serious enough from the film finally makes it to the audience to salvage an otherwise good idea.It may be fresh as far as Marvel movies are concerned, but that is really no feat in itself is it? How long have they been playing the same worn out record? OH! they were bought by Disney, that's right! I almost forgot about that depressing fact. No hope for originality. I was not overly impressed by this film. It was pretty, It was colorful, but I felt it failed the characters involved by being too corny to accurately portray them.


                
The Guardians of the Galaxy first appeared in 1969 and in various Marvel comics of the mid-70s, like The Defenders, before appearing as the main attraction in Marvel Premiere in 1976-77. The Guardians are like the Avengers (or Justice League) of space, a superhero team with a revolving door line-up.This popular 2014 film was based on the 2008 version of the team, which includes Star-Lord (Chris Pratt), Gamora (Zoe Saldana), Drax the Destroyer (Dave Bautista), Rocket Raccoon (voice of Bradley Cooper) and Groot (voice of Vin Diesel). The movie details how these characters meet and become the Guardians of the Galaxy as they square off against Ronan (Lee Pace), Nebula (Karen Gillan) and the intimidating Thanos (Josh Brolin). Michael Rooker is also on hand as Yondu, the space redneck who kidnapped Peter Quill (Star-Lord) from earth when he was a boy.I'm only familiar with the 70's team, which included Star-Lord, Gamora and Drax, as well as the villains Thanatos and Ronan. It was fun seeing these characters come to life on the big screen. The movie combines elements of The Avengers, Star Trek and Star Wars and is a thrilling blockbuster that's fun, but probably too goofy at times for people who prefer the dead seriousness of Nolan's Batman trilogy. As far as galaxy-traveling superheroes go, I prefer the more-serious-albeit-still-amusing tone of "Thor" and "Thor 2." Despite that cavil, I liked the way these independent, misfit anti-heroes slowly learn to gel as a team and even care for each other as the story progresses. Their initial selfish goals morph into a noble universal cause. Gamora is my favorite character, followed by Drax, Rocket and Groot. The sinister Thanos -- Jim Starlin's knock-off of Jack Kirby's Darkseid -- is excellently depicted in his brief appearance.The film runs 121 minutes.GRADE: B


                
There's a moment in Guardians of the Galaxy when Rocket, the film's talking raccoon (voiced by Bradley Cooper), is accused of faking his laugh; coincidentally, there were quite a few people in the cinema I went to who I could have hurled the same accusation at. Yes, GOTG features a couple of genuinely funny moments, but it also has more than its fair share of gags that fall flat and certainly do not warrant the kind of belly laughs that I could hear (probably coming from deluded Marvel fan-boys).However, even with its frequently-less-than-hilarious comedic moments, this big-budget dollop of sci-fi comic book silliness still manages to be quite a lot of mindless popcorn fun, delivering enough weird and wonderful characters, fantastic worlds, spectacular action set-pieces and impressive special effects wizardry to guarantee a reasonably fun time. Director James Gunn's eclectic and vibrant universe is brimming with such imagination and visual splendour, all accompanied by a poptastic '70s/'80s soundtrack, that the film proves a treat for the senses despite its obvious shortcomings elsewhere.


                
Did I enjoy Guardians of the Galaxy? Absolutely. It was fun and cute and definitely one for sci-fi fans because it was a near-perfect blend of Star Wars meets Avengers (both Disney properties now so that makes some sort of sense.) Yet in the same vein I would hesitate to say that the film sits anywhere near either of those films. As with many comedies and action films the bulk of the movie can be seen in the trailer. The gags in Guardians of The Galaxy felt nearly stale I had seen them so many times in the trailer, there was not much new outside of that. The story was decent as was the performances and they did a decent job of establishing this group of outcast misfits forced to work together and find something meaningful as a make-shift "family." The movie was a lot of fun, it just didn't really floor me that way I had hoped. I have a great deal of respect for Marvel in what they've created and I am glad to see them start a new franchise with some connection to the Avengers Universe but this one felt a little bland when all was said and done. There was a ton of action scenes, space battles and hand to hand fights but they were just okay. I can't pinpoint why this wasn't "amazing" for me, only that for me it just missed the boat a little.Chris Pratt is perfect for the role of Peter Quill aka: Starlord. His one liners and comedic timing works very well and he does a decent job of establishing some depth to his character. Its almost a little hard to take him seriously when the emotional scenes begin but he pulls it off. Zoe Saldana is also perfect for her role as vengeful assassin Gamora. Saldana and Pratt have good chemistry and some of the best action scenes are pulled off by her battling in hand to hand combat. Some comparisons could be made to her Avatar character but its a good performance nonetheless. I thought for a long while that Dave Bautista was a bad choice for this film. Wrestlers' moving into mainstream acting is becoming more common but in the beginning he seems cheesy and campy and then I began to understand that his character Drax is supposed to be exactly that. He doesn't understand sarcasm, takes everything literally and becomes ferociously protective of his new friends. He ended up being not so bad and he pulls it off. I still think he's a weaker member of the cast but he still impressed me. I don't even understand why Vin Diesel was cast in this film. I love the character of Groot...don't get me wrong...he was perfectly awesome but with one growly line in various tones, it could have been literally anyone behind the voice. You will never know its Diesel so in that regard I can't say he was good or bad. The star or person behind Groot is irrelevant. My favourite character and even performance was that of Bradley Cooper as Rocket Raccoon. He has a definitive edge and a big heart and his character was insanely fun and funny. I could have done a whole movie with him. Cooper was spot on in his voicing of the CGI character. You could hardly even recognize him. Lee Pace was an extraordinary villain as Ronan and distinctly comparable to a Sith Lord from Star Wars. Still, he was definitely a villain worthy of an epic action flick. Watch for great supporting performances from Michael Rooker (he always plays the same role but heck he's good at it), Djimon Hounsou, Karen Gillan, John C. Reilly and Benicio Del Toro.This is one of those films where it doesn't matter what I say about it because its clear its already a HUGE hit for Marvel. Did it do it for me? Not entirely. Will I see it again? Sure! And I will watch sequels because it was fun. I just didn't think it was truly epic. Marvel continually sets a bar for itself and I personally didn't feel this reached that bar. I would never tell anyone it was terrible because it is very well done. The CGI was decent, the 3D was unnecessary as usual, the action and comedy was good...everything about it was good. I actually think director James Gunn was a bizarre choice to helm a major tent-pole franchise because he hasn't done a lot (although he did direct a film early in his career that I LOVED called Slither) and I'm interested to see if he can learn something and really impress me next time. Until then, I liked it but didn't love it. See it for yourself and make your own call. 7/10
Notwithstanding the heart-tugging prologue which sees a young Peter Quill saying his tearful goodbye to his dying mother in a hospital room, it is manifestly clear from the opening strains of that 1970s Redbone classic 'Come and Get Your Love' that Marvel's latest cinematic addition 'Guardians of the Galaxy' just wants to have some fun. Yes, immediately after that prologue, we catch up with our anti-hero - a thieving Ravager, a self-styled Starlord, and a general intergalactic do-no- gooder - skipping along to that song while venturing his way into a cave on an abandoned planet to retrieve a much-sought after silver orb.In case it isn't already apparent from the trailer, that is the first of many 1970s pop classics that form about half of the soundtrack of the movie, and which Peter carries around in a mix-tape with his trusty Walkman. That artistic choice isn't self-evident; although these characters were already known as a team of misfit heroes from their introduction into the Marvel universe back in 1969, it did not come with the same cheeky comic tone which James Gunn has taken to the material. Indeed, the galaxy may be at stake, but the fact that its fate lies in the hands of a talking raccoon named Rocket (voiced by Bradley Cooper), a tall talking tree named Groot (voiced by Vin Diesel), a massively muscled angry guy named Drax (pro wrestler Dave Bautista), a green- skinned female assassin named Gamora (Zoe Saldana) and Peter (Chris Pratt) means that it is a good thing this Marvel picture doesn't try to sell it straight.In fact, it easily stands out from the rest of the more recognisable Marvel properties by simply being more playful than any of the rest. Peter is a sweet rogue played by Pratt with wily mischief. Drax is delightfully hypermuscled and hyperliteral - his rejoinder when being accused by Rocket that metaphors "fly over his head" is an absolute hoot. Gamora is kick-ass cool. Groot is lovably monosyllabic. And the one who often steals the show is the irascible foul-mouthed raccoon whom Groot provides the muscle for, Rocket, who is also streetwise, smart and suffers from an existential crisis. They aren't exactly first-choice to save the Earth-like planet Xandar from the warmongering baddie Ronan (Lee Pace), who wants the orb for his patron Thanos on the deal that the latter would help destroy Xandar - and both Xandar's Nova Corps officer (John C. Reilly) and head honcho Nova Prime (Glenn Close) pretty much make that clear.But it is precisely their misfit nature that makes it all the more enjoyable. Whether escaping from Xandar's space prison known as the Kiln or from the cheekily-titled planet of Nowhere on which Benicio del Toro's The Collector resides, the ragtag gang always have a witty quip to spare, and the cast's delivery of Gunn's cleverly-scripted repartee is spot-on. There is also plenty of situational and physical humour in the numerous action scenes that follow our heroes along their space adventure - and fanboys will have a field day picking out Gunn's homage to classic sci-fi fare like 'Star Wars' in addition to thoroughly lapping up the pop-culture irony.Gunn's casting here is flawless. None of the actors in the ensemble call attention to their own individual characters; instead, they play off each other with offbeat chemistry and perfect timing. In particular, Cooper is almost unrecognisable as the voice of Rocket, capturing perfectly his character's blend of brashness, intelligence and angst in a delivery brimming with panache. They easily overshadow the other villainous sorts who pop up every now and then to wreck destruction - including Ronan's lieutenant Korath (Djimon Hounsou) and Thanos' disillusioned daughter Nebula (Karen Gillan) - who unfortunately turn out just as nondescript as the villains in the Marvel movies so far.That fault is not so much the actors as that of Gunn and his co-writer Nicole Perlman. If something had to give in order to make way for that self-aware smart-assery, it turned out to be both plot and character. Put aside the visual dazzle, and there's no doubt the narrative is about as straightforward as it gets. There is no treachery, no double- crossing, just plain good and bad defined right from the point that the characters make their entrance. Same goes for the characters, which aren't afforded much time for any backstory (save for that prologue we mentioned at the start) in between dodging bullets and blowing up stuff. As far as origin movies are concerned, this hardly makes the impression the way 'Captain America: The First Avenger' and 'Iron Man' did for their respective characters.Those unfamiliar with Marvel lore will also find themselves grasping to understand how the entire universe comes together - for starters, you may wish to take note that the orb is so prized because it belongs in the same league as the Tesseract in 'The Avengers' movie. But if you find yourself lost amidst the mythology, you'll probably still find yourself lost in a giddy spirit of amusement. It's zany fun to say the least, with a perfectly pitched bunch of memorable characters, irreverent humour and some truly eye-popping CGI wizardry. Gunn relentlessly guns at everything that is fun and pleasing, no matter that they may seem absurd - and you know what, 'Guardians' is all the better for it


                
First of all, don't mistake me, yes, Guardians is a very fun movie to see, even funny at times, BUT, and for it's a big one, you can't really like it if you know too much about the comics involved (ie, GotG, of course, but also anything involving Ronan the Accuser and the Nova Corps).If you don't take the comics into account, this movie is everything a summer refreshing movie should be: fun, action-packed, funny characters, great show on all accounts. The characters are all likable, and don't go too close on the limit of the suspension of disbelief.Chris Pratt does an excellent job with Star-Lord, even though this incarnation mainly seems out of the Annihilation War comics period, rather than the latest incarnation of GotG the movie seems mainly based on.Similarly, Rocket Racoon is very good, and very close to the comics.The other characters, though, differ quite notably from the comics. Gamora poses as a traumatized victim of Thanos, who never wanted to kill all these people: not exactly the sadistic "Most dangerous woman in the universe". Drax the Destroyer is a muscular moron out for revenge against Ronan, there again, quite far from a mutated human designed solely for the purpose of killing Thanos. Groot is just a feeble-minded sidekick to Rocket, there again quite far from what he is in the comics.As for the villains, they're quite ridiculous too. Ronan is just a single-minded bully out for genocide, and the Collector is just a shadowy dealer in rare goods. Only Thanos is treated correctly, as a monster so powerful nobody in his right mind would dare provoke him.But the worst of all is still the Nova Corps... I mean, they're just a bunch of nobodies, without powers, and fancy little fighters... How are we to believe they're the cops of space, universally respected and feared? Overall, it's a good movie, fun for the summer, but quite out of place for a Marvel piece, as far as tone is concerned. As for the content, it points more and more towards an Avengers 3 movie with Thanos and the Infinity Gauntlet or something close.And the fun allusion of the movie: the inclusion of Cosmo in the Collector's collection, and the surprise in the post-credits scene (not alluding to any further movie, for once).
I'm quite a casual fan of Marvel comics and their movies, so I didn't know much about Guardians of the Galaxy going in nor was I expecting much.The blend of action and humour was great. The tone of the film, which I think is balanced very well, was perfectly set in the opening sequence. The comedy especially was actually funny. I think this is largely down to the fact that the characters were so thoroughly well established, with each character having decent screen time. None of them felt underdeveloped and you felt connected to all of the main cast.By and large the acting was very good, stand out being Chris Pratt. A very strong performance as well as delivering on the comedy. The movie is really hinged on him as a central protagonist, and he did a great job of leading the narrative as well as standing out as a character in his own right. Even former wrestler Dave Bautista did a good job. He didn't exactly have a huge range to deal with, but he delivered the serious parts and he was also pretty funny. The writers definitely played to his strengths which showed.The writing in general was very good. It is a well structured film, and is kept moving along at a reasonable pace. The dialogue is expertly written, with great gags and jokes delivered in great timing. The cinematography and visual fx were fantastic. It's a very good looking film, easy to watch and choreographed well. It had a great blend of sci-fi almost Spielberg-esque visuals, which I think gives the film a distinctive look from the other Marvel movies. The CGI was generally very good. Groot and Rocket especially looked fantastic. The only downside here was you can tell that the large portion of time was spent on the main characters CGI (and rightly so), but it means that tertiary CG characters tended to be a bit lacking and not look up to standard.Unfortunately I felt Lee Pace's performance as main villain 'Ronan' to be quite one dimensional and wooden. He shouted a lot, and put on a deep voice, but what presence was built up around his character I felt fell flat when he actually started speaking. Also, his character motive was basically him being a religious fanatic. While being topical, I felt that his core motivations was quite a simplified notion of "West vs East" as apparent in the two warring cultures of the Kree Empire vs the Xandarians, to the point where I felt it was exploitative of post 9/11 anxieties and leaning towards patronizing.Overall though, a very entertaining and most importantly funny movie. Quite different from any other modern Marvel movie, which is a good thing. Recently I've found that some of the post Avengers Marvel releases (with the exception of Days of Future Past) to be feeling quite stale. This film has definitely got a unique and distinct personality which I think sets it apart from the rest, in a good way.I have to say now though that it is probably in the top three Marvel movies alongside 'X-Men: Days of Future Past' and 'The Avengers'.


                
After the sickeningly sentimental start (probably meant to allow for settling in and munching time) the picture goes off on all cylinders for a straight two hours with barely a pause. I remember thinking at a couple of points: "Oh, a scene here," but it got cut off anyway. There's not a moment to think about anything, including the rocket designs, the enormous city that is portrayed, or any of the many wicked characters. Everything rushes by in a welter of images and fragmentary plot-lines until the brain spins. The mcguffin is this daft ball that looks exactly like a baseball made of wrought iron, which when twisted reveals a brilliant gem that can destroy the world. It doesn't matter, because our hero grabs it anyway and undergoes a lengthy traumatic experience only remedied by his friends grabbing onto him and taking some of the strain. A likely story, but no more far-fetched than the rest of this idiotic fantasy that almost made its giant budget back on its first weekend. Big earnings ahead for this 3- D special. Definitely worth seeing for sci-fi fans.
Well, some of the lesser known heroes (and villains) of the marvel universe come together and the result is not all bad.It's an entertaining film. There is a lot of action and a lot happening in the film to keep you preoccupied and not focus on the larger scheme of things. It has many typical marvel characteristics like:1. The characters are simple. They are not introduced. They are just there.2. There is little or no character development. We are told that a certain character likes this or hates that without much reason or thought process3. Its fast paced. Leaving you occupied without focusing on the broader scheme of things and concentrated on the action at hand4. The characters are either good or evil (not otherwise)5. They hate each other in the beginning and combine together at the end (big surprise there..). They are selfish at first but a bigger cause unites them.6. They all are after a small tiny object which supposedly is key to unlimited power.The film is highly entertaining. The characters are funny. One liners are pulled off nicely. There are emotional moments. All in all, it felt like Avengers 2 with lesser known characters. And thats the good thing. Now, we have something other than watching the same old(ahem.. some young) marvel heroes and villains. But still, it feels commercial in making; designed to make money rather than appeal to the genuine movie-watching audience who feel the need to connect to a film before fully appreciating it. But its best for going with buddies on a Friday night. You will enjoy. You will have a sense of satisfaction and you will tell people about it.
Guardians of the Galaxy is a fun, entertaining, spectacular sci-fi action comedy adventure. However, despite the rave reviews from the critics and mainstream audience, I just don't think the film actually lives up to the hype and expectations to be a great one. Let me explain why.The story is mainly about a band of interstellar thieves, thugs and assassins - Star lord, Gamora, Rocket, Groot and Drax, got caught up in a huge galactic threat when one of them retrieved a highly-desired mysterious orb from a desolated planet. These individuals eventually decided to work together as a team and become heroes along the way to stop the threat.Before this, the Guardians Of The Galaxy consists of characters not known by many, even among the Marvel fan base. It's officially the first Marvel film that ventures into space, introducing the general audience to the expansive intergalactic worlds in the Marvel Cinematic Universe...with an entirely new team and not the previously established Avengers. It brings the audience to a whole new unseen world, featuring a multitude of alien species with distinctive personalities and abilities, with addition of exciting spaceship battles and chases as well.The visuals are spectacular and the action scenes were great. Many of the 1960s/1970s pop classics that forms the soundtrack blends in quite nicely with the film. Each Guardian have their own kick-ass, cool or funny character moments in the film. The action scenes between Drax and Ronan or Korath, Gamora and Nebula, Star Lord and the Sakaaran army are really well done. But, among the Guardians, it is actually a giant walking tree and a talking raccoon that stole the spotlight compared with the others! When Groot extends his arm and pierces through a few Sakaaran army soldiers and repeatedly slams them against the walls is both shocking and awesome.The 'We are Groot' scene or Rocket's expression when Drax tries to comfort him by gently petting his head are beautifully done and emotional at the same time.All the Marvel films, since Iron Man, did a great job of making fun at itself by injecting decent amount of humour and witty lines into the story, keeping the audience laughing along the way. This worked out fine...the engaging sense of humour actually helps to balance out the drama and action to make the films fun and entertaining to watch. But this time, they went overboard with it. Guardians of the Galaxy is so overly playful with itself that it has gotten too self-absorbed with its humour. It felt cartoony at times and lacks the seriousness it needs to be an epic film. It's been shown that billions of lives are at stake and even the galaxy is under serious threat. How do you even care what's at stake when the film doesn't take itself seriously when it should? (Moreover, some of the jokes presented in the film didn't work for me at all)The film has too many new characters and most of them only make brief appearances...there's a lot of new unfamiliar places or locations which are previously unheard of without proper explanation. There's no character depth for each of the Guardians, you don't feel like you know them much by the end of the film as their backstories were only briefly touched upon. Gamora, also known as the galaxy's deadliest assassin or the Deadliest Woman in the Galaxy, trained by Thanos, gets easily beaten by others? The romance of Gamora with Star lord feels forced as well. I was also slightly disappointed that Thanos only make a brief cameo appearance...I expected more of his involvement in the film. It didn't create any strong lasting impression for the characters, much like Captain America: The First Avenger and Iron Man did for their main characters. The pacing doesn't flow well as the story never slows down and there's too many things to cover in the film.There's so many small fine details that the general audience (those who are unfamiliar with the Marvel Universe) most likely won't know or understand: No one knows who Tivan/The Collector actually is or the Yaka arrow that Yondu carries around with him...the film didn't clearly explains what the infinity stones represents (mind, power, reality, space, soul, time), no mention of the Infinity Gauntlet, who is the giant figure that uses the Power stone, etc. Most of these details should be explained in this film instead of relying on the next sequel to do the job.Like all the previous Marvel films (except Thor, who has Loki), Guardians of the Galaxy lacks a memorable and compelling villain for the story. There's a lack of character development for Ronan The Accuser. Ronan's lieutenants, Korath and Nebula (also Thanos' adopted daughter), bring nothing to the table...we don't know them much at all. For those who are expecting a great epic teamwork battle in the finale will be disappointed. Why would a villain who hates an entire race and planet, tries to avenge his father's and ancestor's deaths could be easily distracted? 'What are you doing?' I find myself having the same response as Ronan, questioning the director's decision for making Star lord pulling such a ridiculous act on screen. Come on, you have a villain who's in possession of the Power stone and this is what you can do with the character?Like I mentioned earlier in the review, the film was fun and entertaining, but it was too much that nothing feels serious anymore. It's certainly not the best Marvel film ever. In my opinion, X-Men: Days of Future Past still remains as the best Marvel film of the year.Rating: 7.5/10Note: The post-credit scene was quite disappointing and not worth the wait. They supposed to add something that raises the expectations for future films but they didn't. That sucks.


                
After a plethora of Marvel movies out this year, GOTG is another hit for the Marvel universe. Now, mind you this is coming from a completely unbiased viewer as I had absolutely no idea what GOTG was or about until I saw the film. I went in with absolutely no presumptions or expectations of how the movie would compare to the actual comics/cartoon and I was utterly entertained.So far I am choosing this as a front runner for winning best visual effects for this years Oscars, yes, that's how good the graphics are throughout the film. The movie has more computer generated reality than actual people or places and every bit of it is done spectacularly. Along with the intense visuals, GOTG has its share of well timed humor (just enough, most action/superhero flicks looking for comedic relief tend to go overboard) a subtle romantic angle, and exciting action sequences.The most surprising of the cast was 'Dave Bautista' (he plays 'Drax the Destroyer'); believe me, I had my doubts as will most people, did a phenomenal job who I think will shock everyone at how well he plays the character. 'Groot' and 'Rocket' were perfectly made and voiced; probably the most entertaining/lovable of the ensemble.While in my opinion the cast and the visuals were the strongest points of the film, the only let down was the story; which was very clichéd. A menacing villain and the almost unstoppable hero(s) with the latter coming out on top like always still remains to be the perfect formula.Regardless, this is a MUST SEE FILM !!! p.s 'i am Groot'


                
This feature is worth a movie ticket. In fact, it is the kind of film that I'd rather watch at the movie theater over owning a Blu-Ray copy. Cutting edge visual effects that only the latest Hollywood big budget can provide combined with a very nostalgic, tasteful and unorthodox soundtrack (with stuff like "Hooked on a Feeling" and "Cherry Bomb"). Plus, it is a nice little adventure, humorous and action packed while still being family suited.That is all... Do not be fooled by these sensationalist overrated reviews from fanatics and comic enthusiasts. This is very far from being an epic (a new Star Wars, as some of the most blindly exhilarated have stated).1. There are so many clichés that my wife rolled her eyes most of the entire time. The seemingly heartless bounty hunter accompanied by a scary/gentle beast that communicates through indistinguishable groans (did Vin Diesel get paid for that? cause he even shows up in the credits for this crap) that only his best friend can, somehow, translate to the audience through redundantly answering the beast's concerns (and no, I'm not talking about Han Solo and Chewbacca); the tough butt girl assassin that primarily shows no interest in the lead teen-like goofy heroic character; no point in mentioning everything, just be prepared to nothing new or authentic.2. The entire time, it seemed like the film was making a desperate attempt to be very very funny, failing miserably. I did laugh or smiled sometimes, but some jokes were just embarrassingly poor. This is the type of humor that will just make the targeted audience (teens) laugh. I guess Marvel fans will really appreciate it, though. Anyone growing up reading Marvel comics knows that a humor is present even during the most dramatic moments, and I commend the attempt to portray the same aspect in the movie adaptations. 3. I'm not sure if it was just bad casting or poor directing, but the characters are everything but charismatic. Especially the leading role. You see kids fighting for their turn to be Jack Sparrow, Iron Man or Maximus while playing, but I doubt you'll see anyone fighting to be Peter Quill. I'd be surprised if anyone even remembers his name. Nearly 2 hours was enough to get sick of almost every character, from hero to villain, so I'm hoping they never make a sequel. My 7 is because, all in all, this is pretty good for a super hero movie. It will make you smile and have fun, at the least. Disregard, though, all the 10's and the currently inflated rating (common while the box office commotion lasts) and lower your expectations, if you are a reasonable person.


                
Come on now, we all know (and pretend that we don't) that all superhero movies are alike. But we still go and see them and come out of the hall enthralled by the visual effects, stunts, 3D, et cetera. So let me not focus on the story here, but the things that entertained me.To start with, I'm in complete awe with Chris Pratt. His brief dance performance is what kick-starts the films and continues to keep us hooked with his character, the main hero. Next, I found myself laughing and grinning all the way through 2 hours because of the large amounts of humor that this film succeeds in executing. Every single sequence is painted with a comic tint, thanks to Cooper, Bautista and others. I have no reason to blame the cast, nor the production unit.Here in India, there were few cuts that annoyed me but I believe we were spared more than we were in The Wolf of Wall Street.While I thought that the CGI was a tad premature at some parts, the story is narrated quite nicely. The action sequences are not much of a surprise as it showcases the futuristic gadgets and stuff. There aren't any twists that could have saved the second half from being a little itchy.Coming to the best part: the soundtrack. The Pina Colada song never felt so good before and it was also years since I heard that. Right kind of music used at perfect times throughout the film. Vin Diesel's Groot voice needs a pat in the back.Guardians of the Galaxy succeeds in holding the Marvel Cinematic Universe as it conveys few implications here: that tree life is so much more significant than we think. It touches topics like space and gravity and galaxies and science and stuff superficially, although stops right there when it introduces typical superhero formula of an ancient ball that has some celestial power and the heroes and the villains are behind it. Blah blah blah.BOTTOM LINE: A typical superhero film, embezzled with good humor, great music and an unconventional character ensemble. A raccoon plays a superhero, what more do you ask?Can be watched with a typical Indian family? YES


                
For one to not find Guardians of the Galaxy fun they would have to be some type of Grinch, for James Gunn's loud, colorful and at most times unashamedly odd Marvel movie has an appeal in most areas you look, and despite slight moments of darkness has a mantra for entertainment over seriousness that allows the film to overcome its generic nature that has been strangely overlooked by the public yet is quite prevalent throughout the film.Guardians is going to go down as one of those odd movie cases where one can't help but feel people were far to lavish in their praise for a movie that at its core is built around the tried and true formulas of a rag tag bunch of mismatched antihero's banding together to stop the big bad nasty from destroying the universe. Director Gunn has done a seriously good cover up job of this by instilling an often ingenious and witty script into proceedings that, as mentioned previously, demands fun to be had by an audience member willing to jump in the journey and forget that what they are actually seeing is something that is not entirely as unique as one would think. It's a risky story no doubt thanks to the set of oddball characters at its center and it's a credit to Gunn that he manages to be so successful with the elements at his disposal.Without doubt, one thing that Guardians does better above all else is create a set of space hero's that look to be one of the most memorable and adored set of trouble makers this side the Millennium Falcons crew. Long held back by supporting turns the group is charismatically led by Chris Pratt as Han So<U+0085>I mean Peter Quill/Star Lord. Pratt is an anchoring presence in the film and excels as expected at his comedic timing and as the wise cracking adventurer, but to say Pratt is alone in the charm stakes would be a lie, as the film also excels at perhaps it's hardest task which was to create a not-only believable but lovable duo in the form of genetically altered raccoon Rocket and his walking tree sidekick Groot. These two creations would've been a consistent worry on Marvel's and Gunn's mind, as getting them wrong would've plagued the picture beyond redemption, but the work of quality CGI creativity and the voice acting of Cooper and the unsung mo-cap work of Vin Diesel is that of the highest order, so much so that the two nigh on run away with the film. To a lesser extent Zoe Saldana and ex-wrestler Dave Butista provide solid, if a little more as-per-usual support as female heroine Gamora and angry man mountain Drax the Destroyer respectively, but no amount of good work by this group can overcome the film's Achilles heel (even while slightly petty for such a fun film) which is a weak overall story arc and even weaker villains.Focused too much on the 5 Guardians, there was arguably a lack of similar effort in the creation of the film's big bad Ronan the Accuser and actor Lee Pace, who feel like an afterthought in a tale that needed to amount to more in order to be worthy of the now ardent praise poured on it by audiences and many critics. It's not to say Pace is bad, but Ronan is severely undercooked and a culmination of his efforts in a far from satisfactory final act leave a diminished mark on a movie that should've prided itself on going for the unpredictable or for going all out. One feels that it all ends with a whimper and not with a bang, despite a late saving-grace effort by our favorite tree and a dancing hero.Without question, Guardians of the Galaxy is a fun, enjoyable ride that sadly lacks certain thrills and sense of adventure due to a story that didn't develop around the characters that come into a life of their own. It was a risk by Marvel (this feels a lot more edgy than your average Marvel piece, sexual innuendo included) to even commission this material to the big screen and it's a risk that has worked (especially in a financial sense), and Gunn seems like the perfect fit as director. Both however need to significantly step up their game in the story stakes next time, and aim for not only fun but a more original and unpredictable story to go along with its unique and now much loved character set. I am Groot indeed.3 and a half never dying Walkman's out of 5


                
Got to hold my hands up here! When I first saw the poster and saw the name of the film, I groaned thinking this was going to be something akin to the straight to video sci-fi stuff from the eighties (just updated). Keesh and cheap, but I was wrong. This is wonderful.We have here an original enough story of a motley crew who together end up being out to stop the destruction of some intergalactic worlds. We have a man from the 80s, a lovely kick-ass lady, a genetically modified raccoon, a big alien strong man a walking tree! It's different but trust me the humour flows, the characters are heart-warming, the story is fun and the action is well paced.Various good stars in this but they are either secondary or in some other form (for example the raccoon). It all just works! You wouldn't think it would but it really does.Wonderful stuff, already looking forward to more.


                
I know loads of people have given 10 stars and I'm not going to judge them because that's their opinion but I really feel that this film has been extremely overrated, I am a big marvel film fan and this film really disappointed me as I felt that there was some 'Marvel Magic' that was missing, although the acting was good, I just found myself getting bored mainly because the jokes weren't even funny, I was really expecting the film to be amazing after the reviews I'd seen on here, I guess I kept my hopes too high. The film was action packed and had emotional scenes which were portrayed well. The visual effects are really good, but the dialogue isn't... really is a shame as this film had so much potential. I hope and pray to God that the sequel will be better than this because I don't want to be disappointed again...


                
After seeing the amazing reviews for Guardians of the Galaxy I was expecting a movie that would completely blow my mind. I went in with high expectations and left feeling less than impressed. Visuals and music were great, but everything else was only so so at best. Each character lacked development, especially the main villain, the jokes weren't clever (amusing but not clever), action was nothing new, the plot was predictable, and the ending was all so cheesy. I can see why the general audience would like it because it seems designed to cater to a wide variety of audiences, the Marvel method as it were. I'm not picking at it because it's Marvel, in fact I think Days of Future Past deserved much more critical acclaim than Guardians did. All I can say is, if you go see it or buy it, you will have a good time; does it deserve to be on IMDb 250? Probably not.


                
Sure, the movie made the numbers. But is that the proof for a good movie? I don't think so. What we have here, is superhero movie number..... (lost count). Movies such as Spider-Man, X-Men etc. are for everybody, and especially people who read the comics 10...20 years ago. So it's not just about being good, but about recognizing things from a long time ago, pleased with wonderful cameo's and teasers for more to come.But especially this movie, it lost the touch we got with the first Spider-Man, Cap. America and Iron Man. Those movies, even with effects, were subtle to a point and had at least SOME character development. The people were interesting with AND without mask.But in GotG we don't get better effects, but more effects. We don't get better characters, but more characters. We certainly didn't get better acting. What do you expect when a lead part is given to a wrestler? The acting was bad. It was acceptable, because it came with humor and good timing. But humor in that way should be scarce. Instead, we now got it for 2 hours. Humor, shooting, yelling, laughing. So many characters that it felt rushed, at the cost of likable characters and development.I hope in time people will see this movie for what it is. Popcorn entertainment with above average effects and below average acting. Because if not, it means the end of good movies and the welcoming of more Transformer (kind of) movies thanks to people who vote 10 just for the sake of it.This movie should get a 6,5 or a 7. Nothing more, nothing less.


                
