It's no surprise that when Marvel's latest movie was released many, many people (the non comics reading kind, mainly) said "Who?" The comic itself has never been what you call top tier, with various incarnations having been around for decades, although the film is based on the team created by Dan Abnett and Andy Lanning in 2008, now being serviced by top writer Brian Bendis.Marvel certainly have made sure the Guardians have plenty of publicity, turning a bunch of also rans into a must see event and even having the confidence to proclaim "The Guardians Of The Galaxy Will Return" at the end of the movie. This is a company with the utmost confidence in their product, and after seeing it it's very easy to understand why.First and foremost, Guardians... is fun. After a truly heartbreaking beginning everything goes a bit daft, mixing swashbuckling sci fi action with larger than life characters, and whilst at first you may be a little puzzled, it all streamlines into a simple plot soon enough. Basically, Guardians leader Peter Quill (known mainly to only himself as Star Lord) has a plot device, and other people also want the plot device. He forms an alliance with a very disparate bunch of people who each have their own reason for helping him. To go into more detail really isn't that necessary, as all it will involve is laying out a roster of names and personal grievances, and you'll get all that when you watch the film, because if you're reading this review I will lay odds you're going to see it.The movie looks beautiful throughout, probably thanks to the thousand or so "Digital Artists" who take up a large part of the end credits. Ship design is fantastic, with many looking like they were pulled direct from a Chris Foss art book, and if you know Foss you'll know this is a high compliment. Yeah, the bad guys have dull, dark vessels with inadequate lighting (surely evil needs to see as well?) but the good guys have some sexy vessels indeed. Sound wise, it may seem odd that a 2014 state of the art sci fi movie will have a 1970's chart soundtrack, but the inclusion of The Runaways, Rupert Holmes and, of course, Blue Swede's "Hooked On A Feeling" is completely explained and rather poignant. It would be nice, too, if kids start downloading some of this awesome old stuff and finally start listening to real music (so speaks an old fart).So in a nutshell this is a very good movie. It's packed with fun and enjoyable characters, but also has it's fair share of down beats and dead beats. Top honours are fought out for between Chris Pratt, excellent and ridiculously likable as Peter Quill, and the brilliant Rocket Raccoon, a purely CGI character stuffed with attitude and some great one liners. The other main characters all do well, however, with even big bag Ronan (no, not the Boyzone one, mores the pity) being well served and very well played with menace aforethought by Lee Pace.One thing people want to know about Marvel films is what's the after credits scene like? Well, without being spoilery, I'll say two things: one, it's NOT a big reveal or anything like that, but two, it's really funny if you have a knowledge of a certain old Marvel character. Oh yeah, and you get to play everyone's favourite game in the movie - 'Spot Stan Lee'. It just wouldn't be the same without him mugging it up somewhere.In closing, "Guardians Of The Galaxy" is right up there with the rest of Marvel's cinematic output, making a clear mark by being totally different to anything else we've so far seen. It's Fun with a capital 'F', and engaging throughout. Some of the violence may be a bit much for smaller kids, and there's a bit of moderately fruity language (is 'dick' fruity still? I fall behind sometimes). That said, kids who don't mind a walking tree impaling people or a raccoon murderising people with a kick ass gun will have a blast. Big, beautiful and bad ass, "Guardians Of The Galaxy" is definitely the feel good fantasy of 2014, as evidenced by the grin still stuck to my face. All together now... "I'm hooked on a feeling..."


                
So Guardians of the Galaxy is finally out and how is it?....it matches every expectation you had about it. Essentially, it is an absurdly fun, cheesy, old-fashioned space adventure with a superhero edge. For those of you who didn't know, the Guardians are pretty much the polar opposite of the Avengers - they're loud, brash, free-spirited, and most of all.....human....or as human as you can be being 4 aliens and 1 human. Unlike the Avengers, they don't play nice when it comes to saving the galaxy.This movie has so much going for it that you can't really explain it in one paragraph but all you need to know is that the humour is great, the action is non-stop, the drama is riveting and genuinely heartwarming, the soundtrack rocks and unlike most superhero teams - everyone of the guardians are 100% awesome in their own way.I won't spoil the plot for you but i will say that what makes Guardians work so well is that it has a genuinely good-natured, back to basics, rock n' roll approach that has swagger and style aplenty. Despite their late entry into the Marvel franchise, rest assured that the guardians are here stay and will be defending a galaxy near you soon.


                
Like a lot of other people, I wasn't sure what to expect from this movie. To say it exceeded my expectations would be an understatement. It's a clever and fresh gem in the stable of Marvel films. One of the best they've put out so far. The script is full of funny lines but it's also got lots of good character stuff with earned emotional moments. The action and effects are nice. The cast is great, including those just doing voices. Chris Pratt does a wonderful job blending the comic relief with the superhero. The soundtrack of old pop songs is terrific and integrated into the plot perfectly. The homages to Star Wars, Indiana Jones, and more are fun. Which is the simplest and best word to describe this movie: fun. You'll have a blast watching it.


                
I'll start by saying upfront I was only able to tolerate about 15 minutes of the movie.Being a primarily Marvel comic book reader and TV show/cartoon viewer since the mid-70s, I'm don't care too much for comic book movies as they are not as interesting as or true to the comic book. So yes, I started watching with a bias but three successive clichés in the first 15 minutes were immediate "strike outs" for me. 01. the "dancing to soundtrack while you work" scene 02. perfect fighting and comical acrobatics scene 03. the "hey, that's my property you're impounding ...give it back!" scene... Never mind, the overuse of the charm and whimsy of an CGI space raccoon paired with the comic relief of a CGI walking talking catchphrase spewing tree, or the deliberate use of a song hit soundtrack, etc...(yawn). I think you get the point. IMO, the best comic book movie, thus far, is Watchmen and I don't even read or care for DC comics. And no, I never read any Guardians of the Galaxy comics either.The movie would have been better done as a cartoon or all CGI.


                
Guardians of the Galaxy (a delightful mash between the Star Wars prequels and the Mass Effect game series) managed to actually be non-generic in the sea of mediocrity that Marvel keeps churning out. A very welcome reminder that some comic book movies can still be charming and funny. For that alone I was willing to forgive its flaws. Zany, colourful, and full of humour and heart, I rewatched it on a plane having lost much of my will to live after the excruciatingly moralistic A Most Violent Year. Suffice to say, it kept me going.When Hollywood decides to get a huge multi-million dollar space opera going, I bet Dave Bautista, Vin Diesel and Chris Pratt pre-2014 weren't high on their list. But I could not imagine this movie without any one of the five leads. Chris Pratt infuses Star Lord with such a delightful quirkiness that he's completely irresistible. I never find myself rooting for the main male lead in ensemble teams like this, but Quill is just so darn fun to watch. When he's not hurling one liners at his teammates, he's jamming to probably the catchiest darn soundtrack of all time (more on that later). I hated Saldana's fake green makeup, but she's a great actress and a terrific foil especially for Pratt. They have unbelievable chemistry, which I hope they continue to tease and resist Bonesing the Brennan/Donnaing the Josh/Becketting the Castle (you know, when they put people with great chemistry together and then you get bored of it?)Dave Bautista is not a great actor, but Gunn knew that and used him well. There's one or two moments where I thought Bautista killed it with comedic timing, and his confrontation with Ronin was actually very well done. Gunn directs the hell out of Bautista, who hurls himself at Ronin in rage and grief and is completely outclassed. Its a really well done sequence, because I could feel Drax's frustration. Cooper and Diesel do great voice work for their characters. Lee Pace is a serviceable villain - once again his makeup is pretty stupid, but I thought his speaking voice fit the part really well and he is a commanding presence on screen. Michael Rooker I've loved ever since first hearing his voice on COD Black Ops 2, and he stole every scene he was in.One thing that really irritated me was the film completely wasting John C. Reilly, Benicio del Toro, Djimoun Hounsou and Glenn Close. Between the four of them, they have EIGHT Oscar NOMINATIONS and in Guardians of the Galaxy, probably about eight minutes of combined screen time. Glenn Close is one of the finest actresses of all time, and she is stuck in a nothing role that could've gone to literally anyone. By locking her into this stupid role, she now has no other potential place in the MCU. What a disgrace.Guardians is visually dazzling, with the regions of Xandar and No Where created superbly. I was really torn on the makeup - I hated the full body pink/green that they gave to some aliens, but the body transformations of Bautista and del Toro alone made the Academy Award nomination worthy. The entire ride is heaps of fun, directed beautifully by Gunn (he captures some really emotional scenes very well, and the action set pieces are even better). And the soundtrack. That soundtrack.I needed to vent about some minor issues because they were so stupid that they took me out of the movie. - We open on a scene straight out of Terms of Endearment, with Peter unable to say goodbye to his dying mother. I loved this scene, and it was really well directed, right up until the SUDDENLY ALIENS ending. Seriously, what was that? They couldn't think of a better way to do it? I know both aspects of that were necessary, but the scene was so awkward. - I also take major issue with Peter's light ball somehow becoming capable of vaporising two enemy soldiers. Seriously. Its his light source, and by breaking it he obliterates them like the Nuke in Terminator 2 did to the world. If its capable of that, why are you carrying it around to flippantly! WHY DIDN'T ANYONE ELSE THINK THIS WAS STUPID? - Guardians takes major liberty with the whole vaccum of space fact. At several points, Peter and others are exposed to the vaccum of space, and by holding their breath they survive. Yeah, no.But hey, who cares. Guardians is charming as hell. If I had been a Sim watching baby Groot dance at the end of the movie, I would have gained three happiness points.


                
Another Marvel blockbuster, and yet another story of a plucky little band of inadequates chasing a object of unfathomable power which somehow falls into the hands of an ineffably evil bad guy who threatens to wield unspeakable destruction with it. I hope that isn't a spoiler!OK, so I don't inhabit the target demographic, but after 5 minutes of really quite moving opening scenes, I felt like I was strapped into an out-of-control roller coaster for 2 hours. Just once in a while, it would be nice if the explosions stopped and those characters could have a conversation with each other about, I don't know, life, the universe, and everything, but no, these are action characters and they develop though intense, crazy, death-defying action.That little quibble aside, the film was a lot of fun, with plenty of amusing snappy dialogue, interesting and quirky characters with trademark Marvel personality flaws. It also has a wonderful soundtrack for which I am the target audience; if you were around at any time in the seventies and had the radio on, you'll love it. It's nice to know that new generations are being introduced to that fabulous music for perhaps the first time. Somebody literally put some soul into the script.By the way, the most sympathetic character is a walking tree.


                
Let me just start off by saying that I am generally not very picky with giving a 10, I am not saving it for some 12 Years A Slave kind of movie because it would be unfair to group all movies together, each has its own genre and should be rated according to the movies in its genre. So I rated it according to the movies in this genre (Superhero-action) as oppose to the 'all movies I've watched in my life' .So this was a movie I was not excited to see at all. All that came to mind was the lousy old days when my father would make me watch Hitchhikers Guide To The Galaxy, and for some odd reason, I just assumed it would be the same thing. And god, Chris Pratt ? Seriously ? But when the movie came out, I was in the UK and I heard some of my friends who watched it say that it was too American and bad. So it just assumed it would be one of those movies that try too hard to be different but they fail so miserably. Then I heard that it was doing so well in the box office and I thought hey I should at least check it out. I finally got a chance to watch this movie last week (I know, so late). So I entered this movie having only watched the trailer and heard how much it earned, and that was all I knew about it, so it was a surprise to know that it was a Marvel movie. Here's my sort of brief review of -Movie introduction: So right off the bat, the movie grabs you and makes you 'tear up', even though you have literally known the characters for two or three minutes. Then the next six minutes or so, it all changes and starts with a pleasant song that brings a smile to your face.Characters: The movie then started to introduce various characters with some pretty cool makeup and holy guacamole those graphics were almost as good as Avatar. But there was much more to the characters than their looks, they each had compelling story lines and backgrounds that were not a snooze fest, you actually felt bad for these characters and did at some point feel their pain and most definitely their excitement and bad-ass moments, you'd be like Oh Yeah you about to get SMOKED - BOOOOYAAAAAH. Music: So anyway, the movie kept surprising me with its choice of music, each was carefully picked and oh so divine. I haven't listened to such a great play-list in years. From the Pina Colada song to I Want You Back, they all brought back so many great memories. And I'm pretty sure than any person with a decent taste in movies/music must have heard of at least 30% of those songs because they are gold.Actors : I was least excited to watch Chris Pratt in the movie because I didn't think I would take him seriously but I was wrong. Yes I can't see him acting in a drama but he kicked some serious butt in this film. His body transformation was the most surprising (and pleasant). He acted really great and not once did I think that he was trying too had or even be someone else, he really became Peter Quill and I am so happy that they cast him. As for Zoe, mama mia ! Who knew these girl was such a bad-ass ! Generelly, i superhero movies, the girl is always wearing super tight or revealing clothes (which I don't really mind) and keeps pouting and talking slow and seductive and keep doing this thing with her eyes and her body.. I can almost never see past the fact that they are in this movie just for the eyes. But she was not ! not once did I feel that she was trying to be sexy, which I loved, because she came out looking like a complete bad-ass. More actresses should learn from her: don't try to be sexy, just be your awesome self. The other actors of course also did a wonderful job but Groot and his Racoon (I'm sorry I forgot his name) were animated to there's not much acting there, but even their acting was superb.Graphics: AS GOOD AS IT GETS. I got to watch it in 3D and the most amazing scenes were the ones with Groot. To me, the scenes where Groot was featured were the most magical, and that beats some sick shots of the galaxy.No doubt has this movie raised the bar for superhero movies in terms of graphics.Plot: So the movie does its best to make everything clear by letting the characters reveal the plot by either their cations or words. To me, it was not very confusing especially having no prior knowledge to Guardians Of The Galaxy or any Avengers hero 's story. But my brother watched it me, and he did have enough information to keep talking to me and saying Oh Look Here Is This Guy from Thor, Here Is This Guy From The Next Avengers.. bla bla. So you will definitely understand 98% of the movie, its only that 2% that people with prior knowledge would know. To sum up, this is by far the BEST Marvel film I've watched (discounting X-Men if you'll count it) and only the Third best superhero film I've ever watched (the first being The Dark Knight then X-Men). Everything in this movie was perfect, the action, the music, the graphics, the actors, the storyline, the comedy.. It was all just perfect.I highly recommend you watching it, and while this is not particularly a children's movie, you can take a child older than 10 to watch it because its not bloody or violent, its just too slow- paced for children to understand.


                
In 1988, on Earth, the boy Peter Quill is abducted by a spacecraft after losing his mother. In 2014, Peter Quill (Chris Pratt), a.k.a. Star Lord, is a ravager searching a valuable orb on the surface of the dead planet Morag. When Peter finds the orb, he is hunted down by the Kree warship The Dark Aster of the powerful Ronan the Accuser (Lee Pace) but he flees. Peter also double crosses his partner Yondu Udonta (Michael Rooker) that puts a reward on him.Peter Quill arrives on the Xandar city Nova Empire and is chased by Ronan's warrior Gamora (Zoe Saldana) and by the bounty hunters Rocket and The Groot. They are arrested by the police officer Corpsman Dey (John C. Reilly) and his men and sent to the prison The Kyln, where they befriend the strong Drax (Dave Bautista). Soon they learn that Gamora wants to betray Ronan and sell the orb to a dealer for a huge amount while Drax wants to kill Ronan, who killed his wife and daughter. They plot a plan to escape from The Kyln to sell the orb and split the money. But soon they also learn that the orb keeps the infinity stone that gives immensurable destructive power to the owner. They self-proclaim Guardians of the Galaxy and decide to deliver the orb to the leader Nova Prime (Glenn Close) to keep it safe from Ronan. But they are hunted down by Ronan and his right-arm Nebula (Karen Gillan) that want to destroy Xandar and also by Yondu Udonta and the Ravagers that want to sell the infinity stone to make lots of money. Who will keep the powerful orb?"Guardians of the Galaxy" is certainly one of the best sci-fi of this year. The story is a rip-off Star Wars but full of action and very funny, in a perfect combination of action and comedy. The characters are charismatic and the cast has great names – the only remark is the name of Vin Diesel highlighted in the credits that lure the audience since his character has limited lines ("I am Groot"; "We Are Groot" once and a couple of grumbles. The special effects are top-notch and the music score with songs from the 80's is remarkable. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil): "Guardiões da Galáxia" ("Guardians of the Galaxy")


                
Currently, about a week after its debut, "Guardians of the Galaxy" is ranked #37 on IMDb. I assume that by the time you read my review it will have dropped in the rankings--mostly because the most rabid fans were probably the first to see and review it and the rest of us folks will be getting to it a bit later. This is often the case with big blockbuster films--though with an overall score of about 8.7, it's bound to stay well within IMDb's top 250. As for me, I really enjoyed the movie but cannot agree that the film is THAT good. Excellent yes....#37...nah.The best thing going for "Guardians" is that with the huge glut of super-hero films during the last decade or so, this one manages to stand apart--something that cannot be said of most of the films. There is just a certain sameness that make me less than thrilled with all the comic book hero films. But a few, like this film and "Scott Pilgrim" manage to seem different enough to merit your rushing to see them. So, of course, rush to see this oneSo how is it different? Well, there are MANY ways. Chris Pratt (Peter Quill) is NOT your typical super-hero. He is NOT a disaffected millionaire or guy bitten by a spider or a super-being from outer space- -he's actually pretty ordinary in most ways. But, like his character on "Parks and Recreation", Pratt is a bit of a goof-ball--a dopey but likable guy who manages to do well despite himself. This is kind of cute--but fortunately the film is NOT just about a dopey goof-ball but he's assisted by a strange group of new-found friends with strange abilities. Another way this is VERY different is that almost the entire film takes place in outer space. While "Thor" and "Superman" have their brief moments in space, "Guardians" is almost completely there--and as such has a HUGE reliance on special effects and CGI. It is a SUPER- expensive film because of this and its all-star cast--coming in at about $170,000,000--which is greater than the gross national product of many nations!!! So, although the film has earned over $100,000,000. it has a long way to go to earn back its costs--though I am pretty sure this will soon be the case. As for these special effects, they are beautiful and the film has such an other-worldly look as it jumps from one weird planet to another. So, the film is absolutely jam-packed with eye candy. Finally, the dialog (mostly from Pratt but also due a lot to his new friend, a VERY sentient raccoon) is amazingly strange. Often crude, it sounds much like the dialog was spiced up a bit here and there by 13 year-olds. While I usually don't like this, it DOES make the film very different.So what's not to like? Well, not much. However, because the story has so much action and CGI, you do sacrifice a bit when it comes to plot, back story of many of the characters and you might just feel a bit overwhelmed. Still, it's the sort of overwhelmed I don't mind feeling from time to time.By the way, if you do see the film, you'll certainly enjoy the obligatory Stan Lee cameo--it's one of the better ones I can recall.


                
This is my first review for my movie journal. I enjoyed how the whole thing is adult comedic yet the play of it all is animated family fun created, it can fool the parent too late by the time the kids are snuggled on the couch. I personally love it because it's a breath of fresh air and frankly I'm a sucker for top of the end CGI and cinematography given that as an artist myself, I see my style on the latest and up to date innovation of technology quality. This script although some parts I found cheesy, I couldn't help but to tear up with how they chose to make grut tree the protector of the guardians. To me, that's the same as beautiful mother nature being the ultimate in.....I honestly don't know how to describe, it's my first review.


                
From the studio that brought us Iron Man, Captain America, Thor & The Avengers, Guardians of the Galaxy arrives as Marvel Studios' biggest gamble to date and yet the risk pays off tremendously well as this crazy mixture of an oddball cast & an eccentric crew strikes gold for the studio in both critical & commercial departments and succeeds as an immensely enjoyable, extremely entertaining & most satisfying Marvel piece since The Avengers.Set in a galaxy far far away, Guardian of the Galaxy concerns a notorious scavenger who finds himself as the main target of a manhunt after stealing a mysterious orb and is put in prison along with a deadly assassin, a genetically-engineered raccoon & a tree-like humanoid where they encounter a brute looking for vengeance. As an uneasy alliance form between these extra- terrestrial misfits, they learn to work together as a team & try to save the world when a greater threat arises.There is so much in here that could've so easily gone wrong and there's no denying that many eyebrows were raised when James Gunn was brought in to direct this high-budget space epic. But he has directed this picture with such precision craftsmanship that it feels like a work of an auteur & the remarkable use of humour infused into its blockbuster elements only makes the experience all the more amusing, enriching & delightfully engaging.Coming to its technical aspects, every single filmmaking department works in near-perfect harmony with the other in a manner that only elevates its overall story & characters to new heights. Set pieces are impressive to look at, make-up adds a dimension of its own to its characters, its homage to many space classics is tastefully carried out, cinematography makes dynamic use of camera without ever getting carried away, editing is tight, VFX is seamless & the selection of songs is near-perfect.The cast is as eccentric & diverse as the characters present in the film with Chris Pratt (Peter Quill), Zoe Saldana (Gamora), Dave Bautista (Drax), Vin Diesel (Groot) & Bradley Cooper (Rocket) playing the role of Guardians and each of them deliver excellent performances with Groot & Rocket leaving the most lasting impression. Also chipping in with fine doses are Lee Pace (Ronan), Michael Rooker (Yondu) & Karen Gillian (Nebula), with brief appearance from Benicio del Toro & John C. Reilly also adding more flavours to the film.On an overall scale, Guardians of the Galaxy is one of the most exquisitely balanced cinematic offerings of 2014 that promises a lot of fun from start to finish and seamlessly delivers it in an endlessly entertaining & immensely rewarding manner. Ingeniously directed, wonderfully light- hearted, fluidly photographed, skilfully edited, splendidly performed & featuring dazzling visuals, Guardians of the Galaxy is arguably the ballsiest big-budget production to surface on the silver screen since James Cameron's Avatar.


                
So I watched the trailer of Guardian of the Galaxy on IMDb and at other movies several times. Besides being so-so funny, the film isn't intriguing enough. But then the high score came out at the same time as the release. Still also not proving anything good. Why?Because previous released film in this summer are all fishy. First, The Winter Soldier had a huge hype with a huge score but didn't prove to be an 8/10 movie (IMDb scale). Godzilla had a huge hype with a huge score but fell fast, this movie is actually a high 7/10 Movie (probably 7.9), but viewers dropped it to a low 7. Time will prove the quality of this film. Dawn of the Planet of The Apes is the same as The Winter Soldier, disappointing. So I didn't give any high hopes with Guardians of the Galaxy.Guardians of the Galaxy got lucky because in my country, it looked like all summer blockbuster release got hold with no reason. In my opinion it was probably due to local holiday events, so the cinema company chose to fill the cinemas with local films, and put the Hollywood films on hold.The release of Guardians of the Galaxy as the first Hollywood Blockbuster (probably second after Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles) gave me no reason to not watch it because I was so thirsty for a popcorn flick. The Result! Guardians of the Galaxy turned out to be anything that I hoped it should be. Full action and high paced, every second through this movie you will never get bored, there is a wow factor in every segment. A sci-fi dream! This is probably the most satisfying space movie after Star Wars. I'm sorry Trekkie's, the Star Trek Reboot can step aside because this one gave a jaw drop to the just told genre fans. Rocket by Bradley Cooper did not fail. At first I thought Bradley Cooper as the voice of rocket was just a marketing strategy. But through out the movie you just can forget the good looking guy behind that (racoon?).The Movie was a screamer, the audience clapped their hands once a while at some jokes. O yeah did I mention? the movie was hilariously funny, every jab worked, Age of Extension and Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle can crawl in a cave for humiliation of unfunninness (is that a word?).One other thing, the CGI is amazing, you can just sit and admire every still moment. Every scene looks great, every scene works. This is probably the cinematography and the direction.This movie is like watching a Disney musical cartoon classic but in a form of superheroes and space suits. You just can't expect were the magic is coming from.So is this your movie? I think every 9 out of 10 people would love this movie, fan or not fan, willingly to come to the cinemas or not. Teenager or no teenager. 10/10 from me right now.


                
This movie improves with repeated viewings. The first time I watched it, I just saw another bunch of heroes trying to stop a super villain from destroying the universe. For whatever reason, I didn't get it then but eventually did--this movie is pure fun. Great humor and (mostly) memorable characters make me forget how thin the story seemed at first. It sneaks up on you, but the world-building in this movie is also notable. This, combined with Super, makes me want to see James Gunn direct every movie from now on. Yes, it's a space adventure with a super villain trying to blow everything up, but somehow they get you to care. Peter Quill, Rocket Raccoon, and Groot have so many standout moments and lines that I would recommend this to just about anyone. Worth owning.
I'm bored of superhero films. There are so many of them and so little that is original within them. I loved what Nolan did with his near-perfect Dark Knight reboot, I've thoroughly enjoyed the Iron Man series thus far, the third installment being a particular high, and Andrew Garfield succeeded in making The Amazing Spider-Man his own. Beyond that? I've almost stopped bothering. Ho hum.And then came Guardians of the Galaxy.I knew nothing about this series of comic books. I hadn't read them. I hadn't even heard of them. The trailer amused me, the concept intrigued me and last night James Gunn's third full feature as director added the sweetest cherry to a very fine cake of a day. Guardians of the Galaxy 2 can't come soon enough for me! Guardians of the Galaxy opens with the young Peter Quill watching his mother die of cancer before escaping the morbid hospital scene only to be whisked into space by aliens. Fast-forward a few years and the adult Quill (Chris Pratt) aka Star Lord steals a mysterious orb much to the chagrin of Korath (Djimon Hounsou). Quill finds himself the subject of a manhunt and is thrown together with a tree (Groot - Vin Diesel), a green girl (Gamora – Zoe Saldana), an oaf who takes everything literally (Drax – Dave Bautista) and a Racoon (Rocket – Bradley Cooper). Together they form the Guardians of the Galaxy as they bid to evade Ronan the Accuser (Lee Pace), stay alive and, oh, save the universe.Guardians of the Galaxy is silly, funny, rapidly paced and an absolute ball. Gunn's writing and direction are filled with energy so that, whilst there is a formula to the proceedings, it is thoroughly enjoyable and demands a second trip to see it in the next week or so. I'll even forgive him for his segment in the execrable Movie 43.There is little need for thought and no effort required for emotional attachment to the characters; they are so beautifully written that one engages with them from the off and delights in every second spent in their company. Guardians of the Galaxy is an exciting, enticing and very funny. The standing jokes are not over-egged and on the occasions where one can guess the outcome of a particular mishap, the result is entirely satisfying.The costumes, production design and CGI meld seamlessly to make Guardians of the Galaxy as visually pleasing as it is exciting. Everywhere there is colour, shape and sparkle and when we reach the domain of The Collector (Benicio del Toro) it is such a visual feast of quirks, curios and filmic references that the lack of a pause button in the cinema is a frustration. As for Glenn Close's Nova Prime, she might easily have stepped out of The Hunger Games' District 1. Fabulous! Fun, funny and fantastic. It's rare that I say this, but bring on the sequel!


                
'Guardians of the Galaxy' – 8.5 out of 10 Reviewed by Matthew French.Things looked a bit shaky for Marvel Studios for a while there with 'Iron Man 3' and 'Thor: The Dark World' both being something of a let down. Then along came the excellent 'Captain America: The Winter Soldier' to remind us Super Hero movie nerds that the folks in charge of this most excellent film franchise had their heads firmly screwed on. Still, there's no doubt that making 'Guardians of the Galaxy' was something of a gamble. Going with a movie about a relatively unknown group of space traveling vigilantes was definitely not the safe option. I can gladly report that the gamble has well and truly paid off. This is a movie that has the winning combination of being fresh and original while still carrying the laugh out loud sense of humour and spectacular action sequences which have become the hallmark of the Marvel cinematic universe. It is to 2014 what 'Iron Man' was to 2008. From the genuinely heart breaking opening through to the after credits scene it is a triumph of original cinema.The story revolves around Peter Quill, the self-proclaimed 'Star Lord'. Quill (who is excellently portrayed by Chris Pratt) was abducted by aliens as a child and brought up by a band of space pirates. By acquiring a priceless treasure (which turns out to be one of the all- powerful Infinity Stones) Quill finds himself on the wrong side of the Galactic law enforcement and seemingly all of the universe's shadier characters, not to mention, in the middle of an interstellar war. Joining him along the way are a motley group of misfits, all with their own agendas, comprised of 'Rocket' a genetically engineered Racoon, his bodyguard 'Groot' a super strong walking tree, 'Gamora' a master assassin and easily the hottest green chick in movie history, and 'Drax –the Destroyer' a homicidal psychopath on a mission for revenge.The cast all do a fantastic job. Chris Pratt delivers a performance which may go down as being as iconic as Robert Downey Jr's 'Iron Man'. He is perfect as the wise-cracking, womanising, half human lead role. Bradley Cooper and Vin Diesel do a great job as the voices of 'Rocket' and 'Groot'. Zoe Saldana is believable as 'Gamora', daughter of 'Thanos' (the big purple guy from the after credits scene in 'The Avengers'). And WWE wrestler Dave Bautista just about steals the show as the maniacal, and very literal 'Drax'. The interactions between this unlikely troupe provide many a laugh. For example: Rocket: (about Drax) "He takes everything literally. Metaphors go over his head". Drax: "NOTHING goes over my head! My reflexes are too fast. I would catch it." If the primary objective of a movie is to provide enjoyment, than this should be considered an instant classic. It is just about the ideal mix of action, sci-fi, and comedy. Sure, it has its faults, but given the source material that is perfectly forgivable. Go and see it.'Guardians of the Galaxy' – 8.5/10


                
The 10th Movie in the Marvel Cinematic Universe upon it's announcement was considered a risk. "Guardians of the Galaxy" is not the among the most popular of Marvel Comics, and is or should I say - was mostly unknown amongst the General Public. To Date, for the Previous 8 MCU Movies, there are some I love, some that I like and or find entertaining - not 1 Dud amongst them. Guardians continues that streak. The movie begins, with a young Peter Quill, played following the opening sequence as adult by Chris Pratt, being abducted as boy in 1988, by a Space Ship, immediately after a personal loss. Fast Forward 26 Years - Quill is now an outlaw in another Galaxy, giving himself the personal moniker "Starlord". He ends up hooking up with the 4 fellow outlaws/orphans - Green skinned "Gamora", played by Zoe Saldana, who is adoptive daughter of "Thanos", voiced by James Brolin (Last seen post credits in "The Avengers"), "Rocket" a talking Raccoon, voiced by Brad Cooper & his partner in crime "Groot" – A Tree Creature, voiced, and motion captured by Vin Diesel, and The Gray and Red Skinned "Drax The Destroyer", played by Dave Bautista of WWE Fame. I expected a lot of Humor going in, and I was not disappointed. It's the movie's strongest trait. Pratt's character, when he was abducted, was left a mix tape of 70's Hit Songs. That and some 80's references he makes, help define the movie's personality, coupled with downright hilarious and or quirky humor from Rocket and the other characters. As you may have heard,regardless of what he means to say, Groot simply says, "I am Groot", as he his has vocal issues, explained briefly by Rocket. This gag if you define it as such, is not overused, and is used very effectively! As per the title, the 5 must band together to save the Day, At times, I feel the Dramatic Quotient of the movie could have been better, and sometimes during the first part the movie, you might feel things are rushed along, but in the end – you are entertained for 2 Hours. And for us children of the 80's - A treat of Post Credit Scene at the very end of the credits! 3 ¼ out of 4 Stars.


                
I saw this film this evening and it's already become a new favourite from Marvel Studios . The story of a group of convicts/outcasts brought together as (rather reluctant) heroes is not a new one but it's given new life and brings a rougher edge to the occasionally sterile Marvel Universe. As a lifelong of Star Trek, my favourite series in that universe ended up being Deep Space Nine. Much as I loved Kirk, Spock, Picard and Data the characters and values on display could occasionally become a teeny bit patronising. Deep Space Nine allowed characters who operated in greyer areas to take a prominent role and, often, be proved the smartest in the room. In the Marvel Universe while Captain America and Thor have (just about) stayed on right side of pompous in their appearances to date, the sight of Peter Quill robbing (not rescuing) an ancient artefact while boogieing on through the opening credits is a clear example of the appeal of a character who doesn't always the follow the rules (and let's face it, RD jrs' Tony Stark is not as much of a rebel as he thinks he is).The background of Peter Quill (an excellent Chris Pratt) as a child of the 80s (it's not a spoiler if it features in the first five minutes) brings a delightful sensibility to the alien universe that the film otherwise occupies. Few of the characters have any frame of reference for his various allusions and the script mines this fact well, the legend of 'Footlose' is particular highlight. (Another happy by-product of this 80's nostalgia is the best soundtrack to ever a grace a Marvel Studios film.) The film is not without problems, like the Avengers the introductions to the various members of the ensemble mean that other aspects of the story are a left a little one-dimensional. As with the Avengers, it's the baddies who get the shortest shrift with Lee Pace and Karen Gillan left to do little but glare angrily at various characters. When weighed against the excellent main cast, Bradley Cooper is a riot and Vin Diesel is surprisingly touching as a motion capture tree, the unsentimental humour and some rather excellent fight scenes (including a prison break to remember) then the good definitely outweighs the not so good. As an end note, viewers should stay for the end of credits sequences (there are two). Thankfully Marvel seem to be moving away from teasers for films that don't even have scripts. The second sequence is particularly good with a genuinely surprising appearance that ties in rather nicely to 80's sensibility that's permeated the film.
From James Gunn, director of Slither and Super comes a whole new epic action galaxy hero universe, Guardians of the Galaxy. While the plot of this film may feel too overstuffed at times, but the film is surely one hell of a ride!! GOTG is visually dazzling with breathtaking action sequences and is one of the best a scifi/action film could offer. The characters here are also very likable and very engaging to watch with their humors and hearts. The film also has so many catchy soundtrack moment that it could almost become a musical film but anyway the songs are great and really live up to the mood/tone of the scenes. The 3D effects are quite better than expected (as seen from the trailer) and really makes the action scenes more enjoyable to watch. Overall, this may not be Marvel's best film but it's surely one of the most entertaining and action-packed ones! >>B+<<


                
Guardians of the galaxy one of the best hero movies done so far. Is given to us a stupendous harmony between action and comedy , that make us stay focus on the screen. A great cast and a great director that show us hero movies can be different and still good. The soundtrack can create an environment of emotions and dreams, as well as the brilliant special effects that take us to distant places and put us almost there with the characters (makes us leave our corner and embark on a place far away from everything and everyone we are us too). In sum this movie is amazing, one of the best of MARVEL so far for everything i write up here (in my opinion :P). good for a rainy night (as i saw it) XD


                
I entitle my review A New Hope as I walk out of the cinema feeling like I have just watched the Star Wars of our generation!As a huge Marvel fan (both comics and film) I was delighted to hear this film was getting made with the perfect choice of Guardians and what a perfect cast to play them. The biggest surprise for me was Dave Bautista who I thought was only cast for his size but his delivery was spot on for Drax. Chris Pratt was hilarious whilst still excellent at delivering some of the films most emotional scenes.CGI in this film was super, there's nothing I hate more than too much CGI in a film but it was so good in Guardians that I was completely lost in it. Never have a seen space look so good, the battles were incredible and Groot and Rocket never looked out of place (aside from being a tree and raccoon).Gunn is the perfect director for this, his tone, his balance of comedy, action and emotion blended perfectly and directing GOTG would have been no easy job.


                
I grew up in the 80's and 90's reading comics....a LOT of comics. I must admit that I never really got into the "Guardians of the Galaxy" series. However I was really familiar with one of the main characters in particular......you old school comic book fans might remember the original Drax. 1. Drax was green 2. Drax could fly 3. Drax had superhuman strength 4. Drax could shoot power blastsSo after watching the movie I was pretty confused. I had to read Drax's wikipedia page to find out they changed his character completely in 2004. I gotta say Marvel, this newer no-powers having, knife wielding, semi-psycho Drax....is rather pathetic/boring compared to the original. So, after I got over the shock of the "new Drax" I enjoyed this movie immensely. The CGI is fantastically done, especially the space battles. The characters and the dialog were engaging and I found myself really taking a liking to Groot. I look forward to seeing what they do in Part 2.


                
One would argue that Hollywood is saturated with comic-book movies these days. I wouldn't complain though coz some of the best Hollywood blockbusters came to life from their comic book counterparts. The Dark Knight, Avengers, Sin City, 300 to name a few. But at the same time it does a tad bit tiring when studios like Marvel, Warner Bros and 21st Century Fox dishes out a dozen of these so called superhero movies with 'save the world from the bad guy' premise. Lets keep aside DC for the time being coz it gave us THE best superhero movie of all time, The Dark Knight. Yea, I am a DC fanboy, throw eggs at me, I don't care. Lets talk about Marvel who's on a winning streak since Iron Man, setting up their Phases flawlessly. The Avengers was no doubt, one of the best comic book movies ever made but you gotta agree, some of the Phase One movies that the studio churned out to fill in till the finale just felt like..well<U+0085>fillers.It bewildered me why Marvel was making a movie on some lesser known galactic superheroes while they could have easily pulled off a Nova Corps, Alpha Flight or an Excalibur movie, hell they could have even gone for X-Factor. While I am fairly positive the aforementioned still might be in the pipeline I frankly thought that Guardians Of The Galaxy would be a quick cashing in before the behemoth release, Avengers Age of Ultron. My skepticism hit the roof when I learnt that James Gunn was directing the movie. No offence, I like the guys' movies, be it the darkly comic, Super or the disgustingly humorous Slither but Gunn isn't what I would call fit for a superhero movie. Turned out I was wrong and his weird humor and direction earned him my respect and admiration for making an Awesome Anti-Avengers movie.Thanks to no Worldwide release I had to wait out a week rummaging through the internet avoiding stumbling upon a Guardians of the Galaxy review/spoiler. But then again I wouldn't lie, storywise Guardians of the Galaxy is a paint by numbers save-the-world story and wouldn't have made a difference even if I had stumbled on some spoilers. But its those these dysfunctional crooks that make magic out of it. This group of outlaws comprising of Starlord, Gamora, Rocket, Groot and Drax is everything you've never expected in a superhero movie and when they team up, it works perfectly. Don't go in expecting an Avengers-esque movie coz you'll be let down coz Guardians of the Galaxy and The Avengers are tonally poles apart, almost. Thanks to James Gunn, the movie promises chuck loads of his signature humour and chockful of action. Amidst all the ruckus you'd almost forget the fact the antagonist is the least bit intimidating, oh yea that's flaw you are likely to look past.I had not thought once, when I'd seen Chris Pratt getting his teeth bashed out by James McAvoy in Wanted, that he'd end up as a main lead in a major studios' production. Chris Pratt was just amazing as Peter Quill aka Star Lord, his comic prowess stood out till end. When I asked one of my friends if he'd liked to go for Guardians of The Galaxy he scoffed saying "I am not going for movie which has a talking squirrel", I sincerely sympathize with the fellow for addressing so, one of best characters in the movie, Rocket the Raccoon voiced by Bradley Cooper. Vin Diesels' Groot was adorable and having just 2 lines through out the movie didn't hurt at all, instead you'll saying it yourself post watching the movie. Zoe Saldana played Gamora and it would have helped to fill in her backstory just a bit more. While I initially questioned Dave Bautista's acting skills, I'd say he did his part well. Surprisingly the leads' packed the same kinda charm the Avengers had on its plate.I tapped my foot every time those soundtracks kicked in. I have a thing for old school music and Guardians of The Galaxy's soundtrack is most definitely my cup of tea. It includes Blue Swede's Hooked On a Feeling which had been a favorite since the Ally McBeal days, plus Redbone's Come and Get Your Love, Marvin Gaye and Tammi Terell's Ain't No Mountain High Enough, 10cc's I'm Not in Love are some of the frequent tracks in my usual playlist.Marvel sure had balls to make a movie on these less notable heroes and an unconventional director and the fact it worked out well amuses me more. Guardians of The Galaxy might not be as epic as The Avengers, but its a surefire entertainer and no comic-book movie fan would say NO to it. I am sure this would have boosted Guardian of The Galaxy comics sales, not to mention filling up Kevin Feige's pockets, but as long as Marvel churns out movies like this, count me in.PS: James Gunn's weird sense of humour came into play once again when the post credit sequence popped up, though take it with just a pinch of salt.


                
First things first, I do think this is the Marvel (Studios) movie that focuses the most on the characters; on The Avengers you know that Thor and Hulk could solo the chitauri, but here you know how much they need each other both to fulfill missions and to support as friends. You buy how they grow from reluctant sort of mercenaries/bounty-hunters to really good friend, almost family. They all feel like they belong in the movie and they all get characters arcs (though Star-Lord's gets kinda lost in the plot until the very end), which are subtle, but (and especially referring to Rocket here) very Star Wars-y, particularly Han Solo's in Episode IV. This is fine by the way; Star Wars is one of my favorite movies of all time.The story is surprisingly solid and the movie absolutely knows what it is since the beginning. It's a goofy, fun, action-packed, character- driven space adventure with some emotional moments here and there.Characters:-Peter Quill/Star-Lord: I thought he was good as a protagonist, he was relatable, clearly taking inspiration from legendary characters such as Indiana Jones, Han Solo (back to Star Wars), Marty McFly, etc. and at the same he feels very unique because of the 80's child inside of him. Some of the humor provided by him is a little forced and out of place, but when it works, it really works. Chris Pratt becomes Star-Lord effortlessly and with this movie will easily become the Harrison Ford/Arnold Schwarzenegger of this decade, with all kinds of movies wanting him as a lead in many movies.-Gamora: My least favorite character to be honest; Gamora worked as a strong independent female at first but often had lines such as Captain America's fish-out-of-water humor in The Avengers that made her seem really stupid (as they did to Cap, in my opinion).-Drax: Man, did Dave Bautista surprised me. I liked the character of Drax a lot more than I thought I would; he's not just the muscle, he's also big part of the heart and charm of the film. One of the funniest moments of the film to me was his ''Nothing goes over my head...'' line, which, among many others, was greatly delivered on this role that is sure to make this former wrestler as popular as the Rock (Dwayne Johnson).-Rocket Raccoon: Alright, before watching the film, I thought he was going to be an annoying comedic relief with no use whatsoever in the plot and I wouldn't care about him (*cough* Darcy Lewis *cough*), but he ended up being possibly my favorite character in the film. The first time he shows up he is in fact very Han Solo-ish, a reluctant guy who just wants the money and has a friend with limited vocabulary. However, as the story moved forward, I realized he had a screen presence that I haven't seen in CGI characters his size (Caesar and Gollum may be exceptions, but other than that) and then he has an emotional moment that is also in a way expanding his origin, and in that moment I really felt sympathy for that guy. By far my favorite character, very reminiscent of why we like Han Solo so much.-Groot: Rocket may have been my favorite character, but Groot was definitely the first one for whom I really cared about. Seeing Groot being torn apart by Gamora while he has such an innocent facial expression gave that moment a lot of relevance to me; Groot quickly shows he's the most noble of the group and possibly the most supportive. Going back to saying he was like Chewbacca, I do think this shows just how much you can make us care about a character that doesn't even talk that much. Second favorite of the team.The action is really good; once again, reminds of Star Wars a lot. The visual effects are amazing; if the film doesn't get nominated for an Oscar for them, I will give up even more on them. I forgot Rocket and Groot were CG characters in some moments.There is emotion and it works, yes, and again, there's surprising dimension to Rocket's character (but don't get preachy; that still doesn't mean you can compare this supporting, mostly comic relief-ish character to Wonder Woman).My reservations:-Comedy: Again, I like to have fun in movies and this one succeeds at that, but some times the movie feels a little needy when it comes to humor. The film wants you to laugh and cuts many dramatic/climactic moments for unnecessary humor. That's not to say there weren't funny moments; there WERE, but some that attempted to failed miserably.-The villain: Once again, Marvel Studios shows how their weakest aspect is to write villains. No personality, back-story is pretty forgettable, and he just feels really out of place being all serious in the middle of this goofy world.By Marvel Cinematic Universe standards, it's around 8.5-9/10. By superhero movie standards, it's around 7.5-8. Overall, I will give it an 8/10 Overall, I think the strongest part of the film is the character interactions and they make the film, at least to me, more re-watchable than every other film I've seen this year, even X-Men and Apes, which I thought were better movies. If you want a fun film to watch this summer, Marvel's action-packed adventure space opera Guardians of the Galaxy is definitely the right choice.8/10


                
I was not actually a hardcore fan of comics, though i know some stuffs about superheroes that an average human being does not know. With GotG though, I know little about the character's origin but i think my main concern about the movie is that given the fact that they're all bunch of misfits, liars, thieves and thugs. I think that in the movie they have given their trust to each other that easily for a small span of time. I mean of course this was just a movie and movies usually runs from 1 to 2 hours only. So what the do I expect? but I guess my point is that I did not see that deeper connection or bond within the characters. Overall though, I think that this movie is all fun and mayhem and oldies but goodies music. It was less explosive than The Avengers but it was still good.


                
When I first heard of this movie, I wasn't really interested, I had never heard of these guys(save Rocket Raccoon), but then the trailers came out and boom, instantly excited. This movie was a bit of a gamble for Marvel, because not many people are familiar with these characters, but it's a good thing they went through with it. Guardians of the Galaxy is very good. It is so many things, action-packed, hilarious, exciting and in some parts heartfelt. Chris Pratt plays Peter Quill, the self-proclaimed Star Lord, an intergalactic thief who hails from Earth and was abducted by a group called The Ravagers as a kid. Pratt is hilarious in this movie, his comedic timing is perfect, he's also very good in the more intense moments involving his character. Through a series of awesome events, Quill is forced to form an alliance with four other characters, Gamora (Zoe Saldana), a smokin' hot assassin with a complex past, Drax (Dave Bautista), a guy who is looking to avenge his family, Rocket (voiced by Bradley Cooper), a genetically altered raccoon who is the biggest badass ever, and his friend Groot (voiced by Vin Diesel), an awesome talking, walking tree who is only capable of saying "I am Groot".The other Guardians are amazing as well, they deserve all the praise they have received. Everyone is perfect in their roles, and they all have their moments, Zoe Saldana was great, Dave Bautista was awesome, he totally had the physical part, but he nailed the dramatic scenes as well (plus he's hilarious), Vin Diesel didn't have much to do, but his presence was very likable, he's like the Chewbacca of the movie, and Bradley Cooper, wow, he was absolutely perfect as Rocket, he was very funny, and had lots of cool lines, but he did a great job in his dramatic scenes. The Guardians are all well characterized and investing.Every technical part of this movie is great, the soundtrack is very fun, it's filled with a bunch of quirky, upbeat 70s-80s songs, like Hooked on a Feeling, Cherrybomb, and other great songs. The special effects are amazing, Rocket and Groot look so real, the guns are awesome, all the ships look incredible, and there are some action scenes that are the coolest I've seen this year, particularly the scene where they meet for the first time. The movie's script is very good, it's so funny that I think it's just as much a comedy as an action-adventure. But it's not just fun and games, the movie also handled dramatic scenes very well, a great way James Gunn had of keeping the movie balanced. The only issues I had with this movie were the villains, all of them are one dimensional with bad reasons behind their actions. Also the way the final confrontation with Ronan ends didn't seem plausible, comparing it with the rest of the information that the movie gives us.Other than that, Guardians of The Galaxy is a fantastic movie, it is incredibly entertaining throughout its 2-hour run-time. There's rarely a dull moment in it.


                
