I remember sitting in Hall H at Comic-Con two years ago, when Marvel first announced Guardians of the Galaxy. This came on the heels of the title reveals for Captain America: The Winter Soldier and Thor: The Dark World, and my initial reaction was one of utter confusion. What the hell was Guardians of the Galaxy? I was completely unfamiliar with the source material, and upon learning that the team featured a gun-wielding raccoon and a fighting tree creature whose could only speak a single phrase, I was even more puzzled.Fast forward to Comic-Con 2013, when James Gunn appeared onstage in Hall H to showcase the first trailer for the film. It was so unlike anything Marvel had ever done before, so far outside the box that I immediately fell in love with it and couldn't wait to see more. Although that first trailer was well-received by the Comic-Con audience, the general public seemed to be scratching their heads in much the same way that I had when the film was first announced. Marvel fans would love this, no doubt, but could this bizarre little sci-fi romp with a cast of unknown characters actually work?The answer is a resounding "yes," as Guardians of the Galaxy is not only an exceptionally well-made comic-book film, but an exceptionally well- made film, period. It's a sprawling space opera with a host of memorable characters, a joyous sci-fi romp through beautifully realized worlds, wildly inventive action sequences, and an almost nonstop barrage of humor and fun. The protagonists are a bizarre assembly of losers and misfits, with the CG-created Rocket and Groot providing some of the most emotional and human moments of the film, and it's all brilliant. Marvel should be applauded for allowing Gunn the opportunity to realize his vision, because rest assured, this film wouldn't have been nearly as good with someone else at the helm.Guardians of the Galaxy has a distinct personality that sets it apart from other Marvel offerings, yet there are enough recognizable elements to remind audiences that it exists in the same world. Clocking in at just under two hours, the film maintains an impressively well-balanced pace, avoiding the problem of over-inflation that many superhero films fall victim to. I can't think of a single moment when I wasn't completely enthralled with everything that happens on screen, and as soon as the credits began to roll I was ready to watch it all over again.


                
Expectations: surpassed - and they were pretty damn high to begin with.Excitement: met - after watching the teasers, the clips, and after Captain America the Winter soldier I was crossing my fingers Marvel were on a roll.Face: still trying to recover - you know when you go to the cinema to see a comedy ( a film designed to make you laugh ) and you feel like an idiot for paying for the ticket as you were forcing most of the laughter in the company of your friends? This is a film that it's genuinely easy to laugh about: The humour is so subtle because the characters are so subtle - they're not too animated, they're not too stereotypical and they are NOT what we've come to expect from traditional superheroes and THAT'S WHY THIS FILM WORKS SO WELL! Regardless if you're a Marvel fan or simply a fan of movies in general this is an experience you will welcome as it's new and refreshing to a sci-fi genre which really needed something new and refreshing and with great performances, stunning visuals and a barrel of laughs mixed with the right amount of action this was a real treat to watch.Thank you Marvel Studios.


                
You might expect a movie studio at the top of its game to play it safe rather than strike out in new, bizarre directions. Certainly, it's hard to imagine any other studio giving the greenlight to Guardians Of The Galaxy - a huge blockbuster movie based on a title unfamiliar to anyone who isn't a comics aficionado, starring a relatively unknown actor playing a character most people have never heard of. And yet, Marvel scores once again with its willingness to head off the beaten track. GUARDIANS is a fun, fizzy delight, even as it mines some surprising depths of emotion from its ragtag group of anti-heroes.Peter Quill (Pratt) - a human abducted from Earth as a child - has grown up into an intergalactic thief who has no idea what he's getting into when he takes possession of a mysterious Orb. Little does he know that Ronan (Pace) - a genocidal Kree radical - will do just about anything to get his hands on said Orb, including sending alien assassin Gamora (Saldana) after it. Gamora, as it turns out, has an agenda of her own. Trapped in an intergalactic prison (long story), Peter and Gamora are forced into an uneasy alliance with three other misfits: a brainy, sarcastic raccoon-like creature named Rocket (voiced by Cooper), a giant tree by the name of Groot (Diesel), and the vengeance-minded Drax The Destroyer (Bautista).The truth is that there's almost too much going on in GUARDIANS. Not only do we meet a host of characters we've never met before, on a raft of new planets teeming with brightly coloured life and detail, we're also introduced to several plot lines all stuffed somewhat awkwardly into the film. We have Ronan's planet-destroying aspirations, which are somehow bound up with the evil plans of Thanos - that creepy purple- skinned dude who popped up at the end of The Avengers. Peter's kidnappers turned surrogate 'family' are also on the trail of the Orb, turning up at moments both enormously convenient and inconvenient to the plot. It all makes sense in the end, but until it all clicks into place, it can make for a rushed, unsettling experience.But, despite its occasionally unwieldy script, GUARDIANS triumphs because of the gang of scruffy losers (a term that will take on a different, more heartfelt meaning during the film) at its heart. Director James Gunn, who co-wrote the script, clearly feels a strong affinity for each one of these outcasts, all of whom are easily outlaws in some (if not all) parts of the solar system, each one battling - at least initially - to save his or her own skin rather than to save the world. It's fascinating to watch the five members of this unlikely group slowly banter, bicker and batter their way into becoming a team.Most joyfully of all, Gunn never loses sight of the prickly, selfish side of his characters. He gives them plenty of rich, emotional moments - whether it's Peter and Gamora bonding over the loss of their parents, or Rocket's ability to read a whole range of meaning into Groot's extremely limited vocabulary ('I am Groot') - but never allows the film to descend into dangerously sentimental territory.In fact, Gunn pumps up proceedings with a healthy, hearty dose of humour. Films in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) have always been more tongue-in-cheek than the likes of the considerably more dour Dark Knight franchise, but GUARDIANS is a heady trip of a different order. It practically delights in bursts of odd, subversive comedy, and actually dares to punctuate its most epic face-off with a sly homage to, of all things, Footloose.Pratt - so winning in TV's Parks And Recreation - holds the emotional core of the film together. He exudes an easy, rakish charm that makes Peter both dashingly arrogant and achingly vulnerable. He's matched very well by Saldana, who is clearly delighting in the opportunity to play the world-weary, no-nonsense Gamora - bred into a killer, born a fighter. The rest of the cast does justice, too, to the film's cheerful swing from drama to comedy and back again: Bautista brings unexpected pathos to Drax's occasionally comical determination to avenge his family against Ronan, while Cooper sounds completely unlike himself - in a very good way - as a creature who hides a world of hurt beneath his mouthy exterior. Even Diesel manages to find a great deal of depth in a CGI character who only communicates via the same languid burst of three words.If anything, GUARDIANS is let down by a trio of not particularly threatening villains. Pace snarls and spits in heavy make-up, but can't quite rustle up much in the way of nuance or genuine menace. Ronan is a one-note madman, with so little in the way of backstory that he automatically becomes less interesting. Thanos, too, now voiced and performed in motion-capture by Brolin, doesn't get much to do beyond lounge on his space throne. Only Gillan's cyborg Nebula manages a smidgen of complexity; even then, she struggles to be half as fascinating as her conflicted "sister", Gamora.Before the film was even released in cinemas, Marvel announced that a sequel would be coming in 2017. It's a no-brainer as to why. The film is smart, funny and quite wonderful on its own merits. But, even more crucially, GUARDIANS is a gamble that pays off handsomely for Marvel. It opens up the MCU in, quite literally, all directions. Don't be surprised if you see our more earth-bound heroes heading into space sooner rather than later. The film also adds a new cast of lovable rogues to the MCU's roster of characters: a gang who, one might say, are actually all the more heroic for being people who would ordinarily be running in the opposite direction from any galaxy-guarding duties. Frankly, we can't wait to see what they get up to next.


                
Recently, I began to understand that I was tired of blockbusters: these incredibly spectacular, voluminous, incredibly expensive, but by and large similar to each other and empty films. In 2014, apart from bitter disappointments like the "New Spider-Man 2", there were really standing copies (whether the new "X-Men" or "The Face of the Future"), but they also failed to arouse my special trepidation. And that's why I did not expect the "Guardians of the galaxy". And if it were not for my long-standing affection for the Marvel universe and the invitation for the preposition, I probably would not even have gone to this film and ... Much would have lost!During the viewing of "The Guardians of the Galaxy" I was surprised at the fact that it was gradually becoming ecstatic. I could not imagine that I can still empathize with screen characters and laugh at their words and deeds. This film really gave me back the love of blockbusters and revived the hope that in the film world of fiction it is really possible to do something new and unusual.And now I will try to briefly note those components of the film that bribed me the most.1. Cool plot. This tape contains several storylines, which, due to the abundance of central characters, are revealed as completely as possible. The main action is twisted around an artifact, which everyone abducts from one another. However, developing this storyline, the creators of the tape have time to give us and a spectacular escape from prison, and many spectacular interplanetary battles, and the history of the formation of a real strong friendship between the five main characters. The plot develops very rapidly and practically does not sag, keeping spectators intrigued to the very titles. Personally, I would have sopped the melodramatic part of the film, however, the reaction of the viewers to these episodes was absolutely normal, so it's more of my harmfulness and natural cynicism, and not some miscalculations of the writers.
By the way, the film itself is more associated with "Star Trek" or "Star Wars". So not special lovers of the Marvel universe can appreciate this tape.2. Excellent humor. "Guardians of the galaxy" is a very funny film. And the cool thing is that here there is a place of self-irony, as the tape makers coolly ridicule various clichés peculiar to blockbusters. In general, it is necessary to see and hear. Probably, this is the most cheerful film of this year, although according to official information it is not even a comedy.3. Team spirit. I remember two years earlier I was choking with enthusiasm, praising the Avengers precisely for their team unity. However, one can not help but notice that in the Ironman and the company the team spirit was a little bit pretentious. The heroes were constantly measured ... hmm ... by forces, and the friendly atmosphere was relegated to the background. In the "Guardians of the galaxy", things are different: the characters are so different that they have nothing to compete with. This five of the losers (and they call themselves that) form a real friendly union, which more than ever realizes the principle "We are different, but we are together."In connection with the above, it makes sense to mention the work of a stunning cast of actors. Chris Pratt creates a very bright character who can compete with his own charisma, even with Tony Stark himself. It's amazing that I did not pay attention to this actor before: after watching, I was surprised to find that I already watched a dozen films with his participation. Now I will follow with interest the development of his career. Zoe Saldana confirms the status of the most unearthly actress of our time, adding to her track record a new alien image of the charming and daring Gamora. Professional wrestler Dave Batista is very organic in his role. I think he definitely has a future in the film industry. Very pleased with such venerable professionals of their business as Benicio Del Toro, Glenn Close and John Ci Riley, although, not soon, that these fantastic actors would like to see on the screen a little more.
Rocket Raccoon is also a rocket (or for many of the fair sex - milash raccoon) - this is the main bomb of the whole film. I can not appreciate the work of Bradley Cooper, since I watched the film in Russian dubbing (which, by the way, is also surprisingly very good). But the character is simply amazing! The hall came in a raging rapture, it cost the raccoon only to appear on the screen. Definitely, this is a find without which this film would not have been so successful. Spectator love was won by another character - Grut (or, again, for many girls and children - just a Tree). By the way, the incredibly laborious work of Vin Diesel on the voice acting of this character you can appreciate in Russian dubbing.4. Bright special effects. What to say, the film is bright, very beautiful and voluminous. A real holiday for the eyes, on which it is worth to fork out, in order to appreciate all this beauty in IMAX 3D.5. Music! Even if the film leaves you absolutely indifferent, then the music just needs to please you. The creators of the ribbon collected just the cream, the quintessential culture of the 70s, choosing bright, favorite, but un-played tracks. I was really pleased to share some of this amazing culture with my friends who, outside of this movie, would not for anything agree to listen to "this is not necessary for old people".TOTAL. "Guardians of the galaxy" is a completely crazy blockbuster that charges the audience with a positive and undoubtedly captivates with an incredibly warm atmosphere, exciting plot, bright special effects, killer jokes and a genuine team spirit. For the first time in a very long time, I felt this naive childlike feeling: I did not want to leave the cinema and leave this amazing, incredibly convincing and soulful world, which was given to us by the creators of the "Guardians of the Galaxy." Probably, this is the first blockbuster this year, which I will want to reconsider. And this is the rare film that I want to assess neither from the point of view of a critic who cares at trifles and searches for story inconsistencies, but from the point of view of the viewer who can easily be bribed by a talking raccoon and a smiling tree.
That's why I highly recommend watching this movie literally to all viewers. And that's why "The Guardians of the Galaxy" is becoming a movie that I without any qualms of conscience put an unprecedented 9 points, which I have not been awarded with yet another film from the universe I adore Marvel.Enjoy watching!


                
What happens when Marvel pulls out five relatively unknown characters of its own, who have a terrible chemistry with each other, and decides to make a movie out of the mess?The result is surprisingly good.Guardians of the Galaxy starts out as an unholy alliance of five unlikely companions: a space rogue (Indiana Jones + Han Solo much?), a righteous assassin, an annoying tech-whiz raccoon, a humanoid tree, and a thespian prisoner on a vendetta, all of whom pursue their own more or less selfish goals. Without revealing much, they are joined together by the mysterious Orb, a crucial device for the plot.The movie is packed with chaotic and continuous action. No slow sections mid-movie, no meaningless pieces of dialog. Everything is so well- knitted in its weirdness that I'm beginning to consider the whole even greater than immediately after the show. It's fascinating to follow how the different personas co-operate despite their differences, and the leading actors thrive in their roles, doing amazing work! In addition, for an action movie, the plot has some very touching moments during which I had to fight not to shed some manly tears in the theater.The space is beautiful, and so is this movie. One breathtaking vista after another, visual orgasms will be guaranteed.When looking for flaws on purpose, the biggest con throughout the movie might be the overuse of the jokes and one-liners, some good, some not. However, they are a part of the spirit of the work. Furthermore, I'm sure that the 1970's soundtrack will divide opinions. I'm not particularly fond of it, on the one hand, the songs felt dime a dozen and alien as I didn't grow up with them nor knew them save one, why not use some other tracks? Either the movie was targeted to people over 30, or the authors wanted to use their favorite songs. Oh, one last thing! Did the Dark Aster really have to be so ridiculously gigantic?There's a squirrel with a big gun. He's the sole thing I remember about the flick's poster, and later he turned out to be a genetically enhanced raccoon. Anyways, he gave me the impression that this was going to be a tongue-in-cheek version of the Avengers, which was partially true. Massively superior, Guardians of the Galaxy is an idiosyncratic masterpiece amongst the blockbuster movies of Hollywood.All in all, Guardians of the Galaxy turns out to be unexpectedly funny and warm adventure that has all the rights for its cliffhanger ending and oh, we will be waiting for that sequel!Rating: 4,5/5


                
James Gunn is the guy to keep an eye on. His work on Super was already pretty good, but what he did with Guardians of the Galaxy was amazing. Sure it's not a Shakespearean drama, but still, he found the sweet spot between visual effects, action, humor, drama and capturing the source material. For me it was a highly entertaining movie that's almost on par with the Avengers. If they had made the transition between rag tag team to a united group a bit better and they had found a way to avoid the usual cheesiness then I would have given it a 10 and called it genius and the best Marvel movie yet. For now it's a close 2nd. The best part of it was that it didn't take itself too seriously, used an unconventional music score and went down the comedy road where Pratt, Coopers voice and Groots animation really excelled. Also kudos to James for getting quite a few of his usual actors into the movie - especially Nathan Fillion, his brother Sean, Rooker, Seth Green (Kevin Bacon wasn't far away either) - the cameos they had were quite enjoyable. Bottom line: if you liked previous Marvel movies then the chance is high that you're going to love this one.


                
We all had a pretty good idea on what this movies was going to deliver we had seen its trailer. The only question was how? Also there was a question if they are risking too much by suddenly introducing an all new MARVEL film, amidst of The Avengers franchise that was going on well. We also had our doubts if they are making things too complicated by connecting it to The Avengers in the future. Well, Guardians of the Galaxy manages to stick to your seats and keep faith in Marvel. Again.As the name suggests, this story is all about Galaxy and so many planets that you find it difficult to remember (Earth reference coming very rarely). As seen in the earlier reference of Thor the Dark World post credit scene, this movie is about one of those collectible objects(The Orb) that the collector is collecting. The fight for this leads to the meeting of Gamora (Saldana) and Peter Quill (Pratt) whom are joined by the bounty hunters Rocket (Bradley Cooper voicing one of the hilarious character of 2014) and Groot (Diesel). Then the story becomes more complicated with more people (or should I say Aliens?) wanting The Orb and their evil intentions. Drax The Destroyer (Bautista) joins the party and the all time quarrelling enemies become friends and call themselves of Guardians of the Galaxy. About the story I don't have to reveal many details here because there are so many other aspects in the movie which not only keep you on your toes but also has you in splits. A movie which is mostly dependent on CGI and green screen as there is hardly any part shot on earth has a tough ask on its hands to balance its main plot and also not confuse the audience with too many characters and planets/galaxies or any similar objects like that. At the beginning I thought things were getting a bit out of hand, but James Gunn manages to keep the humor afloat so that you don't complicate things too much. The characters are really well written and I think this movies going to be career changing feat for most of the actors. Chris Pratt looks like everyman's hero by playing quirky character as Peter Quill. Zoe Saldana is as sexier in green as she was in blue (Avatar). Though the Bradley Cooper's voice as Rocket is bit digitally modified it's one of the most intimidating character that you will ever see and more than half of the humor in the film is this character's contribution. Also, I salute the CGI team for bringing so many emotions into the Rocket character. You feel it's almost next to you. Vin Diesel as Groot doesn't have much to speak but the character is written very well. The surprise for me was Dave Bautista as Drax, I didn't expect much from him due to his WWE background, but he has performed equally well in both comic and emotional scenes. I expected more form Benicio Del Torro as Tanveer Tivan the collector but he has a little role here. There are other interesting characters played by Lee Pace (the main antagonist), John C Reilly, Karen Gillan and Glenn Close add to the strength of the cast. Creating a franchise movie with new characters and not so famous stars as protagonists is a challenging task. James Gunn has handled it really well. He doesn't bore the audience and also makes them feel involved as if the characters are already 2 or 3 movies old. A very special mention to the CGI and the Visual Effects team and also to every guy/girl who has made technical contribution to this movie. This movie is completely dependent on it. Yes, there will be a sequel and before ending this I quote Peter Quill from the movie, "You said it, b*tch. We're the Guardians of the Galaxy".


                
For me the summary title is a good thing... I went to this movie with my brother (The comic book fan) as a non-comic book fan, thinking this will be another CGI-Bor-Fest, just like captain what's-his-face or the last iron man. Thankfully I was wrong within the first ten minutes, when the movie went from space-craft action straight into comedic fun, which set a precedence for intrigue-ness throughout the movie. It seemed to have this balance throughout the film, which I felt kind of related to other comic related movies like kick-ass. Just when you thought "the movie couldn't be funny during this scene", it goes and surprises you with a drunken escapade between the main cast. I Really do recommend to all stereotypes and especially those who sit on the fence with all marvel movies as I feel this may have broken the mould.


                
'Guardians of the Galaxy' is not just another sci-fi movie, it's refreshing, enjoyable and giddy, and probably the best of its genre among summer blockbusters this year. The writers of this movie are witty enough to make sure that its cliché-sounding plot won't be as tiring as it rings the audience ears.The movie follows a band of misfits who are assembled to fight for the galaxy and save it from the hands of evil warlords aiming to take total control of the cosmos.While it follows a familiar and maybe tiring tale, a plethora of explosive elements made this movie a refreshing and enjoyable experience. Its biggest advantage lays on its comic tone, thanks to Chris Pratt's smashing take on Peter Quill, he's obviously one of the central elements of this movie. He is joined by equally interesting, and mostly funny, Groot (Vin Diesel), Gamora (Zaldana), Drax (Batista) and Rocket (Cooper) and some other stand out supports, in their thrilling adventure for universal domination. This one proves to provide endless humor, but it has heartwrenching tales to tell too, most of which relatable. There may be an over-stuffing of visuals and that tends to drown the humor and drama but overall, 'Guardians of the Galaxy', is undoubtedly one of the biggest movie event of the year, a pleasurable fun vaunting a stellar ensemble of casts, head-bopping and insanely good soundtracks and a surfeit of reminiscent anthems from the past decades. This might be the best Marvel hero movie to date.


                
Guardians of the Galaxy 92I came into the theater not knowing all too much about this movie, just knowing it was Marvel. I came out amazed. This movie was a great revival for this years blockbusters, redefining the Marvel Universe once again. It was fun, hilarious, witty, action-packed, and had great, classic rock music. Gunn knew that Marvel needed a reboot of originality, colorfulness, and artistry of filmmaking and the fact that it wasn't to be taken too serious. The way the cinematographer and James captured every single color of the landscape, and the characters; it was just spectacular. It was a great story, filled with colorful, complex characters, and great art/set direction. Music was also perfect for this film; bringing in old classics everyone knows, or doesn't, and setting up the fun atmosphere. Chris Pratt was perfect for the role, with his wit and personality he brought in. I'm hoping to see much more of these characters and colorful storytelling in the next Marvel films.


                
Marvel has hit the ball again out the park with another great hit adding to the line of the successful films in their current cinematic run. Guardians of The Galaxy is different, fresh, and a brand new take on the superhero genre. It focuses on a team of misfits who would have to set aside their own differences to save the galaxy, and I know this plot may sound generic but with the amazing story and the nice touch of humour throughout it's a guaranteed fun ride all the way. One of the best characters to look out for is Bradley Cooper as Rocket, a raccoon with a dangerous attitude. Even Chris Pratt who plays Star-Lord gave a surprisingly great performance. All around this film is excellent and if your a Marvel fan bonus as there is tons of Easter Eggs and a certain galactic titan that makes a surprise appearance in the middle.


                
All right! There is a lot of haters but whatever. This is the very first "superfolks" movie I have actually enjoyed. The reason? The characters, who are mostly "gray". They are not good guys but not the bad guys either.The first half of the movie is actually the best. A group of rogues, lost folks, betrayers, head hunters, desperados. I liked the racoonish character most. He is just so amazing! Do not expect anything deep or clever, but this movie is just as clever and as fun as it is possible for mainstream comic show. This movie is not amazing in the sense of the "great art cinema", but it is powerful, emotional, fun and clever. And the message is perfect: You may be "an a-hole, but not 100% d-ick". Yes, most of us are not "100% d-icks". Even those who are pretty bad are still capable to do great things."So what should do next? Something good? Something bad? A bit of both?" - Oh yes, I love these characters from this gray area. They are as close to life as possible. Most of us are "gray", we are A great show!


                
The Galaxy's un-mightiest heroes unite in cosmic bliss to create a unique, funny and heartfelt superhero movie and the best Marvel film to date.Marvel is finally expanding its already colossal film empire into space. A risky move given their safe track record. Even with lesser known heroes, Guardians is at the pinnacle of hype and I'm glad to say it paid off. A new world apparently without sarcasm and irony and full of literal meanings. Guardians is filled with funny scenes, making it unlike any tentpole superhero movie seen before. However, the trailers and previews did a lot to reduce the impact of certain dialogue, which obviously is not the fault of the production. Guardians is funny nonetheless and its self referential style keeps us entertained: "We are Kevin Bacon" is an actual quote. Seriously.What makes Guardians unique is James Gunn being at the helm. This is not a director that has been phoned in. The arbiters of the Marvel Universe, Joss Whedon and Kevin Feige, are recruiting directors that need more recognition. "Super" is one of my favourite films, and it's unique likability translates perfectly into the Marvel Universe.We knew this from the trailers and from the mouth of James Gunn, but the soundtrack is awesome; filled with classics from the 70s and 80s that many identify with. But even with this light hearted inclusion, there is layer to it, a minute origin story that gives great character development. All protagonists have a story that I actually care about. These are damaged characters with heart and soul. I wanted to get to know them and I wanted them to succeed. Groot only has a three word vocabulary, but he had more personality in one hefty trunk leg than the entire well spoken body of Superman, and to be fair, much more than Thor or Steve Rogers.Tyler Bates' score works well with out heroes. A good job, given that some of it was composed before the film began production. Rarely does a director film to the score, but it works and fits in well with the soundtrack.For me, 3D has always been a gimmick. Nothing more than a fruitless attempt to squeeze paying customers out of a little more cash. Guardians on the other hand fully embraces the third dimension, keeping the audience immersed in space. James Gunn said that he was much more involved in the 3D conversion and it shows. Having to shift your gaze to focus on a piece of space rock before your eyes is an amazing experience. To add, in conjunction with IMAX, the entire mise en scene feels real and you can observe a varying depth of field. Movies like Guardians is why IMAX and 3D was created.When Marvel announced that Cap 3 would compete against Man of Steel's sequel, I was rather disappointed. It felt that they were getting too big for their boots. A large degree of Marvel movies, for me, are typically average, but with this release I hope that Marvel is finally creating great movies, rather than simple fillers. It also further proves that DC needs to lighten up and quit being so dark and depressing. Cinema is an escape, a 2 hour chance to connect and enjoy. Guardians of the Galaxy is testament to this. It gives pure entertainment, but balances with interesting characters, all the while supporting the over arcing themes of the comics. A great Marvel product, an even better movie and I can't wait for Phase 3 to get started.Action: 5 Score: 4 Soundtrack: 5 Direction: 4 Acting: 4 Story: 4 Screenplay: 4 Watch Again? Definite Blu Ray buy.


                
WARNING- This review is made from the opinions of a person who has never fully seen a superhero movie.Guardians of the Galaxy has a simple plot yet it is so versatile. For people who have never read the comics, all you need to know is that the five bickering good guys join together to stop the bad guy from getting the 'special object' that can end the world. Sounds like a typical PG movie, eh? WRONG.The characters are lovable, the acting is great, the music is AMAZING, the action scenes are great, the CGI is great, EVERYTHING IS GREAT!The movie is amazing but only has two flaws. The movie doesn't really explore locations and it feels like we didn't go anywhere by the end and the main villain is just 'okay'. This movie is by far the best of the year and will be remembered for a long time. P.S Gamora is by far one of my favorite villains in years, her actress is amazing! She should have a spin-off!!!


                
Guardians of the Galaxy is a triumph of Hollywood filmmaking. It's probably one of the biggest risks in the history of blockbuster movies; an unknown property with unknown characters played by (relatively) unknown actors written and directed by an unknown director about a team including a talking racoon, and a tree. No studio in their right mind would ever have picked that up. Marvel is a studio of risk-taking though. Their risks keep paying off and as a result they keep paving the way not only for superhero movies, but for the movie business as a whole. They even greenlit a sequel before it was even released. Well, Guardians of the Galaxy is another roaring success.A big worry for Guardians was setting up a team, developing the characters, and giving them a good enough plot to warrant them all together. I mean, there's a reason why Avengers was built up with solo movies to develop each character individually. Again, this is another thing Guardians was successful with, as each character is developed really well. They're each given a past, a specific role on the team, their own personal quirks, differing goals and aspirations, but never at the expense of the rest of the movie. Guardians, unsurprisingly, was also full of comedy. While previous attempts in Iron Man 3 and The Dark World completely failed, Guardians was absolutely hilarious. There are just so many moments that had the whole cinema laughing, from Groot constantly repeating that phrase, to Drax taking everything literally, to Rocket in general. The post-credits sequence is also played for laughs (it doesn't tease anything, so don't feel you have to stay through all the credits) with a surprising cameo that I won't spoil. Acting is...well it's a good effort. Chris Pratt does a really good job of Starlord, especially with the amount of work he had to put into his body. I mean, it wasn't long ago he was quite podgy, and here he's shirtless with a chiselled torso. Dude bulks up really well. On the actual acting side of things he does a great job balance the comedic elements with the more serious and heart-felt moments. If this doesn't make a star out of him, nothing will. Zoe Saldana is on top form as Gamora. Besides the fact she looks gorgeous (even in green) and is as capable as ever with the action scenes, she also manages to balance comedy with emotion. Bradley Cooper pretty much owns the movie, even though it's only his voice that's present. He manages to do so much with it. He puts so much emotion in, from his bouts of rage to his more touching moments when the truth comes out. Again though he does a marvellous job with his character's humour. 50% of what makes Rocket so funny is Cooper's delivery. Dave Bautista shows how he really can't act, I'm sad to say, although it's a hell of a lot better a job I expected. The script he was given is full of words you'd never expect a man of his physical stature to say in a movie, and like everyone else his comedic delivery is spot on. Maybe, though, the lines were a bit too much for him as he does stumble a bit here and there, and beyond a lust for vengeance, he doesn't really portray any other emotion other than bland. Then there's Vin Diesel who just says "I am Groot" in three or four slightly different ways. It's not bad, but it's hardly taxing work ripe with opportunity.Wrapping this up with the visuals, which are as good as always. Rocket and Groot are rendered to absolute perfection, as are all the sci-fi backgrounds and ships. There's a number of shots that are almost breathtaking, including one of Starlord thrusting himself across a cloudy green void to clutch Gamora, and Groot lighting up the interior of a ship with lots of glowing spores. Of course the 3D really helped these shots pop out, giving them a huge amount of depth, but they will always be seared into the back of my eyes. James Gunn. You the man. Only you could have made Guardians of the Galaxy work so well, effortlessly balancing humour with genuine emotion. It's very rare for me to find myself bawling my eyes one minute and laughing my head off the next and not feeling put off by either. Guardians of the Galaxy looks great, sounds great, adds depth to the MCU with a plot of itself that is quite layered, with three-dimensional characters and moments that'll make you laugh and cry. I cannot praise Guardians of the Galaxy enough, although I feel subsequent rewatches will start to show the cracks. 8/10
I am so burnt out on back stories it's ridiculous. Spoiler alert Hollywood; most of us already knew that Peter Parker was bite by a special spider. We already know that when Bruce Banner gets mad he turns into the Hulk... so now... just show us the Hulk! Guardians is a comic book movie that has the characters wearing there super hero costumes for the entire movie. Not Peter Parker wearing a hoodie in the rain thinking of his relationship woes. The one of the rules for something to qualify as "epic" is that it has to start in the middle of the action. Guardians did this; a one minute seen about a boy being pulled from his planet after a tragedy and then BOOM, we have our lead character IN COSTUME and having an adventure. within the first half hour the whole team is together (not necessarily getting along yet)kicking ass and taking names! To me, one quality that an action movie needs to qualify as a good action movie is that the plot needs to move in accordance with the action sequences. Guardians does this. Because Star Lord stole the orb and fought the villains they followed him. Because they all fought over the orb in the middle of the city they were taken to prison. The results of the battle determine the next plot point. Plus, it was fun! All the characters had decent screen time, they all interacted with each other, they all had good battles. Two numbers I track with comic book movies are: How many minutes were spent in actually in an action sequence (car chases and suspenseful happenings count) And how many minutes were the super heroes actually in costume. With guardians you could tell the cast and crew were all very excited to make the movie as great as possible, and it shows through. Of course there is always room for improvement. But who cares.


                
In 1988 a young Peter Quill is by his dying mothers bedside, the last thing she wants to do before she passes on is give her child a final gift and say her goodbyes, but the emotion running through Peter is so strong and surreal his mother's dying wish to just hold his hand is never met. So as some kind of talisman the gift Peter receives is shoved into his backpack and never opened. Emotions run high as his mother's last breath leaves her body and young Peter runs out of the hospital and into an open field where he is suddenly beamed up and onto a spacecraft. Jump forward 26 years and a few galaxy's away and the young Peter Quill now known as Starlord as he likes to call himself is on an adventure of relic hunting, he picks up a strange orb which we discover is a treasure he has been commissioned to find and comes with a very lucrative reward attached. Starlord takes the orb back to the buyer who has offered the cash prize but once the buyer learns that Starlord was actually approached Ronan a madman who is intent on destroying the planet they stand on the deal is quickly shutdown and nothing is exchanged but a few awkward words. Starlord is then met by Gomora the assassin a stolen daughter of Thanos now working alongside Ronan who attempts to steal the orb away. Rocket a bounty hunter raccoon who can talk and who has been genetically modified to be a kind of gun tooting engineer and his bodyguard Groot a humanoid tree learn that Starlord has a bounty and attempt to go after it. Soon after the four characters are picked up and thrown into prison on an inescapable compound where the four meet Drax the destroyer a warrior who had his family slain by Ronan and wants nothing more than revenge. The five decide to team up and escape the prison to then go on and sell the orb to "the collector" a man who does exactly what his name states; he collects things. The group eventually learn that what lies within the orb can wipe out the universe and do whatever they can to ensure not Ronan nor Thanos the warlord Ronan works for do not get their hands on the orb. I cannot tell you how much I loved this film, I loved it from start to finish. I loved how it opened with such a powerful image and I loved how it ended with one much the same. It was funny, but not just funny ha-ha, it was hilarious, some of the dialogue was so natural in its delivery it all worked so well. The film never takes itself seriously unlike a few other films released it's just great fun. The CGI and visual effects are inspiring, the score is gorgeous and the 70's soundtrack worked so well with the entire film. There wasn't much you couldn't hate in this film. The characters were so real and believable (well as much as possible anyway) The cast were fabulous, I loved every one of them the standouts for me though were Ronan in my opinion one of the best bad guys to ever be given life! And Rocket, a Racoon with anger management issues is brilliant. Then of course Starlord who just holds everything together. Directed by James Gunn who is relatively an unknown he also helped write the script, I now believe he has a huge career ahead of him. Starting Chris Pratt as Peter Quill, Starlord, Zoe Saldana as Gomora, Bradley Cooper as the voice of Rocket, Vin Deisel as the voice of Groot, Dave Bautista as Drax, Lee Pace as Ronan, Michael Rooker as Yondu, Karen Gillan as Nebula and a handful of other quite well-known names made for an amazing cast. So now onto what I would have liked to see differently, the only thing I really hope they do is some origin films, nothing else, for once I didn't care there were no back stories on who these people were or where they actually came from but I would love to eventually see origin stories for each and every one of them. Guardians of the Galaxy is the must see film of the year for me so far, so go out and see it on the big screen before it finishes!!!


                
Now I did go to this movie expecting to be entertained. But what i didnot expect was to actually end up getting tears in my eyes and get hysterical. Not many new movies have done that recently. This movie DELIVERS entertainment in a bombshell. It will get you smiling ear to ear just as about as soon as it starts, why?. Well the choice of background scores they chose is why and how perfect they sync with the scenes. Chris Pratt did a fantastic job as Starlord and definitely got me to look into the character as i wasn't aware of it before. The story was nothing extraordinary like many of the superhero movies out there, it was just about interesting. But the characters are what pull it off, Rocket Raccoon has definitely become the most badass raccoon out there considering not many are there. But it definitely packs a punch giving a run for the money to many of the characters for "the most favorite comic character" in the marvel universe or DC universe for sorts. In short, this movie is solely an entertainment power-bag with a decent story that would just suffice to get you watching it over and over again N times and crack you up every single time thus making it a probable future comic classic.


                
I loved this movie, saw it in IMAX 3D. The acting was great. The writing was great. The 3D was fantastic, very rarely was a part that wasn't 3D. I thought that there should've been more Thanos in the movie than there was and I wanted to see more of the villain, Ronin. The characters were very likable, my favorite was Rocket Raccoon. I thought having Howard the Duck in the film was very strange because he's not really a Marvel character. Stan Lee's cameo was funny as usual. If you do go see this film then I would recommend the 3D version over the 2D because the visuals are fantastic and worth the extra ticket price. Overall I would recommend this movie for sure to anyone looking for a great Marvel film or just an all around action/sci-fi film.
This is definitely the best superhero movie to ever come out so far. This movie had fun characters, hilarious humor, amazing action and special effects and the perfect plot to go with the story line. It was different and had its own very unique concept. I loved the villains in the movie and iv'e really become a huge fan of rocket raccoon after seeing the movie. The movie had pretty much everything it needed including drama, suspense, humor, crime, and action in the right order. This movie is indeed a new age classic marvel superhero film and i am really excited to see how the movie follows the other marvel films. I enjoyed this movie a lot and i think it was better than the avengers.


                
This is definitely a must-see. The plot may be a bit generic and not very compelling, but the main point of this movie was to introduce us to some of the most interesting characters in recent memory. The acting is superb almost all around, and the comedy is genius, with most material hitting the mark. Of course there are also some action sequences. Not the best I've seen, but they get a pass. One of the best things about this movie: the oldies soundtrack; from the offset, the old songs are used stylistically to great effect, making it seem as if they were made specifically for use in the movie. If I had to make any complaints, it would be that I wish the main character's back-story had been explored more. I realize they're setting up for future entries, but I can't help but feel cheated out of a necessary origin story. And of course, I wish the plot had been more thought out instead of the cliché "bad guy wants to take over the universe without much motivation." Despite those minor gripes, I can't recommend this movie enough.


                
When people first heard that Marvel Studio & Walt Disney Company were making Guardians of the Galaxy; a lot of people were scratching their heads, what & why!? First off, the comic book series created in 1968 by Arnold Drake and Gene Colan, wasn't that popular. Second off, there are way better comics that could be made into movies. Third, some critics thought that the movie couldn't be pull off. After all, who will go see a movie about a talking raccoon and walking one word talking tree? This movie prove, every doubter, wrong. It was very successful. You can pinpoint the exact moment in Marvel's Guardians of the Galaxy became a success, when the comic book was reboot in 2008 with the Annihilation: Conquest storyline. It was there, that the comic book, got a face-lift, with new characters, and new story lines. The film would use these comics as an outline, but even the film would change things around. As of most comic book characters, there are reimagining's, and different version of people's past. The film writers Nicole Perlman, and director James Gunn change the group from an interstellar group of space cops into a group of criminals turn super-heroes. James Gunn also add some really needed humor and indeed also a very awesome soundtrack, made from 1970s & 1980s hits. Great use of Blue Swede's version of "Hooked on a Feeling". The soundtrack on a mixtape in the Walkman, and the pop culture references work for the audience as it was a good way to stay connected to the real world. Too many, out-there fantasy would made the audience feel lost, and disconnect, as they can't relate with the characters. The story tells the story of a theft named Peter Quill AKA Star-Lord (Chris Pratt) who find himself, being chase down by an alien lunatic name Ronan the Accuser (Lee Pace) after rediscovering and stealing an Infinity Gem from an abandoned city. Along the way, he teams up with an alien Assassin, Gamora (Zoe Saldana), two alien bounty hunters, Rocket Raccoon & Groot (Voiced by Bradley Cooper & Vin Diesel), and a vengeance driven maniac named Drax the Destroyer (Dave Bautista) to prevent Ronan from getting the stone and destroying entire planets that go against him. I wouldn't say, the plot is anything new from Marvel. It's pretty much the same plot in most of their films. It's just in space, this time. The movie did need a little more exposition, and things did felt a little bit rushed. The whole thing about them, becoming friends so quick seem a bit forced. There were a few good emotional scenes. The acting was pretty good for the main cast. Chris Pratt proves that he can be a main lead actor. Zoe Saldana is alright. Fans and children will probably go crazy over Rocket & Groot. Bradley Cooper did a great job. You really couldn't tell that it was him, the whole time. While, Vin Diesel is limited in his speak; he was charming. It was like watching Iron Giant if he was a tree. Last of the main actors, Dave Bautista was pretty good with his role. He has really improve his acting chops. The villains were alright. Lee Pace was menacing, but his character was a bit one-dimensional villain type. Karen Gillan as Nebula is just plan hot. She was pretty good as the henchmen. Still, there were a few supporting actors were a bit disappointing like Michael Rooker as Yondu or John C. Reilly as Corpsman Rhomann Dey. I'm sorry, but I can't picture, Rooker as an alien with his redneck voice. Also, I can't picture Reilly as a starship trooper with his overweight body. There were a few scenes that I just couldn't picture, as well. The movie became a bit too unrealistic even for a Sci-Fiction with scenes like the heroes surviving dry-freeze temperance in deep space or them surviving large spaceship crashes. I just had to suspense my disbelief to get through them. Still, for the most part, the movie was indeed great. The humor was mostly hits, then misses. I love the 'over my head' joke. For a PG-13, the language is a bit harsh, there were a lot of frighten imagery, and extreme violent, but I think it's still alright for most children to watch it. The special and visual effect are pretty awesome. The action scenes are really stunning to the eyes. The 3D works, but it's not a must to see it in 3D. Watching it in 2D was good enough. The movie is also comic book Easter eggs nest that would make any comic nerd come to see the film and notice. Look for the cameos of horror director Lloyd Kaufman, musician Rob Zombie, and comic book writer, Stan Lee in the film, when watching. The whole collector (Benicio Del Toro) scene had enough to get fans talking for months as it has a lot of characters from previous films. The post-credit sequence was a bit disappointment, as it didn't really, promote 2015's The Avengers, the Age of Ultron nor any hint at any other oncoming Marvel film. It was a bit of a bad joke. Why did the movie had to remind me that Howard the Duck still around? At less, we know, for sure that a sequel to Guardians of the Galaxy will happen, one day. Overall: While, it's a good movie, it's not the best movie, I ever saw. It was indeed a pretty good popcorn film. I have to say, I can say I recommended watching this ragtag epic.
I went into this films with sky high expectations as both a fan of the DnA run on the comic and Gunns previous work as a director (Slither is awesome).The ting that baffles me most is that, as a fan of the comic, I should be pretty ticked off by the film as they have changed many things from the source material. Drax has a completely different back story and personality, Ronan is just a "bad" guy, Nova corpse can't fly etc etc.The thing is the film was just too much fun for me to care about those things. Everyone is saying its like "star wars" or "raiders" etc, in my humble opinion they're wrong. For me it reminds me much more like Ghostbusters than anything else. Not just because its more blatant in it's humor (although it is), it's because its about a group of dropouts and losers who are way out their depth saving the world/galaxy.The film truly rocks! From the great visuals, to the cool story, to the action set pieces, to the emotional scenes, to banter, right through this fully realized universe that Gunn has created.If I had one nit to pick I do think that Ronan is slightly under served due to the film having so much to do as a first outing like introduce an entire galaxy as well as a whole team of heroes. It would have been nice to have more of the history of the Xandar/Kree war to add more weight to Ronans actions but the rest of the film is that good its easy to ignore that small fault. Hopefully now they have already done most of the set up work they can flesh the other aspects out more in future Guardians films However the biggest and most pleasant surprise of all for me was Drax. Like I said earlier, he is the character that has been altered the most, he is also played by a professional wrestler (who haven't had the best track record for producing acting talent) and in the heaviest make up out the bunch. I thought he was going to either suck or be the weakest link by a long shot but no, he flat out gets some of the biggest laughs in the film and some of the most touching scenes too, no spoilers but there's a bit with him and rocket towards the end that made my "hay fever" play up.Going to see it again on Wednesday and cant wait for July 2017 so we can do this all over again!


                
Before the movie came out, I decided to try one of the free comics from Marvel Unlimited. I found not one, but two, comics about the Guardians of the Galaxy. Not knowing who these characters were, I wanted to learn who they are. There, I learned about the characters Star-Lord and the rest of the gang.Therefore, when the movie came out, I was pretty interested in it. For a while, however, I decided not to watch it, because I thought it wouldn't be as great as another Marvel movie, Captain America: The Winter Soldier.After debating on it, I decided to go ahead and try the movie. It was brilliant.The humor made the movie funny. At the same time, however, we get amazing action with great CG for the characters, Rocket Raccoon and Groot.The movie also did fairly well introducing the characters, such as Star-Lord (primarily), Rocket, Groot, Drax, and Gamora.The Guardians come together unexpectedly, and eventually become a team to save the galaxy from the evil clutches of Ronan the Accuser. With the help of the Nova Corps, the Guardians managed to do so.With amazing acting and CG, the movie was unexpectedly good. This was another great movie in Marvel's Phase Two.
So here we are, Marvel's riskiest project? Or was it? In my honest opinion "Iron Man" will forever be their riskiest taking their own money and creating a film based on a character that wasn't their most successful in comic form. However, Guardians is a close second in the risky business category, I'm a pretty big Marvel fan myself (self proclaimed) and I had never heard of the Guardians until the time it was announced their was a film being made, since then I began to read up a bit and my excitement exploded.While being said to be a part of the MCU Phase 2, you would also be able to watch this film as a stand alone and enjoy it just as much. The film doesn't get itself stuck into the intermingling movie crossovers like the rest of the MCU has done, actually unlike 95% of the MCU taking place on earth, after minutes into Guardians we are thrown deep, deep into space to not return to earth. The Avengers had hours and hours of pre story to the characters when the film was being made, Gunn had to create back stories and bring a team together in one film, an incredible feat which he seemed to do with ease while it took the MCU 5 films at roughly 10 hours, Gunn done that within 2.The cast does and absolutely (inter)stellar job, yes I said interstellar, I used that pun deal with it ha. The entire cast is on their A games though, Pratt as Quill is one of the best castings in any MCU film since the franchise started his charismatic, funny, relate-able in a way portrayal of Peter Quill was incredible. Zoe Saldana as Gamora may seem like a bit more of a simple task, however her femme fatale badassery is second to none in recent years, however it is the rest of the Guardians who truly shine. Bradley Cooper absolutely steals the show as Rocket, his quick witted retorts and emotional completely really bring more than the gag of "oh a talking Racoon" to the screen and really create a character you care about. Dave Bautista really comes into his own, his performance is far superior to his previous straight-to-DVD displays, he really made Drax his own as for Vin Diesel as Groot there is not much you can really do with "I am Groot" however he still gives the characters a charm of his own.The film is easily Marvel's most beautifully stunning film, I can imagine George Lucas watching it thinking "if I made Star Wars today, I would win ALL the awards". I truly think, Gunn has changed the game completely when it comes to comedic based Comic adaptations, the tone of the film jumps between truly emotional to laugh your socks off to science fiction insanity, truly making Gunn a blockbuster director to keep an eye on. The soundtrack is another success by Gunn, it is by far the best I have ever personally heard blending incredibly with the gritty and beautiful cinematography.Overall, the film was an incredibly fun watch filled with laughter, action, good acting and a solid story to boot. Which in the comic world you rarely get the whole collection, usually get a two out of four, however Gunn delivers potentially the best comic film of all time, some will argue the best. For me it's easily up there with the best, Chris Pratt gets to put his comical side on show and he delivers a great performance. You will laugh your ass off throughout while enjoy the beautiful visuals and great character development from the start, has a very Star Wars feel about it. Okay, I'll say, it is the modern Star Wars, it's more than just a comic film it's a space operatic, and Gunn should be insanely proud. I would LOVE him to board all the main Marvel based films that use space and give the Russo Brothers the earthly based films, this would result in the greatest film franchise ever in my opinion.
