I noticed that A NEW HOPE and THE EMPIRE STRIKES BACK are in the TOP 10, but that this one isn't even in the TOP 100.This movie has a bad reputation because of Ewoks, but there are so many reasons to love this movie:-The Rescue of Han Solo from Jabba: This official wraps up the Han Solo in debt sub-plot that was established when we first met the character in A NEW HOPE.-The Emperor was Finally Revealled: Well alright this might not work as well now that the prequels are out but this was the first time we saw The Emperor as kids.-The Speeder Bike Chase: Alright, so this was a special effects moment. But it was definitely one of the most memorable and exciting moments in all the films!-The 3 Part Climax: 1) The Battle of Endor (Led by Han and Leia) 2) Luke Confronts his Father & The Fall of the Emperor 3) The Destruction of the Second Death Star (Lando's Moment)-The Final Celebration with Our Heroes: Like I said, this movie gets a lot of crap because of the Ewoks but I think it's kind of cool that while the entire galaxy celebrates the FALL OF THE EMPIRE, our heroes are having their own private party in the woods with each other.All in all this was a great final chapter for our heroes and a fitting end to the STAR WARS story.
A long time ago, in a galaxy far, far away.....There was a boy who was only two years old when the original "Star Wars" film was released. He doesn't remember first seeing the movie, but he also doesn't remember life before it. He does remember the first "Star Wars" themed gift he got...a shoebox full of action figures from the original set. He was too young to fully appreciate how special that gift would be. But years later, he would get what to this day goes down as one of the best gifts he's ever received: another box full of action figures, ten of the final twelve he needed to complete his collection. It's now legendary in this boy's family how the last action figure he needed, Anakin Skywalker, stopped being produced and carried in stores, and how this boy went for about ten years (until he got into college) trying to track one down and finally bought it from someone on his dorm floor for a bag of beer nuggets (don't ask...it's a Northern Illinois University thing).I can't review "Star Wars" as a movie. It represents absolutely everything good, fun and magical about my childhood. There's no separating it in my mind from Christmases, birthdays, summers and winters growing up. In the winter, my friends and I would build snow forts and pretend we were on Hoth (I was always Han Solo). My friends' dad built them a kick-ass tree house, and that served as the Ewok village. They also had a huge pine tree whose bottom branches were high enough to create a sort of cave underneath it, and this made a great spot to pretend we were in Yoda's home. I am unabashedly dorky when it comes to "Star Wars" and I think people either just understand that or they don't. I don't get the appeal of "Lord of the Rings" or "Star Trek" but I understand the rabid flocks of fans that follow them because I am a rabid fan of George Lucas's films.I feel no need to defend my opinion of these movies as some of the greatest of all time. Every time I put them in the DVD player, I feel like I'm eight years old again, when life was simple and the biggest problem I had was figuring out how I was going to track down a figure of Anakin Skywalker.Grade (for the entire trilogy): A+


                
After "Star Wars: A New Hope" redefined science fiction, and "The Empire Strikes Back" redefined "Star Wars", it's hard to believe that the third and final film of this trilogy can manage to be as good as the other two, but this one really does a nice job.  The first part of the film resolves the cliffhanger left by the previous one, with an elaborate escape plan that is in keeping with the incredible suspense and action of the first two films. Then the film moves back to the rebel alliance and what's going on in the war.  There is a lot of action in the scenes building up to the rebellion's final confrontation with the Emperor.  When the battle begins, the audience is already on the edge of their seats from everything leading up to it, and this final battle is even more intense than those from the other films. This climax is definitely more dense with action than any other part of the trilogy, with the most at stake for the rebellion.  This is continually changing between a ground battle between the rebel strike crew on land (including Han Solo, Chewbacca, and Leia), the battle raging on in space (including Lando), and a confrontation between Luke and the Emperor on the new Death Star, which leads up to another duel with Darth Vader.  It is really intense since the rebels constantly seem to be losing the battle that will determine the outcome of the war, and there seems to be no escape. Although I think the idea of Ewoks overpowering stormtroopers is a bit far-fetched, it didn't seem very unrealistic since they were more of a distraction that the rebels could use, rather than an actual threat to the stormtroopers, although they did have some luck fighting them.  There is also a twist or two at the end that nobody saw coming, which may not be quite as stunning as that of "The Empire Strikes Back", but still complete a very spectacular trilogy very well.  With the light tone of "A New Hope" and the more sinnister tone of "The Empire Strikes Back", this film really completes them by combining the two in this grand finale.  The Special Edition for "Return of the Jedi" concentrated on what would have been nice to change, since not much of the original really needed it.  Fifteen years of technology advancements didn't seem to make up for fifteen years of deterioration as far as the rancor scene is concerned, and there still is the occasional disappearing TIE fighter, but other than that it was good. The gaping non-threatening Sarlaac's mouth was given moving tentacles and a huge fly-trap looking head that emerged, which definitely added to the suspense.  Also, the disco was taken out of Jabba's palace, and the lame ending of the original was replaced by a huge victory celebration spanning the entire galaxy, instead of just a small Ewok village, which was the case of the original and that didn't really end a story this big the way it deserved.  It's hard to say which of the three films was the best, but since it's all part of the same story, the over-all trilogy is like one big, outstanding film.  A THIRD must-see for film fans.


                
This movie is not as flawless as the first two but everything involved with that throne roome scenes were some of the highest points in the saga, the final lightsaber battle is just breathtaking and the lovely ending of it, those moments alone makes this one of the most underrated in the whole franchise and in my opinion it's better than a new hope.


                
This final entry in George Lucas's STAR WARS movies is often regarded as the weakest of the lot. However, this is not to say that it is a totally worthless entry in the series. On the contrary. Sure, it's not as groundbreaking as its predecessors and a bit more slow-going at times, but RETURN OF THE JEDI still offers a lot to warrant the price of admission.The first third of the movie, where Luke and his friends rescue Han from the palace of Jabba the Hutt, is a classic. Jabba, a truly disgusting blob of bloated flesh who speaks in his own language, not only makes a great villain, but a memorable one, too. It must have been a nightmare to construct this giant puppet, much less give it the spark and life that we see on the finished product. Actually, what also makes this sequence fun is the clever use of puppets for the various members of Jabba's court, including the intimidating, slavering Rancor and scary Sarlaac pit monster. It builds masterfully to its climax and pulls punches all the while.Things get a little bit slower around the second act, where Luke discovers that he and Leia are related by blood and when we travel to the forest planet of Endor, home of the cuddlesome yet stalwart Ewoks. Most of the complaints about RETURN OF THE JEDI that I've read seem to be centered on these furry creatures, in that they somehow disrupt the tone of the saga. I don't totally agree with that, although this moment is probably played out a bit longer than it should. However, their leader, Wicket (played by Warrick Davis) is a delightfully memorable creation, and watching how they handle the Imperial Troops' technology with their simple, natural weapons provides a nice contrast.By the time we get to the third act, though, the pace picks up again, as we intercut between the Ewoks battle against the troops, Lando and the Rebel Forces launching an attack against the Empire's all-new half-completed Death Star, and Luke's final showdown with Darth Vader and the Emperor. The latter ties with the Jabba Palace sequence as the highlight of the movie. Mark Hamill flexes his acting chops once again as Luke Skywalker in these scenes, and watching him as a fully matured Jedi Knight makes for an unforgettable performance. Also, as iconic as James Earl Jones' voice as Darth Vader is, he is rivaled only by the shriveled, crone-like Emperor, played with deliciously raspy, frightening evil by Ian McDiarmid. The tension between this trio heightens the excitement of this climactic moment, which is appropriately darkly lit and menacingly underscored.The STAR WARS movies have always set standards for special effects, and the technical work in RETURN OF THE JEDI can easily hold a candle to its predecessors. The space battle fights are as exhilarating as always, and the speeder bike chase through the forest is a knockout. Of course, given that this movie was made after A NEW HOPE and THE EMPIRE STRIKES BACK, it probably shouldn't be so surprising that the special effects have reached an even greater level of excellence. The acting is classic STAR WARS fare; Hamill, Harrison Ford and Carrie Fisher all mature and deepen into their roles, and Anthony Daniels provides more hilarious moments as C-3PO. Frank Oz's Yoda only appears in two scenes, but he makes the most of it. And yes, there's also John Williams' music.All told, while RETURN OF THE JEDI falters a little bit in the middle, the first and third acts deliver in style, making this a rather satisfactory finale to one of the greatest sagas ever.In 1997, George Lucas re-released the classic STAR WARS in digitally restored (and revamped) "Special Editions", which featured added-in effects and/or shots as well as some enhancements. Of the three, RETURN OF THE JEDI appears to have caused the most commotion with STAR WARS fans. Perhaps it can be due to the jarringly out-of-place (albeit funny if you're not so easily offended) "Jedi Rocks" musical number in Jabba's Palace, which, although technically amazing, does disrupt the flow of the film. However, I DID like the ending montage scenes where we see victory celebrations occurring on the various planets of the galaxy. This DVD version features yet more tweaking--we get to see more montage finale scenes (notably on Naboo, where we hear what sounds like Jar Jar Binks screaming, "Wesa free!"), and, in what is probably the most controversial change, Hayden Christensen as the specter of Anakin Skywalker in the closing scenes. Probably due to the intense (and unfair) disdain fans have for his somewhat shaky work in EPISODE II: ATTACK OF THE CLONES it seems inevitable that fans would put this edition down for that alone. However, if you're watching the STAR WARS saga chronologically (and contemplating about it), chances are you may react a little differently. Nonetheless, it is an issue that fans have raised, so it's probably best to be warned beforehand.As nice as it would be to have Lucas release the original versions of these three classic films, he nonetheless stands by what he said about these revamps being the "definitive" editions of his classic trilogy, and, when viewing the STAR WARS movies altogether as one complete saga (as Lucas intended), it actually makes sense to keep them technically and aurally consistent. The original films will always be engraved in our memories, but these new incarnations are just as much fun, if one can give them a chance.
Despite the feelings of most "Star Wars" fans, in my opinion "Return Of The Jedi" is the greatest cinematic film ever created. Ever since the first time I saw it, it's depth, intensity, special effects, and moving story have overwhelmed me. The film was so well put together that it has been able to stand the test of time over the last 20 years. Filled with powerful action, as the climax of the original trilogy, George Lucas gives us a rousing finish of the "Star Wars" saga in "Jedi".Film Summary (Contains Spoilers For Those Who Have Not Seen It)After "The Empire Strikes Back" left us hanging for 3 long years we finally find the end of the story in "Return Of The Jedi". Darth Vader, in emotional turmoil makes a surprise visit to a new uncompleted Death Star to oversee it's construction. The Emperor is first seen in this film as he has the ultimate plan to destroy the Rebel Alliance and bring young Luke Skywalker to the Dark Side. Luke, Lando, Leia, Chewie, and the droids all travel to Tatooine to rescue the frozen Han Solo from the crime Lord; Jabba The Hutt. After Han has been rescued, and Jabba defeated, Luke returns to Dagobah to find a dying Yoda where he learns the awful truth; Darth Vader is in fact his father. The rebel heroes regroup with the Rebel Fleet. Now joined by other species and races including the Mon Calamari the Rebels must make a all-or-nothing plan of attack to destroy the Death Star before it is completed. While Lando heads the space attack in the Millennium Falcon, the Rebel heroes must disable the Death Star's shield generator on the Forest Moon Of Endor. It is here that the Rebels happen upon the furry, but mighty Ewoks. During the the two part intense battle, a third battle must take place as Luke willingly delivers himself to Vader in an attempt to convince him to leave the Dark Side. In emotionally charged sequences Luke must face his father as the Emperor lures out his dark emotions. As young Skywalker is about to face his death at the hands of Palpatine, Vader turns on his wicked master to save his son's life. Filled with a deep timeless story of good vs. evil, "Return Of The Jedi" is a spectacular, emotionally charged film that redeems the good in all of us.
Return of the Jedi is certainly the most action packed of the series, and is a fine conclusion to the Star Wars Saga. With Han Solo imprisoned by Jabba the Hut and the Empire building a new Death Star, the rebel alliance is facing an uphill struggle against the dark side, and only our favourite heroes can pull it off.The Opening sequence, set on Tatooine, we see Jabba's palace, a pit of slavery and scum, and new home to Han Solo, as Luke and the gang prepare for his rescue, and with Luke's Jedi powers, they have the edge.We also witness a tremendous triple battle at the end. Han, Leia and Chewy battle it out on Endor, desperate to deactivate the shields protecting the Death Star. The Rebel Fleet led by Lando, battle with the Imperial Fleet while they wait for the shields to go down, and Luke has a final showdown with Darth Vader. An Epic end to a Classic Saga, and it's only just of the pace of the first two.10/10
After ''Empire strikes back'' ''Return of the Jedi'' is my second favorite movie from the Star Wars series.Luke went to Tattoine to save Han Solo from Jabba. At the same time, the Galactic Empire is doing in secret, the construction of a new space station like the previous Death Star. If this station stays totally constructed, it will be the end of the Rebel Alliance. Both Vader and the Emperor are impatient because of the delay of the new Death Star,and they need to kill many of their commanders to have the project made in schedule.R2 and C3po are inside Jabba's palace to send a message from Luke to Jabba,where Lukes pretends to negotiate Han's life. He gives R2 and C3po as a gift to Jabba as part of his plan. Jabba does not accept the negotiation,since he is using Han Solo as a piece of his palace's decoration.(Han still is frozen in carbonite) Lando is hidden as Jabba's guard and Chewbacca is also gave to Jabba by a reward hunter. When the same Hunter tries to save Han solo and makes him stay in human form again, we see that is actually princess Leia in a disguise. The problem is that Jabba discovers Leia's plan and takes her as his slave,while Han is thrown away in Chewbacca's cell.Luke comes as a Jedi knight to rescue his friends. At his first try to kill Jabba,he falls into Jabba's monster cell (Bantha),but easily kills it. Jabba stays angry and decides to thrown Han,Chewbacca and Luke to Sarlacc, a big creature from the desert who stays 1.000 years digesting it's 'food'. Luke,Han and Chewie has success in scape again, and even Boba Fett dies when Han accidentally throws him in to Sarlacc's mouth. Leia kills Jabba and goes after Han,Luke and Chewie as well c3po and R2. Everybody's safe again,Luke decides to go to Dagoba to complete his training as a Jedi,as well his promise to Yoda. The problem is that Yoda is too old and sick, since he already has 900 years old, and before he dies, Yoda says to Luke that he does not need more training,but to really be a Jedi, he must fight with Vader again. He confirms to Luke that Vader is Luke's dad, and that there is another Skywalker besides Luke. In his last moments, Yoda asks to Luke to remember his advices about the temptation of the dark side, and to Luke transmit his Jedi knowledge to other people. When Yoda dies,Obi wan's spirit shows up to Luke and tells him that Luke's father killed his good side Anakin to become Darth Vader, and also that he is more machine than a man since he became a sith. Luke stays worried about killing his own dad, and says that he feels that his father still has kindness. Obi Wan tells Luke that his twin sister is Leia, and says the reasons why Luke and Leia were separated since babies. He gives his last advice to Luke saying that if he refuses to kill Vader, the emperor will win the war.At the same time, the Emperor says to Vader that he must give Luke to him when he shows up, since Luke is stronger than before, and they both needs to combine their efforts to bring Luke to the dark side.Now we are going to have one of the best battles from the star war series,when the Rebel Alliance plans to attack the new space station, the '' Death Star 2'', Luke will confront Vader and the Emperor, and Leia, Han and chewie needs to turn off the 'Death star 2' power field, with the help of the EWOKS. (little creatures who looks little bears)This is for sure one of the most exciting star wars of all!
After watching A New Hope and The Empire Strikes Back, it's time to watch the final chapter of the Star Wars film franchise, The Return of the Jedi.It stars Mark Hamill, Harrison Ford, Carrie Fisher, Billy Dee Williams, David Prowse, Frank Oz, Anthony Daniels, etc.The Empire is more than halfway through construction of a new Death Star - almost twice as big, but more than twice as powerful. When completed, it will spell certain doom for Luke Skywalker (Mark Hamill) and the Rebels. Han Solo (Harrison Ford) is a prisoner of crime lord Jabba the Hutt, and Princess Leia (Carrie Fisher) soon finds herself in the gangster's hands. Luke Skywalker, aided by C-3PO and R2-D2, makes his way into Jabba's palace, hoping to secure his friends' freedom. But the Hutt has no intention of doing so and tries to kill them all. After escaping from Jabba and the sands of Tatooine, they regroup with the Rebel fleet, which is massing for an attack against the new satellite battle station at Endor. Lando Calrissian (Billy Dee Williams) is pressed into action to lead the Rebel fighter attack, while Han is put in charge of a group of soldiers to take out the shield generator protecting the Death Star. Luke, however, surrenders to Vader's soldiers on Endor, and is taken in front of Vader's boss - the Galactic Emperor - on the Death Star for final corruption to the Dark Side of the Force. The fleet of Imperial Star Destroyers ambushes the Rebels, cutting them off. Worse, the new Death Star begins turning its giant laser on the Rebel carriers. It appears that nothing will stop the Empire's triumph - unless things start to change quickly.I thought it was a great end to the Star Wars series.But in 1999, the story took itself back into the beginning with Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace and ended with Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith.So far, I'm finished with the Star Wars original trilogies, and there will be more reviews in the summer.Star Wars Episode VI: Return of the Jedi gets 10 stars.


                
This film is how Star Wars should be carried out. Great characters and great serious story line. No comedy in this luke the new films and real Jedi powers that have taken training to learn..
This film is fantastic and Disney has a lot to learn. I loved it and to me it's the best Star Wars film.


                
I thought that ROTJ was clearly the best out of the three Star Wars movies. I find it surprising that ROTJ is considered the weakest installment in the Trilogy by many who have voted. To me it seemed like ROTJ was the best because it had the most profound plot, the most suspense, surprises, most emotional,(especially the ending) and definitely the most episodic movie. I personally like the Empire Strikes Back a lot also but I think it is slightly less good than than ROTJ since it was slower-moving, was not as episodic, and I just did not feel as much suspense or emotion as I did with the third movie.It also seems like to me that after reading these surprising reviews that the reasons people cited for ROTJ being an inferior film to the other two are just plain ludicrous and are insignificant reasons compared to the sheer excellence of the film as a whole. I have heard many strange reasons such as: a) Because Yoda died b) Because Bobba Fett died c) Because small Ewoks defeated a band of stormtroopers d) Because Darth Vader was revealedI would like to debunk each of these reasons because I believe that they miss the point completely. First off, WHO CARES if Bobba Fett died??? If George Lucas wanted him to die then he wanted him to die. Don't get me wrong I am fan of Bobba Fett but he made a few cameo appearances and it was not Lucas' intention to make him a central character in the films that Star Wars fans made him out to be. His name was not even mentioned anywhere in the movie... You had to go to the credits to find out Bobba Fett's name!!! Judging ROTJ because a minor character died is a bit much I think... Secondly, many fans did not like Yoda dying. Sure, it was a momentous period in the movie. I was not happy to see him die either but it makes the movie more realistic. All the good guys can't stay alive in a realistic movie, you know. Otherwise if ALL the good guys lived and ALL the bad guys died this movie would have been tantamount to a cheesy Saturday morning cartoon. Another aspect to this point about people not liking Yoda's death.. Well, nobody complained when Darth Vader struck down Obi Wan Kenobi in A New Hope. (Many consider A New Hope to be the best of the Trilogy)  Why was Obi Wan's death okay but Yoda's not... hmmmmmmmmmmmm.... Another reason I just can not believe was even stated was because people found cute Ewoks overpowering stormtroopers to be impossible. That is utterly ridiculous!! I can not believe this one!! First off, the Ewoks are in their native planet Endor so they are cognizant of their home terrain since they live there. If you watch the movie carefully many of the tactics the Ewoks used in defeating the stormtroopers was through excellent use of their home field advantage. (Since you lived in the forest all your life I hope you would have learned to use it to your advantage) They had swinging vines, ropes, logs set up to trip those walkers, and other traps. The stormtroopers were highly disadvantaged because they were outnumbered and not aware of the advantages of the forest. The only thing they had was their blasters. To add,  it was not like the Ewoks were battling the stormtroopers themselves, they were heavily assisted by the band of rebels in that conquest. I thought that if the stormtroopers were to have defeated a combination of the Star Wars heros, the band of rebels, as well as the huge clan of Ewoks with great familiarity of their home terrain, that would have been a great upset. Lastly, if this scene was still unbelievable to you.. How about in Empire Strikes Back or in A New Hope where there were SEVERAL scenes of a group consisting of just Han Solo, Chewbacca, and the Princess, being shot at by like ten stormtroopers and all their blasters missed while the heros were in full view!! And not only that, the heroes , of course, always hit the Stormtroopers with their blasters. The troopers must have VERY, VERY bad aim then! At least in Empire Strikes Back, the Battle of Endor was much more believable since you had two armies pitted each other not 3 heroes against a legion of stormtroopers. Don't believe me? Check out the battle at Cloud City when our heroes were escaping Lando's base. Or when our heros were rescuing Princess Leia and being shot at  (somehow they missed)as Han Solo and Luke were trying to exit the Death Star.The last reason that I care to discuss (others are just too plain ridiculous for me to spend my time here.) is that people did not like Darth Vader being revealed! Well, in many ways that was a major part of the plot in the movie. Luke was trying to find whether or not Darth Vader was his father, Annakin Skywalker. It would have been disappointing if the movie had ended without Luke getting to see his father's face because it made it complete. By Annakin's revelation it symbolized the transition Darth Vader underwent from being possessed by the dark side (in his helmet) and to the good person he was Annakin Skywalker (by removing the helmet). The point is that Annakin died converted to the light side again and that is what the meaning of the helmet removal scene was about. In fact, that's is what I would have done in that scene too if I were Luke's father...Isn't that what you would have done if you wanted to see your son with your own eyes before you died and not in a mechanized helmet?On another note, I think a subconscious or conscious expectation among most people is that the sequel MUST be worse (even if it is better) that preceding movies is another reason that ROTJ does not get as many accolades as it deserves. I never go into a film with that deception in mind, I always try to go into a film with the attitude that "Well, it might be better or worse that the original .. But I can not know for sure.. Let's see." That way I go with an open mind and do not dupe myself into thinking that a clearly superior film is not as good as it really was.I am not sure who criticizes these movies but, I have asked many college students and adults about which is their favorite Star Wars movie and they all tell me (except for one person that said that A New Hope was their favorite) that it is ROTJ. I believe that the results on these polls are appalling and quite misleading.Bottom line, the Return of the Jedi was the best of the Trilogy. This movie was the only one of the three that kept me riveted all throughout its 135 minutes. There was not a moment of boredom because each scene was either suspenseful, exciting, surprising, or all of the above. For example, the emotional light saber battle between Luke and his father in ROTJ was better than the one in the Empire Strikes Back any day!!!Finally, I hope people go see the Phantom Menace with an open mind because if fans start looking for nitpicky, insignificant details (or see it as "just another sequel") to trash the movie such as "This movie stinks because Luke is not in it!" then this meritorious film will become another spectacular movie that will be the subject of derision like ROTJ suffered unfortunately.


                
This is the absolutely best movie ever made!! None of all the new movies out there can ever compete with "Return of the Jedi". I think this is the movie of the century, definitely. All Star Wars movies are great but this is the best!! If you haven't seen it yet, go rent it this very second, you won't regret it, I can assure you that!!


                
Thanks to Kevin Smith, a bunch of geeks are running around saying that Return of the Jedi isn't any good because it's actually fun to watch.  And oh no!  Muppets are involved!  That makes it bad!  Everyone liked Return of the Jedi until someone in a Kevin Smith movie made a negative comment about it.  Now all of a sudden people people look at you like you have some kind of disease if you mention how much you like it.  This movie is so much better than anything Kevin Smith ever even considered creating that it boggles my mind that the man would even think of denouncing it.  This movie is good fun!  It's just as awesome as I remember it being when I was six! Enjoy this movie for what it is and stop stealing Kevin Smith's opinions! His aren't correct!And that Ewok song at the end ruled!  I bet you people don't even enjoy "Ewoks: Battle for Endor"!!!!  I'm going to set you all on fire!


                
Despite the original Star Wars trilogy being considered one of the greatest trilogies of all time it's final instalment Return of The Jedi is only considered to be good and I have to say that not only do I think this movie is on par with the past two entries, I actually think this is better than them. A large part of why I love this movie so much is how satisfying it is, the entire trilogy has built up to the events in this film, so we're completely invested in the characters and situation, it all came together perfectly. All the characters in this film are different than they were in the last two films and if adds to there characters to see that there are still consequences to every action they take. I thought that The Emperor was a fantastic villain for this film as we truly realise just how powerful he is and it was interesting to see how he controlled Vader. The physiological and physical war that goes on between Luke and Darth Vader is done perfectly, now only is is incredibly intense but it's also very Eye opening to see a more personal fight for Vader and we understand just how much the emperor has taken from him. The final three way battle against the empire and the Death Star is done just right because we understand just how much the characters need to rely on each other to succeed, all the arcs feed into each other and I found it to be extremely well done. Now I wanted to address in this review some of the most common complaints with this film and why I disagree with them, for one I thought it was an interesting idea to bring in a second Death Star because it created a new sense of urgency as we know from the get go in this film, the power that it possesses and I thought the way they destroy it in this film was better executed than in the original. While most people were willing to understand that complaint, the Ewoks are extremely hated upon when talking about this film but I really liked the idea of them and found it somewhat inspiring that they went up against the empire. The most powerful scene in this film is that of Vader funeral it was an extremely personal scene and thought that ten silence of Luke staring at his fathers bodies was extremely heartfelt and was a satisfying conclusion to the arc they have built across the series. I really do think that this film was the best Star Wars films, it's got all the characters back in satisfying and well done ways, all the character arcs all come to a close nicely and the final scene of this film was just a perfect way to wrap up the trilogy and will always make this one of my favourite movies of all time and one of my favourite sequels of all time. 100%/A+
never has a sequel much less the third installment of a trilogy ever captured the hearts and minds of the people of an age as well as the "definitive vision" of george lucas' star wars: return of the jedi. some so-called "fans" of star wars dare to call this the least effective of the trilogy; they argue that everything was too simply resolved. to these overstressed cynics and self-proclaimed critics i ask simply: have you ever actually sat down with a bucket of popcorn in your lap and a pepsi in your hand and just enjoyed the greatest science fiction movie, if not the greatest movie of all times. the final resolution between luke and his estranged father could not have been portrayed any better than it was. luke "found" the good in anakin long after all else had given up on him. also, the scene in which luke severed vader's hand and looked at his own robotic hand caused him to recall the lesson he had learned in the dagoba system in "the empire strikes back"; he had learned in the cave as he faced the imaginary vader that if he struck out of fear and hate vader's fate would become his own. the unmasking of darth was the perfect solution. lucas took the ominous and evil vader and, by removing his helmet, exposed a vulnerable and kind man.Finally, in response to certain dogmatists' complaints that all conflicts are settled to perfectly, this is only because of george lucas' incredibly ingenious plot and plot line that without effort or omission of theme finalized itself in a most incredible manner. One must also remember that this movie and movies like it are, in literary terms, considered "escape fiction," which, unlike "thematic fiction," centers itself around plot. in escape fiction the watcher, reader, or listener expects to "get away" into another time, place, or even universe, and when the spectator puts himself in the position of the hero he doesn't like it to end in a negative way.in summary, if you don't like happy endings go read hemingway; however, if you enjoy action-filled, thought-provoking, suspense-building, adrenaline-pumping sagas with visual effects and plot-lines that paved the way for science fiction as we know it. go out right now and rent or buy the greatest movie of all time: Star Wars VI: The Return of the Jedi.


                
What can I say? Return of the Jedi is the second best movie ever made (Next to The Empire Strikes Back) It has everything, good special effects, good acting, interesting story line, and most of all, it is the conclusion to the STAR WARS TRILOGY. One warning, if you see this movie get the original edition (It's much better) and invite the entire family. From the E-Walks to Jaba the Hut you will not be able to leave this movie for a second. So that is why I give it 10 out of 10


                
Many like Empire Strikes Back, they are all good but this is my favourite.


                
Contrary to what others may say, I feel that this film is just as strong as its predecessors. It has the highly entertaining battle at Tatooine at the beginning and the epic battle between father and son at the end. It's just sad that this movie was the most butchered by Lucas in the re-release.


                
By far the greatest episode in the saga! Great story, acting, creatures and amazing ending to the franchise!..... pre Disney ;)


                
This movie will always be awesome I love the ewoks so cute so brave. I bet starwars fans can finally appreciate them after seeing the porgs from the awesome new star wars movie the last jedi LOL sorry to soon? Love this movie Jabba Boba fett the crazy laughing critter the golden 2 piece. .. the humor the romance the FORCE the drama..starwars is life.. at least the original trilogy.


                
Chronologically Return of the Jedi was meant to be the last we saw of Star Wars, until Disney poked their nose that is.All the loose ties were resolved and the story reached its inevitable climax, Darth Vader redeemed himself and the Empire is no more.Many people slate this installment labeling it the weakest in the saga, but if that is true and Return of the Jedi is the weakest, then that simply illustrates the overall quality of Star Wars, it is still a world class film.If Empire Strikes Back was a dark and gritty film, then Return of the Jedi is the polar opposite, it is more palatable and aimed more at a younger audience, Ewoks anyone?The first portion of the film, taking place back on Tatooine, is well worked, staving off the main focus momentarily to indulge in the disgusting world of slug-like Jabba the Hutt, yes there is a reason woven into the main story for this, our heroes have to regroup and save Han Solo from his imprisonment encased in carbonite. The whole first act is a slow burner, hooking the audience before the second portion of the film begins.During a brief visit to the swamp world of Dagobah, Luke witnesses his little green mentor, Yoda, die, but not before a huge revelation is made, that he in fact has a sister (wonder who that could be huh?)The second portion of the film is then staged, our heroes alongside the Rebellion hatch a master plan to take down the new Death Star and cripple the Empire for good. But of course it's not that easy, hiccups along the way there are but alas somehow the Rebellion pulls it off, the second Death Star is destroyed, the Empire is indeed mortally crippled..., but that isn't the biggest story.Luke confronts his father one last time in the presence of the Emperor, mortally wounded and inches away from certain death, Luke calls out to his father, grasping tightly at any goodness that may be left in the half-man half-robot, just as you think it's all over, Vader rises up and throws the Emperor to his death, fatally wounding himself in the process.The cycle is complete, the former Anakin Skywalker has come good and redeemed himself, dying in his sons arms.Like all three of the original Star Wars films, Return of the Jedi has an ace plot and a very simple story that doesn't take much to understand.The visual effects are, as should be expected, at a very high standard: Jabba's sail barge, his palace in the desert, the design of the second Death Star, everything is immaculately polished and just looks REAL.Han and Leia's love cycle is wrapped up at the end, and we wish them a very happy life together (until The Force Awakens came along and completely spoiled it) A lovely film there by George Lucas, and not even the obligatory tampering and changes he has to make to all his film's could spoil it.You want a genuine film that can make you smile and fill you with a satisfying sense of nostalgia, well my friend just watch Return of the Jedi.
Even though The Empire Strikes Back was the better constructed film, THIS is the one I love the most. Why? Well, let's just get the nitpicks out of the way.Ewoks. They are cute... and somehow serve a purpose, but my GOD how I wish they were Wookies or something. That said, I didn't find them INSULTING and though it lacked a bit of maturity, there is still a strong message of science vs nature, wood trampling steel.Bike chase. Though pointless, still really cool and maybe that's the best word to describe this movie, "cool." I would have liked it so the last words were Luke saying "May the force be with you." in the final scene but I think that's an idea that came too late (though I wouldn't mind Hamill or a Hamill sound alike adding in that last line).And... Actually, that's it in terms of nitpicks.It might not be as strong as a film overall compared to Empire, but it has the most powerful moments. Leia and Han reuniting and professing their love (in a very unique way I might add), the whole Jabba scene somehow never overstayed its welcome despite being too long, it was still well paced, designed and acted... And of course, Leia's slave outfit, enough said.Luke finally understanding his family was a real thought provoker and believing that his father might still have good in him is beyond inspiring. Then there were the show stealing supporting characters, like Jabba the Hutt, Mon Mothma, Wedge Antilles, pretty much all of the Imperial Officers and of course, Admiral Ackbar! The face that launched 1,000 memes. The late Erik Baursfeld gave a magnificent performance as this galactic fish, you somehow felt he had a history, that he knew what he was doing and that nothing would shake him (except for one moment which ANYONE can understand) and his rich, gravelly voice was just perfect for him! Then, there was the Emperor... Oh GOD! He looked like something out of a horror movie! That deep, crackling voice and his presence is just HELLISH! Yes there were times when he was a bit "goofy" but it worked in a way that just makes you uncomfortable. just when he first meets Luke and says "You no longer need those"-it is just UNSETTLING! Ian McDiarmid played the role perfectly.On that note, Return of the Jedi perhaps has the best acting in all of the Star Wars films. THIS is the one where Hamill deserved an Oscar nod at the very least, just the final moments alone where we explored Luke's rage, then his conviction, it's just a marvel to watch. James Earl Jones' voice performance made Vader very three dimensional here, this is the movie where we started to understand Vader more and perhaps even feel sorry for him as well as completely fear him, it leaves you vexed in the right way. Frank Oz as Yoda... What more do I need to say? he was splendid, thought provoking and heart breaking.Ford and Fisher were splendid as always. Williams especially showed more depth as Lando Calrissian in this film, showing his sense of honor and faith in his friends despite going through the worst of it.Which brings me to the last part: The action. All the fighting that happened with Jabba was practically perfect, though I do wish Luke used the force more often in the rancor fight but that's more than made up with one big thing: The battle of Endor! It is easily still the greatest battle in all of Star Wars and perhaps in the running for the best in all of Sci Fi. The space battle was constantly thrilling, you felt like you were there. The battle on the ground was equally as exhilarating, even scary at times (even with the Ewoks) and easily the best looking saber fight in the original trilogy. Though the drama lasted longer in Empire, this is the where it looks like they are trying to strike each other rather than simply tap swords. The other reason why this action is so amazing, besides the amazing visuals and choreography is that the emotions all match perfectly! You can feel Lando's frustration during the battle, you can feel Han's desperation mixing with his confidence in his abilities, you can see Leia's courage and pain, then of course... Luke's inner struggle. Even the side characters and extras, all of it is on par with the leads! That's what makes Return of the Jedi so great: The problems aren't that big of an issue because everything else is so good, even perfect in some spots. The ending is very fitting, especially the 1997 edition extension (not the DVD version, that was an insult to Sebastian Shaw).Obviously this gets 10 stars from me. It is my favorite Star Wars movie for a good reason.


                
This movie is quite honestly the best I've ever seen in my entire life. It is the ultimate Star Wars movie, with the fun adventure element from the first film and the dramatic imagery from the second. It has been a film I have enjoyed since my childhood, and it can find a place in any time of your life. It has exotic locations and characters, with my favorite being Jabba the Hutt (whom I aspire to be like in ten years). It truly is a work of Sci-Fi masterpiece.


                
This is my favorite movie of all time! Return of the Jedi is a perfect film. It starts off on Tatooine where we finally get to see see Luke as a Jedi Knight. We get an incredible action scene at Jabba's Palace. Luke defeats a Rancor and then destroys the entire barge (We wanted to see Luke wreck havoc for a long time and finally got it).We then get to see Yoda one last time in a great emotional scene where Yoda confirms that Luke is indeed Vader's father and passes away. We then realize that we must go to Endor to shut the shield generator down to destroy Death Star II. When we get to Endor we get one of the best scenes in the entire movie. We get a very suspenseful speeder bike chase. The visual effects and sound in these scenes are truly some of the best in the entire trilogy. We then meet the most controversial part about the original trilogy and that is the ewoks. I personally love the ewoks, it is about the over lapping story of David vs. Goliath. Don't let anybody fool you, these things are pure evil. During the film you will see them trying to eat our main hero's, kill stormtroopers, beat on the decapitated stormtroopers heads as drums at the end of the film.But the reason this film sets it apart from the other films is the ending, we get the best ending of any film ever. It cuts from Lando and Nien Nunb flying the falcon with the rebellion trying to destroy the second death star, which is still no doubt the best space battle ever put to cinema to Han, Chewbacca, and Leia on Endor fighting with the ewoks to get the shield generator down, to the ultimate climax of the series when we see Luke confronting Vader and the Emperor. The dialog between the Luke and The Emperor in these scenes are top notch and the best in the trilogy. This then turns into a great duel between Luke and Vader! Luke besting Vader this time around now that he is a Jedi Knight. Luke cuts Vader's arm off and realizes that if he lets his emotions get the best of him and kills his father, he will be no better than Vader and become just like him. The Emperor then aging Luke on to kill Vader, Luke turns around throws his lightsaber and says "You failed your highness, I am a jedi like my father before me!" This is my favorite line because Luke has overcome the dark side and beaten the Emperor. The Emperor after failing to convert Luke to the dark side try's to kill him by electrocuting him. Vader is watching the Emperor do this to his own son and you see Luke crying out to his father to save him, you see the conflict in Vader as he looks back and forth from Luke to Vader he then redeems himself and saves Luke by picking up the Emperor and throwing him over the rail to his death. In this process Vader was electrocuted by the Emperor and we see that he is about to die. We then see Luke carry Vader's body to his ship to try and escape the death star II before it explodes. Vader tells Luke the he wants to see him without the mask. Vader then tell's Luke that he was right. We then see Luke have a pyro burial for his father and he is the only one in attendance, that was always extremely powerful for me. Luke then goes and celebrates with Han, Leia, Chewbacca, Lando, Wedge, R2D2, and C- 3PO on their impossible victory over the Empire.This is truly the best ending anyone could have asked for and the best redemption story ever put to the big screen while finishing the greatest trilogy of all time! In Return of the Jedi I always would like to point out that the music from John Williams is incredible just like it is in his other films, but also the acting from the cast is the strongest in this film. Please definitely give this a watch and thank you so much Richard Marquand for creating my favorite film of all time!
Luke (Mark Hamill), Leia (Carrie Fisher), Lando (Billy Dee Williams), Chewbacca (Peter Mayhew), C-3PO and R2-D2 go to Taooine to rescue Han Solo (Harrison Ford) from the powerful criminal Jabba the Hutt. After many fights, they are well succeeded in their mission. The group returns to the Rebel Alliance base while Luke heads to Dagobah to finish his training with Yoda; however the Jedi is dying and he confirms that Darth Vader (David Prowse) is his father and Luke also learns that he has a sister, Leia. Meanwhile the rebels discover that the Empire is building a new Death Star more powerful than the first one that is protected by an energy shield generated by a generator in planet Endor. Luke and his group goes to the forest in the planet to destroy the generator while Lando and the rebels wait for the right moment to attack the station. The group in Endor teams-up with the inhabitants, Ewoks, to fight against the Imperial troops but they are captured in a trap; Luke is brought to Darth Vader but he refuses to fight against his father. When he meets the Emperor (Ian McDiarmid), he tries to bring Luke to the dark side of the Force. What will happen to Luke and the rebels? "Star Wars: Episode VI - Return of the Jedi" is the last episode of the fantastic saga. In 1983, this film was a sensation and now, in 2015, it has not lost the impact. On the contrary, now watching the episodes in sequence the viewer can see that George Lucas had the whole story in details in his mind. And now let's see the next episode. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil): "O Retorno de Jedi" ("The Return of the Jedi")


                
