Perspective is a good thing.  Since the release of "Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace", claims and counter-claims of just how Episode's II and III will eventuate has taken the spotlight off the 'original' Star Wars films, making them part of a cohesive whole, rather than segregating the older and new films into separate trilogies.  What the new films have done is allow fresh perspectives to be placed on the older films.  This new outlook allows us to greater appreciate what has often been viewed as the weakest of the original trilogy: "Return of the Jedi".  Often derided for its overly 'cute' factor, ROTJ is in a sense as strong as the original and only slightly less impressive than the nearly perfect "The Empire Strikes Back".  Indeed the 'cute' element of ROTJ, namely the Ewoks, remains a weak link in the entire series.  Did George Lucas place the furry midgets in the film purely for the merchandising possibilities?  Only he can answer that question.This cute factor aside, the film is a brilliant full circle AND evolution of the saga.  Following on from the conclusion of "The Empire Strikes Back", Luke Skywalker (Mark Hamill) follows his Rebel Alliance friends to Tatooine, his home planet, to rescue Han Solo (Harrison Ford), the space pirate turned Rebel hero who was captured by Jabba the Hutt for overdue debts.
Skywalker is a changed man since leaving Tatooine with Ben 'Obi Wan' Kenobi (Alec Guiness) to fight the evil Empire.  Now swathed all in black, Luke's discovery of his origins have left him confused and torn.  His psychological make up is not as strong as his outward appearance would suggest.  While he might aim to always assist his Rebel friends, he yearns for another chance to confront the evil Darth Vader again, despite his unassuredness as to whether he will destroy him or eventually turn to the Dark Side and join Vader at the Emperor's side.Early scenes in Tatooine are impressive, from Jabba's lair, to his floating palace and the 'almighty Sarlac' - an intenstine that lives in the sand. Lucas' CGI enhancements to the film in 1997 actually worsened the overall effect of the Sarlac, making it look fake and overdone.
The battle scene on Tatooine is outstanding, and is one of the more memorable of the saga.  Luke almost singlehandedly anihiliates Jabba and his cronies, proving his prowess as a Jedi is now almost complete.When Luke returns to the Degobah system to visit the ailing Yoda one more time, the viewer is let down by Yoda's distinct lack of screentime. Undoubtably the star of "The Empire Strikes Back", Yoda is all but erased from the story as the progression of Luke's destiny is played out on screen.
ROTJ really is Luke's film, perhaps even more so than the original.  His journey carries the movie as he moves closer to his confrontation with Darth Vader and his fate.  The other Rebel characters certainly work in his shadow.  The romance between Leia (Carrie Fisher) and Solo is all but non-existant, unlike in "Empire".  In fact only Leia's character is developed in ROTJ, Solo's character seems to fade as the facets of his personality have become too familiar in the first two films.Their roles are consigned to working alongside the Rebels to destroy an all new Death Star that nears completion.  This time the Emperor himself is overseeing the final stages of construction.  The Empire intends to crush the Rebellion once and for all, while the Emperor himself schemes to bring the now powerful Skywalker to his side to work alongside (or is that replace?) Darth Vader.  The Emperor is a different kind of evil for this film, less cunning than Governor Tarkin (Peter Cushing) from "Star Wars", more deeply psychologically dark than anything else.  Played brilliantly by Ian McDiarmid, the Emperor is just one of those characters you love to hate.All the other actors are well entrenched in their roles.  Hamill surprises as the more wisened Luke, making his character's progression from whiny teenager, impatient student to enlightened warrior one of the few real character developments of the series.  Ford's role is waring thin, as all his charm and charisma was spent in the first two films -- he was the REAL star of the first film after all.  Fisher's Leia is more of a prop, at least unti the end of the film where she learns things about herself that she was never sure about...  Add in favourites like Alec Guiness as Kenobi, Yoda and the loveable Chewbacca, C-3PO and R2D2 and the series resembles a family more than a cast.Despite the film's corny forest battle involving the Ewoks and the Empire, it ends well and includes a three way battle sequence: on Endor, in space and on the Death Star, each with very impressive special effects.  The music, as always, is brilliant and captures the mood perfectly in every instance.  Just as the 'Blue Danube' worked perfectly for "2001: A Space Odyssey", John Williams' score is as much a part of "Star Wars" folklore as light sabers and the Force.Lucas left the ending open to interpretation, meaning there could have been more episodes made.  Indeed sci-fi fans have created their own versions of Episodes VII, VIII and IX in their heads over and over again.  ROTJ works when given a chance, and furry cute animals aside is a good finish to the series.When all six episodes get to be viewed together, this saga could well be the best ever made.  Is it already?  The addition of Episode I changed the landscape of the series.  This is why "Return of the Jedi" can now be viewed in a different light and be given a whole new appreciation nearly 20 years after its release.


                
In many ways, Return of the Jedi cut firmly against the brilliant grain set by Empire Strikes Back. The reason Empire was so effective was that it showed us the rebels were still losing, you can't just destroy the Death Star and have everything go away. But here, Lucas rounds out the trilogy with another climactic space battle and everything wraps up really nicely with no questions ask. Return of the Jedi is clearly the least impressive of the original trilogy. It is full of holes, tonal inconsistencies and plot implausibilities. I'd chalk this up to Richard Marquand not being half as competent as Irvin Kershner, and the departure of Gary Kurtz from the project. Kurtz reportedly left because he and Lucas couldn't agree on whether story or spectacle should take priority (Lucas was obviously in favour of spectacle), and you can tell because Return of the Jedi's story makes absolutely no sense in places.The opening sequences in Jabba's palace entertained me to no end as a child, but now it just confuses me. How long has it been since Empire Strikes Back? Didn't Lando and Chewie go in to try and rescue Han? Chewie and the droids are turned over to Jabba, but Leia seems ready to get Han out of there and leave them behind. Was it the plan to get captured? Was Luke's plan to get captured? Since when can Luke do Jedi mind tricks? Did Luke go back and train with Yoda for a year, and if so, why wasn't "is Vader really my father" not asked then? The film's screenplay is quite messy and doesn't flow on from the rest of the saga. In one typical scene, Yoda admonishes Luke for rushing off to face Vader without proper training, then says he doesn't need anymore training and only when he confronts Vader will he be a Jedi. Again, maybe some concrete evidence on how long has passed would help. This film is the point where the story meant little to Lucas and the details even less (Solo is promoted from Captain to General where all he did was get frozen in carbonite, and Calrissian walks off the street into the role of General!). I've always regarded Darth Vader quite lowly on my list of movie villains, and watching Star Wars and Empire Strikes Back I found myself wondering why. I now realise its because Return of the Jedi completely nukes him. The idea of there still being good in Vader comes completely out of nowhere - he tortured his son with the knowledge that his father is the most evil man in the galaxy and then chopped his hand off and let him fall to his likely death. The addition of Emperor Palpatine also relegates Darth Vader to a side character - during the conversations between Luke and the Emperor, Vader sort of stands diffently to the side and chips in with the occasional "yeah. what he said." Palpatine's character development pretty much begins and ends with "evil" - he seems so sure that Luke will join him, yet Luke's battle with the dark side emerges only as a plot point in those scenes. Even if Luke turns to the dark side, what will make him join Palpatine? The expanded universe implies more information about this, but its not very well established here. The execution is pretty inconsistent - Luke goes from being Alec Guinness-style calm to flailing his lightsaber around like he's never held one before. Now that I mention it, Mark Hamill seems to be playing two characters simultaneously. I've covered what I didn't like, but this is a Star Wars film and there's so much to love. The epic space battle at the second Death Star only reminds me how much I missed it in Empire Strikes Back. Ford is having a lot of fun in this movie, and the rest of the cast delivers pretty solidly as well. The gorgeously shot introduction of Red Guards in stark contrast with the white stormtroopers is a beautiful throwback to Vader's black/white contrast in the original Star Wars, and once again, it tells us the bars have been raised. The sound editing/mixing is always in good form in Star Wars - my favourite scene being a harsh lightsaber ignition sound just as Luke says Vader won't hurt him or turn him over to Palpatine. The Battle of Endor walks a narrow line between cheesy and genuinely exciting, and Marquand keeps the Ewoks just shy of the Gungans.Return of the Jedi is a really fun movie, but its not a cinematic artwork like its predecessors. I grew up watching this film, but when I read about where the story would have gone were it not for Lucas' toy revenue - the death of Han Solo and a tired Luke walking into the distance like an old Western - I'd be lying if I said the film's sickly sweet dance party ending didn't stick in my craw just a bit.
This film is to my mind the weakest film in the original Star Wars trilogy, for a variety of reasons. However it emerges at the end of the day a winner, despite all its flaws. It's still a very good film, even if a lot of its quality depends on the characters that have been built up in the superior 2 installments.One problem here is the look of the film, which isn't very consistent with the other 2 films. I put a lot of that down to the departure of producer Gary Kurtz. The first 2 films have that dirty, lived-in look with all the technology and so forth. In "Jedi" on the other hand even the rebels look like they just stepped out of a shower and had their uniforms dry cleaned. This makes for a much less textured film. Also the creatures were excessively muppet-like and cutesy. At this point it seems like the film-makers were more concerned with creating the templates for future action figures than with the quality of the film itself.Another aspect is its lack of originality. Where "Star Wars" created a whole new experience in cinema and "Empire" brought us to alien worlds of swamps, ice, and clouds, "Jedi" lamely re-cycled the locations of the first film. First we are back on the desert planet Tatooine, and then we are watching them face ANOTHER death star (maybe the emperor couldn't think of anything new... but you'd think Lucas or Kasdan could). Also we have these ewoks, who really are just detestable made-for-mattel teddy bears, in a recycled version of what was supposed to be the big wookie-fight at the end of "Star Wars" if they hadn't run out of cash. It just feels like lazy construction.The most unfortunate aspect of "Jedi" for me is the weak handling of the Han Solo character. Whereas he is central to the plot of the first 2 films here he is struggling for screen time, trading one liners with the droids. Instead of a real drama we're stuck with the lame pretense that Han is still convinced Leia loves Luke -- as if the conclusion of "Empire" where she confessed her love of him had never happened. The whole thing is very contrived and barely conceals the fact that the Solo character was not part of this film's central story after his rescue. Ford, for his part, looks bored and lacks the style that distinguished his earlier performances. This is more like a 1990s Ford performance, bored and looking "above" the film itself. Fisher for her part is visibly high in some scenes. Lando, an interesting character introduced in "Empire", here is stuck as the ostensible person we care about in the giant space battle. Only Hamill, given an interesting development in the Luke character, is really able to do anything new or interesting with his character. Probably he was the only major actor in the film who still cared about his work. And to be fair the script gives him a lot more to do than the other characters. Really it is his story and the other characters are only there as part of the package. Ian McDiarmid does excellent work as well as the Emperor. The film would sink if he had been too far over the top (as he was at times in the new films).Visually and in terms of effects work, other than the "clean" look of everything it's hard to find fault. Jabba is a very effective animatronic character, one of the most elaborate ever constructed. The space battles towards the end are very impressive.Ultimately this film coasts to success based on the accomplishments of its forebears. But on its own, it is a satisfying piece of entertainment and IMHO far superior to any of Lucas' later productions.
Don't get me wrong, I really did enjoy them. I wasn't born when the first two were released, and I was a baby when "Return of the Jedi" came out. Throughout my teens I was never in any rush to go see any of them either (I do remember seeing Return of the Jedi when I was about 7 or 8). Then, when they decided to make the rest of the movies, everyone was drooling and losing their minds over it. I just never felt the urge to go see any. So, anyway, a few weekends ago, I borrowed all six from my friend and watched them over a period of a week, or so. Now that I'm finished, I must say that I am a little bit disappointed. Maybe I missed the boat (or train, or bus, or wagon or whatever means of transport that Star Wars buffs take), but I just wasn't as engrossed in the characters as I hoped I would.I do realize that this movie has a cult following, and I will no doubt be bashed by a lot of the "weaker minds" here at IMDb; but, my original point still stands: I think the Star Wars series is good, but a bit overrated.I loved the last (or first) three movies that were put out. No, not because of superior special effects, but, I think the story was easier to digest and the acting was far superior (some scenes in the earlier movies were actually quite comical in their clumsiness). I think maybe the characters in the early movies threw me off the series (Luke's character wasn't really lovable as the hero).Overall, the idea of two trilogies was genius and both sets of movies could stand on their own. The overarching story-line is quite good as well but maybe a single trilogy could have sufficed. What thinks you?


                
Star Wars - Episode VI - Return of the Jedi is not nearly as good as the first two, and is a slightly disappointing conclusion to a series that was doing so well. The acting is slightly better this time around, but the story is the major factor in its downfall.As aforementioned, the acting is much better than A New Hope, but only under-par to The Empire Strikes Back. The moments between Luke and Leia are nicely done, and Harrison Ford steals the show whenever he reappears.The music by John Williams is also sub-par compared to the first two. Not nearly as emotional as The Empire Strikes Back, nor new in themes, the score for The Return of the Jedi is a real miss.As always, the special effects are grand, though lackluster from the re-releases. Jabba is cool, and the various set designs are as well. The speeder-bike chase through the jungle is probably one of the best scenes in the franchise.The screenplay is the ultimate part in this film's disappointment. The character development, while fully realized, is very dull upon completion. To fans, Darth Vader's appearance under the mask will be a disappointment (it wasn't to me). The inclusion of Ewoks, while a nice idea, comes off as a foreshadowing factor for what will become The Phantom Menace. The action is poorly done, making the pace of the film suffer greatly.Overall, while an immense series, the final conclusion of the Star Wars saga is a minor letdown due to a lack in an exciting story. Some of the revelations are disappointing, and the action is less than engaging. The characters are in dull scenes, though fully developed as characters. I recommend it only to finish up the trilogy/saga, because it is still a well done film, it's just not going to meet expectations.
In contrast to the prequels, the original series sees the 3rd installment to be the weakest of the bunch. After Darth Vader's dramatic revelations and the remarkable battle on Hoth, we delve into quieter, but not necessarily better times.Certainly the scenes of Han's rescue and the epic space battles are there, but they are peppered with the hideously annoying Ewoks, who take the film from a classic, almost serious endeavour to the domain of the cutesy. Certainly Lucas could have placed a more dignified race rather than one that worships C-3PO? O_o That quibble aside, however, ROTJ has plenty of classic moments, including the climactic assault on the incomplete Death Star, the duel between Vader and the Emperor, and also the scenes on Tattooine.A GOOD film, but not an EXCELLENT film like the first two.
The death of Star Wars begins here! Sure, this is still an awesome movie. I love it, in fact. The saber battles, the effects, increased Lando sightings, Carrie Fisher in a thong. It's beautiful. But the Ewoks....oh, those Ewoks. That's all I have and will say about this movie. The Ewoks.


                
Movie Review: "Star Wars: Episode VI - Return of the Jedi" (1983)Six years after the initial release of "Star Wars" on May 25th 1977 to just 43 locations on the U.S. domestic market, before conquering the world of cinema, comes the concluding "Episode VI - Return Of The Jedi" with a wide release of 1,002 locations to an highly anticipating audience on exact the same day in the year of 1983.Executive Producer George Lucas, at age 38, organized to hold all the strings in building his originally-written "Space Saga" to full extensions by engaging Thriller-approved director Richard Marquand (1937-1987) to handle this science-fiction action movie, which brings the story between a over-years-of-disappearing father and his grown-up son to conclusion in the Emperor's Throne Room to the second light saber duel between Darth Vader, exposed as Anakin Skywalker in "Episode V - The Empire Strikes Back" (1980), and his son Luke Sykwalker, performed by all-in-black and calmly-directed actor Mark Hamill, at age 31, who delivers together with actor Harrison Ford as always-leisure Han Solo and actress Carrie Fisher in high-distress-fighting mode as Princess Leia in a legendary but at times too plainly-received opening sequence on the Planet Tatooine versus Jabba The Hutt; a notorious gangster boss in his palace of an even more infamous desert location of full circle beginnings concerning the character of Anakin, at age 9, getting discovered by the character of Jedi-Master Qui-Gon Jinn in "Star Wars: Episode I - The Phantom Menace" (1999).The tripled production budget of appoximately 32.5 Million U.S. Dollars against 11 Million U.S. Dollar for the first "Star Wars" movie, shot in season 1976/1977, pays off with "Episode VI - Return Of The Jedi" in terms of sophisticated special effects work by Lucasfilm-inhabited affiliate entity Industrial, Light and Magic (ILM) producing from stop-motion monster attacks over motion-control space battles to chamber tension character light saber confrontations, which get the highest emotional pitches under another original score by John Williams and pin-pointed sound design supervised by Ben Burtt.The screen-story written by George Lucas and then mutually-conceived into a shooting script with screenwriter Lawrence Kasdan loses most of its undeniable tense moments of dark forces versus the hope and fighting spirit of the innocent
on the Moon Endor Sequence, when minutes as to say entire scenes get lost by on overly cute-appearing species of aliens, called the "Ewoks". What should have the hard-boiled redemption story of "Vader & Skywalker" becomes washed out soft by an endless, inevitable cross-cuts of three storylines with the blacks of an interior Death Star location, greens of Endor's forest landscape and dark blues of cold-metal space-ships to fire-breathing explosions in space.Nevertheless an action-packed 130 Minutes editorial, which has run through several hands before final release, creates enough punch to convince the majority of moviegoers, who preferably have knowledge of "Episode IV" (1977) and "Episode V" (1980); If I take those precessor movies away, "Return of the Jedi" appears to be under trouble most of the time in close to every department besides the joy-spreading cast in static as to say standard visual coverage by cinematographer Alan Hume (1924-2010), also know for capturing "007" movies with Roger Moore (1927-2017) between 1981 and 1985, which in retrospective could have been more innovative under a different direction due to mostly unused major league production design by Norman Reynolds in the most disappointed scene between Luke Skywalker, when the leading character turns himself in, to Darth Vader on the Moon Endor, which hardly keeps the expected thrills at store from the once-in-a-lifetime confrontation between father & son in superior-suspense as action-sharing just-cause to be the better movie "Star Wars: Episode V: The Empire Strikes Back" (1980) directed by Irvin Kershner (1923-2010).© 2018 Felix Alexander Dausend
(Cinemajesty Entertainments LLC)


                
While the movie suffers many issues, mostly with pacing and the whole Ewok segment in the second act, the ending does proof that the sixth entry (at the time was the third) is a powerful and memorable one. All the characters continue to develop correctly as they're face with challenging obstacles that give shape to the overall story. The acting this time was the best out of the entire original trilogy. Every cast member (including Jabba The Hutt if you want) played his or her part professionally and handled their roles profoundly. The third act is pure sci-fi beauty. The space battle remains to this day one of the most iconic. And the whole throne room scene is pure brilliance; the emotional weight surrounding it is what really takes the scene to another level. We also get to see Vader's journey come to a very beautiful, peaceful end as he realizes what value he is missing: Family, which is a central theme throughout the movie.
I was not a fan of the series and never saw 'Empire', but I saw 'Jedi' when it came to Europe with my buddies Punky and Chewy. Back in those days Star Wars nerds mostly identified with Luke or Han and all loved the Princess, but Chewy identified with Chewbacca. Chewy may have been related to Chewbacca as he was tall and angular, had the same color hair with long bangs, glassy look in his eyes, not very verbal and would release mournful groans, but was a really good guy and was someone you'd want to go to battle with.The movie was exciting with lots of action and terrific special effects and the little furry guys were fun and fierce. I never understood the allure of the Storm Troopers because they weren't intimidating or productive.I booed the ending and then started laughing when I realized all the Star Wars nerds who identified with Luke would need plenty of counseling. It was a terrific movie up to then.
Return has some awesome things in the appeal column, but looking back, and reading more about the film/marketing decisions, other silly parts now come into focus.The Good= Han Solo being sold to Jabba over his debts, frozen in carbonite, and needing rescue from those he has now joined in the rebellion? That is just an epic portion of the movie! Very iconic moments in Jabba's palace and the pit in the desert. That part never gets old, and has stuck with me since childhood. Leah in a skimpy slave bikini and a chain, which she later uses to strangle the fat turd? AWESOME. Boba Fett being eaten? Sad, but funny. The warning of Yoda to Luke about the dark powers of the Emperor? AWESOME. I used to rewind and play this over and over with that forbidding music and warnings. Actually meeting the Emperor in his sinister lair, with all that great and evil dialogue? LOVED IT. Amazing ending to a great saga. I am still quoting(and so is Family guy and everyone else) Palpatine to this day, and people who didn't like his acting are just crazy in my opinion LOL. Incredible characters.The Bad= The rehashed Death Star destruction plot(which is now getting absurd with the new movies), the wasted time on Endor with silly kid crap.The Ugly= The ewoks killing stormtroopers and AT-STs with logs, sticks, and stones-- absolutely retarded. Snuggles bears running around everywhere talking like jawas and throwing primitive weapons at armored troops twice their size-- come on, people. Apparently, Lucas worked all this in to sell a bunch of cute kids toys and collectibles, and they still are fun to laugh at, but could have been written into the story in a more credible and less distracting role. They ruin the dark themes and the suspension of disbelief in places, which many folks have noted.Overall= Amazing film with a ton of MEMORABLE scenes and quotes. This could have easily been the best film of the entire series(even beating Empire), if Lucas had opted to stick to the gritty realism and dark subject matter, and didn't stray into a goofy cartoon in the middle portion of the movie. It is still one of my favorite movies of all time, however, and holds a high place in cinema and Star Wars history.
STAR WARS: RETURN OF THE JEDI is the final chapter in a six-movie series that, although filmed and produced out of order, serves as a cap-stone on the whole thing.But does it? Rumors from many years ago suggest that at least 3 more films, and perhaps even six more films were planned at the start -- and with George Lucas' current age, we can pretty much assure ourselves that we will not see them. At least not as he would have produced them. George is, after all, George -- and George does not like other people messing with his universe.If I have a complaint about RETURN OF THE JEDI it is with Ewoks. I will not get into the things that bug me about those darned little teddy-bears, because most people that watch the film will see the problems for themselves. One can complain, I suppose, but STAR WARS is George Lucas' playground, and that is what he wanted to use. His call.Does this film do an effective job of ending the saga? For the most part, yes. There is a bit of a feeling of "well, now what?" that you get as the final scenes are putting themselves up on screen; and for those that have read the Extended Universe novels, there are some pretty darned good ideas for what could (should?) happen next. Would I like to see more Star Wars films? Most definitely. These are some of my favorite "guilty-pleasure" films of all time. But I would not hold my breath waiting for them.


                
Many people will give kudos to George Lucas for this movie and I agree. He definitely left his finger prints all over it. You'll notice how the Star Wars movies start to suck more and more as George Lucas gains more control. This movie did sort of suck.OK. I'm not a fan boy. I saw this movie like a ten times back in 1983. I think I even bought an Ewok for a girl I liked. I own the original copies of the VHS and refuse to own the DVD or Blueray copies. George Lucas is brain dead for making the changes that he did and Han Solo shot first.This movie is a great classic but it shows how George Lucas started to take control and the script started to suck. It is one of my top 100 movies of all time. It has all the aspects of a great story even if there are a ton of bugs through out the script and special effects. I don't care, it rocks.Rebels vs. Goliath. Outerspace. The Force. Lightsabers. Aliens. Cool stuff!Why can't they make more movies like this? Because directors are constantly trying to please those who want profit over art.7/10 stars is enough.


                
This is often thought of as the weakest of the original trilogy, and whilst I would agree with that, that's not to say that it is bad. The phenomenon which had begun with"Star Wars", six years earlier was about to conclude, or so we thought, with Jedi.The first film had pioneered the technology and concepts of which to present and achieve such a franchise in the 1970's and '80's, and "The Empire Strikes Back" is still the benchmark for part twos, but where this film falls down is that it has sacrificed narrative quality for Lucas' realisation that he could finally do what he wanted, without any hindrance from studios or production limitations.He had the best of best in visual effects with his Industrial Light and Magic, and he had a vision which had remained unrealised in the previous two films, such as the so called failed Cantina scene in "Star Wars", which is presented here, only this time in the walls of Jabba's palace.The first half I believe, is George Lucas' real film. Monsters and Muppets, pure fantasy as our heroes wrap up the events of the previous film, and make their daring escape from Jabba the Hutt. The second part is almost a separate film, focusing quite rightly on the Empire and the destruction of the second Death Star. But this plot is very matter of fact, and has no real charm or heart, just epic visuals and a theatrical sense.Meanwhile, Han Solo and Princess Leia are leading a rebel assault on the forest moon of Endor, populated by the most annoying Muppets of all the dreaded Ewoks! The Ewoks must be one of cinema's greatest misjudgments, the first real misstep in Lucas' handling of the "Star Wars Saga"; but with the prequels and the constant tinkering with the originals, this was to be the thin end of the wedge.Don't get me wrong, there are plot elements revolving around the Muppets which I liked, such as the nature vs. technology metaphor, but that doesn't excuse the Ewoks and nothing ever will! But elements such as the Speedbike chase and the final battle, all of it, the final Vader/Luke dual, the assault of the Death Star itself, and even the ludicrous Ewok assault, are excellent, visually stunning and exiting and it is enough to save this film from being bogged down by the bad.And like I said, the money grabbing, almost narratively illiterate George Lucas has damaged and defamed his franchise with his constant tinkering, firstly with the Special Edition in 1997, and then with his Enhanced Special Edition in 2004 for the DVD release.Lucas is a visionary and has done so much for the film industry and we should be grateful but in the end, he needs to stop milking this franchise, stop pretending that it is never finished, when he has finished it THREE times now and realise that the best of the original trilogy was directed and written by other people, all of which display more talent. Lucas is not a good director but he is a good producer and he has brought this franchise to the screen and the movie industry is better for it. But the Special Editions bring nothing important to the mix, with the exception of the finale, which does carry more scope that 1983 original.Overall, the weakest of the "Star Wars Trilogy" is a fair assessment and at its worst, it's still leagues above any entry in the prequels, even the Episode III, which is the closest to this high standards of this series.
I may be slightly biased on the issue of Star Wars, as I think that all six films are excellent, however Return of the Jedi seems to me to be one of the least good, for several reasons.Before this film had been released, I had never heard of any director known as Richard Marquand. I knew of no previous films he had directed, or any films that he had been involved in. First warning sign.Secondly, to me, it just doesn't finish the trio of movies off very well. We all would expect a finale to be grand and epic, action-packed,final battle of good v evil, and Return of the Jedi just does not deliver for me. No to my liking anyway. Sure, it's got plenty of action, but by the end I don't really get a feeling of completeness, of resolution.The third little niggle; since when can Stormtroopers be knocked out with rocks and killed with wooden arrows? The armour they wear should be far more developed than that, and in my view of the Star Wars universe, it's just not realistic.And since when does a Stormtrooper run after someone who tapped them on the back? they'd simply pull out their blaster and shoot them. Again, unrealistic. And what purpose do the Ewoks serve, apart from standing there, looking 'cute'? Also, in one or two places, the quality of the acting could have been improved. I'm not trying to sound cynical, I'm just giving you my opinion. Trust me, if George Lucas would have directed this, it could have been a lot better.
The original Star Wars franchise here goes out with a bang and not a whimper, in the 'sixth' episode of the popular franchise, as it certainly deserves to. Conspicuously, the "Star Wars" brand name and its original trilogy had eluded me until a fairly recent point in my life, when a combination of chance and sheer bloody mindedness saw me finally sit down and see them. While it would be dishonest to remark that I share in the unabashed, unchecked and often maddening enthusiasm for the films that others certainly have, I cannot say I disliked them and the way "Return of the Jedi" rounded off loose ends; did well to keep fresh characters who might otherwise have become tiresome and told its own narrative, was satisfying.Principally, this Episode Six is a combination of what worked best in Episodes Four and Five: the old tale of a rebel alliance looking to destroy an intergalactic structure known as the Death Star is back, while a secondary narrative to do with the franchise's protagonist Luke Skywalker (Mark Hamill) simultaneously confronting Darth Vader and learning to conquer a mythic pseudo-philosophy known as 'The Force' props proceedings up. Action-packed and romantic do battle, in a sense, with contemplative and familial melodrama.What is, perhaps, most peculiar about the film is that it does not blast off into being a full-on action-adventurer until exactly the 50 minute point. Also quite striking is the fact that, from the moment C3PO utters his first lines, there is not a single instance of two characters that are not either robots or alien creatures communicating to one another for about forty minutes. On my first crack at the film, I did not even notice this but realised it suddenly on my second go - credit must go to those responsible for being involved in such fantastic makeup and costuming.The film's opening captions finally inform us that the war which has dogged the franchise is over "freedom", something the alliance fights for and something the Empire, seemingly, wish to do away with. A new Death Star is being constructed; the opening shots reveal it to look about 80% finished, so there is a sense of urgency to events from the off. Darth Vader lands on it, looking for answers on why it isn't finished - he speaks of the yet unseen Emperor, who runs the entire outfit, and reminds us that he's much nastier, which cleverly builds the off-screen character up through dialogue.The film's opening act is essentially a continuation of where we left off prior: Harrison Ford's Han Solo is still frozen-solid in a block of something-or-other, and is captive to a large slug-like alien known as a Hutt named Jabba, having been taken to him in-between episodes. Our heroes, led by Luke, set out to rescue him from Jabba's decrepit desert-set palace-prison with a scheme which seemingly involved Leia (Carrie Fisher) being caught as well; Luke doing battle with a giant monster in an inescapable pit and then later standing on a plank looking at oblivion in the form of a creature consisting of tentacles and a mouth buried in the sand. Was this all part of the plan? How did he know the entire crew would even be taken out into the desert at all?Eventually, differences are settled, one way or another, and the film moves on into territory perhaps more synonymous with the franchise when, as in Episode 4, the force behind the push to defeat the Empire congregates in a control room and deliberates a plan of attack. The Star itself is orbiting a moon known as Endor, which consists largely of dense woodland - the attack will break off into two parts: a fleet of ships will hit the Star directly while a platoon of soldiers, led by Solo, will infiltrate the moon in order to find and disable a power station allowing the Star to shield itself.This is all standard stuff, perhaps made a little less interesting than Episode Five by the fact Solo and Leia know how they feel for one another. More interesting is the character of Skywalker, who has an emotional heart-to-heart with mentor Yoda (Frank Oz) in which, subversively, the protagonist realises he must fight the antagonist, although does not want to. Luke is now a trained Jedi, so is no match for anybody in the combat stakes - in a lesser film, he would be the invincible lead too easily hacking his way to the endgame, but is here made vulnerable to falling, potentially, to the 'dark' side of the force thus undoing all his training. This being prone to something is vital for a sense of there being something at stake; for there being a sense the hero might fail. Scenes involving Luke; Vader and the Emperor on this strand are the best in the film. When the final duel arrives, it is as much a war of words fought in the minds and souls of the characters as it is between lightsabers.The other strand involves the rest of the gang gunning their way towards the power station, although are seemingly no match for a tiny race of neutral furry creatures known as Ewoks who capture them, but then befriend them. There is a peculiar moment whereby C3PO and R2D2 retell the entire Star Wars narrative to this point to these tiny animals, sort of a cross between a bushbaby and a Yorkshire terrier, in order to warrant their support and they listen on in absolute fascination - is the point here that WE are the primitive Ewoks, who have thus far fallen for all of it too? Whatever anything is supposed to point towards, "Return of the Jedi" is a ripping yarn which, say it quietly, even graduates into being halfway intelligently made on more than one occasion.


                
Star Wars Episode VI: The Return Of The Jedi, is directed by Richard Marquand, and is the last of the original trilogy. This film isn't perfect, and it doesn't hold up as well as the previous two. This is mainly due to the overuse of CGI in certain scenes, which really removes the viewer today. Also the direction doesn't compare to The Empire Strikes Back, which is shown purely by the difference visually between the films. Also certain plot points are quite silly and pointless particularly the Ewoks which seem to be added as a selling point for children. On the other hand there are great moments in The Return Of The Jedi. Some of which include the space action sequences, and also the powerful character foil between Darth Vader and Luke. The climatic moment in the movie builds to be very intense, although it is resolved way too easily. Character decisions and epiphanies happen so abruptly, that it does not feel realistic. All in all as a trilogy, it is one of the best in history. Star Wars: The Return Of The Jedi is not a terrible film, but it is the weakest in the trilogy so therefore I give it a 7.


                
The final film industry he original Star Wars trilogy is a mixed bag of excellence and "iffy" moments. First the good: the first act with the main heroes saving Han from Jabba the Hutt, the rancor, sarlacc and Boba Fett is absolutely fantastic as it,s a great introduction to the characters we love and features fun action sequences, cool monsters and new memorable characters like Jabba the Hutt. The Final third act confrontation between Luke, Vader and the Emporer is also phenomenal and is on par with Empire Strikes Backs finest moments, it's emotional, powerful and effective. However he rest of the film is not quite up to par. Not to say that it's bad but rather just "there" thee woks don't bother me as much as everyone else but they do feel more like toy commercials than pivotal characters. The endor subplot does feel rather forced (no pun intended) and just an excuse to give Han and Leia something to do for the films second and third acts. These scenes aren't bad, their fine, but they just don't do much for me personally. Overall, I'd put his film around he same area as he force awakens in terms of quality, it's good but not quite great.


                
Star Wars Episode 6 Return of the Jedi tells the story of the gang upon saving Han-Solo the Empire builds another Death Star which this time around has the Emperor on board and the Rebellion race to destroy it. Meanwhile Luke try's to bring his now known father Darth Vader back to the light side of the force.Return of the Jedi has the best storyline out of the original trilogy because it is able to have what worked the best out of all of them and it makes up to be the best structured in terms of stacks for our hero's while also at long last being self aware enough so that the audience can have more fun with it. To put it simply it takes what worked from the other two and as a result the film was fun and enjoyable.The problems with this movie is what is wrong with the others in this trilogy. It still has hooky dialogue as well as acting, its still predictable, there are scenes that are over the top, and the effects are starting to show there age.In conclusion Return of the Jedi in my opinion is the most underrated, as well as best in the trilogy and I'm giving this one a 7/10.


                
Most people put this as their least favorite of the original trilogy. Not that it's bad it's just not as good as the other 2. However, there is one group of people who say that this is the best Star Wars movie and I can definitely see why. The best parts of this movie are when Luke is with Darth Vader and the emperor trying to make Vader "return from the dark side of the force." It's very deep and emotionally compelling. The climax is also very satisfying. Without giving away too much, it is pleasantly surprising if you consider what happened in Revenge of the Sith. I also like the space battles. They were great and a lot of fun. It's also good to see some continuity with The Empire Strikes Back by making Lando return. While he is kind of minor, it was still nice to see him. I also like the way the Han and Leia thing was resolved. It's still a cute relationship and their interactions are cute and fun. In fact, that's one thing this movie does have over the 2 movies. The interactions between Vader and Luke are the highlights of the film and many of the other characters play off the other characters very well. So taking all of that into account, what makes this movie not as good as the other 2 in the original trilogy? Well there are 2 things that very hard to overlook. This movie is extremely lighthearted compared to the last movie. Well most of the movie is pretty dark but, the ewoks are really cheesy for the Star Wars films. They take out all of the tension in the scenes they appear in. However, it's not that bad since we need something kind of lighthearted to balance out with the overall darkness of the rest of the film. The other problem I have with this movie is that the opening scene in Jabba's palace is way too long and kind of boring when they aren't battling off monsters. Listen, I get that you need to make this movie 2 hours long for your marketing to adults or whatever but this is really pushing. You could've either trimmed the opening A LOT or cut it out entirely and make a change to how they get Han Solo back. Overall, I guess my problems don't hurt this movie that much since I still love it just not much as some of the other films and hey at least we do get that awesome ending in the ewok camp.
After the great Empire Strikes Back , Return of the Jedi is the weakest of the trilogy , but it's still a good movie , the death of Boba Fett is ridiculous , special effects improved more not so much, Luke after losing his arm put a cyborg and changed the color of the light saber , the soundtrack of the film is excellent, the performances have a good best , the end is excellent, see the Darth Vader back to the light side is very good ( hence the title called Return of the Jedi ) , the struggles continue good more is less than the Empire Strikes Back , Star Wars Return of the Jedi do not even have the level of previous , more is a great film is close to the original trilogy with a golden key . Note 7.7
Return of the Jedi is a 1983 epic space opera/space fantasy film directed by George Lucas and is the third and final film of the original Star Wars trilogy. Return of the Jedi once again takes us back into the amazing world of Star Wars and continues the journey of the franchise's beloved characters. However, unlike the previous two which are considered two of the greatest films of all time, Return of the Jedi has a few flaws which unfortunately hold it back from continuing this impressive trend. While it does have arguably some of the most powerful and emotional moments of the original trilogy it also has both the weakest and at times even silliest, the main target for this are the infamous Ewoks which has divided fans, as a personal preference I find they add little depth too the story and at times are the cause for scenes to feel unimportant, unnecessary and often stall the movie, as well as the far fetched third act battle which adds my disdain for them. Another of Return of the Jedi's flaws is the inclusion of a second Death Star, which never seems to have the same weight, intensity and fear that the first injected in the Rebels and viewers alike, and primarily serves as the Empire's base rather than an actual powered battle station. However, many aspects in Return of the Jedi do succeed for instance the film once again expands the beautiful and fascinating galaxy of Star Wars also the hugely powerful final confrontation between father and son and finally the jaw-dropping battle sequences in the third act. The first act also shines through with a brilliant conclusion to the cliffhanger at the end of Empire. Many of the same brilliant and iconic shots and scores are continued in Return of the Jedi. However, again unlike the original and Empire a few shots and special affects do nowadays seem dated. Overall, Return of the Jedi is a brilliant and emotional end to the original trilogy-but not hugely satisfying due to the more immature nature of the Ewoks and the stalled pacing of the second act as a whole. Certain aspects and exposition of the disappointing future prequels did seem to seep into Return of the Jedi at times, but generally they do not hold back the movie and is still a thrilling adventure to be viewed by all. 7/10


                
**Possible but unlikely spoiler**Well this sequel starts very well and is on par with IV and V for a lot of it, but gets more ridiculous and as it goes on and could of been called "A Soapie in Space". It also becomes too "cute", I actually didn't mind the Ewoks but something told me they just didn't belong in a Star Wars film and how can Vader just turn like that, I could tell he was going to because this film did start becoming pretty predictable as soapies usually are. Shame.But they are the bad things, now the good things; for a film with those flaws it still was pretty entertaining and the rescue of Hans Solo in the beginning was certainly a highlight.This film with those flaws is still an enjoyable adventure that takes you along for a journey to a galaxy far, far away.7/10
WARNING: REVIEW CONTAINS MAJOR SPOILERSIn this post-Phantom Menace age the superficial thrills of Return suddenly don't seem all that bad. Particularly entertaining when watched alone, not after the maturer Empire, it's a worthwhile movie.The opening breakout from Jabba's palace is genuinely exciting (the unmodified original still the best - the updated version retains the ropy matte effects on the rancquor beast and inserts a dumb Ike & Tina dance combo) though thereon it does falter slightly.More contrived than usual, with Leia being Luke's sister undeniably stupid. Not only is it silly in itself, but it also destroys the Han-Luke dynamic, leaving Solo nothing to do but fire toy guns like a spare part. Suddenly upgraded to full lead status, Mark Hamill does adequately here, his more distinguished features (he looks about 80, basically) adding to his dramatic appeal. He even manages to look genuinely upset over the death of that silly old glove puppet, Yoda.I remember an amusing French and Saunders spoof of The Phantom Menace with John Inman as an Emperor. This could easily have been inspired by Iain McDarmid here, who is the campest Emperor you'll ever see. Maybe the whole thing is a homophobic fable, Darth and the Emperor trying to "turn" Luke to their side. "His compassion for you will be his undoing" notes McDarmid - Hamill for his part counters that "You won't convert me as you did my father." Face it - the dark side is all about dressing up in black leather and calling people "master". Vader is an S & M fetishist destroying the rebel alliance merely as a pastime.It is weird how - as with the speedbike chase - most of the state of the art special effects now look extremely dated. However, unlike some modern efforts, the movie doesn't hinge on such endeavours and so it still stands up. It also moves at a cracking pace, so that while the events are perfunctory, the dialogue functional, it's rarely boring.
Yet what eats away at the film's core is its Disneyfied perspective. Jim Henson gets his foot firmly in the door, while Luke being visited by the ghosts of his father, Yoda and Alec Guinness is vomit inducing. As with Phantom, Lucas reasons that any old writer could come up with brand new plots time after time - it takes a man of rare mettle to do the same story three times over. Go get that Death Star, boys!!The Ewoks are of course rubbish, but I loved 'em as a kid. I loved its neat, loose-ends-tied ending when I was ten, too, just in the same way that I hated Empire's open-ended resolution. Okay, so this is the most kid-orientated Star Wars movie (pre Jar-Jar, obviously) but it shouldn't necessarily be knocked for that. In fact, all of the comic set pieces are strictly of the "cringe inducing" variety, but they made me very, very happy as a child.There are questions: the chief Ewok smokes a pipe. As their culture seems to be partially based on Native American culture, then what is implied to be in the pipe? Or did Embassy just have shares in the picture? Why does Darth's arm grow a foot longer when his hand is chopped off? And whoever would've thought his death would be so sad? And why IS Boba Fett so popular? I mean, what does he actually DO? Generally, though, this is a movie without any kind of subtext, which can make it disappointing.  The climax doesn't pack the potency it once did, but Luke's conflict - how to defeat the enemy without giving way to inner hate - is an identifiable and enjoyable turmoil.We get told the Death Star is operational twice just in case we don't get it, Billy Dee Williams is wasted, and Harrison plays toy soldier the whole time. But I last saw this on satellite when I had an overnight stay in a hotel. You know the sort of thing - a dull work course, no free bar - and this film became an admirable distraction. Yeah, all in all, this is not that bad a movie. It has a clear three-act structure, a decent pace and compared to The Phantom Menace it's BBC Shakespeare. And I didn't even mention the bit with Carrie Fisher in THAT bikini. 5/10, I think. 8.0 average on the IMDb? Let's not get carried away...
Return of the Jedi is a spectacular climax to the Star Wars series. It builds on the previous two movies, but it's bigger, brighter, and more colourful. There's the explosive final battle against the evil Empire as well as the resolution of the more personal conflict between Luke Skywalker and Darth Vader. However, it's not quite a tour-de-force: there are some cumbersome info dumps, which slacken the film's pace, and the direction and photography are a little too simple. Worse is the treatment of the supporting characters, since just about everyone besides Luke and Vader get reduced to minor roles.The action scenes are definitely the movie's greatest strength. In the first act our heroes rescue Han Solo from Jabba the Hutt, with both a classic Ray Harryhausen monster fight and an all-out brawl on Jabba's sail barge. The speeder bike chase on Endor is a breathtaking highlight, filmed entirely with models and steady-cams; it's better than Episode I's pod race and just about outdoes the first movie's classic trench run. The Battle of Endor itself is an amazing accomplishment, and the space dogfights went unmatched for the next twenty years. Luke and Vader's lightsaber duel is more emotional than technical, but satisfying anyway.The exposition, though, is really a problem. There are two kinds of scenes in Jedi: action set pieces and info dumps. Luke visits Dagobah again so that Yoda can confirm that Vader is, in fact, Luke's Father; Luke then gets the full story from Ben Kenobi's ghost. There's also a pause for Luke to reveal to Leia that they're brother and sister, which only functions to write off the romantic triangle of the previous film. Many of the scenes with the Emperor are talky and static. This all feels like the perfunctory tying-up of loose ends, which could have been handled in a more exciting and dynamic way.The script closely follows the story of Luke Skywalker and Darth Vader, to the exclusion of Han, Leia, Lando, and the others. George Lucas has said that the entire six-part series is really about the fall and redemption of Anakin Skywalker, and Return of the Jedi bears that out. Their conflict is the solid emotional centrepiece of the film, coming close to its mythic, Oedipal roots. The final triumph of both the Rebellion and the Light side of the Force is a very satisfying moment; it's good to see the good guys win big. If only the other characters had more to do.The Star Wars movies have always had great design, effects, and music, and Jedi is no different. The themes are strongest in this one: the cold, mechanical quality of the Empire is emphasised by the skeletal image of the new Death Star, which matches Vader's scarred face and the Emperor himself. The music is suitably sinister. The Rebels, on the other hand, are colourfully democratic: there are many different alien races and different types of starship in their fleet, and the costumes are mainly earthy greens, browns, and reds. The Ewok planet, filmed in the redwood forests of California, is also terrific. For me that's the best part of the movie, and the series as a whole. The ultimate victory over the totalitarian Empire is an act of ordinary people (and Ewoks), rather than superhuman heroes.
