Holy crap this is so hysterical! Why aren't American comedies written like this? For anybody who thinks comedy has to be dumb-- there is more wit and intelligence in the six episodes of this series than in a shelf of novels! Hugh Laurie is a complete hoot. I couldn't believe it was the same guy as House! There are so many great lines and gags in this series you could watch each show dozens of times and still pick up on new things each time. Rowan Atkinson is hilarious as the verbose and put upon butler Edmund. This is my favorite of all the Blackadder series. And Tony Robinson is wonderful as ever as the somewhat obtuse heart of the series, "the oppressed mass" Baldrick. Some of my favorite lines: "When someone messes with a Wellington he really puts his foot in it" and Baldrick explaining how he got his name and cousin Macadder "the top kipper salesman" and homicidal swordsman from Scotland.


                
The 3rd and in my view the best of the Blackadder series.The only downside is that there is no Lord Percy who was the funniest character from the previous series but Hugh Laurie's Prince Regent is suitably madcap laugh a line.As a package it's quality through and through with convincing regency sets, superb cutting sarcasm and little bits of the wacky, the 'macbeth' actors standing out and Prince Georges 'lucky us' chicken impression, and the missing words from Dr Johnson's dictionary.Few comedies have been quite as both clever as they are funny, okay the odd lame observation or line gets in but mostly it's a scream.


                
We could still use Black Adder even today. Imagine Rowan Atkinson resuming the role of assistant to the prime minister played by the wonderful Hugh Laurie. Hugh is sensational as the dimwit Prince George and Edmund as his brilliant assistant. I love the episode which Kenneth Connor guest stars as a British thespian. Every time, Edmund says Macbeth. The two thespians do a silly little act to ward off evil spirits. It's the funniest things that you will see. Of course, none of this brilliance and comedic genius could be without Ben Elton and Richard Curtis who are also behind the films like Love Actually, The Thin Blue Line, Four Weddings and A Funeral. Black Adder is funny and almost too good for television. Humor can be smart, sexy, and funny all at one. I was hoping last night on Saturday Night Live that Hugh Laurie would pay homage to his background in British humor. If the gang at SNL did some research, they would know what a treasure it was to have Hugh Laurie grace their stage.


                
Don't get me wrong I am one of those who loved the first series, but the three that proceeded it were better I feel as the humour is more sophisticated and the actors look more comfortable in their roles plus the characters are more likable than they were in the first series. This third series isn't quite as good as the second and fourth, which are as perfect as comedy can get, but it is still hugely enjoyable. Thanks to the superb period detail, goodness even Prince George's wig is immaculate. The opening credits once again are a delight, and the crude, cynical yet sophisticated and hilarious writing is still abundant. And once again the stories are well thought out. And the performances are superb. Rowan Atkisnon is once again superb as the intelligent yet cynical and conniving butler Edmund Black Adder, whose insults get better and better. As much as I love Black Adder though, I'll always have a soft spot for Baldrick, he is stupid and pathetic but he is utterly hilarious, Tony Robinson was perfect for that. Hugh Laurie is also wonderful as the equally stupid and somewhat naive Prince Regent(though he is much more naive in the fourth series), and the supporting cast of Stephen Fry, Ben Elton and Robbie Coltrane are just as brilliant. Overall, once again, a must see. 10/10 Bethany Cox


                
After the success of the second instalment, Richard Curtis and Ben Elton decided that Blackadder should have a third appearance. This time instead of Tudor times or Elizabethan times, Edmund Blackadder (BAFTA nominated Rowan Atkinson) is living in the time of the French Revolution. Accompanied by the now stupid but lovable Baldrick (Tony Robinson) Blackadder is the "faithful" butler to George, the Prince Regent of Wales (Hugh Laurie). Throughout this third series to the wonderfully written sitcom Blackadder tries everything he can to get rich and powerful. He tries electing a lord for a rotten borough, tries to sell a book, tries to win a bet about The Scarlet Pimpernel, tries to be a highway man and finally poses as the Prince. This is a very good instalment to the popular comedy. Includes appearances from Robbie Coltrane, Tim McInnerny, Miranda Richardson and Stephen Fry. It won the BAFTA for Best Comedy Series, and it was nominated for Best Design and Best Make Up. Rowan Atkinson was number 18 on The 50 Greatest British Actors, he was number 24 on The Comedians' Comedian, and he was number 8 on Britain's Favourite Comedian, Edmund Blackadder was number 3 on The 100 Greatest TV Characters, and he was number 3 on The World's Greatest Comedy Characters, and Blackadder (all four series) was number 2 on Britain's Best Sitcom. Outstanding!
Hilariously funny.Black Adder III finds our hero, played by Rowan Atkinson of course, the butler / assistant to Prince George during the reign of Mad King George. This season follows the same successful formula as in Black Adder II: intelligent plot and dialogue, clever use of actual historic events and characters, incredibly funny skits and situations. Baldrick (played by Tony Robinson) is still there. Hugh Laurie, who had a minor part in Black Adder II, is Prince George. Helen Atkinson Wood appears as Mrs Miggins, as does Stephen Fry as the Duke of Wellington and Robbie Coltrane as Dr Samuel Johnson.For me, this is the best of the four Black Adder series. All four were brilliant, but S3 is the pinnacle. Sharp, clever writing and dialogue with some wonderfully over-the-top scenes. Superb.


                
This series of Blackadder depicts six madcap, daft, extremely anachronistic, and utterly hilarious episodes in the life of E. Blackadder Esquire, another misanthropic descendant of the notorious Blackadder dynasty who this time around serves as royal butler to the chronically stupid George IV during the Regency period. Assisting him over the course of this 'series' of surreal events is Blackadder's dogsbody, Baldrick, a descendant of another contemptible family line who, like his ancestors, has much to be desired in the intelligence department.Although many tend to prefer the fourth series of Blackadder due to it's alleged poignancy; the superior wit, creativity, cynicism, and intelligence of this series makes it beyond a doubt the show's finest hour. The acting from all parties involved is excellent - Rowan Atkinson's neoclassical Blackadder is by far his best rendition of the character - and the setup of this series is far more agreeable than those of the others (mainly because Blackadder isn't being bullied and intimidated by any psychopathic authority figure here).If you enjoyed the infantile Lord Percy of the past two series then you will be saddened by his absence (though Tim McInnerny does make a welcome appearance in episode three), but Huge Laurie's superb Prince Regent is a far more advanced and successful alternative that will more than fill that empty void.A true British comedic triumph!


                
From a comedy point of view, I don't think there are many better shows then Blackadder, in any of his guises. In the third run, he's at his most sarcastic, he's more cutting and nasty then ever before. Forced to buttle for the oafish and idiotic Prince Regent, he often takes out his frustrations out on the lowly Baldrick.I love the fact that we get to see Mrs Miggins as was often mentioned in the second series, and indeed see the pie shop.Every single episode is pure brilliance, if I had to chose a favourite, it would be Nob and Nobility, the writing was simply genius, totally hilarious and mad cap. Duel and Duality is also another favourite, largely due to the performance of Stephen Fry as Wellington, and his beating the Prince.I did miss Tim McInnerny and Miranda Richardson as regulars, but their appearances were excellent.Pure brilliance, love it 10/10
The Best Sitcom Ever bar none! Blackadder is the best sitcom Britain has ever produced. Every aspect is perfect, from the script to the actors impeccable comic timing. Blackadder is endlessly quotable and I know every word. Hugh Laurie is wonderful as the Prince Regent and Rik Mayall struggles to upstage Rowan Atkinson in the second and forth series. Stephen Fry is Brilliant in series 2-4 and Tony Robinson and Tim McInnerny are great in all four. The only bad thing is that they didn't make more. I will never tire of watching them and cannot say enough in their favor. My personal favorite episode from the third series is the first episode Dish and Dishonesty.


                
On par with series two, I'd say, if not better. I laughed many times and I liked only having three main characters. It's great to see Hugh Laurie in this series as Prince Regent, as I love him just about as much as I love Stephen Fry. It's a shame Percy isn't in this series, but it's been just as good as ever and we still have the familiar Rowan Atkinson as Edmund Blackadder and Tony Robinson as Baldrick. The humour is just as good as last series, with more than a few laugh out loud moments and true British humour. I loved the unique ending to this series as it is very different to the others.From what I've heard of series four, Blackadder Goes Forth, I'm very excited for it. It's known as one of the greatest pieces of British television. But as I've said before, if it's any better than last series and this series, I'll be very happy anyway.


                
1)Prince George: "Sausage Time!" 2)Baldrick: "I Have a Cunning Plan" 3)Prince George: "Woof Woof!" 4)Prince George:"ROOOOOOOOAR!! Unaccustumed as I am..." 5)Blackadder: "Macbeth" 2 Actors(Don't remember what their names are): "AHH! Hot Potatoes, off his drawers, Puck will make amends" 6)Blackadder: "I love you, Dr. Johnson. And I want to have your babies" 7)Baldrick: "Goodbye, you lazy, big-nosed, rubber-faced b******" 8)Blackadder: "Thick Jack Clot Sits in the Stocks and Gets Pelted with Rancid Tomatoes" 9)Blackadder: "Look Behind you, Mr. Caesar" 10)Blackadder: "Gimme the bloody money or you're dead!" "Gimme the bloody money or you're dead, my lord." 11)Blackadder: "And which Pitt would this be? Pitt the Toddler? Pitt the Embryo? Pitt the glint in the milkman's eye?" 12)William Hannah: "And what does the S stands for?" Blackadder: "S** Off." 13)William Hannah: "Mind your own business, you nosy b******" 14)Blackadder: "Where's the quill? Where's the pen?" Baldrick: "Maybe Dr. Johnson's got it" Blackadder: "WHAT?!" Baldrick: "He's outside" Blackadder: "Baldrick, if we go through this again, you're going to turn into an Alsatian, are you?" 15)Baldrick: "Once upon a time, there was a lovely little sausage named Baldrick and it lived happily ever after." 16)Baldrick: "They seek him here, they seek him there, those Frenchies seek him everywhere" Blackadder: "And what's that revolting garlic smell?" 17)Blackadder: "Mrs. M, if we were the last three humans on Earth I'd be trying to start a family with Baldrick" 18)Blackadder: "Get more coffee! It's horrid, change it! Take me roughly from behind! No, not like that, like this! Trousers off, tackle out! Walk the dog! Where's my present?" Baldrick: "All right! Which one do you want me to do first?" 19)Blackadder: "Oh, God. What a way to die. Shot by a transvestite on a unrealistic grassy knoll." 20)Prince George: "Now what's a rubber-button?"
