Blackadder 3 is probably the Blackadder series that people have least heard of - it has basically the same principles as the second and fourth ones and has nothing revolutionary in it. But it is still great - a fiery Duke of Wellington and a fat foolish Dr Johnson (writer of the first dictionary in England) make this series one to be reckoned with. There are still more hilarious one-liners to be delivered in this series, and it brings out the humour in a lesser-known era - in historically accurate and enjoyable episodes. Blackadder's third outing is not the most famous and well-known of the lot, but Rowan Atkinson's role as a butler to a stupid prince is a funny and effectively done one, and Hugh Laurie is at his best in this series. Very good! 9/10


                
I think 'Blackadder the Third' is the best one of the series.Actuelly all the episodes are funny, personally i really like the episode with the 'French invasion', but the one with the superstitious actors, in 'MACBETH' is also really funny, the way Rowan keeps playing on with them is really (English) Humor at the highest level.Actors: 'Never say that again, always call it the Scottish Play; Blackadder: Oh, So you want me to say the Scottish Play? Actors: YES Blackadder: Rather than MACBETH...!I am a big fan of Rowan and i have the majority of his work, but i think he did the series of Blackadder especially good.I Hope Rowan is going to continue his great style, but i think we can count on him, because he is already working on a Bean 2 Movie, that will be out this year, i can't wait...I Give this 3rd Blackadder a 9 out of 10 Rating.


                
"BlackAdder The Third" isn't as highly regarded as other entries but it perhaps my personal favorite. It was this one that got me interested in the entire "BlackAdder" series to begin with. Not to mention that it is a fine showcase for two comedic talents, Rowan Atkinson and Hugh Laurie. It manages to be witty, cleverly written, wonderfully acted, and just first-class all around. Set during the Regency Period, Rowan Atkinson returns as Mr. E. Blackadder Esquire who is Butler to Prince Regent, the son of Mad King George. Many complain about not seeing Tim McInnerny's Percy but I think Hugh Laurie's delightfully dumb Prince of Wales more than makes up for it. We also get to see Tony Robinson's Baldrick again as his loyal and "mousebrained" sidekick who happens to be the dogsbody of the house.The writing team of Richard Curtis and Ben Elton continue their mastery of great sarcastic humor. The dialog remains razor sharp as it is full of one-liners every minute. The situations are also immensely funny too such as Baldrick getting elected as lord of a rotten borough, an important dictionary accidentally thrown in the fireplace, or when Blackadder rescues the Scarlet Pimpernel. I especially laughed hard when two thespian actors have wart off evil spirits every time they hear the word "Macbeth". The supporting actors that appear in the episodes are also a lot of fun such as Robbie Coltrane as Dr. Johnson and Stephen Fry as the Duke of Wellington (Fry played Melchett in BlackAdder II). Favorite episodes were "Dish and Dishonesty," "Sense and Senility," and "Dual and Duality."With the strongest plots and the strongest laughs, "Black Adder The Third" is no doubt one of the most hysterical period pieces ever made as well as another shining example of how the "BlackAdder" series remains a masterpiece in British Comedy.
Unlike many viewers, I enjoyed this series much more than the other parts of the series (although just a bit more than Blackadder Goes Forth). It has absolutely brilliant, memorable jokes, exciting plots, brilliant characters and in this you really come to know all of the characters. I prefer this to the first part of Blackadder because that part is too silly, I prefer this part to the second part because that has the annoying queen and nurse in it and I am afraid, "Blackadder Goes Forth", that I just prefer this series to you by a little fraction of a rating, because I prefer Baldrick in this one. I also very much like Blackadder, I prefer him as a butler rather than a prince or servant. Baldrick is as hilarious as ever - but better! Hugh Laurie as the prince is amazingly entertaining, I prefer him as a companion to Percy. There, I have stated why I like this, now for the incredible cast:The cynical, intelligent Blackadder: Rowan Atkinson. The brainless, gorgeous Baldrick: Tony Robinson. The (also) brainless, lazy George, Prince of Wales: Hugh Laurie. The mad Mrs. Higgins: Helen Atkinson-Wood.I recommend this to anyone who has enjoyed the previous Blackadder series but desires a slightly different cast, to people who just enjoy funny historical British TV programmes and for people who like comedy series with gripping plots that are NOT farce. Enjoy! :-)


                
In this installment of the series, Edmund Blackadder is stuck in the Regency period in Britain (during the later portion of George III's rule). This time, Blackadder's prospects are much poorer--as instead of royalty, he's a servant to the very, very thick George IV (the price regent). Unlike the historical accounts of George IV, this one is about as bright as a tomato and as a result, Blackadder's able to take advantage of him and scheme to his heart's content. The only major difference in style between this one and earlier ones is that the series ends on a very, very, very different note--you just have to see it to believe it. Other than that, all the usual story elements are there and the show is hilarious. The only reservation I have (as always) is that this show is not appropriate for the kids due to its crude language and adult situations.


                
After series set in the middle ages and Elizabethan era it is time to see how the Edmund Blackadder of the Regency period is getting on. The family is clearly on a downward track as the current Blackadder is butler to George, the Prince Regent. Inevitably Baldrick is also back; once again he is a dim-witted dogsbody. Over the course of the series Blackadder helps his master with a number of situations. These include the time they accidentally burn the only copy of Samuel Johnson's dictionary, the prince getting lessons on how to deliver a speech from a pair of snobbish actors, rescuing aristocrats from revolutionary France and fighting a duel against the Iron Duke.This series was a lot of fun; clearly following the pattern of series two with a quick-witted and sarcastic Blackadder dealing with the idiots around him. Rowan Atkinson and Tony Robinson have clearly got their characters settled and are great as Blackadder and Baldrick. Percy has left the series but is able replaced by Prince George who is played by Hugh Laurie; a welcome addition to the cast. There are some fine guest appearances from the likes of Robbie Coltrane, Miranda Richardson and Stephen Fry amongst others. The humour is similar to that of the previous series with silliness nicely mixed with some great wordplay. Overall I'd certainly recommend this to fans of the previous versions; I enjoyed it when it was first aired and enjoyed it just as much almost thirty years later.
Once again we leap forward 100 years more, and Blackadder is now butler to the feeble-minded Prince of Wales (a terrifically funny Hugh Laurie), the son of the mad King George III. This is the funniest of all the series, with Laurie's contribution pushing the show up to a higher level. There are still a few dull spots, and not every episode is brilliant, but this does somehow combine almost Monty Python/Fawlty Towers type genius into a period sit-com. Atkinson as Blackadder continues to evolve, less dashing and handsome here than in series 2, but more enjoyably (and understandably) angry and frustrated at his situation in life, serving a man with a tiny brain. There's also more physical humor in this season, and it's pulled off very well indeed.


                
Like many others, I rate this series ahead of 1, but slightly behind 2 and 4; however, the scenes in the kitchen are uniformly brilliant and pants-wettingly funny. How Tony Robinson manged to keep a straight face while ramming unspeakable things up the nether regions of some poor piece of poultry I will never know, but they make great viewing. Check out Blackadder's rant about Wales in 'Amy and Amiability' if you don't believe me.I suspect the reason I don't rate it quite as high as the 2nd and 4th series is that Prince "thick as a whale omelette" George was just too easy a mark, putting Blackadder basically in charge. In the other two, the comedy came from his being smarter than all his colleagues, but having no power to change events.Nevertheless, it's a darn good romp, and full of the usual piquant observations about the times. And there's no shame in running a close second to absolute classics.


                
The first and essential element is the set of actors and first of all Rowan Atkinson. That is pure English comedy based on totally anachronistic and crazy situations, on witty puns that nearly or most of the time have to do with what is generally under the belt of most people but that is floating on top of the mind of these comedians. It is supposed to make you laugh and nothing else and it ridicules all historical characters and situations: Elizabeth I, Queen Victoria, Georges VI or some other Prince of Wales, the First World War, Robin Hood and I guess they avoided Peter Pan because he might only be marginally historical, though Pitt Junior is a real hit, definitely under the belt at the level of the comforter, if you see what I mean. It even turns upside down the famous Christmas Carol. As for the Time Machine it is completely twisted around in all directions, back and forth for sure, to make a sort of self-centered social climbing, politically opportunistic remake of Back to the Future more than the Time Machine, but the principle is the same. So Sir Edmund Blackadder finishing King Edmund I is at least hilarious. H.G. Wells is betrayed since for him you cannot change the past and Zemeckis is betrayed just the same since you are not supposed to use your time travelling to recuperate some personal advantage from it. I must say though this type of comedy is light maybe slightly too light, but it is good indeed.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Paris 8 Saint Denis, University Paris 12 Créteil, CEGID
