Sincerely, there is no other TV series that shows so many tits and BJs.. I didn't count but I bet it contains over 100 BJs.. As if the "sex thing" is one of the major characteristics of the late 19th century. I bet it's not!
Yes, it has been a dirty, murderous, criminal, racist, survival-mode time, where you had to fight to survive, where men were men and women had less rights and numerous forms of oppression, which can make a woman crazy.. BUT I, sincerely, doubt that you have to show so many BJs and tits to represent that age.. It's a matter or moral for me and I'm not religious but if you analyze the show, concerning the number of BJs given (and at the same time a lack of sex-scenes - not the same frequency), you can only come to the conclusion that the series was made by a 14-year old porn-addict, who just can't get enough of BJs..Second, the female characters make you hate women! I understand that, given the circumstances at that specific time in a rural area, women often had psychological disorders.. Nonetheless, there is no reason to show that nearly every female character in the series has more-or-less of a psychological disorder. Most of the stereotypes against women are included in this series!
Someone, now, could argue that also the male characters are depicted in the same way.. Of course, that's true but if you compare how both genders are depicted, the female ones are shown in a much more dramatic, irrational or simply totally crazy way, concerning intelligence, logic and emotional-stability.Third, there are so many details that make absolutely no sense, imho.. I'll just mention one, at the end..., when you feel that a major conflict is coming.. The female teacher runs around in town with a whole school class...
I am sure that in "such a condition".. Women and kids would have been hidden in some place and they never would have been allowed to go out for a walk.They focus on oral sex and tits, while at the same time there are only a few sex scenes. (Non-verbal) Violence against women is mostly shown through one act, instead of "violence in relationships" and rape. Rape and other forms of abuse have been left out, while only showing prostitutes..
The climax comes in the very last episode, when the devil and his lady stand on the balcony.. They see a dead body being carried through the streets.. If you watch it in slowmo, you can see, how the actress pullst down her corset by purpose.. I can only imagine: she did so because the director told her to do so.. This scene alone is enough to understand the subtext of the whole series, which, if you take a deeper look at it, is deeply misogynistic.
