This was a classic western, but unfortunately it became another good show that got cancelled. I don't know how historically accurate this movie is, but it's believable in a lot of levels. One things for sure though, Seth Bullock was a American badass. And Timothy Olyphant will be remembered for his role as this famous U.S. Marshall. Even if the accents and the way the characters talk maybe difficult to comprehend for a lot of the audiences. But I respect the fact that it tried to make it realistic as possible. It was like watching western history come to life. All the actors and actress are spot on, and I liked how the characters really blend in with the environment. It had 3 seasons however and ended. Which would have been fine, although 2 more seasons would have been better. But what got me ticked off was the fact that this show didn't conclude either. Still worth a watch, but it's another show that got cancelled. Maybe the show got cancelled because some audiences just couldn't comprehend what was going on. Which is understandable.7.5/10


                
I'm watching the DVDs of DEADWOOD third season and it seems that somewhere near the middle or the end of season two, Milch's writing became infected with writing disease. You can usually sleep this off, but perhaps the production schedule prohibited that. Many people in entertainment forums marvel at Milch's writing, but it's a question of balance. Forgive the cliché, but sometimes "less is more". The Shakespeare bug bit Dave, apparently, and, no, it's not that he's trying to write like Shakespeare wrote, but he's trying, way too hard, to write GREAT--and he can't. Here and there he can, yes, but not for every character in every other line. A little greatness goes a long way. Something gotta give when almost everyone is speaking in their very own stilted "high-style". The scenes bog down. The flow of the story falters, and even stops. Make way for The Writing! The story even becomes predictable, because every scene is merely a vehicle for Milch-speech. You're walking along, trying to groove with the story, and you step in a sticky puddle of piddle. This is not how people apprehend a story, through the preciously special use of "language". People apprehend a story by identifying with its characters, perhaps in spite of the writing, and Milch's writing--like Mamet's, by the way--too often shackles the actors, and literally tries to steal the scene from them, always for the worst. The "writing", having a life of its own, eclipses the characters, that the actors have busted their guts over to bring to life. There ends up being just one character: Milch.Having said that, I notice the stories flow better when people other than Milch write. Plot comes first, it seems, when others write. As it should. Minus the goofy "comic relief" half-scenes, the stories are compelling, and I'm sorta sorry there won't be another season--even if I believe Deadwood is pretty much tapped out.


                
Mistaking Olyphant for anything except a watered homage to early Clint Eastwood misses the point of his performance. The talk, the eyes, the walk, the delivery sweetly remind of us how well the classic Clint did his thing before emasculation and how difficult it now is to replicate. The Western saga belongs to powerful males and conniving ladies if we believe the script of Deadwood. The high quality of the writing as to fundamental human foibles, trials, and triumphs is the gem here. If you can forget that it's not Clint on the screen and don't have a quivering sensitivity to fun cuss words, it's one great show.


                
I've read all the comments (well a lot of them) and most seem to defend the language throughout the series. Someone even commented that anyone who had been in the military would be aware that swearing is frequent. Yes it is, but the words used are those current in that era. Deadwood is not. Why the producers have gone to great lengths to produce a realistic, gritty, rough representation of Deadwood in the 1870's and then completely ruined that image by using words that were never in use at that time has, for me, spoilt what would have been the perfect series.The characters and scenery are excellent as are the photography and music, and I have no objection to constant swearing, but it should have been realistic of that era, not what we now hear in many contemporary productions.I think the producers lost it by modernising the language and I see no point in doing so when they were so realistic in every other area. Just as they slipped up in other inaccuracies, one which was pointed out previously where the comment was made 'You're fly is down'. A poor oversight when zippers hadn't yet been invented.And a last comment is that I thoroughly disliked the character of Calamity Jane. Sure she was a rough character in real life, but her portrayal is so over the top as to be unbelievable. One minute she's abusing everyone with tough talk, but then breaks down in tears when confronted by Al Swearengen. Then it's back to exaggerated swaggering and more abusive language.It's a pity she wasn't the one shot in the saloon instead of Hickock. And finally, two points of interest. 1) Powers Boothe and David Carradine were also cast together in 'Southern Comfort'. 2) The music being played on the DVD scene selection page is exactly the same as one of the tracks from 'The Insider'.


                
I just finished watching all 3 seasons and for the most part I thought it was good, season 1 was great, then season 2 introduced the George Hearst situation which after building up for 2 seasons I felt was a really crap finale: I mean Hearst hired 50+ Pinkertons whilst finally getting Mrs Ellsworth to sign over her claim, so Al Swearengen sent off for reinforcements, (Mr Wu's men and Hawkeye's men) but then Hearst just up and left!!!?? I mean all that build-up, all those Pinkertons, and they just left without a single gun-shot!!!??? I feel almost cheated!! Additionally, we never did hear the results of the elections!! And was anyone else curious why they turned Wyatt Earp and his brother Morgan into total morons!? And the way Wild Bill Hickok died; with his back turned, playing Poker? What the hell? Could have made that a bit more interesting!! And the relationship between Bullock and Mrs Ellsworth, that needs resolving!! And what happened about Mrs Ellsworth's offer to E.B Farnum to buy his hotel? She didn't seem at all bothered that he didn't sell to her but did sell to Mr Hearst!? And to be honest, was all the swearing really necessary? They need to make a 4 season to answer these problems!


                
I wanted to give this a 4 and my husband said 8, so we went with 7. :{ This film had all the right elements for an extraordinary series, but they forgot season four people. Acting was great. Loved the cast! Story line was great. Location was great. Writing mostly phenomenal. Historic interest was well represented and researched. Political upheaval of that time an education. Original character and location photos were highly appreciated. But... They leave you with so many unanswered questions in this series that it simply cries for another season. I think they cheaped out and left the climatic portion of this series on paper. Sorry directors and writers alike, but George Hearst does not get to ride off into the sunset! Not in my mind anyhow. Really poopy ending guys and gals. C...S...Ker's. :) Honestly we'd watch it all again... 'cept for the stupid ending.
As great as this show was, I can see why it was canceled. I didn't have interest in it when it was on, and I didn't know when it was canceled. Mainly because my western lived a very short few years while I still watched Chuck Norris, so it was when I was in 5th- 6th grade.And I hate to kill the inner feminist in me, but as a girl, I'm not too interested in Western Testosterone. However, with that said, this show is a great Western that covers a vast amount of characters over a real life like slow pace of a Western but with the conflict that can be applicable to many time periods.With this show, one can tell that the producers put a lot of good research and work into it. Ian McShane and Timonthy Olyphant does wonderful job as a multidimensional character. Of course, it's a character that they would later perfect in shows like Kings and Justified.Overall, I think the show was canceled because it just didn't reach the crowd when it needed to. And that's just too bad. But because of its brevity, it will go down as a classic on television.HBO bravo.


                
Deadwood was broadcast by HBO and is set in real town of the same name in the 1870's. Deadwood was a town without laws where anything goes. A lot of the characters in this show were based on real people surrounded by some real events. The show starts off with Seth Bullock (Timothy Olyphant) travelling to the then camp Deadwood to set up his own hardware store however not long after he is made Sheriff of the expanding settlement. He has many run ins with Al Swearengen the owner of the local Bar and Brothel. There are many other real historical characters in the town such as Wild Bill Hickok, Calamity Jane and many more. As the producers of this show attempted to bring the real violence and disregard for human life as was the case with deadwood 140 years ago you can expect to have all your violent needs satisfied with this show.This show has won Emmy and Golden Globe awards and was named 8th on TV Guides list in 2013 of shows canceled too early. The performance of Ian McShane as Al Swearengen was brilliant on so many levels. Ian McShane portrayed the brutal and cold hearted element that was common back in those good old times. With Kidnapping, Murder, and all kinds of violence accompanied with very well written progressive stories it is a must see.www.hardasstv.com
