I had so many people tell me that I would really like this series. So I bought the dvd box from the UK, and started watching.
"The National Anthem" was one of the most ridiculously absurd crapfests I've ever seen. There are so many things wrong with the whole kidnapping story that it beggars belief. This would never happen under any circumstances. The denouement made the set-up a bad joke. And the finger??? Nobody could tell a workingman's finger from some dainty "princess" digit? It beggars belief.
I'm throwing the box set in the trash.
Don't waste one second of your life on this.
The first story was sick. I have to admit it is something I never thought of, and now it's out there for some scumbag to duplicate. Honestly, the first story was enough for me. We took it off our watch list for good. What was really disturbing was how the show explored the "so gross I couldn't look away" theory. The problem is you can't un-see something. Once you watch, it becomes a part of you, and that is something people should think deeply about. Do you really want to pollute your mind with some of this trash?
I usually love these kinds of series. I am an avid fan of everything from The twilight Zone to Tales from the Darkside and even Stranger Things. However, I barely made it through one episode of this. The plot was boring, the acting was uninspired. The episode I watched had english speaking actors/actresses I could barely make out any of what they were saying. Not to mention the soft porn images and sex scenes that were constantly shown throughout the entire episode was in very bad taste. 
I am no stranger to controversial movies and shocking shows or even sex in movies. Hell I was raised in the 80's when movies and shows were alot more shocking and controversial then what we have today.However, I was both disgusted and mortified by what I saw in this show. In the end, I found the whole story to be so pointless and stupid that the gratuitous porn just seemed even more outrageous to me. It seems like when they made this show they underestimated our intelligence as viewers and decided that by putting this filth together they could pass it off to us as "entertainment". Personally I did not find any of it even remotely entertaining. I can recommend Stranger Things but as for this show, you might want to pass.


                
The 2 stars is for the first episode which was very good. All others were so dull and predictable it could have been written by a 13 year old who had only lived through watching rubbish on on the internet and had nil experience of life.And no, that doesn't make it good, or insightful, it makes it dull and lazy and for people with the attention span of advert land. Brooker, a horribly overrated journo in a crass and anti-working-class rag in England, try looking at meaningfully good content like the stuff Chris Morris can do then weep for your truly woeful lack of talent.Maybe the LA air's got to his head and it's stuck completely up his posterior...darling, so fabulous, what a genius...ahhhh


                
It went from slick, sophisticated, edgy, original beyond belief in Seasons 1 and 2. Seasons 1 and 2 and 'White Christmas' were amazing. To sloppy, predictable, ordinary and barely even watchable just average tv. It's so boring.Beginning with Season 3 season. As if by magic, the magic is all gone. Evaporated. Supplanted by this . . . what IS this . . . season 3 and 4 crap.The tight editing is gone. The writing is gone. The directing is gone. It's slow. It's boring. It's so unbelievably stupid.This is a horrible disappointment as any fan will recognize. Something so special. So apart from all the other work out there to be so totally adulterated.What happened? Netflix happened.


                
I enjoyed watching the show. First episode open so strong and different. Obviously with a few complaints like with anything. But by he time you get to the end you realize you wasted your time and thank god you didn't watch it sober. Has nothing to do with technology. It's just about twitter being annoying. Which ruins he fabulous writing. Like asking Picasso to paint your Mum... pointless and a waste of time for a genius. Yes I know maybe 3 of them aren't about twitter. And some have good story lines up until you go, oh it's about twitter again. If this show makes you question your beliefs in society. Then your a moron to begin with. But if you just enjoy its cos colours on the TV. Then good enough. Seriously let down by Charlie. But I know he doesn't care (good for him). Will watch the next series probably but if it's just about having a futuristic version of google glass on you at all times I'll probably be disappointed. Don't worry I'm British and love a good disappointment. I would recommend Philip k dicks electric dreams over this, which gets worse reviews. But you have no idea what happened in that show. And that makes you think about everything and anything. And Not just about how twitter might be bad.
The problem is it's not possible to be uploaded to the cloud like this. In the future they may be able to upload a perfect copy of your brain, but even if you have no belief in a soul whatsoever, you can't deny that the only thing that's happening, is your brain is being copied, and that copy is being uploaded into the cloud.It will be possible however, like in the episode, to be jacked in while you're still alive, because your brain is being directly stimulated, but when you die the brain dies. When they upload you into the cloud permanently all that will be happening is the copy goes on in the cloud believing it's you.It's just basic common sense. I hoped people would understand this kind of thing after 'The 6th Day'.Of course, it's going to be quantum, right? Yes, that's it, something on the quantum level makes it possible. Which is really just science finally discovering that we do in fact go on after death.The quantum is where everything science calls pseudo-science and "Paranormal" will be brought to light! ;)
Each episode maybe good if ended in 5-8 minutes, anything above that is torture. This is a proper series for those young millennials who think they are smart. Acting is horrible, as if they are checking the good actor in each episode. Please, avoid this and don't ever try to suggest to a genuine series or movie lover.


                
i have read the reviews on this show and for that reason i feel that i must write a brief one myself. I admit that i have only watched the first episode (that most people seem to think was the best) but i have to say that i will not be watching any more.A few people here have commented about the acting being very good, which it is, some have commented on the 'unusual plot'... and it is unusual. One of the more negative reviews commented on the fact that some of the details of the show are lacking/missing and i agree with this.What i find difficult to believe is that no one has picked up on the fact that this show (the first one anyway) was absolutely disgusting/disturbing!! The fact that i felt disturbed after watching it is the only positive thing i can say about it... if you don't feel disturbed after watching this show then there is something seriously wrong with you! Do yourself a favour, stay well away!


                
I would have loved this show if it was not made in UK. Great idea, nice stories, as always. Then the slow pace, the useless dumb side stories with some morality background, then the un-realatable cast, with the ugliest people you could see cast in movies. British series to their best - great idea and zero finalisation.


                
This show doesnt even deserve reviews, pls stop saying its a good series because its not


                
