A friend recommended this show a while ago and to pass the time in between new Twin Peaks episodes we decided to binge this series. The first season kept us hooked really well. Original writing, super sharp editing, decent acting and class. The next few episodes in season 2 were still good and exciting. A lot of nice atmosphere, which I love.But when season 3 started everything seemed different. It went from clever to mediocre acting and shallow writing. And these predictable plots are worked out in an action-for-the-sake-of-action package. So then we lost interest. The page turner effect vanished somehow, it's almost like the later episodes are student films, which is a shame really, I'd prefer it if shows just stopped when the inspiration is gone. Nevertheless, the first two seasons are definitely worth a watch.


                
It's like these guys with the cardboard sign "The end is near" or these christian fanatics with "Homosexuality is a sin". Most episodes are just exaggerating actual society phenomenons. Yes, technology is changing fast and with it our society and social behaviour. But most episodes feel like a sermon. Pretty exhausting after 3 seasons. 6 Stars, but because there are some decent episodes among the seasons, 7 stars.


                
Heard so much praise about Black Mirror that my partner and I decided to give it a go. First episode was a shock to say the least, but not necessarily bad. Admittedly I did feel queasy when the Prime Minister had to have sex with a pig.. Otherwise, it definitely draws you in. Second episode was okay but dragged on and was too paranoid.The show has has a preachy, prententious tone to it that takes a paranoid view at how technology is affecting society; making people selfish, antisocial robots. Surely tech is bringing advantages to the future, along with it's negatives?Maybe you're meant to see the show in a more "arty", metaphorical light- but even so the point of the story does drag on pessimisticly. Overall: if you want something dark and slightly different to the usual, the first two episodes are okay. Otherwise, it'll just leave you feeling depressed and bored.
1/1/18. Have seen all 4 seasons of this technology-based series. Overall it's pretty good. However, I loved San Junipero the best. Almost didn't get through the first season without watching several episodes again. The seasons have gotten better, so that I liked more episodes than not. Season 4 was probably the best, in which I liked 4 out of 6. There is no continuity, so each episode pretty much stands on its own and requires you to start all over again. Like Twilight Zone, but the episodes are longer.


                
An anthology series of sorts, where technology and humanity don't always lead to pleasant results. This satirical and usually demented show is great in its technical craftsmanship and usually sharp and witty in its execution. The first episode The National Anthem is a great start to this series, about the princess being kidnapped and the Prime Minister being told he needs to have sex with a pig or she dies. This sounds lowbrow, but it's pulled off with a straight face and in lesser hands this would have been written into a corner - but the ending simply works. 8/10The second episode Fifteen Million Merits is perhaps the best of the series, about a society that peddles stationary bikes to generate power and the individual earns points to purchase products or a chance to appear on a contestant show. The idea is thoughtfully explored, there's a quick budding romance that's wonderfully done and the episode goes into some dark places. This is a great piece of science fiction. 9/10The third episode The Entire History of You explores the trivial bits of nonsense we obsess about, when everyone has recorders implanted in the back of our heads and you have the ability to record and playback any time, anywhere. What begins with our lead going through his job interview and replaying one phrase that could be interpreted in any way, over and over - leads to an obsession about the possibility of his wife having an affair. The segment is well acted and the use of the technology feels entirely believable. 7/10The second season didn't engage me - sometimes at all. The first episode Be Right Back, felt too cold and distant and felt empty and pointless by the end. 5/10The second episode White Bear hinged on a twist gimmick that was both a strength and a weakness. The twist works as an idea, but sours everything before it and both the twist and the preceding events felt half baked. Didn't deliver. 4/10The third episode The Waldo Moment, about a depressed comedian voicing a crude animated character that ends up being used as a political puppet to disrupt an election is successful enough. But like all the episodes this season, the sharp wit and beautifully thought out visuals are missing. 6/10The White Christmas special plays up the anthology format for the first time, as two men in a mysterious outpost kill time on Christmas by telling their stories that led them to this point in their life at this outpost. The three stories are all engaging and the use of the technology feels remarkably real and the results are haunting and twisted in its humor and drama. A great return to form. 7/10


                
Overall an entertaing show. A few episodes I had to skip out of boredom.. any episode over an hour was too long. I found the darker episodes better and the majority of the UK episodes over the US ones..Sure there's something here for everyone..The show is a bit overrated if you ask me..For great US sci-fi check out Electric Dreams on Stan here in Australia.. much more superior than the US episodes here..


                
This show is pretty damn good, I have to admit. Just like other programs, it took some time to get off the ground, and there are great episodes and horrible ones. I think a ton of people watched the first episode, and seeing a prime minister forced to commit bestiality on national TV was too much for them. I admit, I was wondering what in the hell I had gotten myself into, but I must also admit= it kept me entertained and disgusted, all at the same time. It had my interest. After it ended, I thought about moving on to something else, but my interest was still piqued.Well, I gave the show another try and binge watched most of the episodes. I really enjoyed half or more of them. Some were painfully slow, with no pay off at the end, but most of them offered some truly stunning and intriguing looks at technology and human behavior in the future. This is a really great look at humanity and things we might be facing in the not-so-distant future. If you have an intellectual mind or a love for weird dystopian/utopian worlds, and want to peek at where we might all be going with this stuff, you will certainly enjoy this show. A couple of episodes will leave you annoyed or asleep, but most of them were pretty cool. The show also features some surprise guest stars as well, such as the leading man from Mad Men, and features some nice writing and bizarre plots. Check it out...
In a summary we can say that the proposal of this season had everything to go right, great storyline, ideas and technique, but lacked life, identification, and without it sounds like something shallow.
In a sentence about this season: It's like reading a book and not creating that world inside your head.
There is no emotion, feelings, identification, it's just cool.


                
All 3 seasons are cleverly written, acted directed. They might not be perfect, but they are very very good. 
Season 4 however was the exact opposite. Boring, predictable, lazy writing, sometimes bad acting, or maybe just bad directed and a lot of plot holes. It's like a very bad, and weak remake of the original.The only episode worthy of this show, from season 4, was the last one. This one is the only one, that really felt like black mirror. I really hope they'll do season 5 justice...if there will be.


                
After my cousin and cousin-in-law showed genuine freaked-outness and enthusiasm about these series I decided to watch it.The series is indeed quite original. And the fact that all the episodes deal with some negative side-effect from technology makes it relevant. But even though I definitely believe the technological possibilities proposed in the episodes, I certainly can't believe the human aspect. The behavior of the characters is farfetched, unbelievable. Exactly in that sense: I don't believe them.I guess this would categorise the series as 'horror', scary things happen and the characters overreact and do silly things, things that people wouldn't do in reality. And there's the snag for me: the series seems to want to use something from reality, technology, to scare us, yet fails to do so because of the characters' responses. There also is a strange focus on certain themes that seem to be the biggest horror to the creators of the show, and they are usually very sexual. Mostly men having to deal with the woman they love not having sex with them.I'd like to see this show grow. I'd like it to become more 'thriller' instead of 'horror'. I want to actually believe these things could happen. Well... only for an hour or so ;) 
I'd like to see this show grow and create storylines that involve more variant fears, and I can see they seem to be doing this. Hear, hear!So yes, please, go on. I cant' wait for the creators to really scare me silly... in the future.


                
Guys, I am not a regular watcher of this series. I have just watched may be a couple or more episodes and I am hooked.Just watch the 6th episode of the third season and you will understand how deftly the makers handle the show. Simply mind blowing. Very tech savvy and and with brilliant narration, the series takes on very serious subjects. Ok, acting may be very mediocre by most of the artists, but you can't say the same thing about the making.Must watch.


                
Every episode in this show is a stand-alone story, with different characters in different settings. 
They are all linked by one theme - technology and human nature gone wrong. Mostly they are futuristic, ranging from 'could happen this year' up to 'far future technological dystopia.' 
If you like happy endings, you won't like this show. I think there is one happy ending among all three seasons. S1E1 - I suggest you skip this one. It was by far the worst in my opinion, the only one I really disliked. It was pointless and disgusting, blackmail via social media for no apparent reason. 
S1E2 - a future dystopia show about using media entertainment to escape a dull reality. I enjoyed it. S1E3 - a future where everyone has an implant that records every moment of their life and can be played back on screen. It was pretty good. 
S2E1 - Can robots replace people? Good presentation of complexity of emotion and personality. 
S2E2 - it is strange, you don't know what's happening for a while, without giving too much away it's kind of a dark twist on justice. I liked it. 
S2E3 - could happen this year - a look at public opinion and the fakeness of politicians. Very good. 
S2E4 - it says it is 'three interconnected tales' but it is all one story, and comes together at the end. Another 'technology and justice' story. S3E1 - social commentary on virtual 'popularity,' well done. 
S3E2 - technological horror story, somewhat predictable but fun. 
S3E3 - technology and blackmail, this one is how the concepts of S1E1 should have been done. I liked this one, even if the kid was stupid - he's a teenage boy, so his foolish emotional responses are believable. 
S3E4 - a virtual reality romance, not my thing personally but well done. 
S3E5 - a commentary on combat and dehumanization of the 'enemy.' Very well done. 
S3E6 - a combination of technological terrorism/horror with social commentary - the deaths are pretty disturbing especially if you have certain phobias, but I really liked the show.


                
Some episodes are good ... some are bad. Some episodes will make you want to turn back in time because you've wasted an hour watching a boring one.However , the episodes that are good are cleverly thought out and really does scare you because of the reality of the situations.


                
I need a listing of any or all past British-led Speculative Fiction Based Anthology TV Series comparable to BLACK MIRROR. I am trying to determine if the Series is inadvertently DECONSTRUCTING the axioms prevalent within any previous British Anthology Speculative Fiction Based SciFi Horror and/or American legacies like Twilight Zone/Outer Limits.


                
This sci-fi anthology series is basically a modern-day version of "The Twilight Zone." It features dark, bizarre tales taking place in the not-so-distant future focusing on technology and it's consequences. I've always liked anthologies and this is pretty good. If you're a fan of "The Twilight Zone" or "The Outer Limits," Give this a view.
What are the Embedded Motifs evident in Black Mirrorverse? Are they inadvertantly subliminal and subversive or not? Suicide, Sadism, God-Complexes, Techno Worship, Masochistic Behavior and a more than curious Fetish for Pathological Absences of Conscience run amok as meta-themes. 
Is BLACK MIRROR 'mirroring' a darkly pessimistic overview of this generation's dysfunctional Speculative Future?


                
I find it very difficult to write a review of "Black Mirror" as a single series. It is made up of a series of very different pieces, which range from the heart-warming like "San Junipero" which is one of the best pieces of television that I have ever seen to horrifying to just kind of boring.It is an interesting show, but each episode should be taken for what it is.(I have seen it before, but I have mostly recently seen some episodes in June 2017)


                
Black Mirror is a trip to the "what if" realm......Unlike its title, the stories presented are not always dark and dystopian. Its a mixed bag, of cautionary, horror but also at times, genuinely uplifting and even moving, tales from the "other side". The standard of storytelling, predictably, varies. Sometimes there is real flair and inspiration on offer. Other times, the tales can be rather unremarkable and occasionally, boring. That said, as a guide, I'd say this series is more polished than not. Season three, sees a departure from UK only based episodes and offers up imaginings from the US as well. Its a good move, that works well, breaking up the UK centric feel of the show. I like Dark Mirror and hope for more in future. Seven out of ten from me.


                
Black Mirror: San Junipero & Nosedive (United Kingdom, Charlie Brooker, 2016) – Technology hurts as much as it helps. Its knife cuts both ways. This Netflix television series of short stories reveals the sting of technology as well as the opportunities it provides.San Junipero – The story begins in a 1980s dance club. It is a strange setting for a series based on technology. Yet appearances are deceptive. There is more going on than meets the eye. Two women meet at the club and one asks the other if there is anything she would like to do that she has never done. There are more possibilities than it seems.Nosedive – Instant and random ratings of routine interactions determine social status, living quarters, jobs and so on. In this new world it is hard to climb and easy to fall. Does one pretend to be happy and successful in order to get better ratings, or does it pay to be authentic and honest? One young woman pins her hopes for a better life on a previous acquaintance who happens to be a rising star in this precarious world. However, this acquaintance was always mean to her. It is difficult to know who to trust. One false step or twist of fate may lead to a nosedive in life prospects.The stories are timely, darkly humorous and imaginative. Technology is a fascinating subject. I was worried that this television series would not be as adequately funded as if it was a big screen film, but there did not seem to be much of a difference. While there is depth lacking in the dialogue and the acting is a little flimsy, the Black Mirror series and these stories are compelling. Seen at the 2016 Toronto International Film Festival. Three and a half of five stars.


                
This Tv-Series is just good. Plots are pretty obvious and old, but this fact does not make it harder to enjoy them. I watched only 1 season and a half of 2, and it is important to understand ,that they are not against technologies. It shows our presence and human's disadvantages. The best example of it is episode with guy, who has all his life recorded in his brain. Technologies make it easier to see our problems.


                
I really struggled rating this show. I believe that the writers, producers and actors doa great job. I like the show. But for who loves dark and twisted. Also I'm a pieces and we get deep. I binged watched this one day. I had to stop watching because I was depressed. I think because I could see some of these sick and twisted things happening with humanity making decisions. However I think that's the point. Very well done.


                
Eventually get's too emotionla and boring to my opinion...
but it's sure as hell a mush watch and gives a very good perspective to the world we live in and the path humanity takes


                
Favourite episodes - the one where you get a popularity rating & the one with the robot dogs, the one with the bees, the one with the horror game. Least favourite - the one with the annoying, offensive animated politician, the one with the robot boyfriend, the one where you can play back your memories. Some of them are really insightful and warnings of where we are headed. Others feature too much sexism, objectification and just plain wrong to be warnings or insightful, some are just not realistic. Some have little messages within the episodes that just completely undermine the idea of the episode e.g. in the boyfriend robot episode there is a scene where she is really enjoying having sex with him and she surprisedly asks where did he learn to do that. He says he uploaded porn films, I thought to myself if he/it had learned to have sex from porn he'd be hitting her, spitting on her and calling her names while not being at all concerned with her sexual pleasure so technically he'd be crap at sex. All episodes are depressing & scary.
