This is truly an amazing show. The issues that the show grapples with and illuminates in each episode are timely and significant. To say that this show deals with the dark side of technology and human nature is to make to simple of a comparison. The stories are mostly set in a dystopian world that is dominated or badly influenced by modern technology. What makes "Black mirror" so great is the attention to detail and inter/intrapersonal relationships and how the main character would feel and experience its brave new world.
Well thought out plots, characters, settings and really good storytelling. It asks some hard questions of what and where we really want technology to take us. Or maybe already have taken us. Definitely worth seeing! Treat yourself and watch this. 9/10


                
I have only seen the first two installments of this series and but was impressed enough to leave a review. Charlie Brooker has popped out of the internet at times when I least expect it revealing the more unsettling aspects of our culture through his program Screenwipe and others. That was my first exposure to Doug Stanhope, a comedian who among others brings us closer together via demonstrations of how media and technology are changing our society and rarely for the better. Black Mirror arrives in the form of anthologized science fiction in the vein of the Twilight zone. It is a series that examines our society's relationship with the media and how it allows us to both shape our own identity and imprison us in a space where empathy and truth are weaknesses and something to hide in order to get ahead. I have always been interested in futurists and Brooker seems to fill the requirements for one. There is nothing in the first two installments that do not reflect current trends in our collective behavior but instead extrapolates where current trends in communications technology; avatars, social media and reality television might lead us if we do not seek to preserve what is beautiful and pure about our collective consciousness and humanity. Having seen reviews here that feel there is no commentary embedded within these stories I couldn't disagree more. As the title suggests, Brooker's Black Mirror shows us a dark reflection of our selves and allows us to evaluate these scenarios through our own emotional filters. There are no blatant soap box messages but I interpreted the narratives as cautionary tales and would hope that no one, when confronted with them, would hope for these near futures. The only thing holding them back from becoming reality is our own resistance to complacency and purely spectator culture. Beyond these philosophical aspects, the program is incredibly well produced and executed in my opinion. The characters and sets create convincing realities and I was never once drawn out of the story due to poor acting, scripting or characterizations. I could not recommend this series more and hope that it will continue on. Congratulations to Brooker and company for their work and their apparent concern for all of us.


                
The double entendre that is Black Mirror's name summarizes the show perfectly. The first interpretation is that the show looks inwards, at the darker aspects of humanity and society. This is done through the theme of technology, hence the second meaning. The black mirror is the screen that rules our lives.Each self-contained episode is brilliantly crafted and produced. The stories are compelling and the acting is phenomenal. This show is not for those looking exclusively for entertainment, as the episodes leave you with a distinctly empty feeling. Although this is obviously the intent, one cannot help but wonder at the creators' bleak outlook on the world. The presence of bestiality in the first episode could very well deter some viewers, but I would remind them that the show is Twilight Zone-esque in structure as well as theme. The episodes may be watched in any order, as they are all completely independent of one another. The second episode in particular is storytelling of the highest form.Black Mirror is disturbing in the best possible way. It unflinchingly explores the issues of society through deeply intimate stories and characters and their interactions with technology. Let me be clear, it will not leave you feeling fulfilled. Watching it was an exhausting experience that shook me deeply. The thought provoking subject matter combine with powerful, desolate stories and excellent performances to create one of the most unique and brilliant shows that I have seen. It not only holds the viewer's attention while it plays, it enthralls your thoughts long after the credits roll.


                
I found myself irritated with one of the reviewers who gave this mini-series a terrible review because it left him feeling "disturbed". Ermm.... I think that's the intention....As many others have pointed out, the series is superbly put together: the actors are great; the script, if anything, is minimalist and the production excellent.This isn't reality TV. This picks out the darkest aspects of how are future in this this modern age could end up, in extremis....Personally, I think it's a Facebook/Twitter/Flickr/Android/iPhone/Tab/internet horror story and whilst I think it's probably too brutal for most people, it is a reflection of how we give up and of ourselves to the digital, overwhelmingly public way that the world now wants us to be.I love the show. Will it change my FB or other behavior? No but, truth be told, I might be watching out of the corner of my eye....


                
After watching the first episode, I was shocked about the negative reviews it received. I'm going to be honest, it wasn't what I expected but that doesn't make it bad. It was very dark, and very shocking; Had me completely on the edge of my seat throughout. You will have to watch it with an open mind as it is somewhat distasteful and well... extremely far-fetched (Which is pretty absurd for a satire, but I digress.) I did thoroughly enjoy it however, it hit all the right notes.After watching the second episode, I was left in shock about the jarring contrast from the first episode. It's so different than the prior, it's set in an alternate reality and is just.. unusual. Still dark, still intriguing, but didn't quite capture my imagination the way the first one did.The third and final instalment was probably my favourite of the 3. It was again, completely unrelated from the previous 2, but it had a really interesting concept and narrative, and was executed phenomenally. All in all, the series as a whole is very interesting, if somewhat inconsistent.


                
If I had to pick 5 words to describe Black Mirror it would be those. Add that they're all exceptionally well- made pieces of art.Recommended for appreciators of proper sci-fi, cerebral thought experiments, philosophy and those who wonder what modern social tech might be doing to our human nature. Also if you enjoy anthologies ala Outer Limits & Twilight Zone.Not recommended if you're in the mood for binging on 'just-one-more' series arcs or you fancy light entertainment. Black Mirror is heavy-going and encourages concentrated viewing and musing afterthoughts, personally I couldn't binge on it.I needed almost a month to watch all 19 eps, so about one a day which is as bingey as it should be. Watch it in order as you get a little appreciation of how the BM-universe expands.One fine thing to point out is that Black Mirror's cast is genuinely diverse without making a crazed identity-politics agenda out of it...people are people, and that's how it should be.
My ep rankings:10/10: Hated in the Nation / USS Callister9/10: Fifteen Million Credits / White Christmas / The Entire History Of You8/10: Nosedive / Men Against Fire / The National Anthem / Playtest / Metalhead / Black Museum7/10: San Junipero / Be Right Back / The Waldo Moment6/10: Shut Up And Dance / White Bear5/10: Hang The DJ / Arkangel2/10: CrocodileEveryone uses the out-of-ten system differently. In my book a maximum 10/10 is very rare, and 9's relatively rare (about as rare as my 1/10's & 2/10's)...so props to BM for having five such exceptionally strong episodes, plus plenty of strong 8's. Anything from a 6/10 is worth a watch, 5/10 is borderline ok so that leaves just the one genuinely poor story. Oddly enough those three weakest eps all came in a row, tho' of course your experience will differ.Weighting the balance positively Black Mirror deserves an overall 9/10 putting it right up there in my top 5 favourite series ever, above Game of Thrones & Breaking Bad. Alongside Twin Peaks & classic Twilight Zone. Below only the modern Battlestar Galactica.So if you haven't seen any yet and my spoiler-free review speaks to you, I can only add don't judge the series on its very first episode (it strongly divides opinion), the next two however should blow you away!


                
This is a refreshing unique take on human obsessions in the 21st century and how it damages us to a degree . I like the different aspects of how we are shown and in a way warned about our current obsession with technology so take heed of warning to your own use of out so called necessities of today's digital world .


                
My brother put me on to this show. The latest season is the best one yet. Great show especially if you're a sci-fi tech fan.


                
Usually, I try to keep away from dystopias because I can't bear their gloominess and pessimism. When I started watching Black Mirror I only knew that it's a criticism of modern society. But I didn't expect to see that shocking, dark, disturbing depiction of a very near future. But once started watching I couldn't stop. I watched and wondered which dark tale I would see next.I absolutely adore British TV shows, they are a gripping and unique blend of comedy and drama, and distinguished English humor is always a ray of light even in the most tragic circumstances.Black Mirror is not like that. No humor. No ray of light. Only shocking truth.In the majority of the science-fiction films the future technologies are just a part of the society and it isn't shown how they affect our lives on minor levels. Well, Black Mirror shows it like no other film or show. It shows how new gadgets, technologies, social media and entertainment industry imperceptibly slowly and steadily change our perception, change worlds (Waldo's Moment), societies (National Anthem, White Bear, 15 Million Merits), life of individuals (The Entire History of You, Be Right Back.)Each episode deserves a separate review, separate kudos, but I'll express my thoughts shortly on each of them here:1. The National Anthem - the first and the best episode for me. I'm totally freaked out by it. By a society that gathered to watch the most humiliating act forced over an individual. If only a few people from this mob have refused to watch it they could have prevented it. But they haven't.2.15 Million Merits - unlike other episodes, which describe life and situations, in which we can easily imagine and find ourselves in today or tomorrow, this episode is entirely futuristic. It contains an exaggerated image of modern society: unified people with unified lives zombified by TV. Sometimes in this world appears something real, something beautiful, something innocent. Then it's broken. Sometimes somebody resists. Then they are sharply made the part of the system again.3. The Entire History of You - basically it's a family drama. The future technology from this episode can be useful for people with bad memory, and can turn into in evil by creeps, who like to think about their past relationships. The evil in this episode is also that with the help of this technology main character humiliates his wife in a way that no one has right to do because everybody has a right to privacy, even spouses.4. Be Right Back - we see a beautiful girl Martha who resists the influence of modern gadgets and social media, but eventually, ends up dating a software.5. White Bear - a society must have a code. If there are crimes there must be punishment. But even a death penalty and Lynch Law are more civilized and merciful than that what we have here. The law can't be sadistic and entertaining. Otherwise, it's not a law, it's a crime.6. Waldo's Moment - do you want to be ruled by a cartoon that stands for nothing, thinks nothing, offers no decisions, only farts, insults and makes jokes about its d..k? Well, they want.To conclude, if you want to broaden your horizons, watch British TV shows.


                
I've just discovered the extraordinary showstopper, "Black Mirror", a British sci-fi television series that is part "Twilight Zone" but darker and more bizarre. In six episodes in Season One we are let into a dystopian future narratively thrilling yet outrageous, because of its plausibility. Each episode, like "Twilight Zone", has a separate story and a different cast. You can view the episodes in any order. More a short story collection than a novel, "Black Mirror" is less a dystopia than it is the dark side of life and the darkest regions of the mind. Read the entire review at: www.unhealedwound.com under the December 29, 2014 post: "Black Mirror"--"Dark Reflections of the Mind."


                
To tell right from wrong - Film Review on Black Mirror S01E01What if the palace, the public and the Party want the leader of a country act disgracefully? While from the S01E01, we can easily tell that even the prime minister has to comply with the public will, embarrassing the requirement though, the people enjoyed the event at the beginning and felt offended and the terrorists'obscene dictation disgusting at last.So who won? The first lady begged his husband not to conform crying "I know the people." But didn't the prime minister know? He was supposed to be the political leader of the kingdom with an intelligent administration to help him,suited up in the world stage,a dirty trick played by some terrorists,a pig,live on the air,how about you go fuk yourself<U+FF1F>However the kidnappers were smart, so they held the princess, a beloved royal member to sway the public, thus the public were dragged to their side though they might not support their act, but from a totalitarian perspective, an embarrassing awkwardness weigh way less than one's life,let alone a royal one. A moral dilemma was designed elaborately, and the people were led deliberately against the political elite, their emotional resentment towards the elites were activated, on this specific subject.Now let's take a look from the prime minister's side, what was set before him?The palace want him to submit,the public too and the Party, even though he was the party leader. He hesitated,If he yielded, then he would attain better palace relationship and public support and even consolidated his leadership inside the party and against the opposition in the next election.Ever thought of the cost of this possible "Pig" move,dismembered by the human race and a horrible experience accompany him for the rest of his life.Political profit tempting him, but the line was dropped there telling him not to do anything inhuman. Provided that there could be a compromise between pros and cons, thought our leader,suddenly a idea came up to him." This move won't be inhuman at all, since the people want it, the people want it and I am the political representative democratically elected by the people, so I should follow the public will and gain my credit by this courageous move." "The people are ignorant and misguided." Said Sir Humphrey, I should add no more but usually the people can't tell right from wrong.Something Real - Film Review on Black Mirror S01E02In post-mordern life, consumer-level technology has dominated our everyday experience, with which we consume music from the music industry, reality shows from the TV industry, electronic devices and online entertainment from theose tech giants, we have man-machine interaction and commodities to assist or to devalue us physically and mentally, everything on earth become man-made, then shall we bother ourselves wonder, is there something real left?New GodNot much as one could expect in the future probably, apples and an origami crane were the only visible clues and items in this episode, anything else? Right, the voice, the voice of the female character Abby, in this fantastic totalitarian world, tradition and conventions were eliminated by progressive demand, family ties and blood relationships weakened, everyone living in boxes with big screens, we all cling to the state or the community as the background of the film set in, more precisely in this case, pop culture or government by the masses. If say God died centuries ago, we worship celebraty gossips and money today, so when given a chance of ascending to the top of the society, would one be hesitated? Abby believed it worths a try.Judge Hope and Judge CharityThe pop culture has been selling hopes and dreams to the public successfully, exploiting our vanity and ambition for their own profit. Consumers seem rather servile to such culture and embrace it enthusiastically, from those dreamers practicing their shows backstage, hoping that one day they could enter the stage and become a real star, by judgement of Judge Hope and Judge Charity, see the essence of this whole thing is charity and your hope, the hopeless you are begging the judges! People can be so spineless confronting wealth and higher social status, while the judges can be cruel, simply because this is a show to them after all. The audience are onlookers like zombies with their virtual characters on the screen behind the judges, who knows that by watching other people performing and becoming star, their stories may well be a good inspiration and preparing them to be potential players!StuffAlso we can see how the pop culture or TV and Internet has influenced day and life of our age, violence video games and pornography are the most popular content online and we are obsessed with virtual stuff, some User Generated Content is mostly nothing but rubbish, even though we share them on Facebook and Twitter, socializing. The industry boomed and jobs guarateened but what about life or spiritual aspect, who cares if you are due to get excitement in the next 30 minutes? Let alone future generations.It takes too much for an individual to fight against the entire system, Abby failed, so did Bingham, digital screens are everywhere and we finally compromise as a docile consuming vessel. When Bingham drank that cup of condensed juice on the table near the industrial crane statue, we all realised the answer.
So far this show doesn't dissapoint. There were a few stories that took a little while to get into, like the dating episode which left me feeling both happy and a bit disturbed.But not nearly as bad as Black Museum or Crocodile (da hell was wrong with that woman!).I found MetalHead to be the least like the rest of the stories, maybe because of the black and white footage or just the bleak landscape it shows. I still found it highly entertaining. Black Mirror's worst episode is better than a lot of series finales imo.


                
Really makes you think about the damage companies like google and Facebook can do to society. Many of the episodes seem to be explicit commentaries on how dangerous in can be to trust companies that exist only to collect and exploit their users data.


                
I think calling Black Mirror SciFi is a bit offensive but technically it is indeed made of fictional stories on how science may evolve.Unlike other shows, this is essentially a collection of short movies, but each one succeeds in being very compelling, thought provoking and often has a thriler edge to it.So it is a drama, thriller and satire all rolled into one. Which is what it makes it so good.Basically Black Mirror premise is to dive into (very plausible) scenarios into where technological progress may lead us if we are not careful, and just how f-ed of a world we may end up with it.Would recommend watching all of the episodes, and it is a perfect show to watch if you feel like watching something but maybe do not have time to watch a movie, while still getting that beggining, middle and end feeling - and most likely will be very philosophical after that.Strong 9/10


                
They say ''ignorance is a bliss'', what if we show you what you have ignored? this is basically the theme of black mirror, it describes the bitter truth of life. I promise you...if this show doesn't make you depressed, then i don't know what else will do.


                
The fourth season of Black Mirror manages to keeep terrifying its viewers with the similar horrors from the last season. All six stories are interesting and engaging, but some stories might get lost by the end of the episodes. Overall, a very well done season.


                
A pretty interesting series. I especially liked that they cover such modern topics as social networking, gamification, American Idol-style shows and making videos with iPhone to upload them to youtube. There isn't much of this stuff in movies, I don't know why, maybe because film directors are just old and technically uneducated. When watching this series, I kind of had a feeling that movies just failed to catch up with the fast changing realities of our lives while this TV series does catch up.I'm still giving it 8 and not 10 because the series doesn't feel like it's giving any deep message. Also, it a bit too one-sided. Cuz all these new technologies have major positive effects, not just negative ones, and the series only concentrates on the negative stuff. Also, the series generalizes too much. There are plenty of people on Facebook or Youtube who only need it for professional and business reasons, and plenty of professionals who put useful stuff there, not just farting dogs. There is still plenty of educated people in the world. This series goes too much in the direction of "Idiocracy" movie (2006), pretending too much that everyone becomes an idiot due to all these new technologies.
I binged the entire series (4 seasons) one weekend in 2018 (over 1,000 combined minutes in 19 episodes). Black Mirror has been reviewed ad-nauseum, and I have nothing more to add that will influence anyone's viewing decision either way. However, I will offer a brief opine and a selection of the best episodes for your consideration.Each episode is a self-contained pseudo-science fiction story, running anywhere from 43 minutes to nearly 90 minutes. I can compare it to an updated version of The Twilight Zone, at least that's the first thing I thought of. Except, in Black Mirror the characters aren't really in another dimension per se, they're in the now and all the freaky stuff that happens is 'common' among the population.Technology, and how it can affect (sometimes adversely) everyday life is the centerpiece of each episode. If you're looking for a feel-good series with predictable plots you're not going to find it in Black Mirror. You'll see the dark side of humanity and what people are capable of when this cool technology is exploited for all the wrong reasons: some of these episodes get really gloomy.Although each story can stand on its own (you can afford to miss episodes and still know what's going on), I counted least seven chapters that briefly refer to another in the series (like a specific piece of technology, or a quote from a character). If you miss the reference, though, it's not going to totally throw you for a loop.Among the dark themes, there is some humor. Odd, creepy humor. Don't feel weird or awkward laughing at certain situations that may otherwise be inappropriate. I was horrified after the first episode in season 1 (The National Anthem). Truly sickened, in fact. When I watched it a second time, I giggled like a mad-man. But it's that humor that makes Black Mirror a fun and addictive series to watch. Some of the 'laugh-out-loud' moments, for me, were in seeing justice get served to the deserving. What boundaries will they cross in the next season I wonder?My favorite episodes are:Season 1, Episode 3: The Entire History of You (9/10)Season 2, Episode 2: White Bear (9/10)Season 2, Episode 4: White Christmas (10/10)Season 3, Episode 1: Nosedive (9/10)Season 3, Episode 3: Shut Up and Dance (10/10)Season 3, Episode 6: Hated in the Nation (9/10)Season 4, Episode 3: Crocodile (9/10)Season 4, Episode 6: Black Museum (9/10)


                
Black Mirror is the most hard-hitting hypothetical on the psychological horror of unhampered technological advance I've ever seen... it reminds us that the potential side effects or opportunities for abuse are as limitless as human nature, and easily as devastating as biological tampering. Our current reckless obsession with pushing forward and rolling out new gadgets and systems without ANY thought for the potential consequences, combined with our smug self-assurance that technology is always beneficial to humanity is truly what makes this terrifying stuff. Guns in the hands of children. A brilliantly conceived and written show. I could not fault the acting, editing, camera-work, set pieces, soundtrack, scripting or effects. I honestly haven't been blown away by such a genius social commentary since... well forever. Do yourself a favour and watch them all. You may find yourself looking at your mobile phone with a strange sense of revulsion afterwards. Not to mention the internet.


                
Season 1 of Britain's "Black Mirror" (2011) was absolutely terrific. (To be clear, this first "season" consists of only three episodes, although subsequent seasons have more.) This looks to be a truly superb dystopian science fiction anthology series — I'd rate it a 9 out of 10.I'd point to two qualities that make this show stellar. First, it's truly smart stuff. The story devices are thoughtfully invented and quite original. (These are "near-future" -type sci-fi tales depicting how new technology or cultural trends can have unforeseen consequences.) This show doesn't insult the viewer's intelligence, it relies on him or her to pay attention and think.Second, the writers here have a firm grasp of genuine psychological horror. There are no radioactive monsters in the sewers here, or killer robots from the future — but "Black Mirror" manages to be scary without those things. It does just fine presenting the viewer with visions of human shame, fear, jealousy or existential loss. These are stories that deal primarily with the psychology of their characters — and they truly get under your skin.This is great stuff — I'd recommend it.


                
Some of the best episodes in the show are less rated than episodes that are more easy to understand !


                
Every episode of the show is like a separate movie, and every episode I watched so far is at least very good. I almost watched 90% of the show and till now "White Bear" is my favourite with no doubts. I would strongly recommend it.


                
As the title states there is probably an episode for everyone when it comes to black mirror. It's an anthology so you can watch each episode out of order, however make sure you watch 'black museum' last if you decide to opt for picking and choosing the episodes you like. The story lines are often clever and thought provoking and often come with a twist that you wouldn't have guessed prior to finishing the episode which is rare to find in modern TV.
I'm my opinion some of the best episodes include:
San Junipero (a fun story set in the 80s)
White bear (a story to get you thinking)
Shut up and dance (the dangers of computer hacking)
National anthem (probably the most famous episode involving the PM and a pig)
Hang the DJ (a romance story in which an app tells you how long you will be with a romantic partner)


                
The series starts with a pretty disturbing first episode but it gets better with each episode. The special appearances by actors and early career roles for actors in the series is great as well. Watch it and you most likely won't regret it.


                
Each episode is a short story, independent from the others. The point is to show the dark side of our society and the harm that communication (too much of it or not enough) can do to human kind, especially because of the constant evolution of technology. 
As the scenes are mainly set in the future, with a dark sense of humor, and metaphores that only adults can understand, it may not be recommended to a too sensitive audience. But mature adults should enjoy it as it is the perfect reflect of what we are and what we may become if we let technology take the power.


                
