This is one of the finest science fiction films ever made. Everything is so carefully and expertly constructed to the point that repeated viewings are just as good as the first. Also, the atmosphere, along with the amazing sets, is real shocker and few movies have managed to create the same kind eerie feeling.The story starts with the crew of the cargo vessel "Nostromo" waking up before schedule. They soon realize their on-board computer has detected life on a nearby planet and they go to investigate. One of them unwillingly brings back an...ALIEN (!) which soon becomes a very unwanted passenger. The introduction of the title creature in the famous chest-burster scene is a real jolter. Especially if you watch it after dinner.The music, too, must be mentioned and it moves the story along with unrelenting terror. However, the lack of music, in certain scenes, works just as well and this combination makes for one of the best musical montages to be put on film.This is a classic film that spawned a series, which is good overall, and a bunch of copycats, many of which are just sad. "Alien" came first and it is easily one the best. 10/10Rated R: violence/gore and profanity


                
Back in early 20th century, Lumière brothers didn't have a clue of what they were playing with. I'm freaking sure that if somebody could have magically told them that thanks to their work, a movie like 'Alien' would have been made in the future, they both would have died of a sudden, shocked by the consequences of their labor, like an honest scientist would if he was shown an evil use of his research. In that sense, but in the best way imaginable, 'Alien' is the atomic bomb.In my opinion, 'Alien' is the only perfect movie in the history of cinema. Of course, this could be debatable, but of all the films I've watched since I was born, this is the only one in which I haven't been able to find the slightest flaw. It gets a golden ten out of ten. Bright, solid and massive.I could go on with a panegyric, but I'll try to be short and accurate:The direction is just perfect. Every shot is marvellous, every movement of the camera is breathtaking. There is absolutely nothing you could add or subtract. Touch it, and you spoil it. Seriously.The acting is splendid. The performances build a credible world centuries away. I don't know about you, but this take on the future was unveliabably acceptable. Sigourney Weaver is more than a revelation, John Hurt is a master, and the rest are nothing short of marvellous.The script is a work of art, the story is mesmerizing, well-constructed, well-developed, and free of absurd twists. Its simplicity and efectiveness are yet, 25 years after, to be matched.The atmosphere is pure genius. Gothic, claustrophobic and sometimes baroque. The use of light and dark is beyond description, the use of sound is as creepy as it gets.The FX are the best possible for 1979. In the time of the release, some scenes were stomach churning.The score. Jerry Goldsmith's work matches the images so perfectly it seems to bleed from them. It is and will be the best soundtrack for a sci-fi flick in space ever.The tagline. "In space, no one can hear you scream". THIS is a tagline.And, of course... the alien. The only alive creature that can steal Weaver the movie. Its design is the most innovative I've seen. It has spawned dozens of disgraceful imitations. This is the real deal. Not only the look, but the complete design of a life form, including biological features. Acid instead of blood. Jaws inside jaws. What more could you possibly want? This is how a movie is done.A very good sign of a movie that has gone down in history is the amount of collectively well remembered scenes. Well, 'Alien' has so many that I won't go into it. This movie contains so many iconic scenes that has become an icon itself.So, what else? I urge all young directors to watch this movie a zillion times, as I've already done, and take notes all along. But not in order to rip off from it, as many others have done, but to learn, learn, learn, learn and learn how a movie should be done. 'Casablanca'? You must be joking.Oh, I almost forget! There's a lovable cat in it.RATING: 10


                
ALIEN received mixed reviews when it debuted in 1979--largely from science fiction critics, who accused it of being little more than a sort of Friday the 13th in Outer Space, a blood-and-gore horror flick given a futuristic twist via special effects. But while these accusations have more than a little truth, it has been an incredibly influential film--and even today, in the wake of CGI effects, it still holds up extremely, extremely well.The story is well known: the crew of an interstellar craft responds to what seems a distress signal, only to encounter a remarkably lethal alien life form that boards their ship and sets about picking them off one by one. Some of the special effects are weak (the alien spacecraft and the android "revival" are fairly notorious). There is little in the way of character development, the film has a fairly slow pace, and the story itself is predictable; you can usually guess who is going to die next.BUT. The art designs are incredible: the entire look of the film, from the commercial nature of the spacecraft to the iconographic alien itself (brilliantly envisioned by Giger) is right on the money. Director Ridley Scott encouraged his cast to ad lib from the script, and the result is a shocking sense of realism--and the somewhat slow pace of the film and the predictability of the story gives it a sense of relentless and ever-mounting paranoia that is greatly enhanced by the tight sets and camera set-ups. With its odd mixture of womb-like organics and cold mechanics, ALIEN is a film calculated to send even the most slightly claustrophobic viewer into a fit of hysteria.The entire cast, led by Tom Skerrit and Sigorney Weaver, is very, very good--and the film abounds with memorable images and scenes ranging from John Hurt's encounter with the alien egg to Skerrit's search of the ship air ducts to Weaver's terrifying race against time as the ship counts down to self-destruct. Seldom has any film been so consistent in design, cast, direction, and out-and-out fear factor, and although certain aspects of ALIEN are open to legitimate criticism the end result is powerful enough to bring it in at a full five stars. A word of warning, however: you'll need to send the kids to bed for this one. And you'll probably be up half the night afterward yourself! Recommended.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer
'Alien' is one of those special films that have aged very, very well. Even now, after nearly 40 years, everything about it just feels fresh. The restrained, natural performances by the fantastic cast; the outstanding production design; the beautiful, ominous score by Jerry Goldsmith; the realistic, "lived-in" look of space-freighter Nostromo's interior: it actually feels less dated than many science fiction films that were made much later, which is quite an astonishing feat. Even the (what now must be considered) "retro" technology inside the ship doesn't necessarily have to be viewed as anachronistic in the face of our obvious recent advancements, because it's the most simple technological equipment that is usually robust enough to survive the longest under harsh conditions (like the extreme temperatures in space). I feel it's especially hard for science fiction films to stand the test of time - which is kind of inherent to the genre I suppose - and 'Alien' simply remains an outstanding achievement in that regard. It's a testament to the talent of everyone involved, but especially to the vision of director Ridley Scott. The film was crafted with so much love for every little detail, and the designs by Moebius, Chris Foss - and in particular the Lovecraftian horrors unleashed by Swiss surrealist H.R. Giger - are among the best and most iconic in any science fiction film. This isn't just an outstanding, timeless piece of entertainment: it's a work of art. 10 Stars out of 10. Favorite films: IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/Lesser-Known Masterpieces: imdb.com/list/ls070242495/


                
Ridely Scott is such a minimalist in Alien that many sci-fi nuts find it slow and unexciting. So many people prefer Aliens, its sequel, to this one. I think Aliens, directed by James Cameron, is another sci-fi masterpiece (and maybe the best action film ever made), but I think Alien is much better. In fact, I would say that it is among the best films ever made, in sci-fi, only second to 2001. The plot absolutely lacks contrivance. All the plot points develop how they would naturally. And there are great surprises throughout the film. Even if you haven't seen the film, you know about the chest-bursting scene. You probably saw it parodied dozens of times. But watch the scene where Ian Holm reveals his secret! That is one amazing scene! I actually saw the sequel first, so I kind of knew that secret, too, but it still shocked me. It was so well directed.Notice how the dialogue works. It never particularly draws attention to itself. It actually reminds me of Robert Altman, how he directed such movies as Nashville, where many characters are speaking at the same time, and nothing seems more or less important than anything else. It is just like real life. Alien is one of the most realistic, documentary-like sci-fi films ever made. Also notice the setting. The Nostromo's design is so believable that I feel that I'm actually seeing a real space vehicle. The alien ship also beams with its spookiness.The characters are also extremely believable. They are so well written that even the first character who dies is completely developed. If you get the DVD, they actually created dossiers about each of the crew members. It also has extra scenes which round out the characters even more. I think Ripley is one of the most endearing characters in film history. Even in the last two sequels, which were visually interesting but not very well written or directed, Ripley held my interest. I teared up when she died at the end of 3. If they made a fifth one, I would go, no matter how terrible I knew it would be. The acting is also top-notch. Ian Holm, a great actor, gives one of his best performances here. I love the last scene that he is in. Truly a master. And of course Sigourney Weaver could have just as easily been nominated for an Oscar for her performance here as she was for Aliens. I wish she would make more movies. She's so talented.The most important part of a film, in my mind, is the mood. And boy, does Alien have one of the most genuinely spooky movies I've ever seen. Make sure you watch it after the sun has gone down. Also, watching it alone will help. The special effects are kind of cheap, but Scott knows this well enough. He only shows the alien for seconds at a time. Besides keeping us from seeing the shoddiness of those puppets, this technique makes the alien seem all the more creepy and mysterious. 10/10, no doubt at all (BTW, the symbols all over the Nostromo are the same insignias as those of the Purina Dog Chow company)
Three words perfectly describe ALIEN: Long, dark and ominous.You know you're in for a good time when even the opening title gives you a shiver. The music plays perfectly as the word 'ALIEN' slowly appears, line by line. Then there are the establishing shots of the ship; poorly maintained, claustrophobic.And then there's basically forty minutes of people in a ship pondering and eating and getting along (or not). The film has one little thing that allows it to draw you along so slowly - a promise. A promise made by the advertisements and hype that this was going to kick your ass. You just had to wait.But when it happens, it happens. Though the film doesn't speed up per se, there's a lot more happening in front of the screen to make it at least look like stuff's going on. The first half crawls almost depressingly, but the second half catches your eye and refuses to let go.I suggest everyone sees this film. Even if you skip through the beginning, you need to see this. It defined sci-fi and horror all in one.It's perfect.


                
Alien....the creature......the film.....the legend. The one that started it all, the one that led to one of the greatest sequels ever made, one that got a comic book mini-series and 2 cross-over films with "Predator". This is THE film. And without a doubt, the greatest horror film ever created, and this totally makes "Halloween" look like "Chicken Little". You can forget about all those rubbish "Friday the 13th" or "Nightmare on Elm Street" movies, 'cause "Alien" just takes horror up to so many levels! In "Alien", we find ourselves in the distant future with a crew just coming back from a haul of 20 million tons of ore back to Earth. But while the crew members are in stasis, their ship picks up an "SOS" from a nearby planet, and once the crew is awakened, they are forced by the "Company" regulations to follow that signal. And then when they land on the planet and it turns out that something terrifying is in store for them, when a hostile organism attaches itself to one of the crew members. And later on, it becomes clear that the crew member was being impregnated and then dies a horrible, violent death from a deadly breed of an other-worldly life-form. And now the rest of the crew must fight off the creature.As other classic films should always have, "Alien" does great on the characters. And of course, the most recognizable one is the lead woman, Ellen Ripley who is played then-unknown Sigourney Weaver. She provides a very human face and you're gonna feel like you're actually watching a real-life woman in here, and it could be because of her accent, or her mannerisms. But as the film progresses, she develops into a more mentally tougher woman while combating the Alien. There are times when she totally keeps it cool, times when she's afraid, times when she's angry, and times when its just Ripley being Ripley. And thanks to Weavers acting talents, she can really dish out one hell of a character.The rest of the supporting cast are nothing short of spectacular, Parker and Brett are the selfish, sarcastic men who only want to make a profit. And through most of the film, you can feel the tension that Ripley and Parker have. Lambert, who one of my favorites from here is the second woman who happens to be the opposite of Ripley, a total coward. Dallas, who the viewer might get the vibe that HE is the main character in the 1st 15 minutes or so, is pretty much the leader here. Kane, is the tired, dead-looking guy who is the one that carries the alien species inside of him. And finally, Ash is the one with the sinister purpose and you start to suspect that he's up to no good at some point. And movie characters need to have their own personalities and that's what "Alien" has.And as for the Alien itself, well what can i say? It is the most horrifying creature in the history of cinema, period. I mean, how could you stop it? It has acid for blood, and is very lethal to fight face-to-face. And the special effects were over 20 years ahead of its time. The face-hugger on Kane looked so freaking real, that you're gonna be scared just by looking at it, even it doesn't do anything except breathe most of the time. And the sets couldn't have been better, very futuristic, yet there's always something ominous and dark about them.The suspense is impossible to resist as the sequences deliver the chills at times when you least expect it, and when you do expect something to happen, nothing happens. And "Alien" is one of the very few horror films that understands that you can't scare people by raking up the bodies and the blood, but you have to build up the suspense to do it. And director Ridley Scott is such a genius, and he shows that here, he absolutely knows how to make any kind of film, ones that can scare (Alien), one that can sadden (Thelma and Louise), and one that can excite/thrill (Gladiator). And Ridley really keeps up the dark atmosphere, especially in the beginning when there's no talking for the 1st 5 minutes or so, we get the feeling that something's not right all the time. Some parts are very quiet and very depressing and we feel exactly what we see.This is the legend that I'm talking about here, folks. Don't miss the chance to see this, because it will scare the living daylights outta you more than any other movie you're gonna see in your life. Take my word for it....I'm practically a movie buff, so I know what I'm talking about....


                
Seven members of a space mining cargo ship who are headed back to Earth are awakened from hypersleep when their ship detects a signal from an intelligent civilization on a small, uncharted planet. When they locate the source of the signal, they find more than they bargained for, and all of their lives are endangered.My feelings about this first film in the Alien series have vacillated slightly over the years. I loved it when I first saw it as a young teenager in the theater back in 1979. Later, I wasn't as enamored with it, and had actually rated it as low as a 7 out of 10--at one point believing it to be my least favorite of the series. Now, however, my appreciation of the film has matured a bit, and I'm back to thinking it's a solid 10 out of 10.The film's strong points are rooted in director Ridley Scott's focused commitment to sustaining a desolate, dark atmosphere and gradually building suspense over the course of the film. Alien is unusual for its era in its pacing, its lack of comic relief, and its refusal to provide breaks from its growing tension. All three of these facts make it a somewhat "difficult film". It's not recommended for light viewing. It's not a "popcorn film". You have to be in the mood to sit down, slow down, concentrate, invest emotion, and let yourself be enveloped in the film's world.With Alien, Scott has created a kind of bleak tribute to Stanley Kubrick's 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968). This is evident in many characteristics of the film, such as the graceful slowness of the cinematography, editing and much of the action in the first section of the film, including sustained pans across sterile-looking environments and wide external shots of (a) hulking but elegant spacecraft, the personification of the ship's computer, known as "Mother" here rather than Hal, a few subtle instances of classical music, the surprise discovery of a monumental structure on another celestial body, and so on. However, there are no instances of pleasant psychedelia here, no retreats into dreamworlds, no messages of hope, no benevolence from alien beings. Alien is strictly concerned with making its sci-fi an issue of classic horror. At a base level, it is about a malevolent monster, first encountered in a dark, Gothic environment and later chasing our heroes through a cross between a haunted house and crypt-like labyrinths.Much has been said about visual artist H.R. Giger's alien and production design, and the film wouldn't be nearly as successful without it. Giger is largely responsible for the look of the beacon ship on the small planet, both its exterior and interior, the cocoon later encountered on the cargo ship, and the creatures. His work also inspired a lot of smaller elements, as can be seen in doorways, pipes, and other features of the cargo ship. Like most of his work, these features are a combination of metallic and organic, mechanical and biological, futuristic and Gothic. They complement the austere Kubrickian sensibility in a surprising but completely successful way.Scott also uses simple effects like steam, as well as unique lighting and sound effects to help build the film's thick tension. These techniques gradually become more conspicuous as the film goes on, finally culminating in a claustrophobic symphony of flashing lights, constantly hissing pipes and hoses, and an incessant audio alarm.Finally, the last key to the excellence of the film is the cast. Although a somewhat stereotypical movie-world ragtag bunch, their characterizations provide more depth than the norm, with Sigourney Weaver as the standout, in perhaps the defining role of her career, and one of the more admirable filmic portrayals of a woman--she's the smartest, most sensible, strongest, and certainly most sexy of the bunch.
Before gore, special effects, and the denouement of the alien itself in future sequels, this was the movie that revolutionized the concept of the "haunted house" and merged it in a seamless sieve with "body horror" and its ultimate intrusion into our own most intimate space.The story had been done before, in different genres, never veering too far from its horror origins. Lovecraft (and others) had written about expeditions that had gone to "investigate" and "collect important data" only to find themselves being hunted down one by one, be it an unseen terror or their own fears.Ridley Scott's ALIEN looks and feels like a science fiction movie. However, it is not. Everything in its look and tone suggests horror of a more cerebral kind. When three crew members come across what seems to be a large space-jockey with a thing attached to its face, dead, we feel our stomach turn. If something that small was able to take over a creature this large, they are in deep trouble here. The scene is masterful, restrained, but a classic in the horror-movie sense: it's as if we had been witness to terrible events which had taken place and decided to get to the bottom of it. Scott tightens the noose employing age-old tricks of the horror genre and only once shows blood and guts -- one which follows a calm dinner sequence. He never allows the viewer to get a true glimpse of this sadistic killer much like Spielberg in JAWS and this becomes nerve-wracking because again, fear of the unseen is more powerful than what comes into view. The theory dictates: "I was afraid of that thing? I thought it was bigger!" All we see of this alien are his teeth and in one memorable, twisted scene, his tail snaking up Lambert's (Veronica Cartwright) leg. Later on, as Ripley (Sigourney Weaver in her breakthrough role), the quintessential Final Girl, makes her escape, it is possible to hear Lambert shrieking. What the alien is doing to her we can only imagine and recoil.
In the crowded gallery of horror films, Alien hangs in a prominent position, high above its rivals. By virtue of its deft blend of psychology and physical horror, it lifts the genre out of the graveyard and into deepest space . While its scale models, grimy characters, and shimmering soundtrack may no longer appeal to a generation of audiences who revel in the hotchpotch storyboards of 'Drag Me To Hell', Alien still commands great respect, and rightly so. It has not lost any of its cutting edge, even after thirty-two years. Alien's simplistic premise keeps the film tight and lean; a taut, slow-burning game of cat and mouse involving a vicious, shadowy creature whose acidic blood can melt the very girders of the ship it has invaded, and a compelling blend of the brave (Ripley), cautious (Dallas), and mechanical (Ash). There are no meaningless references to childhood memories or superfluous romance. The characters and their personalities are weathered, believable, and their mission plausible. The profit-driven search for mineral ore provides a realistic corporate counterpoint to the main story, which sees the seven crew members dragged, somewhat unwillingly, into the extraterrestrial's world. With the possible exception of Ash, they did not seek this encounter; the computers lead them to it. How each crew member responds to the situation is key; in effect, seven sub plots form, each focusing upon something different, be it a crew member's mannerisms, their way of thinking, or indeed, a violent death (Chestburster). This is Alien's greatest appeal; it provides an insight into the human mind, as psychological horror movies should. Which crew member do we, the audience, root for, admire, or resent? Who can trust who? Sigourney Weaver, so often credited with inspiring a roll-call of female cinematic heroines, rightly earns every syllable of praise that has been heaped upon her since the film's release; Ripley's resourcefulness and courage are marvellous to behold. However, as the genuinely disturbing android Ash, Ian Holm is supreme; his reserved demeanour and considered approach masking the motives that lay hidden out of sight. As an exercise in sound and vision, Alien is a memorable spectacle. There are many moments that are striking. The colossal hauler Nostromo, futuristic and industrial in design, dominates the screen as it crawls slowly, almost gracefully, towards Earth. The sheen of the soundtrack and the echoing calls from the freighter to 'Antarctica Traffic Control' are atmospheric to the core, while the fogbound alien planet, littered with blackened mountains and the silhouette of the hulking, derelict vessel, is hauntingly desolate. Spaces where, in modern horror films, the gaps would be filled with meaningless dialogue, are left vacant. The viewer can interpret what they see with no need for speech. Ridley Scott's vision of 'horror first, science-fiction second' was, without a doubt, fulfilled; audiences should ignore the flashing lights and controls of the spaceship and focus upon the Alien. Around which corner does it lurk? Who becomes its next victim? Alien is a film of immense quality. It has the capacity to frighten and to deceive. It flows precisely from scene to scene with no wasted shots and most tellingly, does not stray off course by incorporating fanciful special effects or worthless roles filled by fringe characters. One spacecraft, one extraterrestrial, seven humans, and one cat is all we are given. And quite simply, anything more would have been a waste. While the genre of horror may have moved on, the art of horror is captured perfectly, here, in the blackness of space.


                
Review 1 of 4Alien is one of those films that will never age. It takes the simplest story and tells it as well as it can be told. I look at this film as the first in a trilogy, many may not agree with that, but Alien is a perfect beginning. It establishes an entire world and makes it feel real. Everything feels new and interesting. The things that are not explained in this film are exactly what makes it so fascinating to watch. Where did that ship come from? It doesn't matter. Like a good novel the film allows you to fill in the pieces with your own imagination. This goes for the alien it self, since we see so little of it that it becomes all the more terrifying for it. Ridley Scott is like a painter with his images. So many frames of this picture seem like they could be made into still photographs. Alien is science fiction and yet with the way it is shot and acted the movie feels like a documentary. It's that sense of verisimilitude that has made this movie last for so long. So much is present in the subtext. I get the feeling that one of the underlying themes of the film is that technology in the future will little by little overtake the lives of human beings, but paradoxically the nostromo still needs a crew in order to operate. I believe this film is one of the few realistic depictions of what encountering a real Alien life form might actually be like, and that it may not be what we are expecting. something that has always stood out to me about the film is the level of familiarity that the characters have with their surroundings. Many science fiction films love to draw attention to their futuristic technology but the characters in Alien react to it like a construction worker would with operating a crane: it is their job. This film is so good for so many reasons. The performances are nothing short of amazing, the set design exquisite, the score by Jerry Goldsmith is subtle and evocative, but the main reason for me that alien still holds up after all these years is that it takes itself very seriously. There is no Hollywood style self referential humor that would saturate the later entries of the series. Sigourney Weaver may have gotten the academy award nomination for Aliens, but her work here is very solid. She plays a character who through much hardship finds strength within herself that never appeared to be there to begin with. If you look at the Alien series as a trilogy this is the film where Ripley discovers who she really is, or defines her character, and the only way one can do that is through the choices they make in extreme circumstances. This is a film of great tension and subtly, well worth seeing over and over again to pick up on all the layers of subtext that may have been missed the first or second viewing.


                
I'm a little confused as to why there was a cat on board in the first place. Needless to say, given that there was an entire crew on board the Nostromo, a merchant vessel carrying, if I remember correctly, something like 20,000,000 tons of mineral ore, there was hardly a lack of companionship. At any rate, I can easily brush aside my curiosity about the effort that went into designing the life support system that would have been needed to keep the cat alive along with the rest of the humans as they traveled for months on end in deep sleep. It doesn't matter, because the cat was involved in most of the scariest scenes. That being said, I think that one of the things that really makes Alien great is that it explains all the twists and turns of its plot in great detail, which is almost unheard of in science fiction and horror films. No one displays ludicrous behavior to allow for the construction of bloody, gory death scenes, the alien, masterfully designed, isn't rushing across the screen in every scene to allow for maximum payoff of the costume design, we don't even see it until well past the halfway point in the movie. Like Jaws, Alien takes its time to allow the characters to gradually grasp the enormity of their situation. The Nostromo is a merchant ship, which allows for a non-military crew to be faced with a mortal enemy that they do not understand. The ship intercepts a strange transmission that must be from an intelligent source since it repeats itself every twelve seconds, and so it wakes up the crew to investigate. The subtlety of the way the conflict is introduced is very important. The transmission didn't just appear, the ship awoke the crew months ahead of schedule, because it was programmed to do so should anything like that happen. And to the chagrin of a couple of the money financial-minded crew members, it is also in their contracts to investigate any such occurrence. The movie is covering its tracks very thoroughly and to great effect. When they reach the planet from which the transmission originated, they find the spectacular discovery of what appears to be a crashed alien spaceship, complete with a dead alien pilot still in his chair. A brief look at the body suggests that the pilot may have exploded from the inside, creating curiosity about his death that the movie never satisfies but doesn't need to. One of the crew members discovers what look like dozens of leathery eggs, gets attacked, and is brought back on board the ship. Significantly, protocol is broken to get him and the alien life form back on board for medical attention. When they discover that the alien has blood that melts through the hull of the ship like thermite, a new and particularly difficult challenge arises. How do they kill a deadly enemy without making it bleed? And to make matters worse, the very ship is programmed to work against them. They are in the most hostile environment imaginable, worse than anywhere on earth. They are being stalked by an unknown creature that they can't injure for fear of damaging the hull of the spaceship, and the ship itself has placed the survival of the alien life form above their own survival. They have to trick the alien into submission without letting the ship know what's going on. Even HAL wasn't THIS creepy.Released at a time when science fiction was probably at the most popular that it had ever been (and possibly ever will be) thanks to the recent release of Star Wars and the soon to follow first sequel, Alien came along and capitalized in an area of science fiction that people evidently were very eager for, the darker, more sinister and dangerous side. The side of science fiction with the bloody deaths rather than light sabers and heroes. In fact, by looking at the way people probably saw Alien in 1979 and the way they see it now, you can learn a lot about how science fiction and horror have evolved over the years. Back then, this was horror/science fiction. Today, it's science fiction/horror. But while it was more horrible in 1979 than it is today, it is significant that, while other films that have come along over the years have overshadowed Alien as far as the intensity of the horror, the movie has lost none of its powerful effect. Rather than reinventing the science fiction genre by adding horror to it, it is now maintaining the life of the science fiction genre by reminding us of how good it can be when it's done right.
Horror movies today could take a step back, take a long look, and find their own piece to take. Now, of course, I sincerely believe the film industry should try it's best to be original, although let's be honest, that won't happen. Everything in this movie is perfect, I mean that. The script never falls apart with one of the most steady spaced movies I have ever watched. The acting is unknowingly great, depending on your observations of certain characters. The ship is fully developed, with a crew that does not hesitate in any scene with their brilliant chemistry. The ship design feels dirty and lived in, keeping the advanced look. Every time a button is pressed to put in commands or a lever is pulled the ship responds. The Alien design is many peoples favorites, feeling real. For 1979 this movie is revolutionary in visuals and props, never looking too fake. If there is anything I would have to say this movie does best on, it is the cinematography. Derek Vanlint gave the job of a lifetime, alongside Ridley Scott. Alien is one of my favorite movies if you have never watched it....fix that. Alien, of course, gets a perfect score.


                
Alien was the first film that started it all. It gave us Aliens in 1986 and then two lesser sequels in the proceeding years. One can not review Aliens and not review Alien because both films go together so perfectly. Even though both films had their different styles, they both had Sigourney Weaver and one of the most fearsome creatures to ever grace the big screen. It's also my second most favorite horror movie of all time behind Jaws, a film I saw when I was just a wee lad.The crew of the Nostromo, a large space freighter that looks immense and incredibly scary thanks to director Ridley Scott's camera work, is awaken early from hyper sleep to investigate what seems to be a distress signal coming from a nearby planet. After a rough landing on the desolate planet, three of the crew members go out to investigate and find a large spaceship. However this is not all they find. Soon one of the crew members, who gets a little too curious, finds himself in a coma-like state with something attached to his face. He is soon brought back to the Nostromo by his shipmates, where they go about analyzing him to see what has happened. But this crew of working men and women have no clue what grisly horrors soon await them because they are no longer alone. Something dark and dangerous with no remorse for humankind will soon be stalking them one by one, and there seems to be nothing on board that is able to stop it.This movie was fantastic in every way. Ridley Scott uses mood and shadows as well as size to make the Nostromo look like the biggest, scariest haunted house ever. He also uses fabulous camera work to get his points across as well.The suspense in this movie builds and builds, and the creature is kept mostly in the shadows until when it attacks. And it attacks with a lethal efficiency. It is never seen for long periods of time, and this works perfectly. Like Spielberg with Jaws, Scott realizes that what is unseen is always more terrifying. One of the most effective murder scenes in this film is unseen, but we clearly hear the horrifying screams and panting of the victim and know that something horrible is happening.I can go on in on about this movie. I can talk about the music score which adds more dread to this film, and I can talk about the acting which was superb, but it would take up way too much space. I can also go on about the Oscar worthy special effects which are probably the best ever for 1979, but I won't. Lets just say this. If you like horror movies that build suspense and are not filled with senseless gore that looks unrealistic, then you are in for a treat. By the way this film does have some bloody scenes. One of the best involves sitting around a dinner table while everybody is eating. Yuk.Many people always compare Alien and Aliens. Some like Aliens the most and some like Alien the most. Both are classic sci-fi horror films by two different directors, and both get my highest marks, but if I had to chose, Alien would be my first choice, followed closely by Aliens.
How can this movie not get 10 stars? It baffles me. In context, this one came out in 1979. 19 F----ng 79. And it still stands up awesomely today. Let us first investigate the Ash. When did we first realize he was an android? When the milky fluid came spurting from him. Although he was often "collating" we never really suspected until his head was bashed in proper. What an incredible character Ian Holmes created. And those little pre-exercise jiggles he did. We just thought he was a bit off, certainly not a robot. And Ripley, a strong female lead. And though the scenes of her in her panties were anti-feminist, she still was the lone survivor, who kicked the Alien out of the airlock. She kicked a-- and everyone will always remember that, especially James Cameron. And what about Tom Skerritt? As captain, he always left the science decision to Ash, as he was instructed to do by the company. He felt he was, "just the captain," though he did ignore basic contamination protocols by letting Caine in with the Alien attached to his face. His acting was perfect, a man who only knows the job he is hired for, compartmentalized, weak, and yet ultimately courageous in his decision to go after the Alien. And Parker and Brett were perfect. Pay attention to how their camaraderie is condensed into a few beautiful scenes. Ridley Scott should be credited for this, as we really get to know the friendship between them quite quickly (as James Cameron does in Aliens). Lambert is great in her nervousness. This is as good an any movie can get, a masterpiece. If you haven't seen it, sorry for the spoilers, but rent as soon as possible, it is a piece of American Cinematic History.
Believe it or not, I had never seen an Alien film. What prompted me to actually see it was the fantastic Prometheus trailer that debuted. Even if the film turns out to suck (which I really doubt) it would still have been worth it to watch the original Alien.What can I say? Fantastic. The music, the slow-paced nature of the first half, together with increasing tension as the film goes along is incredible. Once stuff hits the fan, it never lets you go. The film is also quite scary, an it made me jump various times. Why? It knows how to build tension incredibly, and the final 20 minutes are truly perfection. Both the sound and visual effects work to make the film a very effective experience, as does the wonderful cinematography. Bring on the Aliens, bitch!


                
Every second of this movie gives me the shivers. Even in the slow moving first half the atmosphere is so ominous and creepy and the acting so excellent that I'm never bored. The movie builds up the tension so masterfully you're on the edge of your seat all the time. I've heard some people say that the effects are dated to which I will answer: No not really. The monster is a man in a suit with some mechanics in the head and while there are a few shots where it's movements seem a little stiff we rarely see it and when we do it's only for a short duration and it actually in many ways looks more real than most CGI creatures of today. The artwork and design is one of the reasons this movie holds up so well to me. The ship looks appropriately old and battered up and the alien itself is pure genius. This movie just keeps thrilling me every time I watch it.


                
Alien is a chilling suspense thriller set in space. Directed in 1978 by Ridley Scott, this film is important to me, as I admire the techniques used in order to generate a response in the viewer.Back in 1978, the director couldn't rely upon today's modern digital effects to grab the audience's attention. Instead, he relies upon techniques such as camera angles, a clever set design, and a superb soundtrack to slowly build tension and create feelings of fear, vulnerability and intimidation within the audience.It is at least half an hour into the film before the audience are aware of the extent of the horrors that follow. Until then, the uncertainty of not knowing exactly what we should be afraid of only adds to the tension. The eventual release of the tension, which has gradually built up, inevitably has more impact.The film is set in a time and place unknown to us. However there are several ideas in the film which we can recognise and relate to, making the story believable, therefore more frightening.For example, the idea of travelling far in space for the purposes of a mining expedition is something which the viewer could accept as likely to be happening in the future. Also, the seven characters on board the ship have an obvious class system, something which we can all relate to in any work environment.These are some of the qualities which make Alien so popular, making it an inspiring piece of film making.


                
Alien is directed Ridley Scott and stars Sigourney Weaver in her breakout role as Ellen Ripley, a female astronaut that belongs to a crew that receives a distress call from an unexplored planet while in space. They respond to the call by landing on the planet, and searching it. They seemingly find nothing, but, upon leaving, find an unwanted visitor aboard their ship. Once they figure out that this "alien" is superior to humans in most every way, the film becomes a battle to either kill, or at most escape, the deadly creature.This film is widely considered one of the best horror movies of all time, and I can really see why. I can also see why some consider it one of the best films of all time. Alien is teeming with suspense, and keeps the viewer on the edge of his seat for almost the entire run time, say for some exposition in the beginning. Every time the audience gets even a subtle glimpse of the beast, each and every time there's a subtle jump, singularly due to the amazing practical effects of the alien itself.To start with some pros, the directing is utterly fantastic, to say the least. Ridley Scott does such a good job working the camera; it makes every emotion pop right out of the screen and suck the watcher right into the movie, drawing out the tone drastically. Some of the long takes can pull forth the tension throughout the scene, or the fear that a specific character feels at the present time.The acting is also amazing, starting with Sigourney Weaver. She gives one of the most breathtaking female performances in cinema history. Her character, Ellen Ripley, is a very strong and independent female; one in which no male is required to make her who she is, unlike most female leads today. If movies delivered more characters like Ripley, films would be better in almost every way.The hands down best thing about this film, however, is the simplicity of the plot. One can only imagine a person pitching the idea for this film, saying "a crew of astronauts are stuck on a ship with an alien that kills them." The straightforwardness of the plot is so astounding, it makes one do a double take upon the complexity of a horror, or even action, film in the modern day. This simplicity is present in many "best films of all time," such as Die Hard (1988), or Jaws (1975). Overcomplicated plots are one of the many reasons why too many movie goers say "they don't make'em like they used to."Overall, Alien is understandably one of the best films of all time, thanks to the characters, directing, and clarity of the plot. I'm going to give Alien an A+, or a 10 out of 10.


                
What can be said that hasn't already been said, nothing that's what. One of the best in the genre to be made and best effects for it's time. They simply don't make films like this anymore Hollywood won't risk it or this generation won't appreciate it. One of the great strengths of "Alien" is its pacing. It takes its time. It waits. It allows silences.Today's slasher movies, in the sci-fi genre and elsewhere, are all pay-off and no buildup.The result is a film that absorbs us in a mission before it involves us in an adventure, and that consistently engages the alien with curiosity and logic, instead of simply firing at it.We have now descended into a bog of Gotcha! movies in which various horrible beings spring on a series of victims, usually teenagers. The ultimate extension of the genre is the Geek Movie, illustrated by the remake of "Texas Chainsaw Massacre," which essentially sets the audience the same test as an old-time carnival geek show: Now that you've paid your money, can you keep your eyes open while we disgust you? A few more ambitious and serious sci-fi films have also followed in the footsteps of "Alien," notably the well-made "Aliens" (1986) and "Dark City" (1998). But the original still vibrates with a dark and frightening intensity.


                
This is without a doubt the greatest movie ever made. Amazing acting, Amazing lighting, Amazing sets and outstanding effects. None of the new modern day films can even come close to this Master piece. Now days Hollywood think they can spend millions on special effects and just get some hot chic to play the main character just to please all the teenage pop culture fans and think the movie is going to be good. But they are so wrong.. Alien 1979 is a one of a kind film and I hate to say it but, we may never see anything like it ever in this life time. I can seriously put this movie on loop and watch it over.. and over.. and over. Its just the most beautifully crafted film in the history of movie making. Alien will always be king. Always.
Greetings from Lithuania."Alien" (1979) is a masterpiece, pure and simple. If there is still anyone who somehow haven't seen it (i can't imagine how could that be even possible), do your self a favor a watch it, not with your friends on Friday evening, but alone and let this movie blow you away. I saw this picture for 5-7 times in my life, and the last time i did (actualy today), was on my 2m x 2m screen projector with all sound system ready to roll. This is timeless film because of many things. The atmosphere, the rising tension, the craftsmanship of the scenes, acting - it all works here because they are not overplayed, and build on seemingly simple approach. 15 minutes into this movie again i caught myself that i forgot everything and i was in there, with them. Thats because of the script, directing, acting - it's all in the first place here, not settings, which still looks great - a bit dated, maybe, but it's not Star Wars type movie were visuals have to be sharp - "Alien" shows things in shadows, moody style to create feeling of uncertainty, and it does it brilliantly - that is why this movie is never going to age. Please don't ever compare it to even superior (in my opinion) "Aliens" - "Alien" is different kind of a movie, it's purpose was to scare people with deadly and very claustrophobic atmosphere, settings and the creature itself, to feel people uncomfortable (in a good way) knowing that no one is safe here and around every corner there could be your end - just look at the close ups near the end of the movie, or shoots where camera is showing person and a deep dark space behind him, thats were imagination starts to fill the darkness.Overall, 10/10 for one of the greatest achievements in the art of movie making.


                
While there is a general resemblance to the classic pulp sci fi film, "It! The Terror from Beyond Space", Alien is an expertly crafted and thoroughly original film. In my opinion, it is also vastly superior to all of its descendants, including James Cameron's action and special effects smorgasbord, Aliens.As a teenager, I was so intrigued by the premise of this movie that I was one of the few people in the United States who went out and purchased Alan Dean Foster's book "Alien" and read it before the film was released. The book was actually very good, so I knew I was either in for a big treat or a total disappointment when I went to see Ridley Scott's Alien on opening night. Of course, there was no disappointment.Scott assembled a great cast, none of whom (at the time) had a great deal of face recognition except, perhaps, Ian Holm. He placed his characters in stasis aboard a long distance freight ship ("the Nostromo") owned and operated by a mining company. The ship is grimy, a little broken down, and a bit cramped. The habitat module is one very small portion of this enormous commercial barge.The film uses sound beautifully. Both the amazingly haunting and memorable postmodern soundtrack and excellent soundscape are flawless. The film opens with the ship's computer beginning to power on the ship's systems, and even though the scene consists of nothing but sound effects and mostly immobile hardware, it is permanently burned into my memory.The crew is awakened, and unlike most sci fi films, almost immediately begins complaining about being brought out of stasis early and bickering about how much they should be paid for what appears to be an extra duty. Soon, we learn that a communication signal has been picked up on a planet nearby and the Nostromo's shuttle must descend to the planet and investigate.All of this is established effortlessly by Scott's fantastic directing, cinematography and editing, but rather than spoiling any aspect of this brilliantly plotted and presented story, I will discontinue my plot summary here and move on to the critique.Ridley Scott has directed two of the best science fiction films of all time - Bladerunner and Alien. These two films are completely different and also radically innovative for the sci fi genre. Alien reintroduces realism the the genre. The crew is not a bunch of heroic freedom fighters or righteous warriors. Instead, they are corporate staff members and a couple of administrators - a captain (Skerrit) and first officer (Weaver) who are the company management representatives, mechanics, a science officer/ship's surgeon, a navigator, and geologists (it's a mining company). The ship itself is not a sterile faster-than-light Maserati in space, but a gritty, messy, cramped, barge. And the alien is TRULY ALIEN. 'nuff said about him.H.R. Giger's organic/cybernetic art enhances the other-worldliness of all of the scenes that take place off of the Nostromo, and of course, the design of the alien itself. An enormous contribution that should not be overlooked.It doesn't really matter which version of this film you see. They are all terrific. The director's cut adds a couple of scenes which appeared in the book, but were left out of the original release. Personally, I don't think these scenes really add much to the film, but it is a matter of personal taste, since all of the versions I have seen are 10s.Recommended for anybody who can tolerate sci-fi.


                
In many ways, the first "Alien" can be described as the sordid underbelly of "2001: A Space Odyssey." Instead of pristine white interiors and clean-cut young men in shorts we have the cramped interior of a grimy, smelly cargo ship with a surly and contentious crew. This is as far from the perfect world of "Star Trek" as you can get. The men are unshaven, and everyone smokes, drinks, and uses bad language. Tom Skerritt as the captain does little to inspire confidence, and the only person who knows what she's doing is Ripley (Sigourney Weaver), who ironically becomes the only survivor, launching Sigourney Weaver's career as a star and becoming the first female action hero in film history (unless one counts Dorothy in "The Wizard of Oz.") It's interesting how the imagery of this film influenced later science fiction, particularly the series "Red Dwarf." In terms of plots, "Alien" follows the general outline of the classic slasher film "Halloween," with Ripley in the Jamie Lee Curtis role. The alien creature is still probably the most repulsive monster in movie history; unlike "Close Encounters of the Third Kind" or "E.T. The Extraterrestrial," this is a first encounter that is anything but joyous.
Commercial star ship Nostromo, returning from a routine mission, are detoured when an alien SOS is intercepted. Awakened from hypersleep, the crew are obligated to land on the alien world where the call for help has originated, but the ship is slightly damaged during the landing process and three of the crew set out to explore the hostile new world. They come upon a derelict spacecraft, the skeletonized remains of an alien creature with an odd wound in its chest and a cache of strange egg-like objects. Crew member Kane is brought back from the exploration unconscious and with a bizarre, crab-like creature attached to his face. He is still alive, and indeed, the creature on his face seems to be keeping him alive for reasons unknown. The Nostromo is repaired and the crew leave the desolate planet behind. The crab creature soon leaves its perch on Kane's face and dies, and Kane emerges from his coma, apparently in good health. But the purpose of the alien soon becomes terribly clear; Kane has been impregnated with an alien embryo which births itself from his chest in a shower of blood and gore, killing Kane and escaping into the ships air ducts before anyone can react. The crew set out to destroy the creature, not realizing immediately that its accelerated growth has transformed it into a huge and vicious predator whose only desire is to kill them all.Very loosely based upon the 1958 horror film "IT! The Terror From Beyond Space" Alien is a masterpiece of Gothic horror, a haunted house movie on a spaceship. Flawlessly directed by Ridley Scott, Alien, whose plot is actually fairly simplistic and nothing new, is so filled with dread, so claustrophobically genuine, that it seems like nothing ever seen before. Ghostly steam, clinking chains, long dark corridors where anything can be hiding, the suspense is unbelievably suffocating. We never really get to see what the alien actually looks like until films end, and so the quick flashes of tail, head and mouth are so brief and so confusing that it only adds to the horror. Plus, Alien does what no ghost story can do - there is no way out of this "haunted house." There is no escape from the horror within.The performances are all outstanding. The alien is not the only menace to the all-too human crew; there are also soulless corporations and short circuiting androids to be dealt with on top of everything else. Faced with these dilemmas, every single crew member of the Nostromo are absolutely believable. They're tired, stressed out, rude and bitchy and they spend a good lot of time griping and snapping at each other, but they drop what they're doing and stand together, protecting one another without hesitation when they must. The gore is minimal; the death of Kane is the bloodiest, nastiest moment in the whole film and because Kane, played by John Hurt, seems to be the nicest of the crew members, it just makes his painful death scene all the more horrible.Alien is a grim, visceral, satisfying horror film and remains the unsurpassed best film in the series. Alien is an established classic and should not be missed.


                
