MAY CONTAIN SPOILERSAm I the ONLY person who didn't like Alien. What was so flawless about it? Here's the plot in a nutshell. Crew of spaceship find alien egg. Bursts out of someones stomache and kills them all one by one until one of them eventually kills it. All that over 117 minutes.There is absolutely no music. A crew member spends ten minutes looking for a cat, (not expecting an alien to kill him) and guess what happens. I think it would have been ten times better if it was a little less subtle, quicker to get the point and directed by somebody else. But i'm SUPPOSED to love this film because every critic on the planet does. This is overrated and unworthy of its hype.
I really don't know how this movie got such high rating but according to me it no great than any other cheap sci-fi movie. This movie was released 10 years after we landed on Moon, I would expect at least basic laws of universe physics would be there. Showing a scene to open space ship and kick out Alien out of the door like James Bond kicking some guy out of Aeroplane here on Earth was really out of way. I mean what about temperature, air pressure if there is still any after opening up door like that. Smoking in space ship and water dripping like in some 100 years Factory was again really low effect points of the movie. I m still trying to figure out what did I miss in movie what everybody is so hyping about.
A rat in the attic is a good metaphor for this unimaginative "sci-fi" flick from director Ridley Scott. The human crew aboard a Hollywood-conceived spacecraft diddle and dawdle. They chitchat about this and that; they eat; they smoke; they look at outdated computer screens; they emit petty frustrations. Finally, after interminable plot filler, and after our space voyagers have displayed requisite incompetence (what would film stories be without incompetence?), ET shows up on-board, less cosmic than sleazy, like something the cat drug in from a b-grade horror flick. Now, our beleaguered ... and incompetent ... crew promptly sets forth to deal with the menace.But our spacecraft-trapped rat has vanished into the woodwork, probably to escape the crew's incompetence and/or all the hammy acting. Where did ET go? Behind the stove? Under the frig? Inside the computer? Nope, he's in the attic. Quick, fumigate. Oops, too late. The house is condemned.I'm constantly amazed how easily sci-fi fans can be satisfied by conventional, stodgy stories, and cheesy, overbearing special effects. Where in this film is a sense of the cosmic? Where is the originality? Where is the science fiction in all of this?


                
Alien is a hilarious movie about a man called Sven who decides to move from Sweden to Japan. Unfortunately, he never bothered to learn Japanese. Hilarity ensues as Sven mistakenly signs up as a contestant in a sumo wrestling match!I'm of course joking, but I would rather see that movie than Ridley Scott's dreadful movie again. It's not because "the special effects are dated!". The special effects are fine. The concept is okay, but unoriginal. They did the "trapped with a deadly alien creature" stuff long before 1979.Whatever you do, don't watch this movie late at night with the lights off! You could fall asleep. The movie is so darn boring...I don't mind slow movies, but in Alien, nothing interesting happens in between the alien attacks. Probably because the potty-mouthed characters are so uninteresting and unlikeable. But the cat is cute, though.The movie is best remembered for the chestburster scene. I read a review were the writer said that the only scene people talk about is this one. I thought about it for a moment, and I guess he's right. I've heard about it since I was eight...the chestburster is the only thing that makes Alien original. The problem is that the scene isn't even any good. It's just an excuse to show lot of blood and gore. And blood and gore isn't scary. "It's an allegory for (whatever)!" Maybe it is, but allegory doesn't necessarily make a movie any good. Sometimes, a piece or crap is just a piece crap.(2 stars for the cat)
This film is overrated and i expect everyone to stay away from. The movie itself is very slow, outdated. Opening scenes look like some old spaceship movie based on outerspace landing, the movie is so dull it keeps you waiting for anything to pop-up, although i must admit it is a bit creepy, but too slow. I watched this movie alongside the predator, and i must say the predator is far entertaining movie, i eagerly wanted to see an alien with something innovative, but it lacks what the predator has i.e: heat vision and array of weapons. The alien movie reminds me of the film relic released in 1996, accept that sorry to say that relic has an edge over this one, because its more entertaining, rather than this boring farce, which i regret wasting my time on, the only decent alien movie of the franchise has to be aliens, all the rest after that have been worse than even this one. 2/10


                
This has been hailed one of the greatest Sci-Fi/ horror movies of all time. I want to know who was the first person to ever say this! If you know e-mail me! This movie was one of the worst movies I have ever seen in my entire life!! It was so incredibly slow with no action or excitement at all!! The plot was bad and the script was worse!! But the worse thing of all was Sigourney Weaver she is such a talented actress and she didn't express any talent at all in this movie!!! I can sum up the plot in a few sentence fragments. Stupid spaceship, gets infested with Alien Species. AHH!! People die and Sigourney's main goal was saving some animal, I forget if it was a cat or dog. She abandons the spaceship kills alien and life moves on!!


                
This is not a scary movie, but indeed a gross one. The reasons this movie is stupid are that they wasted the first hour of the film doing absolutely nothing, and there was so much use of unnecessary gore and graphic violence that it made the film ridiculously stupid. Just take out the "stupi" in stupefying and add a D to the end. That will tell you everything you need to know. If you want a scary movie that won't make you heave when you look at water and milk and think they're alien drool, don't rent this garbage. I wish I had never seen this disgusting film, because I truly would have been better off without seeing it. Back then in the 70's, scary movies were absolutely disgusting and gory, so I'd rent something new that's from our time if I were you.


                
Im gonna say sorry my bad English before you read this.This is one of the worst movies i ever have ever watch in my life, and the reason for that is because the actors are very bad + the story line could have been told in less then a hour, i did not get scare ones, i don't even want to waste my time on this review. Don't watch it Prometheus is a lot better it's not perfect but you don't get bored, because in this movie they are using a lot of time just looking around and try to use footage of a 2 hours movie when this could have been done in 60 min max. This is a movie you are going to watch if you want to sleep.


                
CUT! This is something Mr. Scott should learn to say every once in awhile. This could have been a great film, it does have a decent story, unfortunately the director was just to incompetent to make this a good flick. Had there been more editing and fewer ungodly long takes it would become a much more enjoyable watch.


                
I am not much of a sci-fi fan, and this film shows the reason. You get the ugly-as-hell sets - the space-ship can't look too pretty, after all - and the protagonist Sigourney Weaver (who makes a strip tease in the end in hideously ugly T-shirt and equally ugly panties) is dull like all the characters - we don't really know anything about her, except that she outsmarts the monster in the end. The monster is ugly and dull, disgustingly drooling creature which kills humans. Some ugly gore, too. Atmosphere is non-existent. The cute cat is saved, though, and the equally bad - sometimes even worse - sequels were made. Now I probably should go to entertain myself with watching the paint drying...
