I remember seeing this sci-fi "classic" as a young lad, and thought I'd see it again, now that I'm older. I must admit that the experience is very different from what I remember. I was dumbfounded by the shocking idiocy of the plot.Nevertheless, the film definitely deserves the recognition it received for awesome visual effects. The 3 is for the special effects. The rest contribute to exactly 0.The experience started going downhill, about 16 minutes in, when the ship lands on the alien planet and stuff starts to short out and smoke starts bellowing out of unseen orifices. One wonders how the crew got into space with that kind of build quality.Then there is captain Dallas who orders Ridley to open the airlock when there's a unknown alien organism attached to officer Kane's face, and that too against sensible quarantine protocol.This is the trigger at which point the typical big-budget film stereotype for such situations emerges, with warrant officer Ripley (could be anyone really) refusing to obey the captain's (Dallas') orders while some other character takes the captain's side, to set in motion the chain of events that lead to "the disaster". Unfortunately, this is the typical formula that's been tried, rehashed, and regurgitated time and again in big-budget movies out of Hollywood.All the characters except Ripley's are just there as objects for "The Alien" to poke at, for fun. They are all hollow and seemingly serve no purpose at all.The only redeeming side of the whole plot is warrant officer Ripley. Its quite unfortunate that she's the one who's got to play Marge Simpson and clean up the mess the other seemingly mentally retarded characters created.Compare this to, for example, 2001 A Space Odyssey, or Solaris, or District 9, and you'll know why this franchise does not deserve to be in the list of the greatest sci-fi movies of all time. To do that is ridiculous!
Beautiful cinematography and incredible visual effects can't save a painfully generic and rather mediocre film. I've watched Alien twice, both times causing me to scratch my head in regards to why it is considered to be a classic.Yes, the poster is cool, the tag-line is cool, the production design is cool, and Sigourney Weaver is obviously really cool. But the movie just isn't. It's an unoriginal slasher film that takes place on a spaceship.Unlike Mad Max: Fury Road – which also has a minimalist story – the action in Alien doesn't lead anywhere, it just sort of happens periodically. Overall, it feels like a walk through an overproduced haunted house at a county fair. The sets may be realistic but the scares often fall flat.


                
i normally don't write reviews but this movie needs one. This movie is a llitle bit slow and stupid. The astronauts act as if they never were trained for anything. One of them didn't know the basics of dealing with an emergency and applying first aid. She acted as ic she was a regular citizen that ended on a naval ship my mistake. In fact, most of them acted like teenagers that didn't know what to do. It is do bad that at the middle of the money you just wish they get it over with.


                
I try to remember when I'm watching this that I am very much a product of my generation, by which I mean that I have a very short attention span and I'm not good with slow pacing. When it comes to horror I like a slow burner but there must be lots of little, uncanny things happening.Like watching a Tarkovsky movie, this one has a lot of meditative pauses and a lot of purely logistical content that often doesn't seem to make too much sense. It is one of many films that is very famous for being original where many other films have taken the premise and tone and improved upon it. I remember watching a parody on "American Dad" and thinking if only Ridley Scott had actually made this film so compelling.A couple of amazing, instantly iconic moments notwithstanding (and with a wonderful sense of design with its lonely, junkyardish ship and a super Alien), I would not say this has stood the test of time and is really more for viewing for historical interest.Overall my favourite part was Sigourney Weaver's anal cleavage.


                
The worst part of ALIEN has got to be the appallingly pretentious Freudian psychoanalytical interpretation of the film put forth by Barbara Creed in The Monstrous-Feminine: Film, Feminism, Psychoanalysis (London, 1993).  The assumption that the fear produced by ALIEN is based upon the fear of the castrating archaic mother is so general it fails to carry any weight.  While instances of maternal separation are seen (the Alien bursts through Kane's body) and the notion of individuality being achieved by these means is an interesting one, the attribution of Freudian philosophy to this film as a whole is a stretch to say the least.  How can one argue against such a sweeping analysis when all other arguments are countered with subconscious motivation?!  The unconscious argument assumes that society as a whole maintains the same subconscious interpretation, a fact I find very hard to believe.  It would also imply some sort of unlevelled genius in the film making process who could transcend consciousness and develop a conscious idea into a subconscious response - again, doubtful on such a scale. Creed's approach also fails to take into account filmic industrial history and the audience's interpretation of the movie.My interpretation of the fear induced by ALIEN holds with the idea of primordial instinct.  The natural fight-or-flight instinct found in animals when confronted with a predator is masterfully used to create a feeling of fear due to the setting in which ALIEN takes place.  Trapped in a spacecraft, there is no place to hide from the super-predator.  The setting acts as a prison rather than a womb as asserted by Creed.  The appearance of the Alien in such abject terms serves not to equate it with "monstrous femininity", but simply to disturb through the abject itself.  While not as repulsive as many other scenes (the eye-cutting scene in Bunuel and Dali's UN CHIEN ANDALOU being the most disturbing filmic scene in my opinion), the image of the Alien is nonetheless unattractive to human emotion in all its puss-filled, slimy glory.Creed goes on to say that the film deals with the mother's rejection and deception of her children - we find that 'Mother' had been following the robotic science officer's commands all along and had thought of the humans as "expendable".  I would add to this argument the role that the company (who the crew are working for) play in deceiving humanity.  It was, after all, the company who sent the crew to their ultimate deaths.  Whether this fact should be interpreted as a commentary on unseen evils or on the soulless and inhumane nature of the corporation, I leave open to debate. However, I would argue that this aspect of the film should be examined further in order to assess the claims of Ridley Scott as auteur.Personally I did not like the film and am not a great fan of the sci-fi/horror genre.  However, if you are interested in film analysis (and not just necessarily psychoanalysis-as is commonly held with this particular film) then I would urge you to see this film if for no other reason than as a subject of debate.  After that, rent THE SHINING and enjoy the best horror movie ever made.


                
The film does not make sense.The science-fiction part is outdated and even amusing: space suits emitting CO2, funny computer monitors and keyboards, etc.Since the film was made in 1979, these technical details are forgivable.The idea of having a crew mainly made of humans is absurd, given that they obviously are capable of making really advanced robots.Not for a second I was surprised by the plot of the film.I can understand why this film was a top film in 1979. But I can't see why it should deserve any score above 6 in the 21st century.


                
This film was historically significant for its work with special effects and cinematography. It is not fun to watch, though. I found the film slow-paced and unexciting. It might have been a shock to see an "alien" on screen in 1979, but watching such a movie today is the film equivalent of playing the first Mario games-- it's dated. We see special effects every day now, not only in movies but in advertisements on TV. This movie relies on its special effects, which are admittedly well done, but are not enough to justify rating a movie highly in 2007.The Alien didn't scare me. More than anything, it grossed me out... but it never induced horror or fright.I'd suggest this film to the film professors, but not to my friends.


                
Ok, anyways i dont understand why people like classic more than the remakes, im not saying classics are bad im saying this classic movie wasnt good, This movie made me bored that i literally didnt watch the full movie the cgi was good and jaws did so much better than this movie , this movie was boring i just didnt like this, 3.2/10


                
