After seeing this film on numerous top 10 lists and seeing it as number 1 greatest epic of all time on AFI's list, I decided to give it a try. BIG MISTAKE! It ended up being a depressing, discouraging waste of time. Let me make something clear: I am a history buff, and I love historical epics. But this was ridiculous! I spent the first two hours interested because I thought it was leading to something significant in the last two hours. I was wrong. A depressing conclusion and an awkward ending rendered this to be an exhausting experience. I watch movies to enjoy them and be entertained, not to be relieved when the finish! If there is any redeeming quality to this film, it is Peter O'Toole's phenomenal performance as T.E. Lawrence. He is the single bright spot in this dark film. He so effectively conveys emotions that when he feels broken, crushed or disappointed, you feel broken, crushed or disappointed. Which is a problem for the audience, because Lawrence spends a lot of time being broken, crushed, or disappointed! Still, I was genuinely impressed with O'Toole's ability to convey his character so perfectly. Lawrence's personal demise is what makes the film so depressing. He starts as a merciful, honorable man, and eventually becomes prideful and arrogant. He seems to think he's a god until he's tortured (and possibly raped) by his captors, and in a disturbing scene, goes on a mad killing spree, awakening to find himself covered in blood with a knife in his hand. War can truly destroy a man. If this movie were 90 minutes, it might have been an interesting historical film about an extraordinary man who did extraordinary things at an extraordinary cost. T.E. Lawrence was a hero who sacrificed for a cause he believed was right, but suffered severe consequences, becoming an emotionally and mentally broken man, a shadow of his former "extraordinary" self. As it stands, however, I could not possibly recommend it. PLEASE, DO NOT WASTE YOUR TIME!
I had a bad experience with Lawrence of Arabia when I was a lad (the film that is, not the person). I still have vivid memories of sitting through this interminable film and over forty years later still remembered it as the distilled essence of boredom. It can't possibly be as bad as I remember, I told myself. I must have been too young to appreciate it at the time. Still somehow I never got around to trying it again.Recently I acquired a box set of David Lean films running from his first as director, In Which We Serve, through to Hobson's Choice in 1954. All the films had some restoration work done to them and they all looked good. In fact I wasn't prepared for just how good some of the films were. Of course, I was familiar with Brief Encounter and Great Expectations, both as good as ever but I wasn't prepared for just how good all the rest were. Passionate Friends is similar in some ways to Brief Encounter to my eyes a much more adult treatment of the issues than the rather soppy, though irresistible, Brief Encounter. Oliver Twist quite took my breath away with its cinematography and Robert Newton's portrayal of Bill Sykes, a singularly chilling performance which is far more disturbing than the anaemic serial killers we see in more recent films. It was all looking promising then for a reappraisal of Lawrence of Arabia. Even so the DVD sat unwatched on a shelf for several months, so bad was my memory of the original experience of seeing it. Eventually the fateful day arrived (well two days to tell the truth as I stopped at the original intermission and resumed the next day).So, was it any better than my memories suggested? Not much. At least I knew a little more about the history than I did before and could find something interesting from that point of view. But otherwise it was every bit as bombastic, boring and ennui-inducing as I had found it originally. On IMDb I see that the average score is 8.6 and it ranks at number 42 in the top 250 so someone clearly likes it. Here's why all those people are wrong: 1 The film has been praised for its cinematography, particularly the desert photography. I'll agree that there are some good shots but they aren't that great. If I want desert shots I can see much better by buying the box set of "Life" and watching the episode on deserts. In fact I can find a dozen BBC series, usually in High Definition and usually narrated by David Attenborough which outstrip anything in Lawrence. If you like desert shots my advice would be get the documentaries instead and turn off the sound so you aren't disturbed by Attenborough droning on and on. In fact play some good desert music like Tinarewen in the background, turn the central heating up and refuse to drink water for 24 hours for a really good effect.2 The majority of the film is taken up by Lawrence seemingly crossing deserts in real time. This is both boring and pointless as a filmic experience. An alternative would be to try (1) above.3 The theme tune – you know, the one you can't get out of your head even if you try, occurs exactly when and where you think it will, usually signalling another real time trek across another bloody desert (or back again). At least you can enliven your viewing experience by predicting when the theme tune will come back in – I guarantee you'll get it right every time.4 The action scenes all run left to right (or is it right to left, I forget). There's a reason for this which I also forget but bores on IMDb can explain it to you. Despite the huge numbers of extras, camels etc employed it generates some really unimpressive battle scenes when you start to notice the left-to-rightness of the action.5 I've not read any of T.E. Lawrence's original writing but I'd be very surprised to learn he was such a crashing, pompous bore and bigot as the portrayal in this film suggests. The character in the film is so deeply unlikable as to immediately nullify my suspension of disbelief. My mind keeps interrupting my concentration as it asks how anyone can be inspired to follow this idiot.6 Many say that Peter O'Toole's portrayal is magnetic, compelling, heroic and so on in this film. I say his acting suggests that he is completely bewildered by what the character is supposed to be like so he's just settled for acting mad and unpleasant whilst staring distractedly into space.7 Goggles on a bush. How much more obvious and clichéd can you get? 8 So that's where Alec Guinness got his inspiration for Obi-Wan Kenobi? 9 Coming in at just under 47 hours in length this film is just too long. Simply taking out Omar Sharif's entrance scene would trim 24 hours from the running time. Ideally a ninety minute cut would be just about watchable.It wouldn't be cricket to not mention the good points of the film as well and they can be summarised in just two words – Claude Rains.
If they ever give out an award for the most overrated film ever made, this would obviously not win it, but in my opinion it should. And "Gone With the Wind" should place.Don't get me wrong, I actually enjoy movies that take their time in developing a story, character, mood, etc. I admire intelligent subtlety in a film. But this was like watching paint dry. Or trying to detect the motion of the hour hand on a clock. Which you may find yourself doing several times during this film.I have watched this whole movie once, and tried re-watching it several times to see if I could "get" what all the accolades are about. I always end up discovering that my first impression was correct. This is one of the most boring films I have ever seen. At least "Gone With the Wind" isn't that.The film begins with Peter O'Toole's character getting killed in a motorcycle accident. I think the film makers chose to begin the movie this way so that they get the only interesting thing that happens in the film out of the way and over with. Then David Lean and company could really settle into and sink their teeth into the tedum of the rest of the film.Anyway, all I can say is that this film deserves to be likened to the parade of the Emperor in the well known fable. Except the emperor isn't only buck naked, he's moving at a snail's pace.
No real spoiler here beyond the simple fact that the whole movie is more or less a lie. Yes, the Arab revolt did happen, but most of the movie is complete fabrication or distortion of historical fact.A magnificent distortion of fact, yes, but a distortion nonetheless. T.E. Lawrence was a bigger man than O'Toole was equipped to portray. He wasn't some gut-wrenched drama queen who was magically able to walk from his Western ways into Arabic garb. The true story is a lot more believable and, at the same time, bigger than Messieurs Spiegel and Lean could have put on the screen.Check out any book on this topic, and you won't be able to look at the movie without laughing or crying at the absurdity of this "historical" drama. "The book is better than the movie" is a common and, by now, trite complaint, but "Lawrence of Arabia" commits an altogether different crime of making people believe things about T.E. Lawrence that were simply not true in the least.
This is clearly a "popular" movie due to it's nostalgia value.  Who has seen this movie lately?  Who has been willing to sit through four hours of Peter O'Toole speaking stilted dialogue and trudging across miles of scenic desert?  Well I have, and I'm not impressed.  The story drags painfully. I am no plot hound or action junky, but lets speed things up shall we! Sweeping cinematography cannot carry a movie.  I can't emphasize enough how lacking this movie is in story.  We get exactly nowhere after two hours of following Peter O'Toole, and after that it gets worse!  All of those who vote on movies without seeing them, please, I challenge you, have a look at this thing again and change your vote.I believe this is the first time I've ever recommended a movie in order to prove how awful it is.  It's time we took this one off the shelf.  It's been sitting too long.  And if you need proof, just have a quick sniff before you poor it down the drain.  I guarantee you won't be able to stand it for more than a few minutes.I would also suggest the IMDB people do the same.  Times change, and good stories are what make good movies.  On both counts it's time to let this one slide out of the top 250.


                
It contains long and wrong information at the boring level. A film made for Propaganda and the score is overrated. This film does not deserve the score. my score is 1/10


                
It's more than a little frustrating that "Lawrence Of Arabia" is still considered a great motion picture... how long must we all pretend that this over-puffed, over-stuffed bag of sand is a good movie? It isn't- it's a terrible, slow-moving, monotonous, sleep-inducing, four-hour waste of time. There. I said it and I'm glad.There's no deep analysis necessary here... endless desert sequences are supposed to carry a story about war and Arabs and blah, blah, blah... Sometimes the classics are classics... "Citizen Kane" is a great film, and if you don't know why, you should find out. "Casablanca" and "Gone With The Wind" are just as brilliantly entertaining today as the day they were released. Same for "The Wizard Of Oz." But "Lawrence Of Arabia" is a long, dry, miserable waste of your time, pompous and bulletproof, a perfectly-crafted imitation of Cinema, an absolutely hollow and pointless experience, and a movie that should be avoided at all costs.You've been warned.GRADE: D-
The main character in this film is the desert.The beginning of the film is desert.The middle of the film is desert.I wont spoil the ending.I think its safe to say this film is dirt. But not just any old dirt. No this film is 'desert' dirt. 'Desert' being a new word for boring.Without the desert they were on to a real winner. They could have had a 2 hour film. They could have had the same cast too since it was an Arabs need not apply affair anyways. The only Arab they actually used, Omar Sharif, is more English than English bob.If I was asked to choose between watching the sand in this film, or the sand in a "4 hour" hour glass. I'd absolutely positively choose to look at the sand in this film because I'm not retarded. But you make that hour glass an hour shorter. Well lets just say I'd choose to be extremely bored for 3 hours instead of 4.


                
David Lean's Lawrence of Arabia is considered a full out classic. it is widely respected everywhere, on numerous top ten best films ever made lists, and has received four star reviews everywhere. I watched this film because a friend recommended it to me. i sat down, ready and willing to watch it because of all the praise it had received. About an hour later, i was about to fall asleep. nothing was happening at all. i do enjoy many long films (Dances With Wolves, Titanic, etc.), but the fact that this film lasts about three hours and forty minutes is asinine. Why does this film about a guy that hardly anyone has heard about have to be this long/ I know why! Because all that was on the film makers minds was " I wonder how many Oscars I can get with this film." The Academy loves epic, and this sure was an epic. A seriously flawed epic. First of all is the length. All of this material could have been shown in a matter of 2 and a half hours, if only the script writer had cut out unnecessary dialogue. second, is how Peter O' Toole portrayed Lawrence. Apparently this character is a man who gets a rush by killing people. but, instead of giving the viewers a portrait of why this character has this issue, it instead shows shots of as much desert land as possible. Third of all, this film did not make me leave with a sort of meaning or purpose. All I left with was questions that could have been answered if only It had a better script. now, there are some aspects of the film that saved it from being a one star. That is Alec Guiness's performance as prince Feisal. He is, as always, brilliant. The rollicking score. It left me humming the theme for days. and third is the editing. my favorite is when lawrence blows out the match and it cuts straight to the red sunrise.


                
This is the film where David Lean's megalomania and pretentiousness, already evident in The Bridge on the River Kwai (a film that is just this side of bearable), spilled over into an overweening arrogance and smugness, and an unjustified belief that he can do no wrong, however absurd the casting, the story and the photography. Lean knew nothing of the Middle East and understood less. The film presents a completely false picture of it: glossy, saccharine and indeed patronising (and thus, borderline racist). The historical context is tendentious, biased and false: the centuries-old story of the Jews rebuilding their own country is barely given a supercilious nod. However great an actor Alec Guiness is, casting him as Feisal is just plain silly. Were there no actors of Middle Eastern background and appearance? He looks like an uncomfortable transplant from the East End of Charles Dickens, an Irish or Scottish princeling who took the wrong train at Holborn underground station. The notion that 'this is the best British film of all time' is as absurd as the film itself: glitziness does not equal quality. Even Lean made better films by far (for example, Great Expectations), and The Third Man is miles better, too. These films are cinematic: they understand the medium and utilise it properly. Lawrence tries to get by on sheer bombast, and fails miserably as it must.


                
I do not how to start writing a comment on this movie."Lawrence of Arabia" is today regarded as a masterpiece of world cinema and it has been consistently on the top 250. I'm not questioning the value of top 250 anymore just because it does not really reflect the total gusto of all the cinephiles. But I wonder whether 70-mm widescreen, color cinematography, epic war scenes or heroism are enough to make a movie acclaimed. The first thing I'm looking for in a movie is "historical accuracy".Since the movie takes its name from the leading character Lawrence let me ask you a question to those who casted a top-ten vote for this movie?Do you really know how Lawrence looked like?Six foot two inch Peter O'Toole differed strikingly with the real Lawrence, who was almost nine inches shorter.Lawrence was not a gung-ho drama queen who lead a nation to freedom.Most scenes such as the attack on Aqaba were heavily fictionalized from the writings of Lawrence.You can easily question how much he is reliable.Lawrence mentions in his Seven Pillars of Wisdom that he was raped by the Turkish Bey which was called into question by the historians.(Check out the article : Lawrence of Arabia 'made up' sex attack by Turk troops By Elizabeth Day) Not only most scenes are heavily fictionalized but some characters are a bunch of fiction too like Sheriff Ali,Mr. Dryden and Colonel Brighton. The movie neither tells you anything from the Turkish point point of view nor does it tell anything about the real Arab points. Yes it's a well-know truth that the Arabs were tricked into fighting against the Turks by the British and they have been paying the price by being belittled by the westerners for centuries.But the movie shows us only a bunch of Bedouin tribes which are desert dwelling nomadic people. Not every Arab is (and was)a Bedouin.Plus when I see "Language: English / Arabic / Turkish" tag on IMDb I can't help laughing.It's fact that Westerners have always imposed their language on the nations they dominated. Arabs started to speak English then just like some African nations started to speak French. Yes they have been living under the Turkish rule and they have not been speaking Turkish. That's the truth but how on earth from a ten year old kid to pariahs everybody speaks English.Let alone that the actors who play the Turkish soldiers do not even look like a Turk they do not even speak a word of Turkish. The only Turkish word you hear is "su"(water)which is spoken by a wounded villager on the hospital in Damascus. The historians say that the real Lawrence actually shunned the limelight, as evidenced by his attempts after the war to hide under various assumed names but the British officers certainly did not the find the attack outrageous since the Great(!) British Empire can finally be positioned at a table with the French to take care of the rest of the Turkish empire.And according to Wikipedia the film's portrayal of General Allenby as a cynical, manipulative superior to Lawrence is not entirely accurate either. Allenby and Lawrence respected and liked each other, and Lawrence once said of Allenby that he was "an admiration of mine"... There are people who claim that such fictionalization was necessary to dramatize the great Lawrence character but I say "watch out! The devil lurks in the little details"


                
Why on earth is it considered one of the best? Can anyone explain this mystery to me? The film is just awful - outdated, slow, clichéd, skewed, biased, unrealistic, propaganda-driven, silly at times, overtly naive and very very long. Peter O'Toole? Can he play? He can. Not in here. Here, his uneasy array of homo-hints, blank stare, evidently weak acting, very unnatural emotional display, shallow delivery and generally very irritating mimics. Omar Shariff and Alec Guinness are no better with their laughable gestures, bad lines and unconvincing acting. This is a very overrated piece of time movie, which belongs to where it should be - in the past, as a result of very poorly executed epic saga ewhich drags and dies along. My advice - watch it, but then drop it. There are better movies in this world... THis one is a real waste of time.


                
this movie was awful. it was at least 2 hours too long. it would have been decent had they not shown the crossing of the desert in real-time... jeez talk about a waste of time. you could have watched half of the movie with fast forward oni don't understand why they felt it was necessary to spend so much time focusing on the dialog-free desert crossing, rather than spending the time developing characters or better explaining the political ramifications of what was occurring. the overall quality of the movie was greatly depleted by this. it would be interesting to see a remake of this film, but only if it were at least an hour shorter


                
We have a hero, great cinematography, and the potential for a good story. Please, please, please tell me why the end result was this...this...gargantuan waste of three hours that I can never get back. After three long, agonizing, hours, it just ended. I had invested so much time into this, I refused to not see how it ended. The movie sets it up so that within the first hour you know that every little tiny detail of the movie will take thirty minutes to tell, so you expect a little more to the ending then our supposed hero ( but in reality a child trying to prove a point no one really gets) just riding off in the dust to go home escorted by a badly accented driver. That was all. Lawrence giggling like an idiot and prancing like a fairy in his new Arab clothes, what fun! What a movie! By the end of the first hour you really end up wondering what the hell they are going to do for the next two hours. You soon discover that it's not much. After trying to stay awake for over three hours i was really needing more than this to justify my time wasted. If you want a great movie watching experience of over two hours go for The Godfather or Gone with the Wind, DO NOT waste your time with this overacted drama full of sand and little else.
Although this probably isnt the worst movie I've ever seen (anything by Ed Wood for example is worse), it is probably the most disappointing movie I've ever seen.  It was about 2 hours too long, had little action, a subpar plot, and put me to sleep after three hours.  With the cast, director and budget, not to mention the hype, that this movie had it fell a mile short of expectations and for that reason it should be considered below "Plan 9 From Outer Space."


                
BORING, self-important, you don't care about the charactersEven granting that the cinematography is okay, it's like watching an Internet Camera focused on the desert 24 hours a day.


                
