Paul Theroux and Jorge Luis Borges once discussed T.E. Lawrence's book SEVEN PILLARS OF WISDOM. Theroux, in response to Borges' praise of it, said a clever thing: "How can a book about Arabs not be funny?" True. SEVEN PILLARS, while wonderful in many respects, is a relentlessly grim chronicle of disillusionment. In this respect, LAWRENCE OF ARABIA is true to its source material. But this does not deserve reverence. To repeat a mistake is to commit an even greater folly.Grandiose does not equal grand, and spectacle is not of itself spectacular. Yes, this movie looks great, and it is one of the most auspicious and audacious entrances an actor has ever made onto the world stage. But man, is it dull. Anyone not bored by multiple offerings of five minutes' empty pageantry - a thousand camels marching off to battle (which never is satisfactorily joined) - is more easily amused than I. I liked this movie when I was a kid. Now I do not like this movie. It is too long, for one thing, not that long is bad per se, but long and incoherent is very bad. I've finally noticed that what's really wrong with this picture, aside from being directed by the most overrated A-lister in the history of the tenth art, is its inability to tell a story. What is going on at any given point after the first couple of hours - in the campaign, in T.E.'s head, in the battle - is obviously of inferior importance to how it looks. Now, this is a major achievement. To be incoherent in a travelogue-depth 4-hour yawnathon of pedantic phrasemaking is not only to defeat the purpose of a travelogue (which is to make clear for adults what was possibly too confusing for children), it is to complicate the logic of simplicity by means cunning and nefarious, for no apparent gain or purpose. I am amazed that it could be done. But then David Lean is the thinking man's Roland Emmerich - if the thinking man doesn't mind being made to think the same thing over and over. Other giants of the epic travelogue - John Sturges, Lawrence Kasdan, Richard Attenborough, Mel Gibson, Ridley Scott, Peter Jackson - while boring and/or insulting me much of the time, at least usually manage to get the ideas across in a shot or two, abetted by dialog best presented on T-shirts. If Noel Coward had been the director, instead of just a third unit helpmate to his old partner, it would have made sense and it would have been two hours shorter and it would have been better. In fact it would have been good.I have to admit that while no less bad, most of Lean's other gigantic pieces of shite, like BRIDGE ON THE RIVER WHY? and DOCTOR ZZZZZZ, do not confuse me. They are good traditional travelogues in the Old Hollywood vein: say it early, say it often, say it again if in doubt. Funny, 'cause I kind of like his GREAT EXPECTATIONS, a much more watchable film (and certainly not small in scope) than the book is readable. But going back that far I believe he was still under the influence of his benign Svengali, Coward.
There's good acting, good cinematography, and good music, but it's just too long, boring, and painful to watch! It's nowhere near as epic as Lord of the Rings, but it's only considered "epic" because of the fact that there was no film like this back then, and the fact that the director was so ambitious and wanted to cram in all this crap that this movie accumulated the length of 4 hours to do so. It's also too slow that the first part (2 and a half hours!!!) felt like 5 hours. I stopped watching it right then since it drives me mad. I'd have to say, despite everyone seeming to love this, that for a modern viewer, like me, this is a tough movie to get through. Movie buffs who are into older movies will like this though.


                
Lawrence of Arabia......an epic and a saga movie of a man in Arabia and those lot of things he does between Arabs and European powers. A huge cinema of a long duration as a memoir told in about 228 minutes (12 minutes less then 4 hours).Well well well, so far so good.....but let me 'inquire' whats all this fuss about. I mean why was this long and big movie created, won Oscar, and is rated very high? I found this film as a really monotonous, although not complete boring account, plain, colorless, eventfully eventless, dramatically hopeless, forlorn, woebegone, abject-ed journey, despairing account of events that were so so so artificial that such kind of artificiality may be considered as a new kind of film style by movie geeks (scholars).I will compare it with the title of the film I just found "Night of the Day of the Dawn of the Son of the Bridge of the Return of the Revenge of the Terror of the Attack of the Evil, Mutant, Alien, Flesh Eating, Hellbound, Zombified Living Dead Part 2".


                
The only explanation may be that this was 40 years ago...It certainly has nice acting, camera and music and so, but the story is transformed to some Walt Disney grease-pot: The Arabs are shown as naive guys whom Lawrence has to explain the superior culture of the west. Lawrence himself is behaving like a mental ill especially towards his military leadership. One of his comrades has - other than in reality - to be wounded so we can have Lawrence to tragically has to shot him. Other things like massacre on the turks, he was responsible for are not in the movie.Long story short, the Book was adapted to some mainstream plot for the whole family. If you want kitsch, see the movie, if you want something authentic you have to read the about 900 pages of 'seven pillars of wisdom'.4 out of 10, after all.


                
Personally I think that this movie is to long for no reason. The idea is good but to drawn out


                
A History lesson - no, not about the Arabs and WW I - about film history and the history of film criticism and possibly public taste in film.How could such a mind numbing film win so many awards and draw the crowds that it did? Possibly, the public is influenced by critics and award granters. I wager many came out thinking - such great reviews - I must have missed something; too bad I fell asleep. Others probably came out thinking - I'll never be hoodwinked by critics again! Some films can be thought of as acceptable/good or even excellent when view only once, but upon subsequent viewing loses much of its appeal. The fist time I saw the film, I was quite taken by it, and viewed the director's cut to enjoy the few minutes of deleted scenes. I couldn't identify the cut scenes and viewed it again with no success. Upon reflection I noted that those added minutes did not add to the enjoyment of the film and that the film might be even better with more scenes deleted. (Since then I have been unable to stay awake during an entire screening in about a half dozen attempts.) A quick perusal of IMDb rave reviews found that virtually all viewers had only seen the film once, and while very young. If seen again, most (I think all) would marvel at how different their memories are from reality. So, the recommendation is if you've not yet seen it, enjoy a peek into yesteryear and marvel at how tastes were so different and how lucky we are not to have such films anymore. If you saw it years ago, remember the old saying - You can never go home. Don't disappoint yourselves; it isn't as you remember. Everything was bigger and better when you were young.


                
I was terribly disappointed with this utter sand and dust desert film. That it won the Academy Award for best picture of 1962 is most shocking. The other 4 nominees had to be far better.As a historian, I knew they were referring to the World War 1 conflict. The name of the war is never mentioned throughout the film. The only way you knew that this wasn't World War 11 was that Turkey was Germany's ally. In the Second World War Turkey was neutral.The best performance here was given by Anthony Quinn. At least, we knew where he stood. Peter O'Toole looked half-crazed throughout and Omar Sharif was ready to study politics for nearly 4 hours of this epic joke of a film. What really happened to Lawrence when he was tortured by the Turk. (Jose Ferrer in a one scene-stealer)Arthur Kennedy is the reporter in the film looking for the scoop. He was the reporter 2 years before in the far better "Elmer Gantry." An elderly Claude Rains plays a diplomat who really shows little emotion here. He literally speaks his lines like the old days of being under contract and having to do a film.Director David Lean used Alec Guinness ("The Bridge on the River Kwai,") once more his 2nd Oscar winning film.
And that's about all I can say about this movie. I only watched 2 hours of it, had no desire to finish it. I was not drawn to the story at all. Nothing compelled me to give a damn about this Lawrence fellow.3/10


                
I  heard so much about this movie.  This movie was supposed to be one of the greatest movies of all time, ranking somewhere near the Godfather or Shawshank Redemption. My dad said he only saw it one time when he was a kid and didnt remember it, and that he would watch it again with me.  What I saw was the biggest waste of over 3 hours of my life.  I dont understand how this movie was such a big hit.  It could have been an hour shorter and it still would have been too long. All the desert scenes were actually starting to make me thirsty. The camera tried to portray Peter O Toole as this Jesus-like character, but ended up making him look like some homosexual weakling.  Dont believe me?  Then watch how he walks.  Or the look on his face when he killed that man. I kept thinking "Ok, maybe the good part's coming up," right up until the end. And then it struck me that this is the most overrated movie of all time.  When the movie was over, my dad punched me on the arm, I was like what was that for, and he said "I would have rather seen paint dry."  And I almost cried, not from the punch, but because I agreed with him. The only good part in the movie was when they whipped him.  I wish they would have whipped me for watching it.  Bigtime letdown


                
i 've seen this movie i m sorry to say that this movie is against muslims . Apart from it , its a good movie showing the great and noble culture of Arabian muslims, Anthony Quinn is great in it .The long duration of this film is one of its drawbacks.


                
I never found this movie interesting. Its very slow paced, it has barely any chicks or sex. Its plot is totally unrealistic. Its like Trump rallying Arabs to go against Iran. In his nazi head it makes sense but in reality it makes no sense at all because Iran and Arabia are strong allies. Didn't work. Similarly in this movie, Arabs are trying to be rallied against Turks. Would never work in reality and I find such a movie overrated, misogynistic and anti Semitic. Instead of telling truth about Islam you have some politically correct cover up.


                
