The day I moved to Ireland, I didn't know I was about to discover one of the greatest comedy series of all times as "Father Ted" certainly is!The basic plot in itself is amazingly simple, a stroke of genius: three "peculiar" priests and a housekeeper in an island off the Irish West coast. It's unbelievable how much fun, irony, satire, surreal humour and great characters can come out of so little. And if you are of Catholic extraction, the fun is even greater (we all have met a Dougal, a Ted or a Jack at some stage...)It's even too hard for me to pick a favourite episode: Ted and Dougal entering the "EuroVision Song Contest" with the excellent pop hit (and video clip) "My lovely horse"? Ted is believed a racist by the islanders and organises a great multi-cultural event? Dougal becomes a milkman only to discover that his life is in danger at Speed 3? Father Stone comes for a visit and for playing a bit of mini-golf? "The Passion of St. Tibulus" is being shown at the local cinema? Cigarettes, drink and rollerblades are given up for Lent? Bishop Len Brennan is kicked up the arse? Impossible to decide. I would recommend to anyone buying the complete series 1, 2 and 3 as they come out in DVD. You can watch "Father Ted" over and over and still laugh your head off.One of my favourite quotes:Dougal: "Ted, was Jack really dead? How could he come back to life?"Ted: "I don't know, Dougal. I'd say he's resurrected from the grave...Like that fella...what's he called...E.T.!"


                
Never has there been a comedy series like this and never will there be one like this again. I've never been an avid fan of Father Ted (don't know why) but as a person who doesn't watch that much television anymore this certainly gives me an excuse to turn the tv on and be entertained. Has done for years. Extremely unique and funny i would gladly sit down and watch a Father Ted marathon and watch every episode back to back. What is rare for a tv programme/movie is that i actually havn't met a single person who dislikes Father Ted! My favourite episode is the one where the whistle gets stolen. Fantastic. Shame there will be no more series but thank ourselves lucky they made three fantastic series. An all time great.


                
I have to say that I was surprised at my amazement of enjoying this Irish comedy. Sadly, the actor played Father Ted died in 1998. But he left us with lots of laughter and unforgettable scenes. It used to be shown on WLIW and they began putting warnings before the show. Then, it may have gotten a little too offensive for a New York Catholic audience. But despite everything, it is a classic comedic series. You'll laugh more than be offended. Maybe a few people in the television audience might answer their true callings of priesthood and sisterhood. We need more religious people. Maybe in a way, Father Ted shows a fun side of priest life without the stuffiness associated with it. Priests can and do have fun. They're even hysterical to watch over and over again. You can't forget the wonderful Mrs. Doyle as the bit crazed housekeeper to the priests. Don't miss the Lent episode and Father Stone episode. They are just too funny to miss up this show's offer.


                
When the sitcom idea to portray the adventures of three priests in Ireland - a drunk, a dimwit and the main character in between - was pitched to TV executives, the reaction was lukewarm at best. Religion, a joking matter? Impossible! But well, "The Vicar of Dibley" with comedy heavyweight Dawn French worked, so the OK was given, all doubts aside. And thus it so happened that Arthur Mathews and Graham Linehan, writers with an edge, set out to delve into the rural conservative catholic setting and run the gamut, starting from the custom sitcom weirdness to out and out absurdity in the parochial house somewhere on Craggy Island. Not with the intention to ridicule the catholic church, but to follow through with everything it has developed into, to satirize its reality and at the same time humanize its unbalanced shepherds. Interestingly, it works."Father Ted" gets off with a slow start, but once the characters and writers have hit their stride comedy-wise, the series delivers like no other. The Fathers Ted (Dermot Morgan), Dougal (Ardal O'Hanlon), Hackett (Frank Kelly) and Mrs. Doyle (Pauline McLynn) stumble from one farcical situation into another and the punch lines get sharper and wittier the longer the journey lasts. There's slapstick, well timed cartoonish back and forth, strong language and directness thanks to the naivety of the characters, yes, there's even cursing among priests and still it's entirely inconspicuous thanks to the changing of a vowel. And we get subversive social commentary served the fun way and it's, pardon the pun, a hell of a ride. If you book your trip to Craggy island you'll witness priests struggling through lent, have a crush on a lady visitor, go on a disastrous unholy holiday, turn into racists by trying to demonstrate the exact opposite and help to heal a depressed sheep. You can learn from priests how to get people to watch a raunchy movie thanks to their campaign against it, or how to kick a bishop up the arse - just pretend it never happened. Intrigued? Then off you go to visit undiscovered land in this highly original, creative, addictive and outright hilarious sitcom, a comedy milestone that will last for ages.


                
I know what Heaven is...Heaven is where they show endless, back-to-back episodes of Father Ted, non-stop, for all eternity. Now I'm going to be a good little girl, behaving well and obeying the Ten Commanments. That way, when I die, I'll go straight to Heaven, completely bypassing Purgatory (where they only run Seinfeld episodes). When in Heaven, I'll take my seat right there in the front row in the Heavenly Rec Room, right in front of THE VERY BIGGEST BIG SCREEN T.V. Wait...who's that blasted chain-smoker sitting next to me?! Why its Dermot Morgan!!! And because its Heaven, his smoke doesn't bother me in the least!!! And there we'll sit, watching eternal episodes of Father Ted...a very good reason to be at your very best behavior whilst still here on good ol' Terra Firma!


                
I didn't think it was up to much when I first saw this series but then again I was in a house full of people. Then I sat down one day and watched "Plague" on my own. Most peculiar! I thought the show merited further investigation. I then saw "Speed 3" and that put the lid on it. I now own every episode. Most definitely one of the most surreal and hilarious shows of all time. It's funny on so many levels from the subtle to the outright obvious. We shall never see its like again! If Dermot hadn't died I have no doubt that it would have become a successful series of films. The best thing to come from Ireland, ever! (even better than the whisky, and that's heaven-sent!) Like a good whisky it can be savoured again and again and still doesn't lose its flavour. I teach English as a foreign Language and I cannot recommend Father Ted enough as a video class. The students always love it. And the Spanish are also mad Catholics (no offense) who appreciate the jokes on the church, which plays such an important role in Spanish society just as it does in Ireland. It's odd that it doesn't really seem to offend the church. I suppose someone somewhere must be but I've yet to meet them. I love the Episode with "Father Ben!" I have heard that it was the top show amongst Irish priests but whether that is true only an Irish priest can confirm. Favourite moment? Just too many to say. Perhaps, as I'm an English teacher, the scene where Ted tries to teach Father Jack to say "That would be an ecumenical matter." For sheer talent and acting I think one of the most incredible and hilarious scenes is the one where the depressed priest listens to Radiohead. If that were from a film he would have been nominated for an Oscar! That's acting!


                
this is one of those rare strokes of greatness that only appear once in a blue moon. It's proof that the older sitcoms have always been the best ones. This is definitely one of my favourite sitcoms, it just has that right and rare mix of different attributes and characters which makes the whole thing work, and makes you want to keep watching it over and over again.One of the funny things I found about this sitcom is the fact that each of the characters has his or her own strong, comical personality attribute which makes you want to love them e.g. Doogle being comically dim, Father Jack being constantly drunk and Mrs Doyle with her obsession for tea and sandwiches, the only normal person is Ted himself. These are not the only characters with their personality imbalances, most of the characters you come across when watching through the episodes have their own comic charm to them, and also the fact that they are different from each other makes it work together. with the situations that they get into.This also adds to the general silliness of the whole sitcom genre. In fact I believe it's the strongest point of this sitcom, combining it with a strange world, strange places and wacky situations makes the whole thing hilarious. Having Grahamn Norton appear in some of the episodes was a very good choice. He played out his character really well e.g the episode in the really really dark caves (it's almost like being blind), the fact that he and a group was in a serious situation makes him stand out and very funny. Him constantly talking and talking and his version of Bohemian Rhapsody, while everyone else is depressed and worried makes it great.I recommend this sitcom for everyone, except Catholics ^_^;
The best thing you can say about Father Ted is that even though it is being constantly repeated on British and Irish TV channels it is still very funny. There is an almost irresistible temptation to watch an episode when you find one by accident while channel hopping.This is hard to explain to someone who hasn't seen the programme. Of the four main characters three are completely cartoonish. Dougal is thick, Jack is manky, Mrs Doyle is bizarre. Their characters don't change in any way but this doesn't stop them being funny.Perhaps it's the litany of even more bizarre characters that drop in on Craggy Island in each episode. The acceptance that the stories are surreal and not to look for any sense or realism in them will also help your enjoyment.Too much analysis from me. Whether you buy this DVD or just stop flicking to watch the second half of a random episode you will get plenty of laughs from Father Ted.


                
To this day my friends and I still quote this show on a daily basis.Dermot Morgan was an absolute genius delivering his part of the quirky Father Ted. Along with his fellow clergy men and of course his moronic house keeper, Mrs. Doyle, Graham Linehan created the perfect cast for my favorite show of all time.Although it has been nearly 20 years since this show was on TV, it is still regularly shown here in Ireland and many people still watch it. It even has its own annual festival on the west coast, that is its impact on this island.If you ever want to cry laughing, and have a silly sense of humor, watch any one of the episodes. I promise you won't regret it.Taken too soon, RIP Dermot Morgan.


                
... It's so much better. I've been looking for so long but nothing seems to come close to the brilliance of Father Ted.The jokes come thick and fast but are so deep that even the distant memories of them can make you cry with laughter. I don't believe anything will ever be made that is as perfect as this.Unlike most other comedy series, the jokes get better the more watch them and familiarise yourself with all the characters. Most of which have something to do with religion, but in the general sense of the characters and playing on stereotypes rather than being either for or against religion itself.It's such a tragedy that Dermot Morgan (Father Ted) died. This series gave so much laughter to many and in my opinion; it just kept getting better and better as the characters developed.So don't miss out on watching this rare TV treasure.. 'Go on, go on, go on...!'


                
Great! Too bad Dermot Morgan (Father Ted) died in 1998. Best episodes have got to be 'Cigarettes And Alcohol and Rollerblading' and 'Grant Unto Him Eternal Rest'. In 'Grant Unto Him Eternal Rest', Jack drinks a bottle of floor polish which (supposedly) kills him; it gives him all the 'symptoms' of death without actually killing him. In the end, Ted's reciting poetry in Jack's tomb then Jack comes up behind Ted and shouts 'SHUT THE F*CK UP!', at which point, Ted promptly faints. I know someone who is an Irish Catholic priest and he knows several people not unlike Jack Hackett and Dougal! No offence to any good catholic priests. Brilliant show! Such a classic.
Father Ted just blew me away when I first saw it and it still does today. It has Irish writer, Irish actors and an English TV station. It's the perfect mix! Any way, Dougal is one of the funniest TV characters ever! So Ted (The smart one but nothing goes his way), Dougal (The dumb one that everything goes his way but he doesn't notice), Jack (The drunk pervert that Ted and Dougal can't look beyond) and Ms. Doyle (Every Irish woman over 80) all make a great team. So it's a mix of stereotypical Irish people and real life Irish people. This show will entertain you trust me. This is my little review and if you see it on watch it.


                
Irreverent, politically incorrect, and absolutely hilarious, Father Ted is a phenomenal series about three priests living on Craggy Island in Ireland. Talk about an outpost - the opening shot shows a house with nothing around it.The late Dermot Morgan plays Father Ted, not above a shady deal or two. He lives with Father Dougal McGuire (Ardal O'Hanlon) an impossibly stupid young priest, and Father Jack Hackett (Frank Kelly) an old priest who hasn't drawn a sober breath in probably fifty years. Helping them out is Mrs. Doyle (Pauline McLynn), a somewhat unstable housekeeper. It's obvious the priests have been sent as far away as possible to dwell in obscurity.It's very hard to choose a favorite episode, but I'm partial to Speed 3. My favorite part of that is Ted working feverishly at the blackboard while lots of discussion is going on. One poster mentioned the stolen whistle - I just saw that one, and it is hilarious. I also love the raffle, when they raffle a car in order to fix their leaky roof. And the vacation episode is a classic as well.A no-miss. There are only three seasons of this wonderful show, all well worth seeing. Great when you need a laugh.


                
SPOILERS AHEAD Father Ted is positively the funniest, most enjoyable, most ENTERTAINING farcical comedy ever. The programme is set on Craggy Island, a lonely island of the western coast of Ireland. There's Fr. Ted the most sane of the lot, Fr. Dougal the "cabbage", Fr. Jack an alcoholic with a foul mouth and Mrs. Doyle who likes making tea and LOVES serving it. Together they all get into a series of misadventures including : holidaying in a caravan the size of a car, protesting against a blasphemous film, being accused of stealing a whistle, being trapped in the house surrounded by old women, riding in a plane doomed for a crash and a whole host of others. One thing that makes FT so good is that it makes the most original jokes. Like the time Ted and Dougal were coaching a football training:Dougal: Ted did you once say that Jack had a trial with Liverpool? Ted: No. He was ON trial IN Liverpool.Or when they were being visited by the boring Fr. Stone:Dougal: You said he wouldn't come again. Ted: I know. But it's like talking to a wall with a moustache.Or when Ted asked Dougal a very, very, very, VERY good question Ted: Dougal, how did you ever get into the church? Was it like eat 12 bags of crisps and become a priest?Sadly, Dermot Morgan ( Ted ) died in 1998 meaning the series could not go on. However Father Ted will continue to make you grin for many years to come. And creator Graham Linehan continued making farcical comedies including "Black Books" and "The IT crowd", so keep you're eyes peeled.
'Father Ted' has got to be one of the funniest comedies in history. Father Ted Crilly , Father Jack Hackett and Father Dougal Maguire are three priests who live in a parochial house together on Craggy Island with their house keeper, Mrs Doyle. I do't have a favourite episode but I recommend these episodes... 'Kicking Bishop Brennan Up the Arse', 'Christmassy Ted', 'Hell' and 'The Mainland.' Sadly, Dermot Morgan, who played Father Ted died of a heart attack the day after filming the last episode. The comedy ran for 3 series and a box set of all the episodes is available to buy and is worth every penny. However, and I am sure many will agree with me, that it is very unfortunate that they are considering doing an American version of this comedy. It is a classic!


                
SIMPLY THE BEST!!! the mix of humour between the three main priests and the tea mad housekeeper proves to be the best comical combination ever amassed in the history of television. Dermot Morgan plays the fame seeking, money mad and quick witted Father Ted Crilly, who would do anything that involves a chance to be on television or a chance to win a cash prize. Father Ted has an ongoing conflict with rival priest, Father Dick Byrne (Burn), and always surmounts to Ted being made an idiot of, e.g (SPOILERS) cheating in the football game and having to kick Bishop Brenan up the arse!Adral O'Hanlon plays the thick, dim witted, slow priest, Father Dougal McGuire. This character has the IQ of a puddle of water and the common sense of a doormat. He has the mental capacity of a five year old and the memory of a goldfish.(SPOILERS) on "Flight into Terror", half way through the episode he forgets that they are on a plane and are about to die.now we come to the legendary icon Father Jack Hackett. This alcoholic, violent, horn ball of a priest is on the main attractions to the series. If you have seen even one episode that involves Jack you will understand what I mean. He is the only character, in any sitcom, that can get away with only saying 4 words (that have become infamous) and make people laugh. "FECK,ARSE,GIRLS" and the most famous one "DRINK" have become trade mark phrases of FATHER TED and will always be remembered by fans."Victor of Dibley" was out before "FATHER TED", so in the eyes of some people, Father Ted would be seen to "rip off" the idea, but they don't rip off the idea, THEY MAKE IT!!. in comparison to "Father Ted, "Victor of Dibley" is a complete waste of time,money and effort.it can even be seen on IMDb, Ted got an amazing 9.1 whereas Dibley only got 7.5


                
Looking through the reviews, I see that one person scored this 1/10 and another gave it 2/10. I can only assume those two people are living in some kind of purgatory and loving it.When this series was made, there was a chemistry similar to The Beatles. The writers, actors and production crew came together and forged a masterpiece, and it was obviously made on a shoestring which makes it even greater. And the death of Dermot Morgan was an absolute tragedy, robbing us of further episodes of fabulous fun.Too many modern comedies are "clever" rather than funny, and are often over-rated. Father Ted is not just funny, it is non-stop hilarious: I have watched the whole lot at least 4 times and never get tired of it. Picking out "the best bits" would be a waste of time: there are 3 series of arguably the most side-splitting TV humour ever.
Yes, Father Ted is my favourite TV show of all time. In the UK and Ireland, we quote this show as much as the rest of the world quotes The Simpsons, with so many lines and terms from the show becoming implanted into our psyche. I've been watching Father Ted since I was a kid and even though I didn't get off any of the adult jokes back then, the wacky and surreal humour always had me in fits of laughter. I don't think there's been a month in the last 17 years that I haven't watched one of its 25 episodes, yet I still can't pick a favourite!Every joke in Father Ted works on so many levels. The setting of the fictional Craggy Island is surely the most backward ended place on Earth but this is all brilliantly downplayed. Whenever anything absurd happens, the characters react in an unsurprised or not surprised enough manner. For example, when Ted discovers Craggy Island has its own Chinatown. Just how does an island off the coast of Ireland have a significant Chinese population and how does a person living there not even know about it?! I could take any joke from this show and list on multiple levels as to why it's so absurd and surreal. The inconsistencies and even the odd plot hole just makes everything funnier.I suspect one of the reasons Father Ted became so successful is that it dispelled the notion that the Irish are completely oblivious to the outside world in the sense that the characters talk about popular culture just like people in any other civilized county would. Granted the characters in every other sense don't act like people in the real world but I believe this one aspect made the show more relatable to a wider audience, from references to bands such as Oasis and Radiohead to various film references (Dougal, we are not watching Aliens!). I'm from Ireland and even to this day, I hear stories from Irish people who have gone abroad and meet people who think Ireland is technologically un-advanced country and that we all live in cottages. One story I always remember was an Irish guy telling me of how he told an American he owned an Xbox 360 and the American couldn't believe it.Allow me to hold up my cup of tea to Father Ted. May I continue to watch it for years, with Dougal and Mrs. Doyle and Father Jack forever and ever and ever and ever and ever and ever...


                
If you ever feel down and need a laugh, this series is just the remedy. It's such a bizarre plot -- three shonky priests living together on an obscure Irish island -- but it works! Every episode I've watched I have found hilarious. I was raised Catholic but I don't find it offensive. It's a parody of Catholicism, but Lord knows it needed it. Witness the couple running the local shop, John and Mary, who are constantly trying to murder one another -- until Father Ted comes in, and they act like pious angels. My favourite episode would have to be when the drunken lout Father Jack is finally sent away to a retired priests' home. The replacement priest sent to live with Father Ted and Father Dougal is an obnoxious slob, who is, incredibly, even more offensive than Jack, so Ted and Dougal plot to kidnap Father Jack back from the home. All praise to the actor playing Jack -- not a role with a great range of behaviours but it's strangely honest that he's so consistently awful. Father Dougal represents all the dangerously simple minded twits in the world, and he's played with a lot of sly wit by the actor. As for Father Ted, a tour de force performance by the late, great Dermot Morgan. Ted is someone trying to be good, but failing spectacularly.
10/10 - perfect rating.Father Ted is a great sitcom about 3 catholic priests (Father Ted, Father Dougal and Father Jack) on an island called Craggy Island. It is one of the funniest TV shows ever made, surpassed only by Friends and Two and a Half Men.It is certainly the most funny non-USA comedy. It may offend some catholics but i know a catholic who thinks this is the funniest show ever.If you really want a great laugh I would definitely watch this. This show never fails to crack me up. The way Father Jack always shouts out "Drink!" whenever he wants alcohol is really funny. To sum it up: it is an absolutely hilarious comedy that anyone can enjoy.
I find when watching Father Ted that I'm laughing constantly, still chuckling at the gag from 2-3 minutes earlier, just as I do when watching Naked Gun films. I laugh so much that I didn't especially notice the laughter track; normally these are my pet hatred, and buckets of respect to Gervais and others who don't use them; shame the DVDs don't allow laughter track suppression.The characters are excellent - not just the 4 principals, but also the oddball islanders, his nemesis Bishop Brennan and his rival Father Dick. Yes, there are catchphrases but they do not form the centrepiece of the show.Fav moments - Sister Assumpta replacing Ted's bed with bricks; the giant photo of Ted kicking (you know the rest), and every near murder scene with Mary and John.I bought the box set, the whole of FT on 4 DVDs.Such a shame that nobody saw their next show "Hippies"!
Father Ted might not be the funniest ever series but from my point of view it is the most enjoyable. I keep watching it all over again.I just love the setting. Dermot Morgan as Father Ted is just great but all the rest at the parochial house are as unforgettable. There is something very real in his character and despite of the little problem with the money (which was just resting on his account) he is a very nice and decent priest.I honestly think there is something really Irish in it and even if it is making fun of the Catholic church, it is making it in actually in a quite tasteful way (hell, I think they'd deserve it rougher). The show keeps its human touch because of the fantastic actors and characters. Yes, even father Jack. But he is more surreal than insulting.As said earlier, I love it. I would recommend it to everybody.


                
This comedy is the best. Theirs not a day goes by when i don't think 'god, i really like that show'. Father Ted is money mad gambling addict who always looks like the biggest fool even when in the company of Father Dougal, a 27 year old priest who is still treated like he's 24 and whose aspirations include being a milk man. The show is rounded off with Father Jack; a hard drinking, lecherous old codger with a foul mouth and a fear of nuns. What more could you ask for in a show? I forgot to mention Mrs Doyle, the deranged house keeper who bakes cakes with cocaine in them and wont take no for an answer when it comes to having a lovely cup of tea. Adventures include an exploding milk float, a who-dunnit sheep mystery, the eurovision song contest and struggling to look normal when 3 bishops stay over. WATCH THIS COMEDY IT IS FECKIN BRILLIANT!
Ecclesiastical sitcoms have always proved popular in the past - think of 'All Gas & Gaiters' ( starring Derek Nimmo ), 'Our Man At St.Mark's ) ( with Leslie Phillips ), and the underrated 'Bless Me Father' ( with Arthur Lowe ).'Father Ted' is nothing like these. Craggy Island, off the Irish coast, is a kind of dumping ground for failed clerics. Its main characters are white-haired, chain-smoking 'Father Ted Crilly' ( the late Dermot Morgan ), 'Father Dougal MacGuire' ( Ardal O'Hanlon ) and 'Father Jack Hackett' ( Frank Kelly ). Ted is the only normal character in the show ( he was sent there after allegedly pocketing charity money ). Dougal is so thick he makes Stan Laurel look like Einstein, while Jack's main obsession is drink ( and girls ). They have a housekeeper - the deranged 'Mrs.Doyle' ( Pauline McLynn ), who keeps urging them to drink tea. Other characters appear from time to time including Bishop Len Brennan ( Jim Norton ) and hyperactive 'Father Noel Furlong' ( Graham Norton ). Then there's 'John' ( Patrick Drury ) and 'Mary' ( Rynagh O'Grady ), a shopkeeping couple who hate each other but get all lovey-dovey when they see a priest. Ted's main rival is 'Father Dick Byrne' ( Maurice O'Donoughue ) of Rugged Island.The humour was firmly established by the title sequence in which Ted, Dougal, Jack, and Mrs.Doyle wave to an overhead helicopter, only for it to then crash! Its impossible to deliver an objective review of this show because everything about it is near-perfect. Graham Linehan and Arthur Mathews' surreal scripts are the funniest written for television since 'Fawlty Towers'. The Catholic Church came in for a bit of a battering, but no more than Dave Allen used to do on his show. My favourites include 'Song For Europe' in which Ted and Dougal bid to represent Ireland in The Eurovision Song Contest, a vengeful milkman menaces our heroes in 'Speed 3', 'The Mainland' had them meeting Richard Wilson ( as himself ), 'Nightmare' saw them on the caravan holiday from hell. Best of all was 'A Christmassy Ted', containing a classic scene as Ted, Dougal and a number of other priests endeavour to escape from the lingerie section of a department store.The show was always intended to end after the third series ( "I'm collared out!", said Morgan, in an interview ). But as soon as filming ended, tragedy struck. The star died of a heart attack. The last scene in the last episode had to be hurriedly reworked. After clips from earlier shows, it ended with a shot of Craggy Island Parochial House, and Dougal and Ted saying "Goodnight" to one another. Dermot may be gone, but he's left behind a classic that will last forever.If anyone even suggests remaking this fine show, I will personally throw them head first into Father Jack's underpants hamper!
'Father Ted' is one of those rare comedies that will never date and will still tickle audiences no matter how many times they see it. Of the three seasons made, each and every episode is hilarious as we follow the antics and mis-haps that befall the dysfunctional priests of Craggy Island and their dottled tea-lady. The comic timing of the four leads is absolutely perfect, with Frank Kelly's Father Jack deserving special mention for managing to portray the character's lunacy with only a handful of words since Jack's vocabulary consists mainly of 'feck' and 'drink'!Comedy suffered a huge loss when Dermot Morgan tragically died shortly after completing season three. Even eight years on, 'Father Ted' remains as popular and funny as ever, a testament to the talents of Morgan and his co-stars.


                
