I must admit to never getting round to watching this masterful comedy series when it first aired on Channel 4 way back in the mid 90s. I guess it was because I couldn't see how they could make a sitcom using three Catholic priests and a manic housekeeper without having to tone down the religious content for fear of offending someone.As a consequence Father Ted passed me by for all that time until Ch4 repeated the 3rd series a few months ago and I just happened to tune in by accident, and the rest is history as they say.I wouldn't go as far as saying this is the best ever comedy series to come out of the UK (for me I would opt for Black Adder, Only Fools & Horses, Fawlty Towers & Yes Prime Minister), but it certainly ranks in my top five.Each episode is so skillfully written without any excess fat to slow or detract from the main storyline. But even a great script counts for nothing if you don't have quality actors to bring that story to life using their own masterful interpretation.I guess we all have a our favourite character. Some people prefer Father Jack (Frank Kelly),  the dirty old priest with a fixation for girls & booze and brought into the public consciousness the rather abusive but highly amusing "feck & arse".Other people love Mrs Doyle (Pauline McLynn), the housekeeper and general dog's body to the three dippy priests. But she has a heart of gold and a certain innocent charm for this rather naive & skitty middle aged lady.It came as quite a shock to the system to learn that Dermot Morgan (Father Ted Crilly) died just one day after shooting the final ever episode. But in spite of the sorrow we should be thankful to him for entertaining us & making us laugh out loud so many times with his rather bumbling & frustrated character. But  for me I would have to say that Ardal O'Hanlon as Father Dougal McGuire takes the honours as the most hysterically funny priest ever. His character reminds me of a Homer Simpson - a kind of naive charm, very slow on the uptake, innocent & childlike and yet from time to time comes up with the most amazing lines, ideas & suggestions that just take my breath away with laughter.Im glad, in a way that only 3 series were ever made (it was agreed between the actors and writers that series 3 would be the very last despite the death of Morgan shortly after completion). Had he lived the pressure to produce another series at some latter stage would be too great and I personally feel would not have been in the same league as the previous three. As the old saying goes, once you reach the top the only way is down. Three series, therefore, was just right to maintain the quality for the sake of quantity.Arse!****/*****


                
I've only just bought Father Ted recently on DVD and i'm absolutely hysterical when it comes on. The sitcom is about three different priests who live together with their house cleaner in a deserted fielded island in where else but Ireland.You've got Ted Crilly (the main character) who though tries to be a true priest can never seem to be committed to religion. His frustrations come mainly from his fellow house mate Dougal MuGuire who has the dumb-witted and naive character of Homer Simpson and never normally understands what Ted is on about on many occasions. The funniest character in the series is probably Father Jack Hakett, an abusive and foul mouthed priest who has become excelled from his original nicer side to become abusive when woken up or pushed around and has normally shouted Feck, Arse, Drink or Girls. The final character is Mrs Doyle who is the maid in the house though she mainly gives tea for the three priests though always manages to get the better of them in the end if they ever refuse a cup-pa.Other people include priests like the accident prone priest Father Larry Duff who also seems to be involved in a car crash or being attacked by a Stapler. There's also Father Dick Byrne and his priest crew on Rugged Island who always seem to try to better Ted and the Craggy Island folk. The big boss of them all is Bishop Brennan who's loud and scary looking reputation has always bothered Ted but not Dougal who always refers to the bishop as Len while Father Jack has either told him to feck off or punch him in the face.My favourite episode is probably Speed 3 where Dougal becomes a milkman but the previous milkman has planted a bomb on the milk float so Ted has to convince Dougal to keep driving. Celebrities like Graham Norton and Richard Wilson (Victor Meldrew from One Foot in the Grave) have been seen in Father Ted which has become an all time famous sitcom and probably the greatest sitcom to come out of Channel 4.FIVE favourite Fater Ted moments. 01. Ted attempting to make Jack say the words That and Would 02. Man in crowd mumbling F***in hell after fixing of Sheep Competition 03. Ted and Dougal playing Sherrards 04. Mrs Doyle falling from balcony continually 05. Mrs Doyles tool in my box expression to Ted


                
Having just watched for the umpteenth time, the Christmas special edition of "Father Ted", I can no longer resist myself praising this wonderfully funny British sit-com from the mid 90's.How the series ever got the green light for production (a comedy about three priests and their housekeeper ensconced in their remote manse) still beggars belief but of course it's all in the scripts and the characterisation. Throw in wonderful acting and comedic timing by the, at the time, largely unknown cast and you could almost believe that somewhere in a remote part of Ireland, these lovable oddballs really do exist.It's been said many times before how desperately sad it was that Dermot Morgan died so young, although the last series did come to a loose-ends tied-up conclusion anyway. He is simply wonderful as the straight man to almost every other character in the piece, blithely unaware of his own priestly failings (with his gentle lusting after women, lofty ego and even craving for money - although that money was definitely resting in his account!) as he gets through everyday life. In support Ardal O'Hanlon is hilarious as the "strange idiot boy child" Father Dougal, while Pauline McGlynn is equally so as the tea-making, fiercely loyal but ever so slightly deranged housekeeper Mrs Doyle. The only turn-off for me really is the awkward character of Father Jack, whose boozing, swearing boorishness palls quickly.Not every episode is completely on the money, of course, particularly those from the last series, but the best of them, for example the ones involving Dougal's Milk Run ("All those women were in the nip!"), the Eurovision Song Contest, ("I can get this!") the crashing aircraft ("Don't push the red button") and especially the afore-mentioned Christmas Special ("Some of us like the misery") are almost laugh-a-minute-out-load and for me will never date.This is a superb, occasionally subversive, comic masterpiece showing that it's possible to make fun out of the sacred cow of religion.


                
As my country is considered one of the least religious in the world, that is why the series has not been shown on our channels. However, another sitcom by Graham Linehan - The IT Crowd - was rather popular as Estonia and IT have tight connections. I personally tried to find out the other stuff Linehan was involved - so, Father Ted was my next choice.In the beginning, I had no high hopes as catholic religion is far away from me, I would consider myself rather as agnostic. But soon the events started to roll and I giggled and burst out laughing very soon... True, as for The IT Crowd, seasons 2 and 3 appeared to be more courageous than the 1st - apparently the creators first groped about the limits and "dirty" jokes. The quality of episodes is slightly floating, but there is no boring one, perhaps the grade of "realism" is different.The cast here is strong as well, more uniform than in The IT Crowd where Richard Ayoade was clearly better than the rest - at least to me... All the four leading characters and funny and distinctive, although the presence of Frank Kelly and Pauline McLynn is substantially more short-time. I am sure you will enjoy Father Ted - unless you are pious or seeking for conformity with real world.


                
This was a great show that I've sadly only recently seen. It has a great ensemble and that nugget of pure wit and charm that many shows these days lack. From the off the wall antics and stupidity of Dougal to the drunken screed of "drink" from Father Hackett this show has the feel of something comedically simple but wonderful. I've seen plenty of shows and movies made after the show that borrow from it heavily. I'm sure somewhere that Seth McFarlane was scribbling heavily when he saw the outlandish non-sequiturs and smash-cuts to new locations for the sake of a bit. If you like classic sitcoms then this is a spicy bit you need from the scores of lackluster examples of both yesterday and today.


                
This series is in the ´purest´English humour. I am putting ´pure´ between brackets as each character is worse than the other in its own way. In common, they have no sense of moral, they are lazy and incapable of living with normal human beings. To be watched with a couple of beers and no other expectation than to have good laughs.


                
