With reference to previous comments, nobody in the Catholic Church (including me) has a problem with this show. It's absolutely hilarious, as will be evident to almost any viewer (assuming you have a decent sense of humour). In 5 words: Surrealist irreverent Irish priest comedy.


                
If 'Red Dwarf' was the classic sitcom of the late 1980's, then 'Father Ted' lifted those laurels come the early 1990's.You just can't fail (unless there's something wrong with your sense of humour) to laugh out loud at some of the set-piece gags in this series. Four completely disparate people, a mad old priest, a young imbecile priest, and Father Ted as the comparatively normal one with whom we can often identify, share home with an almost equally bonkers house-keeper.Some of their adventures are quite surreal, whilst others are just grotesque parodies of the kind of normal dilemma most of us encounter from time to time.You pays your money and you takes your choice. Some episodes were only 'very good' and deserving just 8 stars. Others were beyond reproach and justified 10 stars. My award strikes a balance.Institutions are always good for poking fun. We saw this in 'Yes Minister' and many others. But religious institutions, with their overwhelming pompous vanity, are the stuff of absolute screams.If only Muslims had a sense of humour, what joy they could bring to the world. And no-one would have to be blown-up to do it. Or then again...
Now and again, you don't want a big sitcom with big casts, sets and story lines, like Blackadder 1 attempted, you want something simple, and nothing could be more simple than three priests, and their tea-maid, on an island, struggling through life. And with that simple start, comedic genius, as Father Ted leads Father Dougal (the simpleton) and Father Jack (pisshead) through one mishap after another. Its comedic genius is in its simplicity, a swearword, a fart, a cameo from Graham Norton or the lead of One Foot In The Grave, knowing that the Church must be cowering in horror at this make believe example of life, anything like that, just brings down the house, Its an Irish sitcom with British humour that anyone in the world can love.


                
One of the best things to come out of Ireland since U2 and one of the best sitcoms I've seen. I would highly recommend getting the box set out on DVD as it's pure comic genius. The series takes place on a disregarded isle off the west of Ireland, where book-cooking priest Ted Crilly has been exiled by the sulfurous Bishop Brennan, to serve out a parochial purgatory in the company of super-thick stooge Father Dougal McGuire and the feral Father Jack Hackett. Extremely funny and witty. I would highly recommend if you are looking for a few laughs!I would recommend to anyone buying the complete series 1, 2 and 3 as they come out in DVD. You can watch "Father Ted" over and over and still find it hilarious!


                
Father Ted isn't your regular slick and clever comedy, but that's the point. the situations are so ridiculous, you will find yourself rolling with laughter.Set in Craggy island, Father Ted Crilly lives with fellow priests, the drunken father Jack and the no brain Father Dougal Maguire and there's also the tea lady, the wonderful Mrs. Doyle....ah go on.The plots are imaginative and silly, no one takes themselves too seriously and there has been some great movie spoofing throughout. One of the best parts of the show is the appearance of the other priests who all have their own funny and wacky personalities.Story lines often involve Ted trying to be on television, Father Jack only using the phrases 'Feck, girls, drink' and Dougal asking 'What's that then Ted?' Favourite episodes are the priests trapped in the lingerie department, The one with Victor Meldrew, and Dougal and the milkfloat bomb.


                
The 1990's was a golden age for the British comedies, and "Father Ted" from 1995 is a definite must watch if you enjoy British comedy. And this particular series is one that I have watched more than once, and it is one that I will keep returning to every now and then, because of the absurdity, oddity and hilarity of the entire show and its characters."Father Ted", simplified, is about three priests living on Craggy Island with their domestic helper. Father Ted is the morale compass and glue that holds them all together. Father Jack is an old, angry lush with violent outbursts that come out of nowhere. Father Dougal is as innocent as he is charming. And Mrs. Doyle is the one who looks after the three and makes sure that the household is running smoothly.The situations in the episodes are hilarious, lots of variety and comedy. And every single episode does sprout laughing from the audience. It is a combination of the situations, dialogue, the characters and the great acting performances that really makes the entire show come together so nicely and work so very, very well.The Brits are excellent at making these particular types of comedies, and I love this type of comedy. However, it should also be said that the British comedy is a genre in itself, and might not fit well with just everybody. But I honestly think that you should take the time to sit down and watch "Father Ted", if you haven't already. Because it is well worth it and you will be in for some really good laughs. If you plan to sit down and watch some British comedy, give "Father Ted" a go.I am rating "Father Ted" a solid nine out of ten stars, no doubt about it.


                
This show is extremely funny. One of the best sitcoms ever, end of story.


                
This Channel 4 sitcom is about three Roman Catholic priests who live in a house on a remote Irish island that's populated by eccentric people. The interactions between them, and the other characters, are very funny.There are three series, which were broadcast from 1995-1998. More would have been made, had Dermot Morgan (who played Ted) not died in 1998.


                
I honestly loved watching this when I was young, I remember watching this series in the living room and just laughed the whole way through each episodes! I loved Father Jack, he just blurts out anything inappropriate like "Feck, drink, gobshite", I say there's more but I'm not gonna say any more haha. Really though, I think Frank Kelly should've been given more lines because Father Jack was Unreal!It's really sad that the series only lasted two seasons because of poor Dermot Morgan's sudden death in 1998. I would love to have seen the three priest and Mrs Doyle to the United States. I'm sure it would be hilarious even more with them lot in America. Ah sure look, it's just the way it happened and sure Father Ted isn't the same without Dermot Morgan. RIP <f0><U+009F><U+0092><U+009F>
