In my opinion Sunset Boulevard was a bland film that left me completely indifferent. The thing I disliked the most about this film was the character development. Joe along with the rest of the characters were two dimensional and flat. The acting by Gloria Swanson was distasteful and overdone which made the film more of a soup opera with an uninteresting story line. I had high expectations after watching Wilder's some like it hot but after watching Sunset Boulevard I was not impressed. In the films defense I am not a big film noir person, I would much rather watch a psychological thriller like Psycho or The Talented Mr Ripley. In conclusion the three words that would best describe this film would be obvious, long, and overdone. I definitely think this film is an acquired taste.


                
get to be so famous. This is dull to the point of excruciation. The characters ham, overact, yell, and waste your time in every conceivable manner.Wilder was one of the worst of Hollywood writer-directors. His premise seemed to be that the stupidity of the American public required movies to hammer home a simple script and obvious plot by stating and restating the obvious.The best is the narration. 1st of all, it's narrated by a guy who dies. Why does it escape us that a dead guy can't narrate? A framed tale requires a live storyteller.. American Beauty has the same flaw. 2nd, and more important, it's narration for the sake of it "I was tired so I decided to go out for a bit. I walked down the stairs, opened the door, went down the path to the car. I turned the handle to open the door and got in. I started the engine and backed the car out of the garage." Whew, that helped me.This is a Film Noir? Because it's in black & white and is narrated? Because Holden is a guy on the fringes of society and wore suits with padded shoulders. What a joke.This is a hard-hitting and negative look at Hollywood? And that's why it only got 3 awards? Please. It got awards because Hollywood knew - as it knows so well now - how to make movies that other Hollywood types will weep about. Who cares what Hollywood thinks about itself?There were so many brilliant films coming out of Europe and Japan by 1950. But Hollywood was plying us with pap. Sb rings way up on the suck-o-meter.
After coming to an appreciation and respect for Billy Wilder over the last twenty years, I thought I'd give this a second chance. But I still find it to be a long, flimsy, obvious movie with one static, overly drawn-out relationship, and a lazy second storyline with the blandest of bland characters. The whole concept is ridiculous. Who wanted to see the story of a failed writer, with the low ambition of being a kept boy, who squints his eyes and makes love to a horrible old shrew because he can't grow a pair to blow her off. That's the whole show for three quarters of the movie. A viewer just isn't asked to do much but pay attention. To make up for how little the story moves, it has a lot of over-the-top acing. I don't find it entertaining or particularly thoughtful. Wilder's run of remarkable movies has impressed me (except this, The Apartment and Some like it Hot). This would be the lesser half of a double bill with the similar Great Expectations, Vertigo or Streetcar Named Desire. I cannot imagine how excruciating this would be as a musical.
"Alright, Mr. DeMille, I'm ready for my closeup," is the oft-misquoted line from Sunset Boulevard, one of the greatest Oscar-baits in history. An aging silent movie actress lives reclusively in her Sunset Boulevard mansion and dwells on her past fame instead of her ability to adjust to the modern era. A young hopeful screenwriter crosses her path and she becomes obsessed with the idea of a comeback. Wouldn't every actress over the age of forty kill for that part, knowing they'd probably reserve the Best Actress Oscar in 1951? Well, Pola Negri, Norma Shearer, Mary Pickford, Mae West, and my personal preference, Greta Garbo, all refused the part. Anyone who knows their history knows that Gloria Swanson didn't win her Oscar in 1951; she was beaten out by the ridiculous Judy Holliday in Born Yesterday.Part of Sunset Boulevard that tugs at the audience's heartstrings is the similarities between Gloria Swanson's career and the plot points written for her character, Norma Desmond. Gloria was a silent movie star who worked prolifically for Paramount Studios; Norma has a line of dialogue: "Without me, there would be no Paramount." Gloria's career tapered off when sound pictures became popular, as did Norma's. Many of Gloria's silent movies were directed by Erich von Stoheim; in Sunset Boulevard, Eric plays Norma's devoted butler who believes she's the "greatest star of all". If you find all those connections heartwarming, you'll probably like this movie.All the other parts of Sunset Boulevard, the ones that don't tug on the audience's heartstrings, make me dislike the movie. First off, the opening scene is one of the worst opening scenes in any old movie I've ever seen! The beginning ruins the entire story, and there's no way the audience can forget what's just been spoiled. If by some miracle you've never seen this movie, do yourself a favor and fast-forward the first five minutes.I'm not a William Holden fan, so I would have preferred Montgomery Clift, who was actually signed on for the part, and whom I like very much. Fred MacMurray, another choice during casting, would have also been great, since he mastered the "voice-over" film noir technique years earlier. All the scenes of Bill by himself or with his love interest, the forgettable Nancy Olson, feel like a B-picture. The first few times I saw this movie, my mind had tried to help me by forgetting William Holden was even in it; I was continually disappointed to watch him in the vast majority of the film.This one's a classic, so if you're an old movie buff, you can't really get away with skipping this one. Don't feel bad if it doesn't become your favorite, though; you're not alone. I don't really like this one and feel the connection Gloria Swanson had to her character elevated it to Classic status. She may have won the "part of a lifetime" but in my opinion, many, many other actresses could have given an equally effective performance.


                
It was okay.Gloria Swanson stole every scene she was in, and her expressive slightly overacting perfectly reflected her character, a performer from an age where vivid facial emotion was crucial in the absence of spoken dialogue. Eric von Stroheim plays an understated role and provides a strong, often silent presence. And William Holden is pretty, but not much else.Honestly, the only person who is remotely sympathetic or identifiable is Swanson's character of Norma Desmond, and the rest are fairly awful, aside from Stroheim's Max, who is basically very interesting scenery; I was pretty sad to reach the end and feel that everyone had basically come away with more or less just desserts. Holden's character was especially difficult to like and seemed to choose, at any given time, the worst and most idiotic possible choice of action.Was this Wilder's attempt at self-parody? Some parts of it would seem to be more satirical than serious, and the whole thing was entirely over the top. It could work as a Gothic tongue-in- cheek work, something like the Addams Family meets the silent age of film, which had aged past its prime.Perhaps it's just that the premise and the characters that populate it cannot really be seen the way they might have been in 1951. Desmond and Max's pathos and need for love and companionship juxtaposed with their isolation in a decaying yet still darkly splendid palace cannot fail to draw sympathy and interest. But Holden's Joe is just a stupid schmuck with a pretty face who never does anything right and was a poor choice for a protagonist.Ultimately it's hard to feel anything for him, though part of that may be the truly asinine choice to begin a film knowing your protagonist is...well, see for yourself. Or don't. It's good for a watch. I don't think I'll ever need to see it again.


                
