Here is again a huge disappointing « classic » compared to the raving critics it receives.On the form, there is not much to say, it is your typical Billy Wilder movie with a perfect mise-en-scène and photography (very good work on lighting).There is however a lot of criticisms to make about the content because even though the movie tackles quite effectively, with a cutting look, the Hollywood scene, its fallen stars and aspiring artists, the plot is horrendously unimpressive and extremely shallow.This pseudo romance between William Holden whose role is too bland, too unidimensional, and Gloria Swanson who overacts from start to finish, never captivates the viewer because this story lacks coherence and cohesion, not to mention the movie sometimes looks like a thriller, sometimes like a drama, sometimes a romance, it mixes up too much genres without really developing any of them which ultimately serves it badly.


                
William Holden 32 play Joe Gilles an unsuccessful script writer who while being chased by men trying to repossess his cars has a blowout and ends up in Norma Desmond's (Gloria Swanson 50) driveway. Norma is an eccentric has been star from silent pictures. Gille decides to make money out of Swanson by helping her write a hopeless movie script she is obsessed with...he ends up as her lover out of pity...and is killed when he tries to leave her.I was disappointed. This movie has such an aura and I only watched it because I had just watched Witness For The Prosecution (which was excellent) and wanted to see what else Wilder had done.This thing starts out bad with Holden narrating quick cynical tough lines setting the stage for things. These lines are corny and unconvincing to modern audiences. That turned me off immediately.The movie reminded me of Oliver the 8th with Laurel and Hardy (good flick) only this was a dead serious noir/horror movie instead of a comedy. The stereotyped butler (from Transylvania type) is totally unbelievable as Norma's first husband and her first film director just one of many silly unbelievable parts of the story.Since this movie is so ballyhooed and doesn't measure up I gave it a 4 (normally something like this would get a 5 or 6 from me). That it is number 12 on the list of all time great movies just shows you what sells to the public = nothing that can with stand any intelligent analysis.DO NOT RECOMMEND
I watched this in my Film Study class, so I'm not exactly an esteemed critic who's known for being really smart when it comes to movies. But, as an audience member, I can easily say that this has aged horribly. At the time, I'm sure it was dark and very eye-opening. But, by modern-day standards, it is a comedy, to be sure. In the beginning of the film, we see the main character dead, and narrating it. Getting to know this character was torture. I had no care for him and wanted him to die. Then, when he finally did, it was the most comical send-off. The way he died was so unrealistic, I just bursted with laughter. Then, the part where the crazy actress says "I'm ready for my close-up, Mr. DeMille." was when I realized I had watched something desperately trying to convince me it was good. This got 4 stars because it's funny.
