Let me get this out of the way . You will not get any answers . What you will gain by this glimpse into modern science is a measure of awe , at the endless possibilities that our mind can produce , given enough time and motive . You will gain an infinite number of new questions. How can we ever be sure of what is real and what is in our mind ? How far will the mind go into producing a delusion to satisfy our most fundamental needs ? This is a great journey into a subject that will never end , research through science and belief to find ourselves , our place in this universe or multiverse .Highly recommended for many reasons , but most importantly because this journey takes no side , claims no higher truth but one : The search is endless but worth it .


                
This series is the best that television has ever offered. I watch each part many times to glean as much as I can from it. It is a wonder that a production caters to intellect rather than pandering to the moronic that much television orients its programming at. Morgan Freeman I note is the producer and if that is so, Thank you Mr. Freeman! You are not only a great artist but also a man who takes his responsibility wisely and tries to educate his audience. For those that have missed the Parallels Universe special chapter of this second year, it will make you rethink your entire existence. The approach of this series is to actually interview and then allow the scientists who are top of their field to discuss their research and some of it is boggling in its elegance and mind opening explorations of physics and other scientific implications that are sometimes belied by the chapter titles. There are disagreements between one school of science and scientists and others as after all science is evolving and new evidence changes the implications. Some of the experiments are amazingly simple in principle though surely not easy to actually make them work at the high degree of accuracy required but I would say that a person with a modicum of intellect can understand what is studied and can see why the study or conceptions are so significant. It is a groundbreaking series and anyone with an open mind will be changed forever from the seeing of it as the world is not the way we have imagined it after all..It is even more interesting and thus, so are we.


                
I have seen both the first and second seasons of this excellent series. It explores topics ranging from eternal life to multiple dimensions, with host Morgan Freeman clearly both interested and knowledgeable in the topic he is discussing. The scientists who appear throughout the show are a mix of the current leaders and some of the up-and-comers in quantum theory and astrophysics.The common thread running through virtually every episode is the Theory of Quantum Mechanics, and this series will be all the more interesting to you if you have some idea of how modern science works. A Scientific Theory is not a "guess," an "assumption," or a "belief." Theories are based on hard evidence, and are put to the test every day by a world full of scientists who would love to prove one of the big ones wrong. Keep in mind that Gravity is still only a Theory because we can only observe its effects on other things; you still can't see it or directly measure it, even with our high technology.Quantum mechanics is the dominant theory in modern science because it has been validated by every test thrown at it so far. What this series covers are those many tests and trials, as well as the ideas on the horizon, with each hour long episode dedicated to a particular deep philosophical question. Scientists with competing ideas are allowed to explain their work, and cover many of the new frontiers such as String Theory, Nanotechnology, Multidimensionality, the Multiverse, and even what Consciousness truly is.Typically science documentaries made in America are not as good as those from the BBC, Europe, or Japan because American shows have to cater to a majority that sadly still fails to accept even evolution. Despite my reservations, Through The Wormhole is bar none the best science documentary series I have seen, as well as the most current in terms of the cutting-edge scientific community. The production value is very high, with many stunning visual representations of the concepts being discussed. The video is HD and scenes are framed and shot more like a film than a standard television documentary. It even has its own original music rather than stock. They clearly went all out in making this the best it could be.If you have an open and curious mind I can't think of a better series to recommend. This is a show for people who aren't afraid to ask the big questions, and who are willing to be left with even bigger ones after watching the series. Through the Wormhole will certainly broaden your horizons.


                
I love this series. I love Morgan Freeman - he is one of the best narrators in the business. The series has something for everyone. It is provocative,informative, and mesmerizing.It includes new scientific information, some hard facts, some budding theories, and ideas from a variety of perspectives about every subject it approaches. I know there are some very valid criticisms from subscribers who would like to see only strict proved scientific content, but I find the format intriguing. I especially like that it recognizes that there are other perspectives - from spiritual to science fiction - without assigning any degree of validation, asking "what if?" I leave each episode with things to ponder about "the deepest mysteries of existence" as the series promises.


                
The fact should be mentioned that other reviews have rated this show less than satisfactory due to highly abstract ideas and very inductive thought processes. While this may be a negativity for other science-based shows, it certainly isn't for 'Through the Wormhole'. As the title suggests, the viewer is traveling through a wormhole - which humankind knows little to nothing of. The producers and scientists behind this don't pretend to know everything. While you don't learn many facts with this show, you do learn theories, laws of physics, and how to expand your thinking. Humans as a species tend to be quite narrow minded, and this can be proved through ongoing problems such as segregation, homophobia and radicalism in religion. While this show doesn't touch much on any of these issues, minds are being re-molded to solve problems nonetheless. There's something about learning of things greater than human lives that, if it can fill even one with a spark, will ignite the future generation of minds.


                
WOW! I have watched every single episode. FINALLY a high quality scientific show that actually asks high quality questions and goes onto answer them! AMAZING! It has high quality footage, music, and they bring the top experts in whatever field they are discussing. They are not shy to discuss concepts that go beyond the norm and always push the envelope. Highly recommended if you are bored with the current JUNK that is available. It will broaden your thinking and deepen your perspective on our everyday reality.Some areas where they can improve is perhaps try not to be TOO neutral! A lot of times they briefly discuss a fantastic idea and not give it enough time to explain further. Thus leaving us with a sense of wanting more information, which i guess is a good thing because then we can go and find out more information on it.


                
This wonderful show is on a par with, or better than Carl Sagan's Cosmos and I never thought that could happen. I love Through The Wormhole for both the wonderful scope, the neutral way the information and theories etc are given from all kinds of angles and perspectives, and of course for the authoritative and best storytelling voice of our time: Morgan Freeman's. So it is a pleasure to look at, to learn from and to listen to. All possible subjects you might think of in this kind of documentaries are dealt with; God, the beginning of the universe, life, consciousness, Black Holes, String Theory, time, space, And of course extraterrestrial life and wormholes! I highly recommend this series for it is so educational and highly entertaining! Super quality TV, thank you especially Morgan Freeman!


                
Can documentary films be presented any more beautiful than this ? With Morgan as the narrator, and with the most astonishing facts, the greatest pacing and also philosophy, it's like everything was represented on a silver platter. There is no way you won't like this. It is when science becomes fun, I loved it, and I bought it, and I finished it, and I will definitely recommend it to my friends, despite being 7 years late.10/10


                
