Sequel to one of the greatest sci-fi/horror films ever made—a genre so difficult to execute so wonderfully—comes along and sucks out any horror aspect that made "Alien" so fantastic. Instead, James Cameron replaces Ridley Scott in the director's seat and inserts sci-fi clichés and predictable thriller aspects, resulting in this overlong and unnecessary picture.Cameron seems to spend a good length developing characters that are either unlikable and just there for the sake of dying, with a total disregard for driving the story forward. Even in comparing character development to "Alien", the sequel proves weaker. "Alien" was able to develop deeper and realistic characters in a much shorter timeframe, and didn't need more characters than the story required.Anything new to Cameron's picture is nothing more than convenient plot-devices, thus lacking any shred of cleverness. Aside from Weaver's presence, the film hardly reminds us of the original. The film leaps too forward without any respect for its roots, totally lacking gratefulness.At no point in the film is it easy to actually point out how "Aliens" is a necessary/needed follow up. The film may very well have worked better as it's own with all new characters and no continuity to "Alien", but it simply just doesn't work as a follow up; which is actually disappointing because if you want to look at what a "good" sequel is, Cameron accomplished it with "Terminator 2: Judgment Day". Everything on which the story stands relies on "The Terminator", however it doesn't need the "remember when"s to move forward. With "Aliens", the story itself is not heavily relied on by "Alien", and again, pretty much Weaver is our only feeling of continuation. And again, given the fact that it's just a small and irrelevant reminder, the movie simply doesn't work as a sequel but rather a film of it's own. The fact of the matter is, it's not a film of its own; "Aliens" is a sequel, and it simply wasn't done right.Was it entertaining? Sure, whatever. But upon examining filmmaking basics, however, the film fails at the follow up aspect story-wise and goes way off in a direction of its own. That's not a bad thing if it's an original movie. It's not even a bad thing for a sequel of the film shows heavy purpose in the decision to ranch off.After watching "Aliens", if the question rose: "Why does this particular story need to be a follow up to 'Alien'? What is it about 'Alien' that this film needs to be in the same continuity?" The answer is that it doesn't. "Alien" was a successful film, therefore the studio can have a head-start at making another film by throwing in meaningless nods and references to the successful film preceding it in hopes that this film ("Aliens") will be just as successful. Cameron probably wouldn't even be able to give a solidly confident contradiction to this claim.** (out of four)


                
Sorry to say that but this was supposed to be an "alien" movie..a movie about space,aliens,and everything that a sci-fi movie is about, merged with little bit of horror elements..I bet that was what Cameron wanted to do..Meybe he thinks he did it..Instead when i start watching the movie after like 30 minutes..Oh my God..what a disappointment..It felt like i was watching some kind of "top gun' movie in space..Us marine corps..Cowboys from space thing..Yiihhaaa.."go get em boys"..and all this u know "we are Us marines and we will nail Ur arse on the wall"...too many light,too many noise,too many stupid dialogues,and guns blazing all over...Where was the space element?where was the dark gloomy atmosphere that u expect to see..the atmosphere that was in Alien 1??This is a fanfare of bullets flying around..but instead of killing Vietcong's they kill aliens..Id rather watch "enemy at the gates"or "saving private Ryan"better..i thought this is about sci-fi...But it was about America going to war in space....freaking disappointing..!!!!


                
The first Alien film is considered a classic but I didn't particularly like it. This sequel is also considered a classic and I like this one even less than the first. At least the first one had a little tension. This one is just a shoot-em-up action thriller. See Aliens, shoot Aliens. Repeat as necessary. This makes for a thriller which is not particularly thrilling. Things get rather repetitive and monotonous. The film can't surprise us, we already know what the Alien is, what it's capable of. This time there are just more of them.The film picks up with our heroine Ellen Ripley awaking from a 57-year nap. While she was dozing a human colony has been established on the planet where she encountered the Alien all those years ago. In an amazingly convenient plot contrivance contact with that colony is lost soon after Ripley wakes up. Gee, what could have happened? A reluctant Ripley is sent back out into space with a team of Colonial Marines to investigate. These Marines are, by and large, idiots. They get to the colony. Surprise, nobody's there! Oh wait, they do find one survivor, a little girl who spends the rest of the movie screeching "Ripley!" at the top of her lungs in exceedingly annoying fashion. Speaking of annoying the most idiotic of the idiotic Marines is Pvt. Hudson, played in excruciatingly terrible fashion by Bill Paxton. With this character we're talking Jar Jar Binks levels of annoying. Just shut up. Please. Every time this guy opens his mouth you dearly wish an Alien would turn up and devour him.In the first film Ripley was not the only character you cared about. There the rest of the crew, with one notable exception, were sympathetic figures as well. No such luck here. There's one guy, Corporal Hicks, who comes off reasonably well. The rest are a collection of morons, jerks and slimeballs. With an incredibly annoying child thrown in to boot. Sigourney Weaver does the best she can, turning in a solid performance as Ripley. But she gets precious little help. Michael Biehn is pretty good as Hicks and Lance Henriksen has some good moments as an android but everyone else is quite terrible. Paxton goes way beyond terrible, he is truly wretched. The story, such as it is, doesn't thrill you. The movie takes its sweet time getting to the Alien planet and once we get there it's just a shooting gallery. Aliens attack, they get shot. More Aliens attack, they get shot. More Aliens attack, they get shot. Eventually we come to the big finish. Here the movie does have some surprises for you if you haven't already lost interest. But ultimately this ending, like everything which precedes it, falls flat. The climactic battle is visually impressive but really quite silly. Honestly you can say that about the film as a whole. It looks good but the story is a dud. Genuine frightful moments are very few and far between. Suspense is sorely lacking. Characters say and do some of the stupidest things. And an Alien apparently knows how to work an elevator. Going up? No, this movie is going down, crash-landing with a thud.


                
Such a shame that this movie is lauded so greatly. The original movie has atmosphere where this has darkness. The original movie has suspense where this has fast camera action. The oriinal movie had a plot where this movie had an excuse. People saying this movie is the best in the series are clearly deluded. Adrenaline in movies is the reason such travesties as "the fast and the furious" or "xXx" get made. This is simply taking a fantastic actone and crapping all over over it from outer space. Well it's the only way to be sure it's going to make money. Movie for the braindead that need guns and attitude to enjoy a couple of hours.You like this movie why not rent Terminator 2 or Titanic and watch it again.


                
Look out the Movie Marines are on their way! Dinner will soon be here, yum, yum.Well, missing out on his first chance to, shall we say rewrite, the first and the great Alien movie, his choice? We now have Walter Hill having ago for himself, the second time around. Looks like someone who didn't like Science Fiction work, he certainly knows which side his bread is buttered now.For some reason or other, the original role for Hicks had been given to James Remar, who played Ajax in Walter Hill's magnificent gang movie The Warriors (1979). His departure, as well as British born Director of Photography Dick Bush, whose work as Cinematographer on Tommy (1975), Yanks (1979) and Trail of the Pink Panther (1982) for examples, does leave some doubt and questions. To be replaced for creative differences because you didn't, it would seem, hit it off with the then Aliens Producer, Gale Ann Hurd. Oh, by the way, she, at the time was married, from 1985 to 1989, to the then Aliens Director James Cameron.We are given the impression that Aliens consists of just a few tightly grouped movie-making buddies scratching each other's back, same old Actors working, again, for the same old Director, there goes the Character Development then.While the Alien franchise is one of my favourites, I personally do think that Aliens is more overrated. While not the weakest of the whole collection, to me, this is just a bug hunt with to much off the "yahoo" and "yeeha" mentality. It's forever in in our face, and in the end is more important than the actual beasts that the movie should be concerning itself with. The first Alien movie, (Directed by Ridley Scott and released in 1979), is a Historical Movie Milestone of tense character development and visual art. This, Aliens, is the unsensational opposite, having gone for the Lock and Load and Egos' are Us direction, he has turned an opportunity of imagination and creativity into thought-less sensation. Looking as though it was quickly thrown together, the Thunderbirds models were looking a little thin by the end of this movie.It seemed, allegedly, that Ms Weaver threatened to do no more Alien movies after seeing the final cut.The Bold as Brass and over the top Rent-a-Heroes are the epitome of the over zealous Movie Marines that is seen in just about every movie ever made. This movie has the miss fortune of having to use this type of Movie Marine stereo typecasting, nothing new to report here, luuuteennannt Ssiiirr.Boring! Predictable! Obvious! This Egg came severely cracked and grew not into an Alien epic, but more Pigs in Space, it's a Muppet Show sketch from the 1970's.What more can I say? Except, "Come on Aliens, put me out of my misery, and finish your dinner, because it's getting cold".Signing Off!


                
James Cameron could be prosecuted for having wrecked the magnificent atmosphere that 1979 Ridley Scott's Alien had created. In the original film, the Alien was a mysterious creature, almost invincible. It was pure horror, in space. Cameron came with the idea to transform this in a "Rambo in space", full of thick Marines so caricatural and grotesque that you wonder sometimes if this is parody. The worse is that, to be able to maintain this battle on the length of a film, Cameron had to weaken and banalize the Aliens, who become ordinary monsters that can be beaten with a classic weapon. You have to see how strangely slow and harmless they become, for Ripley to be able to slaughter a bunch of them on her way to salvation, all that with a kid on her arms.
For the rest, the film is well executed, technically impressive, and the subtle storyline Ripley/Newt involving Ripley's deceased daughter (that's in the Director's cut) is quite moving. And it's an Alien, so a film to watch anyway. But the concept of the film is wrong, by essence.
