"Aliens" is the best trapped-with-a-monster-right-behind-you movie of all time.  The weird part is that it's not the first of its kind.  Usually, the first of a genre is always the best but these kinds of movies were made decades-and-decades before 1986's "Aliens."  Still, through its strong story and characters, it elbows its way to the head of the class.Ripley is a heroine like no other.  She thrills you.  Her powerful presence and unstoppable soul will always live on in the minds of movie-goers.  She and Newt form a surrogate mother-daughter relationship that is more touching than anything I've seen before in this kind of a movie.  In this movie more than any other in the "Alien" series, Ripley's a woman who does what she can (and then some) to protect herself and the ones around her.  She's the perfect action hero.On top of that, the pulsing music that plays while Bishop is speeding them away from the exploding compound and while Ripley is booting  the Queen Alien out into space is beyond comparison.Note:  If you LOVED this movie, it's probably best you don't see Alien 3. It, for some reason, turns the triumph of this film's conclusion into a depression deeper than the vastness of a hundred black holes.
I have watched this movie when I was a pre-teen at the cinema, and MY! It completely blew me away. It has got my adrenalin pumping so hard that I almost wanted to slip back to my seat and take a breather! Although during that time I didn't quite understand most parts of it (too young to understand), I was deeply immersed into such rich story-telling and the fantastic alien creatures. The tensely build-up atmosphere and the space-ships, grips you so tightly it seems never to let go.This movie rocks, scares you right on to your face, very mysterious, have tons of special effects (not quite CGI though, but the mechanical aliens looks just so threatening and scary). James Cameron is such a fabulous story-teller in this Sci-Fi stellar! The movie ran at more than 2 hours but I didn't feel that at all. Actually James has cut out a lot of scenes for this theatrical release back then, but you can still get those scenes back on the DVD (extra 17 minutes footage).The acting is good especially from Sigourney Weaver, Paul Reiser and Lance Henriksen (as the robot). Sigourney's Ripley is such a strong-willed woman, that even put shame to men (somehow I feel this is quite unbelievable, because she has got so much energy, especially the scene where she gets back to the Queen's hatch to save Newt). I have watched other alien series (Alien legacy - All four parts), but I can say this part 2 of the series is my favourite, followed by Alien, then Alien:Resurrection, and lastly Alien3)I am quite happy to see this film stays high at one of the top Sci-Fi movies in IMDB)Till now as an adult, I still go back to watch this DVD occasionally and every time I watch it again, it brings in a completely new scare, and new thoughts, also the new meaning of what is a horror movie all about!Highly recommended if you haven't watched this yet. I give it an 8 out of 10! (Truly deserves the high IMDB rating at 8.2 to-date)


                
Rarely does a sequel do greater justice to an idea than the original. But 'Aliens' manages it in spades.The music and sound score alone are absolutely mesmerising. If you haven't got a good system, you're missing-out big time. Here's a simple thing; just listen to the 3 latches locking into place when Ripley's 'lifeboat' is recovered by the deep-space explorer. You can't see them, but you can hear them, ker-k-link, each in succession, right around your sound stage. The noise tells you that they haven't just latched, but latched and locked. Listen with you eyes shut, if you don't believe me. It's that meticulous attention to detail both aural and visual that makes this movie a true work of art. There really is no need for the sounds to be there at all. But they are, and they convey complete fidelity to a scene that lasts just seconds. Here's another. When the marines are crossing the rain-swept depot to the airlock, its windy and wild. When they get inside, the ambiance completely changes. it's still noisy, the wind continues, faint but audible and there is lots of dripping water, but now there's also a strange, claustrophobic intimacy, and I'm quite at a loss as to how that has been accomplished. Yet the mood-change is hair-raisingly palpable. These set pieces are completely seamless throughout the movie. Strange, gloomy, suggestive, broken; the ghost of dead technology appears to haunt them as much as any alien demons. A thin, whining, electronic note does the work of tense music, it suits the circumstances perfectly, as well as providing a foil to any ambient sounds that the engineers and director thought appropriate.   The sound and sets earned it two well-deserved Oscars.Tension builds and builds again. It's a fairly well-worn formula of gradual attrition. Ripley's valliant rescue of the ambushed and trapped space-marines must have any viewer at the edge of their seat. And on it goes, tighter and tighter, until finally we are squeezing through air-ducts. Acting is pretty formulaic but entirely believable. People we've quickly grown to like get killed suddenly and nastily, smug Apone, and macho Drake. The alien queen brings the movie to a perfect climax. Correct me if I'm wrong, but there was absolutely no CGI in this. Proof enough that it isn't actually needed, and is never as good as the real McCoy. And the script, by the way, is excellent.As a comment upon sexuality and survival it is a very telling one. The female is deadlier than the male. It draws from a simple Darwinian premise, that she makes a greater investment in the production of the young, and will therefore go to more determined and ruthless lengths to ensure their survival. She knows her genes are in the offspring: momma's baby, poppa's maybe. Males are simply expendable seed-carriers of convenience. I've docked a point for what strikes me as technological incongruity. The continued use of old-fashioned 'querty' keyboards for example, and CRT/VDU. The latter have all but gone to the scrap-heap now, never mind hundreds of years hence. Check-out the roll-up screens in 'Red Planet'; now that's more like it. Also, a sophisticated android like 'Bishop' surely suggests the probability of 'mechanised' marines. Or at least, a self-propelled remote for entering the alien hive. Bomb disposal squads already have those today. Bishop himself should have been able to simply plug-in and interface with the uplink. Or even communicate by WiFi. Though these things would compromise drama, their absence compromises its science-fiction credentials. And I am certainly no purist. But, golly-gosh! - nit-picking aside; this is an absolute crackerjack of entertainment.I believe it has only one other challenger for the crown of greatest sci-fi horror movie - Carpenter's 'The Thing'. You split 'em; I can't. It's 22 and 26 years since their creation, and no-one has managed to raise the bar. What does that tell you?
How do you follow up a movie that is possibly the best example of a sci-fi/horror movie ever? Simple. Make what is possibly the best sci-fi/action movie ever. Eminently quotable and totally enthralling, Aliens burst onto our screen seven years after the original movie was released. At the helm this time was the relatively unknown director James Cameron and didn't he do well? The plot is a simple one. After being cryogenically frozen for 57 years, Ripley (Sigourney Weaver), is found floating in space. She is woken up and finds out that the planet they first found the Alien on is now inhabited. Despite her impassioned pleas that her crew was killed by a massive alien that burst out of a man's chest, had acid for blood and two sets of teeth, for some reason she isn't believed. Her pilot status stripped away, she is left to fend for herself, until earth loses contact with the colonists. Then Ripley is talked into joining the Marines assigned to find out what went wrong in an advisory roll. The Marines are cocky, brash, over-confident and wielders of immense amounts of firepower. In short they're dead meat. Also along for the ride are Bishop (Lance Henriksen) - an android, and Burke (Paul Reiser) - a sleazy corporation guy. Upon entering the colonists' facility the Marines find signs of a massive firefight, as well as a remarkably cute little girl generally called Newt (Carrie Henn). Eventually they find where the colonists appear to be. All in one area so it's a simple matter of going down there and finding out what's going on.After the majority of the marines have been killed and their main way off the planet wiped out it's up to the survivors to <U+0096> basically - continue to survive. Eventually, after a few more casualties, they escape. Except<U+0085> ooops, Newt didn't make it. Happy to leave behind Marines and corporate stooges by the bucket-load, Ripley, who frankly hasn't been the best mother in the world to her own daughter, decides to go back for Newt. An encounter with the Alien Queen and a whole room full of eggs and her finding Newt later and we're back on the space ship, finally safe. Until, of course, in a fantastic fake-out involving more milk and yoghurt than ever before seen on film we see Bishop ripped to shreds by the Alien Queen we thought was left behind to die. The final showdown of these two protective mother figures is a lot of fun, the Queen is sucked out into space and everyone is happy in the end. OK, so maybe the plot isn't all that simple.Many people may have heard me call this a Vietnam War movie and, once again, I stand by that. The Marines, despite their high-tech weaponry look like a unit in Vietnam. This was a conscious decision by Cameron, he went as far as getting the actors to decorate and customise their own costumes. The scenario itself (high-tech army against low-tech but numerically superior forces), vents doubling for tunnels, the heat, the loud Sergeant Apone (Al Matthews) the oppressive atmosphere: all of it feels like Vietnam. You even have Hudson (Bill Paxton) talking about being a short timer! This allows the audience to connect with the characters. By making the distant future feel like our recent past (the war had only finished 11 years previously) we are able to identify with their plight. These aren't super soldiers or men in battle suits. These are grunts who are just doing their job.The acting is generally pretty good, with the supporting cast not given that much to do other than portray a group of Marine stereotypes. Paxton is possibly the most standout of all of the marines, though he does generally get most of the best lines. Michael Biehn as the dependable Cpl. Hicks, Ripley's love interest, is also very good. Both Henriksen and Reiser give great performances, with memories still strong of Ian Holms android going postal in the first movie, Henriksen plays every moment for all of its sinister value until the very end when we realise Bishop is a good guy, and Reiser is so slimy he practically leaves a trail.The best performance of the movie is easily that given by Weaver. The fact that in 1987 a performance in a sci-fi/action movie should be nominated for an Oscar is testament enough to the quality of her acting. The mother-daughter bond that grows between Ripley and Newt is central to the movie, and one that allows Weaver to develop her character even further. Of course Cameron cannot resist mirroring this with the maternal instincts of the Alien Queen. These themes of motherhood and the nature of the difference between the two species are continued in the next two movies, although never as subtly.What can I say about the direction? It's James Cameron, so there is a lot of blue or red on the screen. Here it leads to a truly atmospheric feel, the tension building up as things just go from bad to worse for the marines. With clever use of camera angles, quick cuts, lighting and good old fashioned dry ice, Cameron never once gives away too much about the aliens, and manages to make it feel like there are far more on screen than there really are.This is a movie that does not give you a break. Cameron is either piling on the dramatic tension or the adrenalin pumping action. Everything about this movie is sheer class and it is rightly considered one of the best of its type ever made. If you don't like this movie then the problem is your taste in films, not the film itself. If you have not seen it, not only am I surprised, I recommend you do so when you're in the mood to have a roller-coaster ride but Blackpool is too far away.
I do not believe the theory that all originals are better than their sequels, end of story. I think most originals are better, but any time I think of a sequel that is better than the original, two movies come to mind. One of them is Terminator 2.The other is Aliens. Aliens is by far, the best in the series of four "Alien" movies, and one of the greatest action/sci-fi movies of all time. As much as I enjoyed Alien, I believe that Aliens was better in many many ways.One of which are, of course, character development. Ripley is a much more interesting character in this movie than she was in the first one. You can see her determination in every move she makes. (I also recommend seeing the special edition, which has additional scenes within them. You get more of a feel for Ripley's character when you know more about her daughter.) I think the marines are extremely cool. I think Hudson is the most interesting character of all.  Gorman is very interesting too. You watch him turn from a cowardly pathetic loser to an actual brave soldier. Burke, who tried to betray the group for money, is also a great villain.The aliens themselves are much cooler. Now you can see that they aren't just brainless animals who do nothing but kill. They are actually very smart animals who do nothing but kill. In Alien there was only one, so you didn't get to see how well they work in packs, lead people into traps, guard the Queen or cut the power before going into battle. And of course, since there are more aliens that means more of them can be killed, which means more carnage and more excitement. (This also applies to the human characters).There is never a dull moment in Aliens. I love watching it over and over, it never gets boring.


                
One of the best works of science fiction and horror, of the history of the cinema, undoubtedly, undeniable, Aliens is the closest to perfect sci-fi, a masterpiece that to this day has no rival in its field . Combining terror and science fiction is not always a simple task, it takes some intellect and knowledge to create an exorbitantly incredible world, Aliens accomplishes that, and for terror? We need the touch of the unknown, the dread of something we know nothing, because as Lovecraft once said, the oldest fear of the human being is the fear of the unknown. Maybe few times we have felt the sensation of being trapped next to something that we have never seen in our life, but do not worry, Aliens will make us feel that in a shocking way. Ah! But there is one more topic here. All the action is the best.Now we will combine 3 things, science fiction, terror and action. The result? Aliens.And what does that mean? 2 hours with 34 minutes of suspense and the biggest entertainment of the cinema, full of scenes as iconic as original, special effects of maximum quality, incredible sounds that have become class marks, impeccable performances, tense and entertaining dialogues, and above all, the best Alien in history. The alien of this movie, a life form as frightening as it has fascinated the minds of fans since 1979, traumatized children and exploited the confines of science fiction.I have seen this movie at least 7 times, every time is incredible and full of entertainment, so much that sometimes I wish to forget it to only be able to feel that maximum emotion and fear that the first time, but despite having seen it 7 times, I seek to see it again and again, in simple words.A masterpiece.


                
Hats off to Paul Reiser for his brilliant portrayal of the ultimate corporate sleazebag!
I hated him right from the beginning!
Well done.
... and there's a reason the summary headline is in quotations-- it gets thrown around a lot when referring to this film. Rightfully so.Perhaps what separates 'Aliens' from all of the other sequels that followed 1979s 'Alien' is that it has heart. Not only are we entrenched in the stark, gritty and imaginative future that Cameron has built for us- we are emotionally connected to it. And how's that so? Well, it is the product of much hard work and imagination. Whether you appreciate the sequel as much as the original or not, 'Alien' never attempts to copy or even "outdo" its predecessor. Instead, director James Cameron respects what Ridley Scott accomplished in the first film and takes it in a completely new direction while maintaining the dynamic presence of Weaver's Ripley as a key means of continuity.The characters are the heart of the film and the unfamiliar world in 'Aliens'. We even become attached to a android (who would have suspected that, especially after 'Alien'?). In just a few scenes, there is more humanity established in Michael Biehn's Cpl. Dwayne Hicks than in any other buff and brawn character in the future sequels.Another key factor to the films' greatness is its special effects, crafted by the (late, sadly) Stan Winston. I have a feeling that even years from now, moviegoers will still look back on this film as one of the greatest technical accomplishments in cinema's special effects history.As a adolescent boy, 'Aliens' was my favorite entry into the series. It was full of testosterone, centered in atmosphere, and riddled with some of the most imaginative and coolest characters and creatures ever placed on film. It still remains a favorite to this day.


                
"Hey Vasquez, have you ever been mistaken for a man?" – Pvt Hudson The first "Alien" movie was essentially about a giant alien penis trying to impregnate a woman. Here, MOTHER (a spaceship's maternal computer) and ASH (the paternal cyborg) lovingly conspire to introduce a mysterious alien to the Nostromo, a commercial space-rig. The duo's plan is to have the alien impregnate the Nostromo's passengers, at which point the creature's seed can be safely transported back to earth, where it will be researched and developed into a biological weapon. The film ends with crew-mate Ripley (Sigourney Weaver) vulnerable and in her panties, having survived intergalactic rape and a Playboy magazine down the throat.James Cameron's sequel, "ALIENS", likewise has "feminist" pretensions. Ripley is awakened from her suspended animation (the film is framed as a nightmarish dream), only to be blackmailed by corporate types (her future's ruling patriarchy) and coerced into returning to LV426, the planet where she first encountered the aliens. Once she arrives on planet, Ripley has to do three things: rescue and protect Newt (her surrogate daughter), fend off impregnation and destroy the Feminine Other (Alien Queen).At first glance the film looks like a testosterone filled male action movie, but look closer and its clunky feminism is all over the place. All the males are either emasculated or ineffectual. Apone, the tough-as-nails Marine Captain, is wiped out in the first battle. Gorman, the Lieutenant, is useless and spends most of the movie unconscious. Hudson, despite his hilarious macho-ramblings, quickly reveals himself to be a giant cry-baby and Paul Reiser, the corporate weasel, is less representative of Hegemonic Masculinity than he is a snivelling coward. Even Bishop, the male cyborg, gets his crotch torn off. The most masculine marine is Vasquez, a tough Mexican woman who has bigger guns than any other marine. The only male character given sympathy is Hicks (Michael Biehn), but even he ends up taking orders from Ripley.While the first film portrayed Ripley as a damsel in distress, Cameron portrays her as a tough warrior, albeit maternal enough to care for her surrogate child. She kicks butt, but smiles romantically when Hicks gives her a bracelet. It's your classic Warrior/Goddess dichotomy.But feminism through a male's eyes isn't feminism at all. That Ripley has to battle at all means that conflict exists where none should. Though Cameron no doubt sees his finale as a giant intergalactic cat fight, two women facing off to defend their offspring in a man-less world, the Alien Mother represents a very masculine feminism; one based solely on reproduction and violent protection of its young.H R Geiger, the designer of the original alien, has described his art as being about the "fear of messy sexuality". No surprise then that the "Alien franchise" is awash with tiny men walking down vaginal tunnels, periodically attacked by face huggers (flying uteruses) and phallic aliens. But what we have with the Alien Queen is a fear of the Feminine. Fear and awe of the vagina and repulsion toward reproduction.In the film's final battle, Ripley is forced to take a stand against that in which, for most women, lay their power: procreation. Her main goal is to prevent impregnation, for her and for Newt. In this regard, she must fight against the essential state of the female, motherhood. And so once again, Ripley is asked to turn away from the feminine, to deny another aspect of herself that both she and the Alien Mother share. The hidden ideology of the film, the rejection of the feminine, is apparent once again.The irony of the final battle is that for Ripley to conquer the Feminine she must master technology (guns, elevators, power loaders etc). Both films are guilty of perpetuating the notion of technology being chiefly male in origin (phallic weaponry and spacecraft) whereas biological processes are the domain of the female. Watch how the marines snicker when Ripley reveals her adeptness with a power loader, or when Hudson mocks Vasquez for carrying a gun. Women apparently are not supposed to be able to operate heavy machinery. Even hundreds of years into the future, technology is still the realm of the male. "Woman-as-tool-user" is still considered anomalous.This dichotomy goes all the way back to Descartes' notion of objectivity in which men, with so-called "rational" minds, in order to discuss the natural world, were bound to think of themselves as "outside" the realm of the physical. This placed rational thought in the same realm as the masculine and the irrational with the feminine.The film's attitude toward the Alien Mother shows how pervasive the rational male/irrational female dichotomy has been since the Scientific Revolution. The Alien Mother can be thought of as nature "unhinged" and out of control, akin to how Francis Bacon depicted nature and the natural world in his writings. Bacon believed that, outside of a strong masculinizing influence, Nature tends toward Chaos and the creation of violent monstrosities. The Alien Mother embodies this feminized "state" of nature, a "state" which the new, macho-Ripley must herself renounce.So while, with its Vietnam overtones, "Aliens" is unconsciously part of the "war-as-destruction-of-the-feminine" trend of the 80s (Casualties of War, Heaven and Earth etc), portraying the Feminine as the debased victim of incompetent male oafs, it also has a more dubious underside. Indeed, Bacon's outlook, along with Descartes', became both a mainstay in the development of scientific thought in the 17th Century and in the establishment of a biological rationale for gender bias and sexism that continues to this day.8.9/10 – Influenced by Heinlein's "Starship Troopers" (and a shameless rip off of "Them!", of which it even borrows its entire climax), "Aliens" is the perfect action film for a certain demographic. With its brilliant use of solid effects, rear screen projection and an unforgettable final duel, the film wows us with its relentless hardware and technique.
There have got to be very few people left in the world who actually have'nt seen or been blown away by Aliens. If you are part of that really small minority, and really have to log on to the net and read reviews about this movie in order for you to decide whether to check it out or not, then you are a really sad person. Unless you're really young, you have missed the best movie ever made in entertainment history. I really hope that one has'nt been unlucky enough to have seen Alien-3, Alien resurrection or God forbid, AVP, before actually having seen Alien and Aliens for the first time. To maximize your enjoyment and understanding of Aliens, watch Alien-1 first and then go buy a home theater or locate a cinema hall where this is running and then only see it. While you can still watch it on DVD over and over again, a home theater or cinema would do the movie justice.


                
Alien is undoubtedly a classic of science fiction \ terror, and Aliens is a classic of Science Fiction \ Action, it is strange a movie to be horror and have a continuation of action, the chances of it going wrong are great, but Aliens got it in my Opinion is better than the 1979 Alien, the film manages to put action very well, James Cameron who is a director as good as Ridley Scott, manages to respect the universe and maintain its quality even with changes, Ripley Enters the film as one of the best female characters in the cinema, the soundtrack is good, the special effects are very competent, the action scenes are excellent, especially the final scenes, the plot continues with some problems, there are still weak characters, and The film has a slow but precise act, but I think it could have been a bit more busy, Aliens beats in my opinion the Alien of 79, and it's my favorite of the saga. Note 9.4


                
This film should be required viewing at film schools across the world. With the recent release of Alien: Covenant, I am confident fans of the franchise have dusted off their copies of all the preceding films and engaged in a Xenomorph marathon.Literally volumes have been written extolling the genius on display in Aliens. I whole-heartedly agree with all of the praise, but to me what truly stands out in this film is not so much the bombast (which is unbelievably great) but rather the writing and characterizations.Budding directors take note: despite a large, ensemble cast, we the audience actually CARE about every single character on screen. Sure we have stereotypical archtypes, but they are so effectively written and exquisitely acted that everyone actually feels REAL. As a result, we truly empathize with the entire group. We feel their initial bravado which then, in a literal heartbeat, turns into sheer, abject terror as these hardened professional soldiers encounter a foe right out of their darkest nightmares.Superlative effects and atmosphere still takes a back seat to brilliant character development and no-BS, non-exposition-laden writing. Think for a moment exactly how many lines and scenes from Aliens has become embedded into the public consciousness.Ridley Scott is a brilliant director - his body of work speaks for itself and anyone who argues against this point is on very shaky ground. I retain hope that Ridley's end-game vision of the Xenomorph franchise will eventually find its feet, especially with the introduction of the Engineer race in Prometheus, which so far, after the current duology of Prometheus/Covenant has been amazing appetizers yet unfulfilling.That said, we should all be thankful that we also have the equally brilliant James Cameron and the truly masterful vision he created in Aliens.Absolutely Aliens is a must-watch, bucket-list film. Period."They're soldiers...they're here to protect you." "It won't make any difference..."
In this film, James Cameron not only did justice to the original, but added so much to this world that it changes (for the better) the way we view the first one. Even though this film isn't the same genre as its predecessor, it made the smart choice of attempting to be a fast paced action film and, wow, did it work. Great cinematography , pristine direction and action packed, suspenseful storytelling mix in to make a absorbing and visually striking movie. Weaver's performance was outstanding and Cameron's vision, spot on. Except for some green screen that doesn't hold up as well, this film is near flawless. 8.5/10 for me in the enjoyment factor, but being objective in its quality: 10/10


                
It's 57 years after the first movie. Ellen Ripley (Sigourney Weaver) has been lost in cryogenic sleep until she's discovered by a deep salvage team. She's asked to return to the planet to investigate why the colony there has lost all communication. She and a team of space marines must battle the aliens in an all out fight.James Cameron has taken this franchise from its horror origins to a great big action adventure. The change in style is seamless. The action is perfect, and it's a non-stop roller coaster ride. Ripley has transformed herself from the feminist icon into a powerful mother figure. There isn't a false note in this movie. The characters are all well drawn from the humanist robot Lance Henriksen to the comic relief Bill Paxton. They all work to create one of the most thrilling rides of all times.


                
The sole survivor (Sigourney Weaver) of the space team in Alien (1979) goes back with a Marine squadron to the mystery planet, and finds some more monsters.James Cameron took over the directing reins from Ridley Scott for this second film, and Weaver established herself as the series star. This was a vastly different, and more expensive film than its predecessor: with its dialogue-heavy first half setting up the relentless action of the remainder - a fight to the death between the aliens and their human adversaries. It's well-executed and technically brilliant, if not as memorable as Scott's effort. In 2007, Entertainment Weekly named Aliens as the second-best action film of all time, behind Die Hard (1988).
Holding the spot for the sequel of Alien, this film goes so much farther than what was in the original.With scaly aliens bent on destruction of humans for reproduction, each of the team members fights off the vile and cruel specie.Sigormy Weaver pulls it off again with a supporting actress, which gives off a very impulsive and highly upbeat climax of having to rescue the fallen comrade as the colony station begins to crumble away beneath their feet.Watch for Lance Hendricksen and Bill Paxton, who are the two people who have been killed off by an Alien, the Terminator and the Predator.


                
Well, Alien is without a Science fiction/horror classic, but the 1986 sequel is the kind of film that in some ways surpasses the original, and can also do the series justice (corny I know) and pretty much becomes one of the most original, special effects gold, acted greatly (Weaver can't get much better than this), and exciting to watch sequels of all time! The music is some of the best i've herd of Goldsmith, if he composed, the way it sounds like something by todays standers and can really grab you're attention. The character development is better than I expected, seeing as you come to know these Marines and relate to us (much like in The Thing, one of my favorites.) The special effects are so good, most people say "this move is way ahead of it's time!" My response is, Agreed. The plot is at first view (for people we aren't SciFci nerds, I'm one) hard to understand, unless you watch this movie many times, What I did with the Thing. The quotes are really memorable; such as "GAME OVER MAN! GAME OVVVERRR!!!" or "Get away from her, YOU BITCH!!! I love the dialogue, it's just plain good.Overall, watch this film if you enjoyed T2: Judgement day, The Thing, Alien, or Invasion of The Body Snatchers, or just want to have a thrilling, epic, long (I have the uncut version), cool, outstanding, groundbreaking, or just plain great this October, then you need to see "Aliens"


                
Too often sequels are shallow rehashes of what was done in the first film, thankfully think isn't the case with Aliens which is almost as good as the first and quite different in style. While I think it helps to see the original film first this also works as an excellent piece of stand alone entertainment.This film is set fifty seven years after the events of the first film however for Ripley it is as if no time has passed as she was in hyper sleep the whole time. Upon waking she is horrified to discover that the planet where the crew of the Nostromo found the alien is in the process of being Terraformed. A family group is sent out to investigate the location of the ship and one of those people is attacked by a face-hugger, soon after all contact with the outpost is lost. Ripley is asked to join the group of marines being sent to investigate but initially doesn't want to go, she changes her mind once assured that they are going to eliminate the aliens.Unlike the first film where there is a single alien this time there are hundreds although they are more easily killed as the marines are obviously well armed. The frights and horror of the first film are much reduced but are replaced by the excitement of full on action as the marines battle against the aliens. The acting is solid through out and particular mention should be made of Carrie Henn, who played "Newt" a young girl who was the sole surviving colonist. In many films the presence of a child is rather annoying but Newt was a good character who wasn't overly cute, she could also scream rather well!This review and rating are based on watching the longer Special Edition of the film which includes many scenes not in the original release.
Aliens is a thrilling film. Throughout the plot is on a thrill ride which never seems overly contrived. And, in contrast to a lot of films I have seen, you actually come to care about the characters here. The motherly relationship between Ripley and Newt is particularly resonant; a tender eye of the storm of this monster yarn. You will come to love the marines too. Bill Paxton is great as Hudson, Michael Biehn as Hicks. You will boo at the sliminess of Burke and the wimpyness of Gorman.Signourney Weaver has a wonderful quality about her as Ripley. A stark beauty and a quiet assurance. Lance Henrikson as Bishop also plays a good character.This is a well written, expertly executed, brilliantly realised sci-fi yarn that will have you chewing your finger tips off with suspense. Top class entertainment, and it has a bit of heart too. And over 20 years old too.


                
Aliens highlights and perfectly illustrates the arrogance of man's (and especially the American) attitude and supposition of superiority over all things. It also highlights the despicable lengths that corporations will stoop too to generate money. Maybe thats a cynical view but none the less it is true.The movie itself is fabulous. Gone is the rackety bucket of the Nostromo and in its place is the next evolutionary step what is expected 50 plus years later. However the technology is not overbearing and is entirely plausible for soldiers. The ships look fantastic, the weapons are awesome and I am still waiting for the 'Loader' as a Christmas present.The cast is excellent. Ever since Terminator, I have been a massive Michael Biehn fan and he didn't fail to deliver. Bill Paxton's Hudson is an instant classic and he is responsible for some of the most truly memorable lines in the movie. The human villain in Aliens plays his role so well, I was actually guilty of not liking the actor for years because I couldn't overcome his absolute credible portrayal of a man consumed with loyalty to his corporations avarice.Of all the Alien franchise movies, Sigourney Weaver puts in her best performance. You feel her xenophobia and believe the outright terror she feels. The solo preparation of her ride down the elevator is some of the best acting I have ever witnessed. The interaction between characters is surprisingly in-depth and varied to say Aliens is primarily a sci-fi action movie; true camaraderie, distrust, blossom of love, deep respect, intense dislike and more are examined in and unfolded in a totally believable and well executed manner. I also loved the mix of male and female in equal risk taking/responsibility roles and I love the fact the 'true' equality is not rammed down the audience's throat.We get to see more of the 'alien' in this outing but realistically it's more quick edited shots. However the mother of all aliens makes her appearance and she is phenomenal. If you haven't seen Aliens, the first time you see her, you will be awestruck.The major difference between Alien and Aliens is the way the horror and thrill is extracted from the audience. Alien is very claustrophobic in its suspense and setting and is so successful. Aliens on the other hand has some elements of that claustrophobia, however the pace is higher and the audience is swept along with multiple jumps, startles, and action scenes all to a brilliant and most befitting musical score.Aliens is a must see cult classic, and like all the movies in the Alien saga, the Director's cut is the version that is essential to view. A large majority of Alien saga fans rate this movie the best, it is certainly close.


                
The biggest obstacle faced by a studio looking to cash-in on a surprise success that resonated well with both audiences and critics is the direction in which to take it. The seemingly obvious call would be to study the original and pick apart the ingredients which helped form, in the case of Alien, an instant science-fiction classic. While the sequel faced trouble getting the greenlight as Fox procrastinated over a project they felt was a costly risk, this delay in production was only leading to the sequel rights falling into the hands of the perfect guy for the job. Production on The Terminator was facing a lengthy delay due to scheduling conflicts, so director James Cameron found himself some spare time to pen a script. Only this wasn't to be called Alien 2, but Aliens, as Cameron sought to embrace the scope and ambition he would later become famous for.While Alien features gruff space truckers, Aliens is led by a band of buzz-cut space marines, and Cameron's idea was not to continue with the slow-burn, show-little approach of the original, but a relentless assault on the senses. It's certainly isn't that Cameron doesn't know how to generate tension (the slow beeping of the motion tracker and the moment trapped inside a room with a face-hugger is clear evidence that he does), but he has a different method of pay- off. A long build-up following by a genuinely terrifying jump-scare made you hold your breath in Alien, but when the indecipherable blobs turn into a huge hoard of the remorseless, slimy killing machine, it's difficult to catch it. It's incredibly long, with a climax that seems to go on forever. But Aliens truly puts you through the wringer, to the point that, by the end, you loathe the xenomorph just as much as Ripley (Sigourney Weaver).After spending 57 years in stasis, Ripley is picked up and rescued by her employers the Weyland-Yutani Corporation, the very company that sent the crew of the Nostromo to their doom. Her wild claims of a perfect alien hunter are dismissed, mainly because the planet it was originally discovered on was colonised years ago, and her flight officer license is revoked. When communication with the colony is inevitably lost, shifty company representative Carter Burke (Paul Reiser) convinces Ripley to join an expedition back to the alien planet to investigate and exterminate any alien lifeforms discovered. She reluctantly agrees, and finds herself on a mission accompanied by a rag-tag squad of marines, who all seem trigger- happy but incredibly naive about the dangers they will face. When they arrive, the only survivor is a little girl named Newt (Carrie Henn), who speaks of monsters who mostly come out at night... mostly.Sigourney Weaver is so terrific in this film that she received Academy Award nomination for Best Actress, something almost unheard of in the sci-fi/horror genre. Having learned that her daughter had died of old age just two years before she was rescued, her relationship with Newt and her eventual showdown with the alien queen is given a whole new layer. She is backed up by a supporting cast who help distinguish themselves in the platoon of grunts, with special mention going to Michael Biehn, Jenette Goldstein and, of course, the late Bill Paxton. They help elevate the film from an exciting sea of bullets and spattered alien carcasses to an engrossing thriller featuring characters you genuinely hope will make it out alive. Of course, they all don't, but Cameron makes almost every death memorable and occasionally oddly powerful. I still prefer the quiet horror of Alien, but I can completely understand why many prefer the deafening terror of Cameron's vision, but it can quite rightly take its place among cinema's greatest ever sequels.


                
Ridley Scott left a major landmark on the science-fiction genre when he brought birth to 1979's 'Alien'. Treating audiences with engrossing visual imagery and hair-raising thrills, there is almost no wonder the film journeyed to success. This follow-up to the science-fiction thriller arrives with more of the same pulse- pounding human vs. alien onslaught, only with more and bigger surprises. Replacing Ridley Scott in the director's chair is visionary James Cameron following his success with science-fiction hit 'Terminator'. Cameron comes to the picture with a slightly more thoughtful direction and a bigger package of spine-chilling thrills and sharp visual effects that amount to a masterful sci-fi experience. Reducing on the suspenseful atmosphere in favor of more even balance of action and white-knuckle thrills, the film never fails to show Cameron knows how to keep things working. Set almost six decades after the first entry, this film sees the return of Sigourney Weaver as Ellen Ripley, who wakes up from a cryogenic sleep and is facing charges from the catastrophe that lead to the death of her crew. With everyone back on Earth failing to buy into her story, Ripley goes on an investigation to another planet with a crew of space marines which include Corporal Hicks (played by Michael Biehn), Burke (played by Paul Reiser), Bishop (played by Lance Henrickson), Private Hudson (played by Bill Paxton), Lieutenant Gorman (played by William Hope), and Private Vazquez (played by Jenette Goldstein) along with a few others. Stumbling upon a colony of alien eggs that soon hatch and launch a violent onslaught against the crew, Ripley and the crew must fight to survive against the vicious horde while protecting a little girl named Newt (played by Carrie Henn) who's family has been killed. Whereas the previous film relied heavily on suspense and Ridley Scott's Gothic imagery to unleash the thrills, James Cameron goes a significantly different route in portraying the humans' heart-racing battle against the grotesque-looking extraterrestrial creatures. This amounts to splicing some action sequences in the mix of the eerie atmosphere, which pits the characters in a scarier and more heart-pumping fight for survival against an overwhelming colony of flesh-eaters. By all means, Cameron's method works like a charm. He successfully showcases an even balance that of pulse-pounding action and rollicking thrills in a mix that effectively places viewers in a boiling good time, but not that isn't prone to inducing nightmares. The first half focuses on the buildup of the characters along with exposition before transpiring to the second half which eventually places its foot on the gas for some white-knuckle, if occasionally gory alien onslaught. To add spice to the tension, the film powerfully showcases the vulnerability of Carrie Henn's Newt, a small defenseless little youngster who Ellen Ripley must protect in the midst of the chaos. Although there are maybe a few dull moments sprinkled throughout the picture, Cameron never seems to struggle to keep things moving. The space marine characters are slightly more developed and the chemistry between each of them which includes a few brief dosages of humor and wit. Alongside, Cameron also manages to feast the eyes with striking visual imagery painting the inside of the spaceship, capturing the sheer claustrophobia of the settings while paying reminiscence to the original film. With Ellen Ripley being the sole survivor of the aftermath of the first film, Sigourney Weaver returns to the lead role and is good as ever, if not slightly more. Weaver executes the role with same versatility and emotional grit of a strong female protagonist similar to the predecessor, particularly with her tough-as-nails line "Get away from her, you bitch!". The rest of cast consists of newcomers to the franchise including Paul Reiser as Corporal Hicks who shows off with a fairly decent performance. Michael Biehn plays Burke, a slightly more sinister and antagonistic member of the crew who shows little care of placing the crew in mortal danger. Biehn's performance stands strong, but certainly not in a fashion that stands out among anyone. Lance Henrickson does a fairly job at Bishop, the valiant one in the group. Jenette Goldstein, who would later go on to collaborate with James Cameron again for a minor role in 'Terminator 2: Judgement Day', boasts an incredible amount of charisma in her role with a small slice of witty humor added to the mix. Then, there is young Carrie Henn who plays Newt, a small girl who becomes a daughterly-like figure to Sigourney Weaver during the terrifying chaos. The film does a magnificent job on not only showcasing the vulnerability of the small-aged character, but beautifully establishing the emotional bond between her and Weaver. The rest of the large cast also succeeds in getting the job. Nothing however, that comes close to blowing Sigourney Weaver out of the water. Aliens is a superb science-fiction experience that boasts a thoughtful direction by visionary film mogul James Cameron, and an astounding blend of terrifying visual imagery and heart-stopping thrills. The film makes the rare achievement of improving upon the original, and that further demonstrates Cameron's immense talent.


                
The slimy terrors in outer space return in this larger more action-packed sequel that rivals the original as a great sci-fi film. Ellen Ripley (Sigourney Weaver) is picked up 57 years later floating in space in her cryo-sleep. She is informed that a colony has been set up on the planet and it has recently gone silent. At the request of Weyland Corp. employee Burke (Paul Reiser), Ripley agrees to tag along on a mission with the colonial marines who hope to find out what happened to the colony. The marines are skeptical of what Ripley describes as a menacing force capable of taking out a whole crew, especially Private Hudson (Bill Paxton) and Private Vasquez (Jenette Goldstein). Ripley is also wary of the android Bishop (Lance Henriksen) after her encounter from the previous film.The squad heads down to the planet and finds the colony abandoned. There are signs of the aliens and only one survivor Newt (Carrie Henn). Led by Sergeant Apone (Al Matthews), the marines trace the colonialists' trackers to the energy facility of the terraforming structure. They have to give up their weapons so as not to blow the place up, a handicapping that I always thought reduced the action for this part of the film. Lt. Gorman (William Hope) gives the order and Apone collects all the ammo and grenades. Vasquez and Private Drake (Mark Rolston) keep a clip on them. Of course, the team gets caught off guard and slaughtered leaving only a few left alive including Corporal Hicks (Michael Biehn).Check out more of this review and others at swilliky.com
Action suspense I love this film. It's one of my favorite movies. Still holds up for its time now, and the best "Aliens" movie in my book. Sigourney Weaver, a strong woman and female lead just nails it. I loved the marines! Production design is so ahead of its time and practical. I think I'll watch it again now...and again...and again...


                
Aliens is a bit different than the first Alien movie, it has more action and it has lost its mysterious, horror character. The movie provides us with great action scenes, we see hundreds of xenomorphs and even their queen in the end of the movie. If we compare it to the other movies from the Alien anthology we'll see that this one has the most action. The movie also shows us a relationship between two of the characters - Ripley and Newt. Ripley has recently found out that her daughter has died while she was in hyper sleep. This loss is very painful for her and when she meets the little girl Newt she manages to establish a parent - child relationship with her. Ripely protects the girl, even though she's not her biological daughter. And in the end when she goes back to save Newt we can see how powerful a mother can be when she has to protect her child.The movie provides us many action and emotional scenes. And I can say that it's as good as the first one.
