This was a good year for Indian cinema, with movies like Dev.D,Gulal, Siddharth: the Prisoner and Kaminey giving a new direction. I was expecting that 3 idiots will be like a Lassi after having a spicy Panjabi Dinner but alas, Aamir disappointed once again. I do not mind losing my 200 bugs, but surely mind losing my precious hair. This movie is very loosely based upon Five point some one and has done balatakar of it. you will feel sleepy after listening Aamir's boring lecture about, life and education. He makes extra efforts to look like a student which unfortunately failed miserably. In the first half in a scene Aamir goes to one of his room mate's home. That scene makes such a mockery of their poverty that i feel like slapping the director. If that scene is not enough to cause headache, than baby delivery scene in the second half surely does. And than comes the Aamir's great invention, making a inventor for the cars batteries, wow that will make even Einstein proud. The only positive thing about the movie is some two or three good one liner and two songs.
No...Its not Sholay or Lagaan or even Hum Aapke Hain Kaun or Gadar. No I am not comparing with them. After noticing lots of popularity I was also pulled into the hype. But was disappointed to see another movie like Munnabhai. Same College and Principal and hospital etc. Not fresh story at all. Lots of old jokes. Some sequences are absurd. 3 idiots can take a old patient to Hospital but cannot take a pregnant woman and applies their engineering knowledge to deliver a baby. They can gather the whole college but not a single girl to deliver a baby. Like I said...its a good bollywood masala movie but nothing great. I don't know why some people are surprised about Aaamir's acting as a college boy. His face is still boyish and suits these kind of roles. May I ask in which film he looked like a Man? Arshad Warsi could have done better job in this movie. Now the good things. There were some good dialogues and good acting from Sharman Joshi(Raju) and Omi Vaidya(Ramalingam). This movie is Chatur Ramalingam's. The producers are clever to market the movie like Ghazni and make their money. After few days we audiences will look back and think how they made fool of us. This movie is worth watching only in DVDs.


                
Thankfully I drank coffee during the movie but ran out of m&m chocolates and was desperate to pass the time quicklyTo me a movie is an escapism from reality. I want to be thrilled and entertained. But '3 idiots' was reminding me of the reality and stating the obvious philosophies. It was predictable. Everything was so nice and cheesy. Oh hug me I hug you bullshits repeated over and over again. I love nice people and nice things happening BUT THATS IN REALITY. In the movie I wanted something different......End of the day, I had a sense of accomplishment for sitting through the entire movie.


                
I just managed to catch this movie on TV today and I must say that I have never seen a more disappointing and old wine in a new bottle kinda movie. Lets face it, its a complete blend of Dil Chahta Hai, Rang De Basanti, Munnabhai MBBS..and other lesser known college dramas. The message is way too out-and-out..it could've been subtle, lined with situations carefully and intelligently weaved into the plot. 40 plus actors playing college kids is blasphemous! Stereotypical character development, average acting, old timer jokes..it just doesn't fit. The movie couldn't raise my interest even a bit. And I'd make a special mention of the wedding scene, reminded me of Aamir's Dil Hai Ke Manta Nahi. Its just one of those typical Bollywood mix 'n' match flicks with absolutely no soul. I really don't understand the hype and hoopla about it. Below average.


                
As an englishman I seem to have stumbled across '3 Idiots' the same way as many others working their way through the top 250, and out of the three Indian movies I have seen it is by far the worst. Female wrestling exercise 'Danghal' was passable, and the emotionally manipulative dyslexia film 'Like Stars On Earth' was barely passable, but alas I still had hope that '3 Idiots' would surpass them both. I was sorely mistaken.The titular 3 idiots are played by men clearly in their 30s and 40s despite supposedly being college age, with the main character being an embarrassing Aamir Khan. Like the previous two Indian movies I have seen, the 2 hour 50 minute runtime is an undeserved slog to get through, this length inflated by having a fourth-wall smashing music video every other scene. It doesn't particularly matter whether a song is appropriate for the mood of a scene, as shown by the song 'All is well', an awful pop song that ends with a tasteless reveal of a student having hung himself to death in his room. The plot of the film is difficult to follow, but luckily isn't particularly worth following either, with characters such as the antagonist being one-dimesional charicatures of 'authourity'. And that's not mentioning the female love interest, who turns up halfway through the film out of necessity just so the audience can be bored once again with shmaltzy 'romantic' ballads. The social commentary is unoriginal and obvious, with the main moral seemingly being to 'follow your dreams', although the characters and their actions are so unrealistic that this message barely gets through.'3 Idiots' also fails to earn it's tag as a comedy, and I didn't laugh once throughout the entire runtime - other than out of pure amazement at how awful some scenes were. This film's idea of humour is somebody getting electrocuted by urinating on an electric wire, something that made me unintentionally uncomfortable, all acted with melodramatic facial experssions that reminded me of children's entertainment.All things considered this is a really awful film, and my 2/10 rating isn't to bring the ludicrous overall score down, but is an accurate representation of my hatred for this film.
