Well, Aamir is proving, he also just cannot keep doing only great movies, and needs the dough. From QSQT, he can do a student role. No big deal. Have we run out of jokes, with all these laughter challenges and standup fresh material, we need to use, how does a induction motor start? This is three smart guys, thinking audience is a bunch of idiots. It is a run of the mill, bollywood, melodramatic, no substance, BS....are they running out of slapstick, that they had to try the peeing scene twice or did they like the joke soooo much? Besides, Boman Irani, who takes his every role seriously and delivers top notch performance, and does it professionally, the rest is run of the mill. Just because you make posters that look like tarey zameen par, the movie does not become one. You know what is funny? Khan says do not be pressurized to deliver, and do your own thing....but looks like he is so pressurized, and he cannot do anything different, and keeps falling for Mr Ideal, and student....Mr Khan...when you start making smart movies, do not for once, assume the audience is dumb or idiots. WE have the rest of the 99 movies already doing that...and if the movie is not ready, let us wait.... sucking a baby out with a vacuum that runs on car battery based inverters....hmm....400 patents....and you want us to believe.... why did the lap top screen go off, when the power went? I thought they work on batteries? In which airline, the programs on entertainment system start, before take off? Looks like they needed some pocket money urgently, and made this all in a haste....i have not read the book...I am sure there is a lot of bollywood...may be one day I will ask someone who has read the book.Oscar? forget it.
this is one of the biggest hits this year, but let me tell you this is a movie which u can miss without regret. many scenes that make you laugh does not make a good movie.the scene that i hated most was those guys stealing the question paper and not looking at it(wake up pple this is real world) and the scene where a vaccum cleaner is used to deliver a baby(WTF??????) and making a guy who is in comma sit up by telling jokes.........and kareena waits so long before getting married? it does not happen in India here girls are married off before they are 25. i would like to say this movie is so far from real i think it was made in moon i cant say any more this movie is a waste of time....
The script is the biggest problem with this film. It is filled with clichés and unoriginal jokes. The theme and message of the film is spelled out for the audience a million times. It should be more subtle and realistic. The sequence of events is entirely predictable.Additionally, there is nothing exceptional about any other element of the film in my opinion. There is nothing impressive about the camera work. There is nothing impressive about set design or costume design. There is nothing impressive about the acting or characterization.It is emotionally manipulative using every trick in the book and there is nothing to enjoy if you do not fall for that. How it is so far up IMDb's top 250 is beyond me.


                
The story had just one positive message (study because you enjoy it, not for a degree) and the rest of the movie was sloppily put together with lots clichés, very little character development and no great thought process.My biggest problem with the movie was the number of suicides that were portrayed. Are we teaching our kids weakness, that if they face difficulties in life the way out is suicide??? Instead of showing will power strength when faced with difficulties, the movie went with over simplifications. Instead of telling "when the going gets tough, the tough get going" (The movie portrayed exactly the opposite, just to sensationalize and get raw emotional response from the audience, they used suicides). It is a very difficult even to try to understand why a person takes his life, what his emotional state must be, what his physiological balance must be.... and to over simplify the way they did in the movie is just plain irresponsible, sensationalism and poor poor poor story writing. Moreover the theme was repeated throughout the movie 3 times if I am not mistaken. The difference is, in our movies we like to portray weakness as a virtue.... and that is with our society too. That is what the movie wanted to fight: The social weakness Cliché--Become an engineer or else everything in life will fail. They did fight that point, but justified character weakness, will power weakness.The other point of the movie that bothered me was, are we trying to condone misbehavior. If we insult someone, are we not responsible for our actions? Should they be forgiven for misbehaving at someones house the way they did (peeing in front of the house, destroying property), just because they were drunk or whatever? Everyone is responsible for his actions and has to face the consequences. That is what justifies a civilized society from primitives. Forgiving misbehavior, is telling kids its okay to misbehave and steal. So what was so wrong when the professor showed them every action has consequences? He was trying to build character. But instead the movie glorifies the character weakness of the kids.I know that Aamir khan tries to make movies with a socially conscious message, he is probably the only one who is trying in the industry. I wish he puts more thought into his movie next time cause he might be capable of making an intelligent movie, instead of falling short.
Wow What An Fantastic Movie, Again Aamir's Magic Worked!If You Plan To Watch, Better Take Kerchief With You Coz You Amy Cry While laughing ...Its A Funn Funnie Funnyest Movie, From Very Beginning To Till End.A Must Watch Movie If You Are A Student Specially Engineering Student.1st Half Aamir Rules & 2nd Half Madhavan & Sharman Joshi Gave Some Valuable Performance.And Kareena Kapoor Has Very Least Role In This Flick.Boman Irani Did Most Important Role Like he Did In "Munna Bhai MBBS"I Am Planed Again To Watch Later !!! Story Is About Clash Between 3 Engineering Students (Rancho, Farhan, Hari) And Principle Of ICE College, New Delhi.Baby Delivery Scene Is A Serious One With Little Comedy In It ... Recommended To All ...


                
Once in a while there comes a film that people, critics...everyone praise sky high....but when you watch the movie, you really wonder whether you saw the same movie as everyone else. 3 idiots is one of those movie.The film begins well...but just turns into typical Bollywood movie where Hero is above God, jokes are lame and logic is thrown out of the window...and the window is shut, leaving no room for logic to enter back.The story starts well with Chatur calling Farhan and Raju that "Rancho" has been found and the trio, along with Kareena, (who runs away from her wedding, when she finds that Rancho has been found) start a journey to meet him. Chatur is also keen to meet "Phunsuk Wangdu", his hero who has multiple patents in his name. During the journey starts the back story of how Rancho was exceptionally good in studies and always topped, always gave out of the box solutions, was wayyy above his teachers...etc. Back to present, when they finally meet Rancho after a gap of 10 years...they find that this Rancho has no resemblance to the Rancho they knew. Then later in the story they learn that Phunsukh Wangdu was the Rancho with them during College, earning a degree for the real Rancho, as Rancho.Let me not dive deeper into the story, but let me sum up where the movie falters.1. Aamir Khan's character is shown to be too larger than life...than what is actually possible....he is far more mature than teachers, more intelligent....and holds more than 100 patents?? REALLY?????2. The movie is keen to criticize Chatur's character, who only mugs up to succeed in examinations. 10 yrs later he shown to have 1 patent in his name. Now let's get real....in a way, aren't they promoting "mug up to succeed"...coz getting even a single patent is not easy.3. Kareena-Aamir love story - Aamir's char (Rancho) and Kareena's char(Pia) meet once during the wedding and later, when Raju's father gets a heart attack and they carry him to the hospital. Just these 2 incidents and Rancho and Pia are supposedly in 'love'. So deeply in love that Rancho stealthily visits her home at midnight to confess. 4. Can't take it either seriously nor with a light heart - The jokes in the movie are too lame to call it a funny movie and the seriousness of topics, such as suicides, pressure of education, etc is diluted by the cardboard characters and execution. Nothing seems realistic. 5. Too many WTF moments - There are just too many WTF moments that totally ruins the movie. Pia gets her father office room keys so that Rancho and his buddies can steal the question paper, when she learns that her father is planning set a very tough question paper to ensure that Raju fails. 6. The Chetan Bhagat episode - I can't believe the trio actually didn't even bother to give him a credit at beginning or just after the movie. I have read the book and seen the movie....and every major incident is used in the movie in one form as the other....such as lead falls for the professor's daughter, Raju's suicide attempt, Pia's brother's suicide, attempt to steal the question paper, Raju's family and lunch at his home (which is done very badly in the movie). It's just like you buy a dress from a designer, add your own elements and pass it of as your original. If you compare the book and the movie....the book is much better coz it conveys the boyish charms and their messed up brains (hence their action is believable). The movie is neither funny, nor serious, nor entertaining.
Based on the book Five Point Someone this is the story of three new friends trying to survive the universe and the university of information technology. The first half was quite entertaining with a series of flashbacks creating a college comedy where the rambunctious students clash with the strict and traditionalist teacher/school. Some of the messages about suicide, peer pressure, parental expectations and teaching methods were presented quite well, though possibly a bit heavy handedly, and generated some of the genuinely heartfelt moments. The second half relied on a clunky and forced mystery plot device that undermined the previously laid platform and required a character to act completely and unrealistically out of character. It also became more manipulative, corny and overwrought in excessively turning on the tears and trying to wrench the audiences hearts every second minute.The romance was all right, though it took too much of centre stage too late. A couple of generally well known adages were passed off as original dialogue which detracts from the credibility of the rest of the script. Specifically these were anecdotes about the million dollar American space pen being trumped by the Russian pencil and the toothpaste that's unable to be put back in the tube. The actors were all on cue with the comedy even if they weren't really age appropriately cast. I found the 44 years old Aamir Khan to play it a bit over the top with his attempts at boy genius mannerisms (putting his finger to his mouth) offputting.The songs were certainly catchy, though the lyrics tended to be rather simplistic eg: "Give me some sunshine, Give me some rain, Give me another chance, I want to grow up once again". However, the dance scenes were excellent with the highlight the main romantic to and fro which was only let down by the inclusion of the chicken dance. I still don't understand whether these dance scenes are fantasy or real especially when they are included in a character's real flashback memories. I will continue to presume they are fantasy despite cinematic liberties being taken.The Indian locations provided some beautiful scenery and were well shot and served the scenes well. The total running time of three hours was unnecessarily long and some needless scenes (eg the birth scene) could have been significantly shortened. Overall it was an enjoyable film, but it was only good and not as great as it is being touted by some.


                
Not what I expected from Raju Hirani, at least after 'Lage Raho'. This film is shallow, promising to be, but just not the picture of engineering college or engineers at all. Evidently no one from Director's family ever had been an engineer and neither he had seen one. Ever if you go and watch this film, just watch it as an mindless (supposed to be) hilarious ride, with almost every joke that you may have heard of. Movie loosely based on the spiced book '5 point someone' by Chetan Bhagat, makes you realize that book was cent percent a better read than the movie. Too long, predictable and TOO LOUD on being 'Ever Joyful Enthusiast Loving Caring' personality. Performances to be acknowledged are of 'Boman Irani' playing the Dean of the Institute & of 'Omi Vaidya' playing Chatur Ramalingam aka 'Silencer'. Best and most humorous scenes are filmed with them. In whole I am going with 6/10 for this one because, it did make me laugh out loud in some of the scenes.


                
Fine movie but over rated due to 2 main reasons. 1. It's a Amir Khan movie(assuming the country has a huge Amir Khan fan following). 2. It's supposed to be adapted from one of the India's top selling Author's book. The movie has a very pathetic head start. I never seen a taken off plane landing just because of a stupid Chest Pain<U+0085> I thought Airlines were supposed to have Emergency Trauma Treatment and other First Aid services. Well neglecting that point since it's a bollywood movie its quiet fair. As the movie takes off almost till its mid section you may find certain Kicks but not a perfect comedy material yet. I didn surely notice that movie dictates some social values Even though I could see a good script building up only if the characters could have stood by it. The character of Chatur seems totally illogical, from his acting and presentation point of view it looks total waste of Reel time, I personally didn like it may be some mature actor might have Sufficed for it. Amir is OK as ever not a big deal to his role but had done pretty well till now. On with d latter section of the movie there is quiet a story. Boman Irani has been a perfectionist as always<U+0085>actually he was the only character performing queit a Role.As the climax approaches one can be certain that the movie actually deals with a major issue of student suicides in India but has been presented in a very immature way. Franly being a student of such a big and top notch institute in the country you can get kicked out for all the stupidity they play around in the movie. Climax is quiet predictable and artificial just as a numb bollywood fan would expect. All sets well in the end, those 3 stupid characters turn out to be quiet successful, Amir being the most among them. Actually I think that it could have been enough justice to such a fine move and it being provided with a satisfactory ending. Summing up the major pro' & con's in the movie are<U+0085>Pro's1. few scenes with quiet mature and good humour. 2. Message of the film A well-deserved strike on the existing education system where rot learning has become part of the life of every student's life. 3. And lots of one liners too 4. Boman Irani quiet well as expected.Con's1. As told before a dumb plane landing scene which actually makes me hate the movie. 2. Kareena eloping from her marriage.3. And lot of other minor dramatic and directorial flaws. 4. Getting in a hospital Ward in a "Scooty"<U+0085>I mean are we nuts to take that<U+0085>??? they were supposed to be shot by the security at the gate of the hospital at least audiences would have been spared of the further stupidity in the movie.Movie is fine for once time watch. Not a milestone or masterpiece at all. I can say that standard of Vidhu V Chopra is constantly falling when compared to his other movies.My rating : 6.9 / 10.
Maybe I just don't get the Indian movie industry in general (because I'm not Indian?), but IMHO this isn't a good movie. I guess you have to be Indian to get it.Not funny, bad plot, and the fact that the characters have to keep on saying what the movie is about (Grades are bad.... yadda yadda) made me feel that this movie was made for children. Why is it 3 hours long? so many irrelevant things happen, is this something that happens in allBollywood movies? I'm giving it a 3 because it seems that as far as casting and production goes, its not that bad. Also No animals were harmed in this movie which is always a big plus in Indian movies.


                
Very bad movie and believe me it's the worst movie i have ever seen in my entire life. I am very surprised that this movie is in the 250 top rated movies. If you haven't watched this movie yet and you are planning to do so I recommend you not to. It's absolutely a waste of time,trust me.Before I watched this movie I thought Hindi films are silly and not entertaining but when I saw 3 idiots is on the top rated 250 list i thought that maybe I was wrong. But yet again the movie disappointed me so much and it was the longest 3 hours in my life. The movie is so boring and silly and the acting was a disaster and the events cannot be real and full of mistakes. For real I regret watching this movie.


                
