3 Idiots is way too short a movie, which is simply another way of saying that it is an extremely entertaining movie! Raju Hirani has served an hat trick. Three great movies in a row. Raju has brought his Gandhigiri to the world of education, this time the Gandhian is Rancho.Acting is great by Boman Irani, Sharman Joshi and the best Omi Vaidya or Chatur, without whom 3 idiots would not have been what it is.Its almost impossible to find any significant deviations to excellence when you have a team like this one. Raju, Boman, Aamir, the perfectionist to name a few.But there were a couple of things under the surface that disturbed me a little bit.To start with the easy one, When you anger your senior in the first 5 minutes of entering the college, you know for sure it cannot end there. So from that point of view, the ragging scene mysteriously ends prematurely. Another one is, Boman Iirani or Virus knows Rancho's dad's monthly income but not his address? They spend 10 years searching for him, why didn't they check the college register?Now for some serious ones.I like Aamir Khan movies because you never ever ever see Aamir, you only see the character he is playing, which is exactly how it should be. Unlike Salman Khan and Shah Rukh Khan movies where you see the movie stars instead of their characters (exceptions apply of course, for example in "Chak de India" you couldn't find Shah Rukh even if you wanted to). In 3 idiots, I got to see Aamir Khan more than a couple of times and I was surprised. That got me thinking, why would our perfectionist entertainer allow for something like this.The plot thickens and the mystery deepens. Hmmmm. So I dug deeper and eventually hit the gold mine. Its not Aamir, it's his character Rancho which has a fundamental flaw that even Aamir could not overcome. Rancho is projected as someone who loves to learn, he wants to take in every ounce of knowledge he can absorb for any source possible. But his actions are that of a revolutionary, from teaching the director on how to teach to mocking the definitions of machines and books. On one side he is a sponge, an introvert on the other hand he is a rebel, and extrovert. These opposites needed reconciliation in the story.Somewhere along the way, even meanness crept in. I am referring to Chatur's switched speech. Now don't get me wrong, I enjoyed every bit of that scene. But that does not mean that it flowed with Rancho's character. I think the writers mixed up Aamir's earlier characters, Aakash from Dil Chahta Hai would do this in a heartbeat, DJ from "Rang de Basanti" would probably go one step beyond, but not Rancho and definitely not for a "demo". Rancho is pure, or at least that's what Raju is portraying him. The same goes with the climax. Now, even though, all of us cheered when Chatur got shafted towards the end in a strange twist of fate. Some how I had a hard time believing that filing 400 patents and signing with the Japanese gel well with this Gandhian educator.Aamir, in his interview, mentioned his approach to looking young in the movie. His pacings, mannerisms, style of dialogue delivery etc. He executes brilliantly on them.Madhavan is decent. He could have been much better.Omi Vaidya, or Chatur, is the real find of this movie. Hope to see more from him.One additional aspect which is not easily apparent is that this is one of the few movies that projects intelligence with the coolness it deserves, and not in the traditional Hollywood style of nerd portrayal. This is a better role model for students. Towards that end it is on par with Matrix.To make it clear, this movie is vastly more entertaining than most of the movies of 2009. But I am not comparing this movie with other movies, that would be like comparing apples with windows. I am comparing this to other Aamir and Raju Herani movies. And in that comparison, this does not shine as bright.______________________Now, here's what I would have changed if I was in control.* Raggers are caught by the director and are convinced without any "pressure" not to rag any more * Reconcile Rancho's character's fundamental flaw, requires serious deep dive * Motivation for Chatur's speech prank redone, maybe not even instigated by Rancho * Some better reason why nobody can find Rancho * Redo the Javed Jaffery scene where he talks to his dead father, turning the tables to show that Javed actually wanted to take his father to Disney Land but his father kept on insisting that they wait for the highway contract to go thru. That would be hilarious. * Sharman Joshi's family is so central to him but are missing 10 years later, in the starting scene, some how bring them in. Maybe his wife is on the phone talking to his sister, happily married in Bombay, when she yells "No Pants".This review was originally posted on my blog: http://roundhayreview.blogspot.com/2010/01/3-idiots.html
I was eager to watch this movie as the only bollywood films i like are those of aamir khan. When i saw the trailer of the movie, i thought that this movie could be the best of all time in bollywood, but it considerably failed to be. The plot was somewhat interesting , the cast was very appropriate, the acting was superb, the dialogues were wonderful , but the director maybe oozing with overconfidence, tried to put just too much in it. He tried to put it in ALL the good and bad things a teenager should do while he is in college. It was hard to identify the real protagonist in this movie, and even in the end i was left wondering whether raju was the man in the spotlight or aamir. What i hate to watch and hear is a meaningless song with meaningless lyrics and meaningless dance. And thats just what was very prominent in the movie. I don't understand the purpose of such futile non-sense, is it because people like it ? OH REALLY??? or is it because the director finds it attractive? attractive like - cow dung over cake.!? Another flaw i noticed was the change in character of aamir - from when he was a small kid to his teenage years. He looked and behaved like the most innocent one and out-of-all-activities one and later he became the most notorious and daring guy in college. Let the movie be pathetic or super-hit , boman irani was as always at his peak. His character was very well presented and he did just fine enough to make him the funniest as well as the most brutal character in the movie. The movie also had a lot of dramatic, sensitive scenes, at the wrong times, which did at times bring tears in my eyes, and left the other brain-left-at-home audience sob while staring at the screen. I wont say anything about Kareena because there isn't any need to publicize her flaws, there's a need to look for the minimal positivity in her enacting of her cameo. Rest was very appeasing , it was a pleasure to watch nonetheless, and the film was worth watching. 7/10
Ya, this is just a film and everything is very filmy. Whether it is giving answer to ragging seniors or how easily a Gardner's son reach to the top Engineering college and how easily he gave sacrifices. Then how Runaway bride came into the scene. In Mumbai rain "CHAMELI" is sitting in the hospital and Hero is on the road in the rain to make her sister's delivery. Everything is very filmy, nothing should be taken seriously especially by young students. The movie overall is very good and entertaining. Its having a lot like Munna Bhai MMBBS, but instead of Medical Education they picked up Engineering this time. The movie touch some genuine topics which really make this education system worst. How to handle the pressures, and most importantly "WHEN THEY WILL LEARN -- HOW TO LEARN??"


                
On Christmas day my family and I went to watch a new Bollywood movie called 3 Idiots. Starring Aamir Khan and Kareena Kapoor. The majority of the film is a flash back of the college days of three young boys, whose future had been decided at birth. Correlating with with the Indian stereotype of: whenever a boy is born he will become an engineer. The moral of the film is that when one finds what they truly love to do, work will become play. This moral is presented to the audience through numerous comedic and emotional situations very well placed throughout the story line. Although much of the story is very predictable, I believe the film was supposed to be this way, as the point of the film was to teach the audience a very important lesson: do what you love to do. As with all Indian films, this one also had the token 'love' part, which no Indian movie seems to be able to function without. This is a recommended watch, whether it is in theaters or on DVD, this movie is a definite 'feel good' film that the whole family will enjoy. It will also be released in its entirety on YouTube after 12 weeks.


                
i recently saw 3idiots in fun cinemas. obviously as the title suggests its a comedy cinema based on intelligent & loving idiots. movie's basic theme as it was promoted as engineering college film follows it before first half , but in the second half it simply becomes an idiotic desi Indian cinema with lot of foolish incidents. this is good to cover and attract audience but failed to become a college classic. we expect a lot from rajkumar hirani, though he had made a good cinema but i still say he was best in his munnabhai series..go if u want to see completely bollywood ishtyle Hindi cinema based on funny college incidents..i simply give 7.5/10..
3 Idiots is definitely an over-hyped good movie. A lot of expectations were associated with the movie since it was going to come from Raju Hirani, the Munnabhai director and Aamir Khan, the perfectionist actor (and producer and director). Definitely the movie is a good one but it falls short of the pre-release expectations. It is a nice timepass as the entertainment value is quite high. The inherent message for the youth to pursue their passion instead of joining the rat race is also exemplary. However, giving a second look to the movie (after the laughters and the first time euphoria have calmed down), several flaws can be seen very easily in the storyline as well as the treatment. Loosely inspired by the novel Five Point Someone, the movie has shown the lead characters as black or white instead of grey, the real life ones. The director has played with the characters as puppets in his hands instead of allowing them to develop normally. The best example is of Chatur (played excellently by the hitherto less known actor Omi). The movie has exaggerated several things and the biggest drawback of the movie in my opinion is that the storyteller challenges the intelligence of the viewers at several places. There are several incidents in the movie totally indigestible for a sensible viewer. Perhaps Raju Hirani conveniently overlooked the fact that his audience is not the David Dhawan's audience who is expected to leave the brains at home before leaving for the theatre.3 Idiots (even the name is not appropriate), falters at many points and on many counts. However taking the plus points first, it is recommended as a good comedy successful in making you laugh. Further the music is good and hummable. The song about the character of Rancho played with the titles is quite meaningful and melodious. Choreography is quite good. The performances are excellent right from Aamir Khan to the actors getting the lowest footage in the movie. The message for the students to give precedence to knowledge over marks and follow their passion is definitely admirable. The movie impresses and moves the viewer deeply at certain places. It does not give you a chance to identify its loopholes and weaknesses while viewing it for the first time. Very entertaining and gripping indeed.But the minus points are too many to categorise the movie as an outstanding (which has been unjustifiably done by several established reviewers). It is necessary (and relatively easy too) to differentiate between an outstanding movie and a good movie. 3 Idiots is good, not outstanding. It is flawed, not flawless. Making fun of a dedicated student (even when he is a book-worm) is not proper, nor is it to blame the head of an institution for a pressurised student's suicide (and an ignorant father for his non-communicative son's suicide). Suicide cannot be given precedence over communication of your anguish and pains. It cannot be glamorised as well. Showing the head of the college as doing ridiculous things just to make fun of him or portray him in bad light is also not a commendable thing. A scientist with 400 patents being so unknown and unidentified and a girl not marrying for ten years, yet not making any meaningful (and successful) effort to search for her lost love, besides males playing midwives and managing childbirth with the help of a vacuum-cleaner are a few among several irritating things shown in the movie. Rancho's distorting the speech written in Roman for Chatur and making him a laughing stock just because of his lack of proper knowledge of Hindi language cannot be justified either.Even on the laughter dimension, the movie is not a perfect one. Showing the male students time and again in the toilet or pointing at their asses looks disgusting after the first time. The excessive use of the word - balatkar (rape) does not allow the movie to be watched comfortably with all the family members. Does the moviemaker want the children (because the movie has been given a U certificate by the Indian Censor Board) to know the meaning of balatkar (rape) before the proper age ?Raju Hirani had impressed the Indian audience with his close-to-heart Munnabhai movies. However in this movie, he has not succeeded in living upto his reputation and the pre-release hype of the movie. The movie is excellent in parts only. It's irritating at many places. Overall it is good. It could have been a better one by all means.


                
Dear hypocrites: If "Amelie" and "Forrest Gump" can be mainstays of the top 250, so can "3 Idiots" - a movie that similarly gets away with a lot of silliness because it's truly endearing and has an unbeatable joie de vivre. It also features a genuinely uplifting message that only hardboiled cynics will fail to appreciate.Yes, it's probably 45 minutes too long, but on the flip side: the songs are fun, the directing is dynamic, and Aamir Khan pulls out his best Indian Tom Hanks performance. Also, unless you're xenophobic, it's fascinating to see love, dreams and life from an Indian perspective.If you want to see one Bollywood movie before you die, make it this one. It will make you feel better.


                
Okay!!! Don't get me wrong when I say the movie is overrated. The movie is great, it's entertaining, it's fun to watch with a group. But, when you watch it more than once, you will find so many flaws with it that it is sometimes embarrassing. Also the movie is very long with lots of unnecessary and silly scenes in it. The movie could have been great if the editing department would have been better.Some scenes and characters are exaggerated. The delivery scene is weird. But, all things considered, it is good movie. It has all the right emotions to pull the viewer in and hold him till the end. But the movie is a bit clichéd for my liking. Go for it if you like the typical Bollywood stuff and this movie will entertain you every time you watch it.
First of all, This is the first time for me watching an Indian movie. This film isn't over rated at all. It's very entertaining and amusing. The whole cast was great every actor played his character very well specially (Boman Irani) and (Aamir Khan) for being 44 years old and performing a younger character with almost no changes in age. This movie is awesome not because of one actor or a couple of actors, it is a joint effort of every member of this movie. The director was good for assigning these actors to play those characters, and the music was good. This was my first time to watch an Indian movie and it's not going to be the last. I recommend it for those who love comedies and they will not be disappointed.


                
Now a days people have the tendency to overreact to some good movies. Like in the case of Dark Knight, which was a good movie but not the immortal classic. Same thing goes here, this one is a good movie, sometimes u see movies to relax yourself. This is a good entertainer.But for a movie to become a classic or the top 250 of all time as some people say, u got to have something which you won't forget for the rest of your life. But 3 idiots lacked such substance. The movie's theme is good. The educational system of India is rotten. I perfectly agree to it. Even more the perspective of the common man to their children's education is pathetic, in my eyes. The movie really conveyed that idea. But let me ask you a question. Didn't Aamir Khan act in a movie called Taare Zameen Par, which sort of conveyed the same idea. That movie was good. It had heart. 3 Idiots is old wine in new bottle. The wine still tastes good.You can buy it, no problem. But don't b fooled. Don't think its new imported wine. Its still the old one.If only the director was a little bit more realistic, I think I would have liked the movie much better. He might say that lot of people liked the movie, but its going to be short lived. He could have made the movie a classic. All was there, script and direction was good, but not up to the mark


                
Chetan Bhagat's "Five Point Someone" may not be called a literary masterpiece, but it sure is entertaining with its guffaws and its Indianized English. I read the book a while back, and I was highly impressed by the author's straightforward and vitriolic views about the sagacious education system. Bhagat had introduced Ryan Oberoi to play the role of the rebel, an anarchist who wanted to do away with the grumpy system of education prevailing in India. Ryan was never his protagonist; he simply played the second fiddle in the book. It was Hari, the mundane narrator of the book who was the hero. But things turned topsy-turvy when Bollywood walked into the scene to dramatize the already dramatic story of Five Point Someone. And then when in the book everything went happily ever after with the three idiots, namely Ryan, Hari, and Alok, Bollywood begot its own idiots Farhaan (R. Madhavan), Raju (Sharmaan Joshi) and Rancho (Aamir Khan)the great for its new cinematic endeavor 3 Idiots .3 Idiots can be summed up in one word as extremely majestic. It surely will make you laugh your guts out with its slapstick jokes, its funny sequences, its bathetically emotional scenes and make you to shed a tear or two in the emotional sequences. In short, 3 Idiots is a perfect desi dinner for your bulbous eyes which has all the spices in almost perfect proportion. The genetically modified melodrama has all it takes to hit the Indian audiences hard, and I see it topping the charts in no time. The movie definitely followed a major part of the book, only the incidents were either jumbled or heightened for greater effect.3 Idiot' is a laughter riot right from the first scene where Farhaan fakes a heart attack while onboard an Air India flight to the last scene where Chatur finds out that his role model Mr. Phunsuk Wangdu is none but his college rival Rancho. I especially loved the portrayal of Raju's glum family in black and white. Despite scenes of hilarity, 3 Idiots does suffer from backlogs of vague emotions which seem at some portions of the movie vaguely put on, unorganized and unneeded. Another thing that stuck me was the heroic character of Rancho. I know it doesn't look good for the perfect image of a movie if its hero fails to live up to the standard and flunks in exams or scores 5 point something, so Bollywood made Ryan Oberoi (of the book) alias Rancho become the class topper thus bringing forth the idea that we cannot still accept a flawed hero in our movies. In the long run, the act actually exemplified the character of Rancho and brought out the real essence of the movie. But the child delivery scene in the movie was definitely overtly exaggerated. I don't think Chetan Bhagat has ever imagined his Ryan to do a child delivery with the aid of his friends. Since everything is fair in Bollywood and war, such sacrileges add to the vivacity of the movie's plot.3 Idiots is a star studded affair which presents us with the grand acting skills of stars like Boman Irani as Professor.Viru Sahastrabuddhe or Omi Vaidya as Chatur Ramalingam. But Kareena Kapoor seemed a little unwanted as Pia, she didn't add to the character of the fashion designing student Neha of the book, instead she is here a smart would be doctor who falls for the charm of Rancho out of the blue. One thing that stuck me about the movie is the way the real ages of the stars have been camouflaged fruitlessly. Even though Aamir Khan is a perfectionist as an actor, he seemed a little too old to be an engineering student in his early twenties. Nevertheless, the movie is a first hand example of great filmatography and fabulous humor. Like all Rajkumar Hirani' movie, this one has treats for all its viewers. The peppy song "Aal izz well" reminds us of his Munna Bhai movies.The dialogues used in the movie will definitely come as eye openers to brainless muggers. 3 Idiots deftly bring out the very quintessence of Five Point Someone bringing to light the fatal flaws of the Indian education system. And though at some point Aamir Khan does look like a know-it-all holy spirit inculcating others with his words, he does reciprocate Chetan Bhagat's ideas that the Indian education system lacks creativity and spontaneous love for knowledge. I hope Aamir's words reach the generation next and come as a harbinger of a utopian vision of a new educational system in India. Movies with messages such as this one should be taken as ground breaking attempts to change society.The movie is an absolute delight when it comes to music. It features a galaxy of beautiful songs shot in great locations. I personally loved "Behti hawa" and "Zoobie doobie". Overall, 3 Idiots is a wonderfully heartwarming movie that teaches us to stop being mentally troglodytes and introduce creativity in our minds.


                
Raju Hirani comes back with a masterpiece and it has perfection written all over it. Nice story, nice narration, superb acting and great direction. I was hoping the movie wasn't a remake of the book and was glad to see that the basic characters and storyline were picked up and everything else was original. The actors were very believable in their roles - not for once did they look any older than students barely out of their teens and blended really well into their characters. The movie keeps you so into itself and had so much to offer that when interval came, I started wondering what could they come up with for the second half but they came back with something even better!The story is of 3 guys - Aamir Khan as Rancho, Sherman Joshi as Raju and R. Madhavan as Farhan going through their 4 years in an engineering college and beyond. All throughout the movie they were their characters and not actors. The movies is beautifully presented and is a laugh riot and has some very emotional moments. It all fits together and you can totally relate to the characters whether or not you went through those 4 years of engineering college like I did. The storytelling is brilliant and it doesn't have second which I found boring or felt like forwarding.Music is nice - not great but it fits with the movie. The movie also has a message about the education system in India and is very true.My vote : 10 !


                
It certainly is all over town. Aamir's next has been hyped immensely and it's not surprising if you are not able to find a movie ticket this weekend. But at the end it all boils down to the question - is the movie worth all the hype ?? After watching it, I can say that the answer (quite disappointingly) is no.Two college friends - Farhan Qureshi (R. Madhavan) and Raju Rastogi (Sharman Joshi) embark on a journey to find the third friend / Idiot Rancho (Aamir Khan) who mysteriously disappeared after college five years ago. The film's story is told through flashbacks as the characters journey to Shimla in search of Rancho - the person who managed to change their outlook towards life.The problem with 3 Idiots according to me is that although it tackles a very complex issue, it chooses to do so in a light-hearted way which essentially converts this movie into a comedy (something present in abundance in B-Town). No doubt the humor is top-notch and keeps you rolling in laughter but the movie simple fails to connect you emotionally with the characters as opposed to, for example, Taare Zameen Par (2007) which I feel, after watching this, is far more superior in terms of characterization and emotional depth. By the time it reaches the climax, you can well anticipate almost everything that would happen.As for the performances, they are top-notch. Undeniably, Aamir is one of the finest and this movie reaffirms this. However, what most people seem to be forgetting is that there are two more actors in this movie who, given the opportunity, are as capable as Aamir themselves. First R. Madhavan as Farhan Qureshi is simply brilliant. Watch the scene wherein he tries to explain his point of view to his parents. Next, Sharman Joshi as Raju Rastogi really shines not just in the comic sequences but in the more serious ones (which the movie has very few). Revealing the sequence in which he shines may act as a potential spoiler but watch out for a scene in the principal's office in which the principal asks him to type a rustication letter. Kareena Kapoor is really a thorn in this movie and her romance with Aamir is something that should have been either toned down or chopped off. Omi as the ideal geek is impressive (more so than Kareena).The cinematography is good and breathtaking in the opening song where the lush greenery of Shimla is captured with such finesse that it induces a sense of wonder. The music is good but the songs have not been used that effectively. For instance, "Give Me Some Sunshine" not only has weak choreography, but it comes at a moment which severely reduces its impact. The promo featuring that song was far superior (in fact that was what fooled me into believing that this movie could end up as a masterful lesson in life). Some of the sequences could have been trimmed down.On the whole, although 3 Idiots is a good movie, it is hard to understand people calling a masterpiece or a breakthrough in cinema. Movies like Taare Zameen Par (2007) or even Hirani's own Lage Raho Munnabhai (2006) are better movies as compared to this. Nevertheless, the movie does provide some really good entertainment so if you're looking forward to just relax and chill out, go for this. For those however seeking some serious depth and a perspective in the life of an engineer, I'd say the movie tries and succeeds in parts but an engineer's life and the pressures s/he faces are a different game altogether. Although the movie it enjoyable, it is far from authentic. And this comes from an Engineer (although an Idiotic one). Now I may get a lot of sore thumbs down on this one but this in my opinion on this movie written in all earnestness. Don't enter this movie with high expectations and you may perhaps find that All Izz (Indeed) Well !!!Score: 7.0/10.0 !!


                
I generally avoid commercial Hindi films but I watched 3 Idiots because I was told that it does things differently. For the most part, I found that to be true.Story: While the theme of the story is quite valid it's hard not to notice that it was discussed by a very similar Hindi film starring Aarmir Khan recently (Taare Zameen Par). In both films Aarmir Khan plays a similar stand out role which create a continuous sense of déjà-vu. The main story line of 3 Idiots oscillates between being simple, heart-warming and humorous to outrageous and silly. This makes things pretty awkward. One moment you would be engrossed watching a story of two troubled students being helped by benignant idealist and the next moment the idealist starts acting like Jesus himself with infinite wisdom. The story never hits a good balance. Personally, wise cracking Aarmir Khan's character got under my nerves far too often.Acting: Acting for the most part was quite solid with the exception Kareena Kapoor. Either all Hindi film directors want her to act the same role in every film or she has been copy/pasted from another film. Most scenes involving her were predictable resulting all attempts at humor to fall flat. Direction/Editing etc: The film is pretty long which made me feel that editing was not great. There were a few scenes that were quite irrelevant and overdone. But 3 Idiots packed enough comedy and charming sketches to keep me interested until the end. The characters are skewed so much to black/white and right/wrong; the film gave me the sensation that the director wants me to enjoy the film in one particular way. There was very little to think about after watching. Visuals: Most of the scenery and visual elements used to drive the story along was quite good and well thought out.All in all, 3 Idiots is enjoyable and there are lot of things to like. It's still aimed at the core Hindi film fans but it's accessible enough for others too.


                
Its definitely a fun movie, without doubt. Copied ideas? Yes! Melded a whole lot of stories that the Indian audience don't know? Yes! Made it purely entertaining and relate-able to the Indian mass? Yes!!What's wrong then? Should have given credit to the stuff they were 'inspired' from... so that we could check out those classics too afterwards and appreciate the original work too.You should definitely see 3 Idiots, before seeing the 'inspirations' to totally appreciate the work. And after watching the movie... give a couple of weeks (if u liked it) and then watch 'The Paper Chase' (http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0070509/) and read the book 'Five Point Someone' (by Chetan Bhagat). Both the old school movie and the book are definitely worth reading and makes you appreciate the movie that bring all these together. *spoiler* There was a hilarious scene which I later found out was from a NZ commercial. Watch this only after watching and appreciating the movie :) http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fXRZcJI9yx8*spoiler end*Watch 3 Idiots if you have not read Chethan Bhagath prior to it. Read the book after if you haven't already...because that was 1 of his books worth appreciating. Watch 'The Paper Chase' also afterwards. You can even just listen through parts of it instead of actually watching...rather than listening to the menagerie of songs that gets you off track in 3 idiots at times.
"3 Idiots" is a comedy movie and it will entertain you very much and I am sure that you will like it. When I heard the title of this movie I thought that this movie it will not be nice but after I saw the trailer of it I reconsider my opinion and I saw it.I want to tell you that "3 Idiots" is a great movie and I like it, don't judge a movie by its title. I also liked the interpretation of Aamir Khan who was really great such as Madhavan was.Finally I have to tell you that the songs of this movie are really nice and I liked them. Rajkumar Hirani did great job in the direction of this movie and this is obvious throughout the entire film.


                
I watched it finally on DVD.The film is very good in every sense It's players , dances , winding key was too perfect You can laugh and cry in this film the film is entertaining ,feeling and meaningful There is perfect an Indian dance such as in every Indian film.Story Two friends Raju Rastogi(Sharman Joshi) and Farhan Qureshi(R.Madhavan) embark on a quest for a lost buddy Rancho(Aamir Khan). On this journey, they encounter a long forgotten bet, a wedding they must crash, and a funeral that goes impossibly out of control.I loved every moment of this movie. and I hope to watch a lot of future Indian movies like this.The movie is highly recommended to 'students' specifically.


                
Well, three idiots is adopted from "5 point someone" novel by Chetan Bhagat and has been shot in IIM B'lore campus. I must admit that Mr. Hirani has come up with another good venture after Munna Bhai and its sequel.3 idiots illustrates the experiences of college life of 3 engineering friends. Unlike usual college comedies, this movie presents a fresh perspective with a message. Pre-interval part is totally hilarious and I can bet the comedy would roll you all in your seats. Just like MunnaBhai(s), Mr. Hirani has sought to bring forward a message through this movie. Therefore, though some instances post interval might appear out of line (must say a bit un-realistic) but viewers would like the overall movie.Aamir, as one of the protagonist, has been phenomenal in this movie as a college going student. Sharman, Madhvan and Boman Irani have also made very good contributions in the movie. Kareena looks good but her role is limited. Direction is good and the movie is set in the backdrop of Delhi.Its certainly worth one time watch.Hope you all enjoy this movie.Regards, MaDdyMacD


                
As I was approaching the end of the movie, I wished I had a scissor to clip off the last 45 minutes or so from the reel, so that I could leave the movie with a positive note. I fail to understand why would the film maker after delivering successfully the definitive message of "Follow your heart, not the crowd", try to show some impractical happenstance of 'vacuum-cleaner delivering a baby' or 'fresh-born-baby responding to Aal-is-well zingle' or 'a runaway bride'. Is it just to cater to the Indian audiences who could only settle for their heroes nothing less than supermen and always believe that miracles do happen in ordinary circumstances? This attitude of ours of seeing geniuses in our heroes had earlier given us before heroes who can sing like Kishore Kumar, fight like Dara Singh and dance like Michael Jackson simultaneously. Now our sensible directors settle only for heroes who can make a model of helicopter, top the class without studying, woo the professor's beautiful daughter, and .....hold your breathe....deliver a baby on a pool table.I don't agree that the movie has ridiculed that much the professors or the educational system. Quite obviously, all that were shown, were clearly for fun. In my engineering career I had never seen a single professor emphasizing in the lectures more on 'bookish definition' than 'understanding'. I don't also believe that a single professor of mechanical engineering would encourage his student to score high grades so that he could get job in an IT firm.Having said all that, I must admit that the director Mr Rajkumar Hirani knows how to move his audiences. With his theme of "Niceties above rest", he has always given movies that we can cherish and sometimes show to others to justify our actions (I doubt anyone would actually change his way after seeing any movie). One thing I have noticed that Aamir Khan is always good at these preachy-roles where he is smarter than the rest of the folks on screen and delivers his explanations of your-way-is-wrong-and-my-way-is-divine. Don't get me wrong. He is still my favourite actor and in this movie he has done really well to pass for 20 year old engineering genius. Honestly I have not seen a single movie where Boman Irani has done even an average job. He is excellent as always. From the remaining cast my favourite would be the guy who has played the geek. Music was good especially the 'Behti Hawa sa tha woh' song.I can understand why the Indian youth love this movie. It is the same reason for why people love Five Point Someone on which the movie is based. The 'I- can -so- relate- to- the- story- and- when- I-watched- it-I- relived-my- college -days' argument. I won't rate the movie Highly though I would consider it as a good one-time-watch.(Originally posted @ weirdo-on-movies.blogspot.com)
The movie starts of well with excellent wit and moves along a pretty good pace that sets up the rest of the movie. 3 Idiots is all about 3 friends – Rancho, Raju and Farhan (Aamir Khan, Sharman Joshi and R Madhavan respectively) who have been accepted into a prestigious institute and set about to pursue their dreams.The three lead actors share excellent chemistry, along with the authoritarian principal Viru Sahastrabuddhe (Boman Irani) and the ever competing bookworm Chatur Ramalingam (portrayed by Omi Vaidya) in an excellent role that gives life to the movie. The humor is pretty good in the movie. And the way the director has managed to intertwine both comedy and sentiments subtly is applaudable.Going to the negative aspects, I felt that some of the humor has been taken up shrewdly from the internet, the scenes which include Rancho pawning the campus director after his speech about his acclaimed astronaut pen, and then there's the scene where Rancho mixes up their exam papers among the pile of papers of other students. These jokes have been doing rounds on the internet for years now.Then there's the need to insert a love story into the movie in the most conventional way possible. The usual bollywood type love story, the girl (Pia played by Kareena Kapoor) doesn't like the guy at first. And then the hero manages to weave magic (Chamatkaar or Balatkaar, choose for yourself) around her which leaves her intoxicated enough to fall for our irresistible Rancho.Hirani also manages to push the limits a li'l far with some scenes, there is a scene wherein Rancho tries to extract a baby using a vacuum cleaner which he manages to assemble all and well within a few mins when our woman is in deep pain (literally), and then there is the succeeding scene where the baby isn't breathing. However, it comes to life when everyone starts chanting the tagline 'Aal izz well'<U+0085> (really???) The rest of the movie is well done which still makes it a full paisa vasool movie despite the flaws. Well written and most importantly surpassed by better acting by the actors who make up the movie. It would have been awesome if the the writer had managed to come up with some more original ideas. But still 3 idiots is one of the better Hindi cinemas this year. This is definitely not Hirani's best work, but one of the better one's indeed!!! There will always be talk about how movies aren't supposed to be taken too seriously, which is absolutely true. But in the end, its the feeling that you walk out with, that will define your contentment. If you read this review, you will find most of it is filled with negative aspects. The reason being, the rest of the movie is truly excellent, laced with sentiment and humor, which is a definite watch. Watch it!!


                
Those Indians seem to be up for the challenge of putting out movies that Hollywood wouldn't really venture into. I hate art-sy movies that depend their own existence on some hidden fundamental meaning of how human existence is badly guided and the directors (artists know nothing about sociology, as much as they want to think otherwise) simply hand out the answers in a silver plate.The main character seems like the run-of-the-mill politically correct guy that thinks "being yourself" is one of the best pieces of advice you could ever grant someone with. As the movie flows his complete lack of respect for authority gets more coherent with what he preaches. Basically you have a few students that are graduating in engineering while having to cope with an extremely perfectionist professor. While the protagonist believes that the imagination of the students is as much an education problem as studying hours upon hours immersed in technical books. Their world views collide when Poncho, the main guy, falls in love with the professor's daughter. This is a funny movie while maintaining a strong message of not having to choose a high-pay job to be successful. Contradictions are bound to arrive, like family problems and old ways that always seem to die hard.Just forget that the film is desperately trying to output some kind of universal happiness through doing whatever you feel like doing in your life, getting ever closer to a modern day fairy-tale than the cheesy foreign comedy.


                
3 Idiots would have been great if the climax were little different. Rancho should have been working as a teacher in a small school (bcoz he doesn't have a degree in his name). And Chatur should've laughed at him. But Mr. Wangdu (different person) should've met Chatur and tells him how great the mind of Rancho is. Mr. Wangdu should've revealed that he worships Rancho's talent.. The climax in the movie is not realistic at all. I know it's just a movie but still it should not insult the intelligence of people. Let's compare it with Munna Bhai MBBS. If in Munna Bhai Sanjay Dutt had become a real doctor in the climax, the movie wouldn't have been that great. (I hope you got my point)3 Idiots could've got a rating of 8. But the climax cost it 2 points, making its rating 6..


                
The actual scene of college education in India has now been exposed to the world. Pressures related to studies leading to wrong paths taken by people or suicides have been the major portion of the plot.The movie starts with the entry of 3 young students to the ICE (best engineering institute of the country ). The starting scene of the movie clearly points out the topic that is competition is so tough in India that students , instead of improving themselves , only look to getting good grades and even mug up for 18 hours a day for the achievement. Finally , what the director conveys through the movie is that one who wants to study will study by any means and not look to better grades but improving himself and he will finally turn out to be the ultimate winner.ACTING ---- Everybody is excellent, just the way the movie demanded. Aamir Khan , as always, weaves magic playing an 18 year old though he himself is 44. Madhavan, Sharman Joshi, and Kareena Kapoor complemented extremely well by playing their parts. Boman Irani does a typical Engineering Institute Director mastering every bit of his part. Omi Vaidya was excellent in his role especially his dialogue delivery. He is one new actor in Bollywood with some hopes in acting.DIRECTION --- Good direction as what is expected by Raj Kumar Hirani but way too many flaws, the major flaws being : Calling Mona Singh's character Poonam in the first half and Mona in the second half. Also, when you steal from someone's office , you do not use their land-line to call someone -- A major flaw.Since it was a feel good movie, we can ignore scenes like the baby kicking when he listens to AAL IZZ WELL. On the whole , a good attempt on the topic , could have been better as what is expected by Aamir Khan. For me its a 7/10.In the end, i would love to repeat an excellent quote from the movie : " Strive for Excellence and Success will follow "


                
3 Idiots,another new Aamir Khan starer comes to our Indian cinema.That guys just only knows to give decent performances and attract crowds with stupendous acting.No doubt,he is the best we get from Indian Cinema.The plot for the movie is very much idiotic but nevertheless it leaves a great moral in the end for upcoming youth.Boman Irani as usual is pretty terrific and Kareena Kapoor looks stunning.Madhavan and Sharman Joshi also have done very well in their support roles.Good decent comedy movie.This one's for all ages i suppose.Nothing as such of that much nudity and vulgar stuff in this.After all its an Aamir Khan starer,you just have to watch it.Some things in the movie look ridiculous like birth of a child with the help of Vaccum Cleaner but no doubt it was very much entertaining.Good comedy,good moral and Of course Aamir Khan.Very entertaining.But you cannot miss this one.


                
3 Idiots is Rajkumar Hirani's latest offering after his previous socially-relevant Munnabhai series films. This time, he doesn't have Sanjay Dutt and Arshad Warsi. So, this time we have Aamir Khan, Sharman Joshi and R. Madhavan playing college students. The hype is tremendous. But what about the movie? Our heroes enter a top engineering college with shining eyes full of dreams, and hopes for a better future. Life gives them a reality check in the shape of Viru Sahastrabuddhe, their dominating principal who believes that life is a race, and that is the only way it has to be lived. Rancho, (Aamir Khan, looking surprisingly youthful, but still older than an engineering student) keeps motivating his friends to learn rather than mug the subjects. While most people refuse to take the path less traveled, Rancho continues to excel on this path, and even beat those who take the conventional track. The frequent run-ins with the Principal, what happens to the friends in college is what forms the crux of the story.Loosely based on Five Point Someone, the story has been reworked and actually improved upon; but the screenplay loses some of the Raju Hirani charm. To make things understood in simple terms, he sometimes takes the help of measures that are not only over the top, but sometimes unbelievable. Why a principal would not rusticate a student after so many insubordinations and misdemeanors is beyond measure. The delivery scene looks incredulous as well. Some things can be termed cinematic liberties, but others leave you confused.Raju Hirani the director is in top form again. His affection for socially-relevant comedies sees him unveiling a new phrase 'All eez well' to follow in the footsteps of 'Jaadu ki jhappi' and 'Gandhigiri'. In my opinion, 'Lage Raho Munnabhai' was his best effort to date, and even though he doesn't reach those peaks with Idiots, it is very good work indeed. He is the star of the show.Aamir Khan as Rancho does extremely well, considering he is the most out of age in this movie. With constantly widened eyes and loose clothes, he gets into the skin of the tireless learner-cum-inventor. Though things he does look incredulous, he mostly makes them feel real. Sharman Joshi and Madhavan as his friends who are on the rote path only to be 'enlightened' by Khan are competent. Joshi is especially good in the principal's office scene. Kareena Kapoor is good in a brief, albeit important role. The real scene-stealer though, has to be Omi Vaidya. The actor steals the show as the stereotypical opposite of Rancho, Chatur. Note his expressions in the speech scene. Hilarious! Boman Irani as the principal is good, but the unnecessary lisp in his voice could have been avoided.Shantanu Moitra's compositions are situational and complement the narration. Zoobi Doobi sticks out like a sore thumb though, and seems more like an item song. Jaane Nahi Denge Tujhe tides over a tough period in the story, while Behti Hawa serves as an excellent introduction. The background score serves its purpose.Binod Pradhan's cinematography is commendable. I spent half an hour dissecting the introduction scene with a friend and we still could not figure out how it was done. The set design is good. The special effects, though minimal, are well executed.Final Verdict: With 3 idiots, Raju Hirani stays in the Munnabhai franchise, albeit with different actors. The story has its heart in the right place, but the execution is far from perfect. Still, I'm going with 3.5 out of 5 for this look at the education system.


                
