A few years prior to this day, I had yet to take a single glimpse on Samurai Jack. For some time, I heard people raving about its outstanding animation techniques, never seen before fighting sequences and humor. Curiosity and anxiety surrounded my mind, wondering if it really reached or even surpassed the standards set by Dexter's Laboratory and The Powerpuff Girls. Incidentally, Genndy Tartakovsky, the creator of this new show, has worked on the previous two before and based on my knowledge, his vision upon the animation industry is pretty unlike anything any other animators have seen before.Not long after its first run, I managed to witness an episode of Samurai Jack on Cartoon Network in my aunt's house. In fact, in my first viewpoint, the show really seemed a bit simplistic, focused more on battles and at some points, a sense of humor to keep the audience's interest. Yes, it bears similarity to other Genndy's older works. However, I'm just talking to one of the episodes shown on the channel. Initially, the similarity ended when I began to watch the rest of the episodes.The plot itself is quite simple: Samurai Jack (his original Japanese name remains a mystery) lives in ancient Japan where his homeland is being ravaged by a mightily powerful but weird-looking, sometimes insipid demon named Aku. Jack used his mystical sword to fight him and eventually he defeats him after a few bouts. But before Jack manages to destroy the demon once and for all, Aku casts a spell that sends Jack into the future, a time when Aku reigns supreme. Now, it is up to Jack to find a way to go back into the past by wandering around the futuristic cities, barren wastelands and ancient ruins inhabited by aliens and other bizarre creatures you haven't seen before and most importantly, meeting allies and friends (like the crazed muscular Scotsman) to give our struggling hero spiritual hope and motivation to reach his destiny (the maturity of Jack can be seen throughout the seasons, as he seems to be more confident and has the right to call himself 'The Legendary Samurai'. Something like that). The character designs and the environments are extremely odd in Genndy's favor but perhaps these are the reasons why Samurai Jack is such an appealing show to watch at. Firstly, unlike the typical Saturday cartoons we usually see, it is almost an ambiguous cartoon with really abstract elements (specially when you watch a peculiar episode for the first time ever). You have absolutely no idea what is going on there: the creatures, the aliens, the bizarre skyscrapers, the contraptions. They are all refreshingly cubic and bizarre and yet have a reason for their existence. Despite its subtle and uneven premise, Samurai Jack is simply a straightforward action show with easily identifiable objects (toon experts will know that for sure) and characters (its basic concept is mostly derived from the Star Wars universe, in which Genndy also directs under the name Clone Wars). At one case, some of the elements of Samurai Jack are derived from Akira Kurosawa's movies, anime (both state-of-the-art or cliché) and on another point, famous American icons and world cultures. Some even serve as a precursor to Craig McCracken's Foster's Home for Imaginary Friends with bits and pieces from Dexter's Lab and PPG. Sure, most of the episodes don't capture the scope of full-length movies but the slowness of its nature allows the audience to accept the fact that it almost feels like a movie, in a shorter form at least. If you ask whether the show's appropriate for kids, well, Samurai Jack is a surprisingly violent cartoon (that's beyond the boundary of Dex and PPG) but that otherwise proves that Genndy's skills to handle a particular context has matured.What really fascinate me are Genndy's abilities to master the essential film-making techniques such as pace, flow, mise-en-scene and mood, smooth animation and most importantly, character appeal such as Samurai Jack himself. Some sequences are even squeezed in to a particular ratio aspect to provide a cinematic point of view as well as to increase the tension of a situation. Creative editing techniques also helps to build anticipation, fasten the pace of the action sequences (mostly beautifully choreographed despite the fact that they are just frames of drawings!) and create decisive matters as Jack faces frequent pandemonium. The artwork of the show is equally impressive albeit a bit kiddy oriented. That essentially leads to one of Genndy's strongest trademarks and principles: simplistic designs tend to have greater impact compared to realistic models (of 2D and 3D) by conveying constant exaggeration, ridiculous laws of physic and common sense and doses of good slapstick humor while maintaining its 'logical sense' without losing direction. The show's crystal clear colors and tones also manage to reflect the overall mood of a particular environment, whether you can feel the serenity of ancient Japan or the unknown danger of the dark and barren wasteland.If it weren't for Genndy, cartoons cannot evolve into newer forms. If Gene Deitch gave birth to 'limited animation' via Gerald McBoing Boing, we all could say that, in my opinion, Genndy Tartakovsky gave birth to 'cinematic limited cartoons' or simply, 'Cinematic Toons'. I know these terms don't sound right to some people but through Samurai Jack, he has created something that proves to be revolutionary since the era of the Renaissance (Batman, DuckTales and Tiny Toons). Since then, Genndy Tartakovsky is now regarded as one of my most favorite 'heroes' of our time!


                
Samurai Jack is the quintessence of cartoon storytelling today. there is no two-ways about it. let me break it down for you: Long ago in a distant land, Aku, the shape-shifting master of darkness, unleashed an unspeakable evil, but a samurai warrior wielding a magic sword stepped fourth to oppose him. before the final blow was struck, Aku opened a portal in time, flinging the samurai into the future, where Aku's evil is law. now the samurai seeks to return to the past, and undo the future that is Aku.the first story involves the samurai landing in the future, he is given a name by some enthusiastic street-urchins (Jack), and finds himself in a rough bar filled with belligerent aliens and talking dogs. these dogs are in desperate peril, and seek jack's help in a very obvious reference to Akira Kurosowa's masterpiece The Seven Samurai.as the series continues, Jack's quest becomes less a focal point of the story, and more a vehicle for various short stories. great storytelling needs but three things: a setting, a protagonist, and a goal. Jack uses this idea to exploit a formula of diversity. anything the animator/writers throw on the wall, generally sticks. the ambiguity of the show allows for a free-form format that has made shows like Cowboy Bebop and Justice League Unlimited fellow masterpieces of the serial animation format. stories range from horror, science fiction and fantasy, to comedy, Wu shu, drama, noir, giant robo and epic action. Jack is a child of a lot of inspiration, things like Star Wars and Akira Kurosowa are obvious influences, but the works of Marvel and DC comics, as well as the work of graphic novelist Frank Miller are all very apparent references. (infact Miller's acclaimed graphic novel Ronin is very similar in plot to Samurai Jack, and there is an entire episode based upon the premise of 300, another Miller book which has also become a Hollywood film.)Jack is, by all means, an action show. in a given show there is maybe 10-15 minutes of action in a 24 minute episode, however in later seasons, the formula of Jack as an action show recedes heavily, and the show becomes more of a sampler-plate of creativeness. the stories are as charming and moving as they are diverse and epic.Samurai Jack is a brilliant show, it's influences are long-spread and it will undoubtedly be remembered as a staple of artistic television.


                
When I was first introduced to this show, I wasn't expecting to love it. I don't just love it, I adore it! I feared it wouldn't be my thing, but there are many reasons why Samurai Jack is worth seeing. The animation consistently is absolutely outstanding, the whole show is amazing to watch, whether it is the backgrounds, character features, special effects or the colours. The music is wonderful also, a perfect mix of oriental and electronic sounds really add to the authenticity. The story lines are superb and interesting springing from a great idea, and the writing is top notch, funny and intelligent. Likewise with the voice acting, with Phil LaMarr especially impressive in the title role. Overall, just a superb show, easily one of the better shows on Cartoon Network. 10/10 Bethany Cox


                
I REALLY love Samurai Jack. It is among my MOST favorite animated show from the 2000s. I'm a 2000s kid, and I love this show. I know Genndy's other show Dexter's Laboratory didn't become as funny as it used to be when later Loud House creator Chris Savino took over, but it can still be entertaining. However, Samurai Jack is Genndy Tartakovsky's best show ever. Samurai Jack is absolutely flawless!! It used to be one of Cartoon Network's best shows of all time, NOW it's become Adult Swim's BEST show of all time. Yes, because Adult Swim gave Samurai Jack one more season! Samurai Jack DEFINES Cartoon Network AND Adult Swim. The action sequences were awesome, the animation was awesome, the characters were awesome, everything about Samurai Jack was awesome!! I am so glad Adult Swim is giving Samurai Jack a proper conclusion.


                
Samurai Jack is one of the greatest pieces of art out there. Every episode is just so good. Samurai Jack is a lonely samurai thrown into the future by Aku, the main villain. That is the intro and the premise of every episode. Artistically the action is superb. In many episodes you can see small hints and homages to other action movies or classics. Every episode is like a different movie such as dramatic story, gripping action, kung fu movie, or classic children's story. Growing up Samurai Jack was one of my favorite shows. That means a lot because I believe it was the Cartoon Network golden age, in roughly 2000 to around 2005. They had a strong lineup with Toonami and many DC animations such as Batman, Justice League, and Superman. But I always liked Samurai Jack the best. I aspired to be like Samurai Jack. I loved this as a Child and rewatched the whole series as an adult. Still no TV show is on par with this masterpiece. In fact the show was better watching it as an adult. I would have to say the best episode is "Samurai VS Ninja" S4 E1.


                
Samurai to my are my second favorite type of warrior, their always fascinating from their swordplay to their philosophies and principles they live by; despite the chaos they deal with somehow they like the sword sheved always remand peaceful or find peace though the chaos.This is another one of my favorite animated shows of all time. In a way it almost is like a shonen anime only it's one made in America which makes it really cool. I'm a person that love martial arts as well as pulp fantasy and sci-fi, this show put both those genres in a blender and they make a very tasty drink.The characters are great despite not deep and are really there to serve their functions they do it very well.Jack is an awesome protagonist he's sort of a pulp hero up there with Doc Savage, Buckaroo Banzai and Doctor Who. He's a bad ass, this guy never says a whole lot, in fact in some episode he sometimes says nothing at all. But that's because he's a man of action, this guy can just cut though the odds and any opponent of any size like butter. He has the fastest and swiftest moves I've seen in any animated character that fights, and their not superpowers but Martial arts techniques which makes it all the better, since superpowers I personal feel is a slightly overused concept. And Phil Lamarr one of my favorite voice actors is great, his voice fits like a glove.Aku is a good fun villain, I like that he is clever, psychotic, and he's kinda funny. Even like Jack's number two that he sometimes runs into The Scottsman. His character is fraking hilarious he has some of the best lines in the show. It's true he's not the brightest bulb and he's kinda crazy but his heart is always in the right place if not his head. The back and forth between Jack and him is great and feels like a functional friendship, it's the buddy cop motif of two people working together despite being on the fence in both persona and ideology. The Scottsman always give Jack at times some unintentional grief and Jack we see at times is just rolling his eyes as he know The Scottsman is pracitally leading him on the road to Hell but he goes with him anyway out of respect. The Scottsman though is also a bad ass, from welding his sword, having almost Hercules like strength, and my favorite feature is his use of his machine gun leg which in a way predates the gun leg in the film "Grindhouse" in the "Planet Terror" segment.However this is a show that is really style over toping substance, and fully concerned about the ongoing action. Which is cool and that is most of the time what I like in action films/genre, where their just simplistic and straight to the point.Each episode is always a new adventure and it's true it's a bit random which is part of the fun. Just like Doctor Who Jack is just traveling to any period in time from the past to even the far future. It also provides a great sense of creative freedom where it literally feels like you can just put this character anywhere and the show could go any direction it wants which is a great feeling.Music is very good and fits the show, I like the theme song and some of the music which is in the use Japanese old style tune and hip hop; and this show was before the anime "Samurai Chapaloo" which is cool and another story.The action is excellent, in a way it's sort of a swashbuckling actioneer. As we see Jack wield his sword and he wields it well, the chirography is great some of it based of some real Bushido. I love that the violence isn't milked down to insult the viewers intelligence you do see the actual slices and kills mainly consisting of a colorful variety of evil robots, which is cool it's reminiscent of the comic book series "Magnus Robot Fighter". And the pacing is excellent, each episode despite being only about 20-25 minutes long I hardly noticed the time at all which is a great feeling.The art is excellent, it's sort of a Japanese expressionistic art style which fits for this show. At times they blend in a few other art styles sometimes depending on the episode. This helps create a fun but also kinda surreal and expressive atmosphere.Overall this is a great animated show that is worth unsheathing, Samurai Jack makes the cut.Rating: 4 stars


                
I remember back when this show first premiered over a decade ago and being swept away by how incredible it was. All I needed to see was the first couple of episodes to get hooked to this show. I think the best thing is probably the animation. I noticed and recalled the animators saying that they flat out omitted the usual black lines and simply show the bare colors. It was a pity this show ended before reaching an actual conclusion...that is until now over a decade later! I am simply overjoyed this show is finally back and there's probably no better time, seeing as how we're in a golden age of animation with this decade.Possibly the most fascinating thing about this show is how epic it is but yet how it manages to be fairly minimal. What I mean is that there's tons of great action scenes to spare and a huge scale of fighting, but yet there's only about two or three characters in the entire show! The main character Jack and his archenemy Aku. That's really all you need to know. Episodes always brought something different to the table with fantastic robot and creature designs. I hadn't even heard of the voice actor Mako before this and am sorry that he passed away before this show continued.It really does have a bit of everything. Some of the episodes seem a bit out of place. A couple don't fit much into the continuity and were more like self parodies. In a show that works wonderfully serious, the more light-hearted stuff works surprisingly well. As someone who watched a lot of "MadTV", it was weird for me to not recognize Phil LaMarr's voice. It's so wonderfully graceful. This show is basically just a beautiful montage of wonderful action scenes with perfect atmosphere. It may not have the most characters, but works great with what it has. ****


                
I've been watching Samurai Jack as soon as it appeared (for more than seven years now). And I must proudly say, that not a lot of cartoon series have surpassed this Genndy Tartakovsky's masterpiece. This cartoon has everything!First of all, the tone of the cartoon if just right. The-samurai-on-a-mission-type feeling blends perfectly with the futuristic surroundings. Much props to cartoonist and the composer.But the thing that stands out the most is definitely the creativity. Every episode has something new to show. The plot devises are often outstanding!Every time Samurai Jack appears on TV, I'm always up for it!


                
"Samurai Jack" was one of the best shows produced by Cartoon Network, filled with action, comedy and adventure. The story was a bit simple, but incredibly well made: Not many times the battle between of good and evil was handled so well as in this show. The character designs were pretty stylish: Every single one of the characters had a unique and fascinating appearance.This show was created by Genndy Tartakovsky, the creator of "Dexter's Laboratory", one of my favorite shows of my childhood. This was just so great as well. Too bad that most the recent shows of Cartoon Network aren't so goo as this one was.10/10
The revival of Samurai Jack has far exceeded anything I hoped for. Jack is no longer Wolverine, he is now Logan! And all the better for it. I was in such anticipation of this show from the get go. But I wasn't going to let it go without criticism if they didn't do it right.But not only did they make it for adults, they made it epic. Who would ever of thought that having waited all these years, I was waiting for genius to happen. Its epic, sharp, intense and still holds all the beauty of the previous shows. This is a must see. Its not for kids, its for adults. This has the same intelligence as the Rick and Morty show but in different ways. This is up there with Archer. Action and art make Samurai Jack bold and beautiful. So blown away. Thank goodness. BRAVO!


                
I first got into this show in 2013 and I was amazed and surprised. It had a similar tone to various different acclaimed films. The series and the miniseries finale were downright gritty and felt like The Dark Knight Trilogy. I first watched The Birth of Evil episode and the series blew my expectations. I think this is the only animated series that needs a live-action adaptation. The cast in my adaptation should be Jin Akanishi as Samurai Jack, Ken Watanabe as Aku, Billy Connolly as the Scotsman, Ethan Hawke as X-49, Samuel L. Jackson as the Guardian and Rinko Kikuchi as Ashi.
Never has a piece of visual art touched me so much as Samurai Jack has in it's last season. A show from my childhood abruptly pulled over a decade ago with no ending came back now in 2017, in my adulthood, as an adult show, and not only gave the show an ending and final rest it deserved, but elegantly deals with concepts that all persons must face throughout their life: from personal demons, to duty, to love and sacrifice - all in beautiful art and style.Definitely worth a watch, even if you haven't seen the first 4 seasons.


                
Like many, I grew up watching this show off and on back in the days. I still remember it abruptly ending without a conclusion. So when it was announced that the maker was returning with a season 5 with the distinct intention of finally concluding the show, I was on cloud 9. And when episodes of season 5 started rolling out and being awesome as all hell, I was taken to cloud 109. Seriously, season 5 is a freaking masterpiece. I'm surprised more people are not talking about it. Maybe people are put off because they've never seen a Samurai Jack episode before. Whatever, all I know is I'm loving it. Each episode of season 5 feels like 3 episodes in one, in other words they have heavy plot and themes associated with them. Yeah, season 5 is darker but that isn't why it is so good. The production value is out of this world. And the freaking soundtrack. THE FREAKING SOUNDTRACK! I NEED THE FREAKING SOUNDTRACK! But yeah, as crazy as this is going to sound, Samurai Jack is currently the best thing on television. And that is not an over exaggeration. If you didn't know, Samurai Jack is about a Samurai who trained his whole life to kill an evil demon named Aku with a magical sword handed down by his ancestors. Once the Samurai's training was complete and he became an adult, he finally did battle with the evil demon but just before he was able to land the killing blow with his sword, the demon opened a time portal into the future and tossed our hero in to the future. So our hero is sent thousands of years into a future where the evil wizard demon Aku is not only ruler of the world but the universe. It should also be noted that the only way to defeat Aku is with the magic sword, which Jack loses in season five. So yeah, Jack's ultimate goal is to travel back in time to kill Aku and undo the horrific future. Oh, and season five takes place 50 years after season four. A side effect of time travel left Jack unable to age. But yeah, this season can be watched with having seen any of the other seasons. Like I said before, this is currently the best show on television.
Samurai Jack has it's limitations. Some gimmicky shots, repetitive structures, self-satirising techniques that verge on the bizarre, and some episodes with so much potential that only disappoint. That being said, Samurai Jack also attempts something that no other show attempts: the timelessness of the journey, the many forms life takes, the humour, isolation, and scale of the world.SJ's episodes can feasibly be watched in any order, there are no tacky developments as the writer runs out of ideas, no gaining of new powers, no new plot dynamics. Each episode tells a different story, where Jack undergoes a new trial, in a new environment, engaging with new characters. There are recurring characters, the Scotsman being the third under Aku, but on the whole this is about Jack exploring a world, remembering his history, experiencing the new and realising the importance of everything from his sword, his clothes, his shoes, and even the necessity of his enemy and something to struggle against.Over the course of SJ Jack's relationship with Aku develops subtly, so that over time we come to realise how weak Aku really is, as well as cowardly, and how willing Jack is to indulge him. In many ways they are closer than they seem, the stereotype of the noble warrior and the evil enemy dissolves as we see the mockery Jack engages in, the sadism Aku revels in, the concessions they both make and how close each comes reveals the weaknesses of each, so that two characters that at first appear superficial, reveal surprising degrees of humanity.The world of SJ is epic in scope, taking in as many clichés that it plays with, mimics, subverts, and incorporates in many ways to whatever end, striking the strongest balance when it appropriates the best and disregards the worst. It isn't always a balance SJ gets right, and as far as consistency SJ isn't the go-to show, but for ambition and occasional startling originality, Samurai Jack competes toe to toe with the epic poetry of old, and sometimes possesses an incredibly mature and literary quality.But it is this inconsistency which adds to SJ's appeal, some episodes function as action shows, others as comedy, others as domestic drama, horror, short stories, exploration of environment, allegories. I can't name a show which attempts to do the same. Animation lost something important with Samurai Jack, and as a grown man I keep on hoping something will come to take it's place, but we'll see. If Jack teaches you anything it's that the struggle never ends; until it does, abruptly and unfairly.


                
Being seven years old I didn't know how to appreciate a cartoon, a film, much anything to its full extent. I had watched Dexter's Laboratory and had found it enjoyable beyond belief, so it was no great surprise that I found Samurai Jack a very different but yet a great cartoon to watch. Besides paying homage to the Samurai genre of films, it uses techniques seldom used in animation before. The characters seem to be made of cardboard or thin paper by the look of their outlines, yet they are alive and beautifully sketched on screen. Samurai Jack's story and intense dialog and action are the main reasons why people like it and then there are the themes of good versus evil, self enlightenment, learning spirituality and purging evil from one's soul. All these things make Samurai Jack incredible and better than Dexter's Laboratory by a long shot. However, the elements of humour, horror and suspense are what makes this cartoon separate and better than all the other cartoons of the 21st century. I can't even begin to describe how scared I was when Jack battled Aku in the graveyard or how impressed I was when Aku disguised as the Hermit sent Jack to gather the Armor of Chronos the Titan. The most impressive feat that Genndy Tartakovsky accomplished in my opinion is the humour he perfectly blended in to this wonderful cartoon. The episode in which Jack's attire and sword are stolen by a "Rabbit" is perhaps my favourite simply because it felt amazing that humour could be incorporated in to an action saga and a whole episode could be made in which the humour outweighed the action by a long shot. Samurai Jack will always remain a great cartoon and one for the books certainly, the only thing wrong with it was that it ended with only four seasons. I hope the film is good though.
Looking at this show with a more grown up personality I can now truly understand just how freaking awesome this show is. The animation is gorgeous, the story is awesome, this show just kicks ass. Out of all the original premises that Cartoon Network has created for a show this the best. A samurai is sent back in time by a demon named Aku before the samurai kills him so he can face the samurai in a future where he rules the world. The samurai must now find a way to undo the spell so he can get back in time to stop Aku. While he tries to do this he is stuck in a future ruled by Aku, and filled with strange things. If you don't call that a great premise you most likely don't know what a premise is. Also the show gets in a good laugh here and there. The animation is Cartoon Netwrok's best. Really this is very good animation. The music is also great. The music is also Cartoon Network's best. This show isn't in my opinion their best. That title is held by "Ed, Edd, and Eddy", but this is without a doubt their coolest show. I definitely can say this another one of Cartoon Network's greats.


                
One of my favourite cartoons of all time, Samurai Jack has some of the coolest animation, has the most bizarre story lines, and best of all ... Jack is a Dude!!!!! It is full of witty humour and has a strangely likable bad guy for the villain. If you've got kids and you'd like them to watch something with some sort of morals, then samurai jack is perfect - he fights the world of evil and you get to see his spiritual zen side too. I think he could be the perfect role model for people of all ages because he always does the "right" thing. Made by the same guy that did Dexter's laboratory, another wicked cartoon which if you liked that one, your sure to like this.


                
I could write pages on why this show is so great; a 15 year hiatus only to come back with a 7 episode season with an ending that actually made me cry, characters that you meet once but remain in your mind as if they're regulars, the numerous and increasingly more amazing fight scenes with the main villain... Literally a reason for every episode that could be expanded upon for paragraphs, but I'll leave it as this: everything about the show, even it's imperfections, are 100% perfect.


                
This show is fantastic, it's one of a kind and I recommend anyone to watch it. It's enjoyable for any age and has enough action without it being too bloody or grotesque, Thank you Genndy Taartakovsky for making Samurai Jack a part of my childhood and for ending such a great show in such a perfect way. I will be talking about Samurai Jack longer that I have with any movie or TV show. Thank you!


                
Samurai jack is the best will written will voiced will directed visually stunning funny and lighthearted cartoon show ever!! About samurai prince call jack who had his land destroyed by a evil immortal shape shifting god like being called Aku,Jack's father the empire years past defeated Aku with a enhanced Katrina,forged by three gods Odin Ra and Vishnu that can destroy Aku,jack trained around the globe to be the greatest warrior to destroy Aku, with he was ready he was given the by his mother and this father giving him wise jack sets off battle Aku, he does defeat Aku but Aku has mystic powers and throws jack in the future were Aku rules the world!! And has unleashed chaos and carnage on the world were aliens robots monsters and bounty hunters rain on Aku laws, jack must get back to this own time and destroy Aku once and for all. This is an amazing series with 4 seasons, but jack is back in this 5th season were 50 years has past and is still stuck in the future and he has not aged because he doesn't belong in that time and to make it worse his lost the sword that can destroy Aku but Aku been stay way of ever because he thinks jack still has it, samurai jack is the most action packed cartoon ever made!! where the hero a simple man with just a sword and he fighting skills and wits goes against the most impossible odds where his most hated enemy has every advantage has god like powers and rules the world.
I just love this show like anything... whenever i feel low i just watch this show and my all confidence, strength, etc gets boosted up and i feel awesome again.. this show is the reason learned to fight in your worst conditions even and to never give up under any circumstances... every time i get depressed because of problems i watch episodes of samurai jack and m back online.. :) i am DESPERATELY, EAGERLY WAITING FOR OTHER EPISODES OF SAMURAI JACK. AND WANT TO SEE HIM DEFEATING AKKU. I WISH AND HUMBLY REQUEST TO THE PRODUCER AND DIRECTORS RESPONSIBLE FOR THIS SHOW TO START THE SHOW AGAIN... this show is a blast.. everything about this show is perfect.. the lights, colors, shades, techniques, martial arts, sound effects, the maker has taken very very small small details which r very very adorable and beautiful... m really a true fan of SAMURAI JACK. wish to see it back again. PLEASE START THE SHOW AGAIN OR At least STORY OF THE REST OF EPISODES IN WRITTEN. enjoy the show!
Genndy Tartakovsky is indeed a genius! This show is truly a piece of art. It's about a Samurai warrior who goes into battle to destroy the demonic sorcerer Aku, but just as he was about to deliver the final and finishing blow, Aku tore (TWOAH) a portal in time and catapults the samurai warrior thousands of years into a dystopic future where Aku reigns supreme as the overlord of the galaxy.(earth wasn't enough for him)There isn't another cartoon that can match the magnitude of Samurai Jack, the storyline was engaging the animation was fluid, and it has a great balance of action, and humor. Especially Aku who for an embodiment of pure evil is quite a comical Cheeseball.Another aspect of this show is that there isn't much dialouge (execpt with Aku). This show focuses more on the action. That is another aspect on what makes this show a true piece of art. And to think Genndy Tartakovsky, the genius behind this Show was also the mastermind of two other great cartoons, The Powerpuff girls and Dexter's Laboratory, that just Proves the Genndy is a genius.


                
this shoe and the Justice League ARE the greatest animated shows ever, and you could probably debate back and forth all year long which one is better, and still not get anywhere. To sum up Samurai Jack, it is basically 20 minutes of action each episode. The creator,Genndy Tartakovfsy, came up with the idea when he discovered that almost every show on TV is as boring as crap. I 100% agree with him. TV shows are boring pieces of crap (they are now anyways). Samurai Jack made action cooler than cool. Don't look the other way because of the animation, not all cartoons are four 2 year olds! cant wait for the movie in 2011!!! go watch the episodes online, or buy the series, because your life will be better after you do!
How is this still awaiting 5 votes (19 October 2006)?! Has no-one heard of Samurai Jack, of the embattled warrior from the past flung into the future. Has no-one heard of Gennedy Tartakovsky, the creative genius behind Powerpuff Girls (wait, did I just say that?), Dexter's Laboratory (I did, didn't I?), and the Star Wars: Clone Wars series (well, he IS a genius). For anyone who has enjoyed a film in the past 20 years, Samurai Jack is a nod to BladeRunner, an ode to Star Wars, and yet, so much more. The animation style, while relatively simple captures mood and tone so much more succinctly than many current anime. It is far superior to much of the American cartoon programs of its time, a bridge between Batman: the Animated Series and the Boondocks. Samurai Jack may have started as a Cartoon Network experiment, but it turned out a gem.


                
I was born in 1996, but I never watched Samurai Jack as a kid. A few months before I was searching for a series to pass the time, and I found this series, adventure of a warrior who wants to get home. Samurai Jack, in my opinion is a masterpiece. It tells the story of a man who lost everything, but he saves hundreds of lives during his journey, he gives hope to others. In the 5th season, we see the broken, hopeless samurai, who lost his hope and almost his mission.It's not a perfect series for sure. But the ending, my friends, the last few minutes of the last episode, was pure perfection. It was a roller-coaster of emotions without a single word have been spoken. The hope he gave, he got it back. I think this is just one of my favorite seasons of all time.You got back. Back to the past. Samurai Jack.
