I know I am going to get a lot of hate for this review, but here goes...I never watched Samurai Jack as a kid, but I often saw it was on Cartoon Network. I just preferred watching things like Ed, Edd and Eddy, Courage the Cowardly Dog, Cow and Chicken and a whole host of mindnumbing cartoons. Samurai Jack always came across as too serious for my childish mind. However, at the ripe old age of 25 I decided to embark on the quest to watch this, since it was notably commissioned for an extra season in 2017.I am going to divide this review in two parts: seasons 1-4, then season 5 on its own (as will be made clear). The story follows a samurai trapped in the future by an evil 'Aku', and the series follows his quests the defeat said evil. Seasons 1-4 attempt to show this, with each episode focusing on a minion sent by Aku, an entirely different villain, or Aku himself. Whilst I appreciated the journey Jack was going through, it felt somewhat lacklustre. As the series progressed, it felt less and less like Jack would ever truly face Aku and complete his objective. I won't spoil things for you, but I must say I felt deflated as each episode went by without ever feeling Jack would get back to the past.The positives of seasons 1-4 are numerous. The animation style is excellent and original. Like in Dexter's Lab, the creator of Samurai Jack gives the protagonist and villain simple and sharp features which distinguishes them from everyone else. The backdrops are well thought out and you can see the effort that has been put into it. The voice acting is great, when it is there. One of the things people love about this cartoon is that it is the lack of a need for speech that makes this cartoon so excellent. I (controversially) disagree. A lack of speech makes it quite boring because not a lot actually happens in each episode. Having a few episodes being like this would have been great. But every episode? I remain to be convinced.The other gripe I have about seasons 1-4 is that it doesn't really have a target audience. It is too dark and 'adulty' for children, yet it is too slow-paced and soft for adults. If it had a bit more action or adult themes I think it would have been more entertaining for people of my age.Now onto season 5, an entirely different beast. Unlike seasons 1-4 where each episode is standalone and doesn't feel like it is going anywhere, season 5 is the complete opposite. You get a core plot to the series and it is a good one. The animation remains crisp and even improved from seasons 1-4. You even get more dialogue between the characters, including Jack. What I loved most is that it finally decided to become an adult cartoon. The plot is dark, yet interesting and the action is finally what I was hoping for. Overall, season 5 is what I had wanted from seasons 1-4 and then some. All in all, Samurai Jack is not a bad cartoon, but it just isn't truly standout. Seasons 1-4 have a storyline that doesn't really satisfy the audience's need for a core plot or a sense of finality. However, season 5 makes up for this, making it the best season of the series. I would recommend you watch this film if you enjoy watching manga or other cartoons aimed at adults.


                
The visual style of Tartakovsky is of course stunning. Every scene and every shot is like a piece of art. The action is presented like Asian martial arts, the scenes follow each other almost like a dance.Content-wise however, frankly I must say I found the series a little disappointing. When I watched the pilot episode, it seemed to promise a little more than the rest of the series could offer. I liked the historical setting and the mythological story of the first episode. I also liked the the future setting of the rest of the series. However, my complaint is that the plots of the episodes seem a little trivial. Every episode a new enemy is battle, with little connection between the episodes.Still, visually it's one of the most stunning animated series I have seen.


                
Don't get me wrong , this animated program did have something in it that made it worth watching ... the cinematic way everything was done , with strong Asian culture influence on the artstyle , the dark atmosphere and the music . plus the memorable hero and villain of the show and the decent fight scenes .But there is one main issue with this show . like many other stuff on TV at that time , it was rather...pointless . it didn't progress anywhere , and no development whatsoever .infact after the pilot episode you could basically watch any episode you want and it wouldn't make a difference . and I just got sick of it at one point when I realized - he's not going home ...Also , while the cartoonish designs worked with humorous shows such as Dexters laboratory , for a more serious action focused show you would expect cleaner artwork . but it's flashy and the character designs are carelessly made , with pointy teeth...So while it is "nostalgic" and I want to see a conclusion with a movie of some sort (too bad the voice actor of Akku passed way though =\ )this show is really flawed .


                
8 For the first 4 seasons and 5 for season 5
The fifth season of samurai Jack delivered an underwhelming conclusion to this well-beloved franchise. But in this day and age, what can we expect at the first place?
First, the story. The staff seemingly lacks experience in writing and executing a coherent story. The whole story feels like a blend of a single story and the original episodic narrative. Resulting in a grave pacing problem, the middle third of the story was stretched to accommodate character developments and fanservice cameos, while the final two episodes, the supposed climax, is painfully condensed and sped up. 
Then come the most focused part of the show: characters. The male protagonist has some major change. The inner struggle of him is a very decent plot and is executed well. However, this cannot compensate for some deterioration he has suffered. He has borrowed out-of-place humor and typical young adult awkwardness from more modern works, which does not quite suit the well-established character, while his original character seems to be washed away. The new female protagonist, however, is no more than a generic cutout of her kind. Her character development, albeit less forced than I previously anticipated, is still mediocre. Created a weak character, her conclusion does not achieve the supposed emotional impact. On the other hand, the main villain is fleshed out in a self-explanatory manner. He sports a more complex psyche as well as a good humorous touch. 
Then, art and animation. The art largely retains the original early-2000s style. One noticeable change is that the character's facial details are far more simplified, thus restraining them from more complex expressions, which could have been a decent supplement to the supposedly rich emotions and character developments. The animation, while decent in the contemporary context, is no longer on par with those of the previous seasons. The actions are less smooth and stunning. The choreography is occasionally inconsistent. And as the show progress to the end, animation errors begins to pop up, further degrading the overall quality.
The soundtrack is not tense enough for an action show nor unique enough compared to its predecessors. Worse, it often feels incongruous.
In a word, apart from being the canon ending of Samurai Jack, this show is still watchable, yet forgettable. But once again, nowadays, what can you expect from an IP that has not been relevant for more than a decade. Probably we should be fortunate that the staffs of this show knew what they were doing, or, more accurately, what they were struggling to do, with this franchise instead of tramping it like The Powerpuff Girls, ultimately creating a cash-grabbing, horrendous abomination.


                
