Samurai Jack is the definition of an action cartoon series. 
It shows a magnificent samurai, dubbed the name Jack, on a journey to return to the past after he is sent to a dark and unwelcome future run by his archnemesis, the dark shape-shifting wizard Aku.  Along the way, he helps restore order to the forsaken wasteland run by evil controllers in often incredibly action-packed, or otherwise hilarious, ways (in one episode, Jack is turned into a rooster and is forced to take part in cock fighting--which is actually legal during that time).Genndy Tartakouvsky is an animation genius, coming out with ideas such as Dexter's Laboratory, The Powerpuff Girls, and the micro-series Star Wars: Clone Wars, which has a second season coming up.  The artwork for Samurai Jack is beautiful and the battle scenes are well-thought and brilliantly drawn.  The adventures that Jack goes through can be sometimes funny, but still are always action packed.  The ideas for Jack's adventures are brilliant as well.Overall: solid storyline, brilliant characters, well-thought adventures, beautiful artwork, and even more brilliant action.Rating: 10 out of 10.  This series rocks period.


                
Samurai Jack is definitely a classic cartoon, but it has some serious flaws that I think many people are just turning a blind eye to. The first two seasons especially have some very egregious problems, specifically with the animation.In the first two seasons, the animation is especially choppy and stilted. The animators decided to go style-over-substance in many of these early episodes, using changing frame rates, slow-mo, and other stylistic choices hoping to mask the long portions of reaction-shots, very choppy and non-fluid motion, and almost uncanny movements (or lack thereof) by the characters. That is to say nothing of the character design. I think many are ascribing the geometric body shapes and odd proportions undeserved artistic merit, not to mention the uninspired designs for a myriad of villains and aliens. Not to say that the show is artistically bankrupt, but sometimes it seems obvious that it's not trying as hard as it could.The episodic structure is a little grating at times, with some continuity ignored. Some of my least favorite episodes are Jack vs. Mad Jack; Jack, the Woolies, and the Critchellites; Jack Learns to Jump Good; and especially Jack vs. the Five Hunters. They all have some problem that I've mentioned here. So, how could I give all these gripes about a show and still rate it an 8 out of 10? In the third season, the animation gets a significant upgrade, and that also improves the action. I think it was some of those early season 3 episodes where I could really catch the vision of what the creators were trying to do with the show. As I said before, the show is far from artistically bankrupt, and some of the show's best episodes are also from those first two seasons: Jack and the Three Blind Archers; Jack and the Scotsman; Aku's Fairy Tales, among others. The show also had some great comedy. Mako's voice acting (which was probably around 60% of all the voice acting in the show) was tremendous, and the soundtrack was truly superb. I think the show really does hold up as a classic, but there are some errors that are overlooked. Also, season 5 is a beast unto itself, very different from its original run, but inheriting its predecessor's quality.


                
SAMURAI JACK should've kept airing to compete with Avatar. It wouldn't win, but people would still watch it like they used to. I don't remember he plot since I haven't seen it in a long time. I remember, "Aku!". I remember a tree, and a boy. And him being from the past, now in the future trying to go back to the past.This show was like a samurai version of Back to the Future. Except it's like Back to the Future 2. I loved the style of it. They animated and drew the characters very great. It reminds me of the Powerpuff girl's dad.I recommend this show for everyone.
I didn't think much of this show until the middle of last decade but when I tried it it was really good. Action, not a lot of talking, suspense, thrills, a warrior with a sword (a former MadTV regular), and a master of darkness (who would later voice Uncle Iroh on Avatar: The Last Airbender); all combined for a good series. Plus, each episode focuses on a different theme. Aliens, Ancient Egypt, desert thrills, demons, gangsters, bounty hunters, and even a Scottish warrior. What a package!


                
So I have recently started watching the new episodes of Samurai Jack on Cartoon Network's Adult Swim. This had been a real treat seeing as the show was on hiatus for some time.I have enjoyed this series so far.. Most episode of SJ is great, with very few exceptions. The latest installment has been intriguing, though not as good as the first 4 seasons.While Samurai Jack is still a great show, it has gotten darker. Blood and battles galore. I wouldn't suggest it for younger viewers. Season 5 is starting to climax and I hope that it keeps getting better. Genndy knows what his viewers like and he doesn't fail in that aspect. Major spoiler..... Jack falls in love. I was hoping that Genddy wouldn't take that route, but I had a feeling it was coming down to that. The series keeps getting better every week. I'll be sad when it's over.
Seriously,I don't care if you don't know the ending,just don't watch the last season. I used to love this and it was a 10/10 for me,but this last season just turned it into a cliché mess with a shitty ending and I hate it.It could've been good,but nope. So please,save yourself from this let down


                
