I thought that America had no imagination left in the realm of animation. Yes, there's Disney and Don Bluth and Bakshi...  But that was 'then'...  I had no hope left...  Then a teeny-tiny channel called "the Cartoon Network" appeared...  Hmm...  Dexter...  Powerpuff Girls...  Hmm...  Then came a Samurai warrior...  HOLY @#$%&*!   Where did this come from?  WOW!  In the history of American animated TV series I have never seen such great craftmanship...  The backgrounds are exquisite.  Painted, airbrushed, computer-generated -I DON'T CARE!!!  They are beautful.  Not only in it's execution but it's scheer originality and beauty.  The lack of symmetry and use of light and odd colors add to its uniqueness and effect.  It adds so much to the wonder of the bizarre Aku-ruled Earth.  ACTION!  SO MUCH ACTION!!!!  Wonderful, swift, exciting and technically magnificent.  The fight scenes are choreographed wonderfully and just plain EXCITING!!! I've never said that about any animated show!  Jack's eyes and movements flow sweetly and say so much.  Very few cartoons come across so well (Ren & Stimpy is an exception) with such grace and simplicity without losing it's integrity.  But the artwork isn't the end of it:  GREAT WRITING!!!  What's that?  Writing?  Wha?  Yes.  The terrific stories and engaging characters are just as electric and fresh as the artwork that represents it.  Every time I watch an episode there is always something I don't expect.  So much creativity pours from either the animator's pens or the writer's pens. BEST ANIMATED SHOW OF ALL TIME.  Yes, even better than BATTLE OF THE PLANETS... well maybe...  ;)


                
Samurai Jack is up there with some of my favourite animated series because it's a show with great action, science fiction, fantasy, animation and good vs. evil. It tells the story of an extremely skilled samurai warrior with a magic sword is sent far into the future by the evil shapeshifter, Aku and the samurai, who goes by the name Jack, must travel the world in search for a way back to the past and defeat Aku while being hunted by Aku's bounty hunters and minions and helping those in need. It's not hard to see why Samurai Jack was a success with both critics and audiences and how it won 4 Primetime Emmy Awards. Most of the episodes are brilliant but some of my favourite episodes are "Ultra Robots", "The Beginning" and "The Spartans". And I'm also glad that they decided to bring back Samurai Jack after over a decade and make new episodes and a whole new season and hopefully it will end Jack's journey and maybe we will finally get see Jack return to the past and defeat Aku and we could also find out what Jack's real name is as well.
Samurai Jack is an American animated television series created by Genndy Tartakovsky for Cartoon Network. The series follows time- displaced samurai warrior "Jack" (voiced by Phil LaMarr) in his singular quest to find a method of traveling back in time and defeating the tyrannical demonic wizard Aku (voiced by Mako Iwamatsu). Episode plots range from dark and epic to lighthearted and comic, but often contain little dialogue. Stories instead rely on the series' highly detailed, outline-free, masking-based animation, as well as its cinematic style and pacing. Many battle scenes in the series are reminiscent of samurai films and since Jack's robot enemies bleed out oil or electricity and his monster and alien foes bleed out slime or goo, the action of these films can be exhibited while avoiding censorship for blood and violence.After being sent into the future by evil wizard Aku, young samurai Jack makes a quest to return to the past and undo the destruction caused by the wizard. Along the way Jack enlists allies to defeat some of Aku's henchmen and other villains before getting to the top dog to defeat him and find the portal that can return Jack to his own time. "Samurai Jack" was created by Genndy Tartakovsky, who had previously created "Dexter's Laboratory," one of Cartoon Network's first original series.It is one of my favorites animated series till now,with only regret of not knowing its end!!!!!!


                
When you watch a movie like Shichinin no Samurai, Spartacus, or one of the contemporary ones, The Lord of the Rings, you get the feeling that is so genuine, so imposing that you sense the change of your heart rate, in the scene of Aragorn's Speech at the Black Gate for instance. Samurai Jack, simply gives you the same emotion, and thrill for every single episode of it.Even in the episodes that the cartoon does not sustain any concerns about giving messages, the show excites you and makes you feel wonder about it. Scenes presenting a minimalist description with all details and the objects used intentionally are so realistic, and more than being realistic, so appropriate, and just. Basic elements like evil and good, justice and injustice, past and future, conventionalism or tradition and modernism or mechanization are presented so inventive, since you expect nothing more than originality from a cartoon, this show is exact and complete. Samurai Jack is also entertaining, as a cartoon should be, containing absurd comedy elements that are situational.If I had a chance to turn a cartoon into movie, that cartoon would definitely be Samurai Jack, yet, maybe the perfection of the show is due to its type and drawings. So, just enjoying the show as it is, is the best chance to have.


                
When i watched it before i thought it was OK at first,but when i kept on watching it i was just in love with the series.This show has the awesome animation that is top notch like batman the animated series. Every time i watch it feels like I'm watching a movie instead.I love how this show has little to no dialog and it lets the scenery set the mood,which is just so great.Now the only thing i have to say is a flaw is that i feel that jack is getting no where near Aku and completing his quest,but all the good stuff about the show, i guess kind of balances it out.All in all everyone should really give samurai jack a shot and see if u like it a lot.


                
First, I have read all the other reviews here, and 99% of them are right on the mark. I'm not going to argue what's the "best" animation because everyone has a different opinion of what makes a good animation. For some people it's technical achievements, for some it's the same as any other movie (plot, script, acting, direction, music). For others it's a simple "does it make me feel good, did I enjoy the story" Some people like computer animations, some like hand drawn. Personally, I don't see any difference at all. Sure the LOOK is different, but there's a LOT more to a good animation than just what was used to create it. Some of my favorite animations were done on computer (Reboot by Mainframe Entertainment comes to mind) and some were hand drawn (Disney, Studio Ghibli). All are good IMHO For myself, it's a little bit of everything. However, I have to say in this case Samurai Jack has something different about it that seems lacking in most North American shows. I don't know if it's purely the art, or the way the creators make everything blend in so well (characters, humor, story) but whatever it is, I was sold on Samurai Jack from the first episode I watched.I have finally managed to purchase all the DVDs (all 4 seasons), and am quite happy I did as I had missed a season or two when it first aired.If you are an animation lover you have GOT to see this animation. This is what all good cartoons should be.I just have to mention this one thing, I couldn't let it go. Some idiot wrote a review. Obviously the guy needs to do a little work on his comprehension. He whines that he hates just about everything about the show. He says "(Remember that each episode consists of Jack traveling into the past through many past time lines, in order to destroy Aku)" Please don't pay ANY attention to this review. The guy has no understanding of even the SIMPLEST of plots. Jack does not go "into the past" every episode. I have no idea where he got this from. There are a couple of shows where there are flashbacks of Jack in the past during his childhood, but there is no "traveling into the past through many past time lines" as that reviewer mentioned. Considering he cannot even understand a simple plot, I would have to say it's safe to discount the rest of his review.
Samurai Jack is the greatest thing Genndy Tartakovsky ever created from the ground up. Samurai Jack is what got Genndy the directing job for Star Wars: Clone Wars back in 2003, a similarly excellent cartoon that demonstrates what animation can achieve is something live-action drama only dreams of doing right. The action is over-the-top and is a spot-on adaptation of comic book sequences mixed in with Akira Kurosawa-esque iconography.Wonderful stuff through and through. Fast, funny and downright furious entertainment that refuses to let you get bored by any details. It's a Cartoon Network classic.


                
If I had to choose my favorite series of Cartoon Network then Samurai Jack would take the first place easily. This series mixed the samurai, with the post apocalypse and Tartakovsky and his team put their lives and souls to make perhaps the first animated series apart from anime with a truly cinematic feel. When I heard that the series would continue and end this year I hoped that the last 10 episodes would do justice to Jack and not only they did it but the series was stronger than ever and the ending though a bit rushed was fitting for a series like that. It has both a satisfying conclusion but also a feel of closing for you realize that this is it! As for the travels Jack had not a single one of the places he visited felt like a functional environment with culture, history ,even their own ecosystems and all that in just 25 minutes. The same applies to the characters Jack and we encounter ,they are quit memorable and some have backstories that will put your heart strings.To the fighting itself ,amazing it has been more than a decade that Jack was missing but his style and the struggles he has to pull through are the stuff of legends ,like the impact he has to each place he visits as we see in the final season. And as for the villain Aku ,the main villain has one of them most sadistic and at the time funny personality and this two aspect plain-ed excellently.In the end this series was part of my childhood and I remember it funnily and now that has a conclusive end I also fill like a part of my younger self had a conclusion about something that he loved to watch ,unlike with Prehistoric Park, Primeval, Justice League Unlimited, Wolverine and the X-men, Spiderman (1994) and Kyle XY.


                
Genndy must have loved Samurai Jack. This is the best cartoon I have ever seen throughout my life. I used to watch cartoon network in my childhood. I had a chance only to get a glimpse of SJ at early morning. I liked SJ very much, though not knowing much about him. If CN had shown SJ without cutting into bits and at a watchable time, this series would have been a greatest hit. I was interested in CN in my childhood, but now as a young adult, I like only SJ in cartoons. I despise my beloved CN for not telecasting completely the SJ series. My hats off for Samurai Jack, the "most of the times" realistic cartoon. My cousins(children,3) too loved this.


                
