"Snatch" is fantastic; and not least because it demonstrates emphatically that the British movie industry is capable of rivaling even the best of what Hollywood can offer."Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels" was one of the funniest movies released in recent years, and "Snatch" takes everything that "Lock, Stock..." did so well and does it even better.Back are the cleverly intertwined plotlines, the hilarious one-liners, and the simultaneously intimidating and comedic London villains. So is the skillful editing, and often original cinematographic style. This time however, it all looks somewhat slicker and better funded, and alongside the British regulars are the odd American celebrity (Brad Pitt, Benicio Del Toro).Everyone in the film puts in an excellent performance, but Pitt stands out as a charismatic and near-incomprehensible Gypsy boxer.Like Ritchie's earlier film, this one takes a little while to find its feet, but once it does the pace doesn't slacken until the finale. One scene featuring three guys and a squeaking dog in a stolen car stands out particularly, and left the audience at my local cinema almost weeping as punchline after punchline was uttered.When it comes to comedies, I cannot recommend this one highly enough. If you're after a good laugh, you won't find much to better "Snatch".


                
I was never really too keen on "Lock, Stock And Two Smoking Barrels".  All my friends constantly quoted it, raved and ranted, and then when "Snatch" came out, everyone made an even bigger deal of that.  I watched Lock Stock, and though I did like it, it didn't really tickle my fancy.  But Snatch, that's a completely different story all together.When I saw Snatch at the cinemas, I was shocked to see a couple leave only fifteen minutes into the film.  As they left, you could hear their intellectually deficient comments; "this movie is so boring".  I couldn't believe it!  I'd recommend this movie to ANYONE, The Pope even!There are hundreds of thousands of reasons for anyone to see this movie; each word of the script being a reason.Snatch is possibly one of THE best written movies I've seen. It's smart, witty, funny and has just the right touches of dark humour.  With characters like Turkish, Mickey, Tommy, Brick Top, Bullet Tooth Tony and Cousin Avi; their witty repartee will have your personal quotes list full for months after watching it.  The camera work and editing complement each other to keep the film's pace on its toes, much like the boxers at the center of the character's stories.Jason Statham has some of THE best lines in the movie, constantly slamming anything even slightly intelligent his partner Tommy has to say.  Brad Pitt turns out an excellent performance as the Irish-Gypsy-Pykie Mickey; his accent is hilarious.  Even though the story line is only a simple one (following a massive Diamond through England's criminal underworld), it is the connections each character has to the diamond and each other that really makes this film stand out from all the usual jewel-heist films.Another 10 / 10 from me on this one, it's just a pity the follow up to Snatch was a "collaborative effort" from Mr. Richie and his um.......wife.


                
Guy Richie's follow up to Lock Stock and Two Smoking barrels is every bit as astonishing as its predecessor. The humour is better and I have never seen people in a cinema laugh as loud and as frequently as they did here. Vinnie Jones plays a similar role as Big Chris, here as Bullet Tooth Tony. His appearance is limited but boy does he make an impact. Even when he is not on screen there is much to savour from Dennis Farina as Avi and a trio of pawnbrokers who are sent to rob a bookies. Brad Pitt sheds his movie start personna and preforms impressively as an Irish gypsie. Unlike Lock Stock.. the humour will appeal to all nationalities. However they mind some slang expressions such as Pikey and blag hard to understand. Good preformances, fantastic characters, razor sharp diologue, expert direction and camera work and brilliant humour, Snatch will make you laugh more than any other movie this year. See it now.


                
This movie is perfect in all its categories: credits, sound track, production, casting, writing, photography, editing, acting, and direction. 10/10.I was amazed with the freedom of the use of the camera. This movie will change the way movies are made. Slow-mo, stills, black and white, and color were all used to brilliant effect.I must pick out specific actors who were just over the top - meaning 10+!Jason Statham as "Turkish" is simply superb - a star of very high caliber. (You should see him in anything he made, and read my comment about John Carpenter's movie: "Ghosts of Mars.")Alan Ford as "Brick Top" is terrifying - his forced speaking style made me think that he was chewing on the flesh of his previous victim.Vinnie Jones as "Bullet Tooth Tony" is total tough head to foot tough - a walking brick wall - a marine for all seasons - none tougher.Brad Pitt as "Mickey O'Neil" is utterly 110% convincing. I never liked Mr. Pitt's work before this - but this one totally sold me - he is as solid an actor as ever came out of Hollywood... and better!Finally, Guy Ritchie should be recognized as a Michelangelo of film.-LD


                
Last year I was working on the IMDb Top 250 list, and I noticed that Snatch was on the list, so I decided to take a look at it. I was in Denmark at that time. I live in Faroe Islands.I stayed at my uncle's apartment, and he told me that you have to watch some of Guy Ritchie's movies before watching Snatch to get to know his movies better, so I watched Revolver. I was not very keen on it and then I was not looking forward to see Snatch.While my uncle was not at home, I decided to watch it. I wanted to turn it off after the first second, because I thought it was so weird. I'm 14 years old now, and I knew almost nothing about cinema back then, and I had never seen such a movie like Snatch, and it's style! I thought it would be stupid of me to turn it off after 1 second so I kinda forced myself to watch it. To be honest, I actually loved the weird style after 10 minutes!The cinematography was great. I had never seen something like that before and the editing was just as great too. There were lots of great characters and the script was excellent. It was funny and clever and it will you make you laugh every single second! This movie is like Pulp Fiction. You can almost quote every line! The acting was totally awesome! Jason Statham, Vinnie Jones and the rest were great, but Brad Pitt totally stole the show!I was thinking to myself "This movie can't be any better!", but then it got better! Brad Pitt showed up! His accent got me laughing all the time! My stomach hurt, it literally hurt, and I got many bruises on my thighs because I could not stop hitting myself from laughing!This was one of the few movies that I didn't want to end, so I decided to watch it again the next day and the next day after that.I have seen a lot of movies in my life, but there are few movies that are better than this one! It's definitely in my top 15 of all time.It truly deserves a 10/10


                
I saw Sherlock Holmes a couple of months ago and it was very good. I couldn't believe how much I enjoyed that and my friends were raving about Guy Ritchie's style of film-making. So, now I wanted to see Ritchie's previous works & rented out Snatch as it was 135 in the top 250 of IMDb. I have to say I was very impressed. I didn't want to know anything about this film beforehand as it takes away something from the experience and told my friends to shut up about the plot of Snatch. This was Jason Statham's second film, he was not so well known and Brad Pitt was already a superstar. This is one of the best films out there and I totally agree with IMDb users.So, this is the plot. Unscrupulous boxing promoters, violent bookmakers, a Russian gangster, incompetent amateur robbers, and supposedly Jewish jewelers fight to track down a priceless stolen diamond.Turkish (Jason Statham) and Mickey O'Neil (Brad Pitt) are obviously the first reason anyone would want to watch to the film. I cannot believe how awesome both Statham & Pitt were in this movie. Tommy is like Turkish's brother, they have known each other for a long time. Turkish is a boxing promoter. He entangles himself in Brick Top's hands, who is a bookmaker and Brick Top is a man you wouldn't want to end up owing him. Franky Four Fingers has a large diamond, 86 carats, which he stole and he is in league with cousin Avi. Boris The Blade wants the diamond. Everyone's a gangster or a goon, so this is a film which has nobody but thugs. Doug The Head is a dealer & if anyone knows about the diamond, he is the man. He has two twin daughters working as his assistants in his shop. Anyway, Tommy wants a caravan for himself and Turkish and goes to the pikeys to buy one. But, there he is scammed and Gorgeous George (Turkish's boxer in the unlicensed match in which Brick Top has invested a large amount of money) and Mickey fight it out in a bare knuckle match and Mickey wins, so George is out for a few months. Now, Turkish hires Mickey as the boxer for the match. The deal was that Mickey had to go down in the fourth round, but he wins in one shot, which doesn't go down too well with Brick Top. Sol and his bumbling amateur robbers get involved with the diamond, the damn dog is in all the scenes they are in which is very funny. Bullet Tooth Tony also wants the diamond. You know what? Trying to explain the plot line is ridiculous. All you need to know is, the story is set in London and most of the English spoken is in British accent.Mickey's mom is burned down along with the caravan by Brick Top because Mickey tried to get a new caravan for his mother from Turkish and had said he wouldn't fight till he got it. That was very touching, the expression on Brad Pitt's face made me so sad for his mother, I felt is anguish & anger. That was a defining moment in the film. Then the big finale match at the end of the film was just awesome. Tommy, Turkish, Mickey's life and the lives of the whole family and friends of Mickey are on the line on this match. Being the bastard Mickey is, he could not possibly go down in the fourth round at least this time, can he? Brad Pitt, Jason Statham & everybody give an engrossing performance. The film is pure brilliancy on the part of Guy Ritchie, the man has style ingrained on his bones, every scene is visually stylistic and the dialogues are superb, the background score is also really catchy. The way he has interwoven the lives of all these characters is brilliant. How else can you empathize with these characters who are all basically villains going against each other? One thing is for sure, you cannot predict one scene in the film, no matter how many movies you have watched. Go snatch a copy of 'Snatch' (I am lame, I know.) 10/10
This move has everything. Guy Richie really nailed it, lock stock is a insanely entertaining but this one is even better and funnier. Every single scene is great and i just couldn't stop laughing. This movie is one of my all time favorites kicks as movies. I wish there where more movies like this but it's self explanatory it's unique. I recommend everyone to see this movie, you will not be disappointed. It's funny its clever it's ironic its everything... Great directing by Guy Richie, the movie is highly creative and enormously entertaining i simply loved it. If you liked lock stock and two smoking barells, you will definitely love this one. Snatch 9.0/10


                
I honestly never really cared of Guy Richie and had no intention of ever trying to see anything he did, I mean the guy's married to Maddona.Snatch is one of those rare movies that you can easily pick up and watch over and over again. Not since Pulp Fiction have I ever been able to watch a movie and laugh at the jokes Every time I watch it. Yes, for those of you who haven't seen it, Snatch is very funny. Filled with very memorable characters, very creative direction and editing and top notch performances from everyone involved, Snatch is very easy to recommend and is a riot when watching it with friends (Who have very dark tastes.) Go and watch this movie today if possible 10 out of 10.


                
I completely agree with Zafoid. This movie is the best ever made. I love all the actors/characters to death. But no one seems to notice Tommy. He's my favorite. He acts so well in the crying part and everywhere else. Just take moment to spot the genius. Brad Pitt became my favorite actor thanks to this movie too. I can go on and on for days explaining how i love every detail of the movie, especially the soundtrack.Every song. Even the trailer has amazing music. I repeat. The best movie ever made. Second best is Lock,Stock & Two Smoking Barrels, Ocean's 11, Ocean's 12. You have got to see those movies. But they will never win Snatch.


                
The tightly knit formula for the average "heist movie", is constantly in danger of becoming predictable to the point of redundancy with each new increasingly formulaic entry, so to see a film quietly whisk in and reinvigorate the genre was a refreshing feat indeed. And if anyone was up for the task, it was visionary director Guy Ritchie, sweeping into theaters fresh off his cult classic Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels to deliver his most hard hitting, savagely funny and effortlessly stylish film to date - Snatch. Director Ritchie has somewhat fallen out of favour with both critics and audiences of late with both his ill-advised cinematic tribute to his wife Madonna, Swept Away, and his nonsensical gambling drama Revolver, so it is easy to forget how masterful a filmmaker he can truly be when given the chance. Ritchie's convoluted tale, which ties together three parallel stories involving a diamond theft and the world of unlicensed bare knuckle boxing in the British underground may prove to be too full of twists and turns to be followed entirely on the first viewing. This, along with the stylistic similarities to its predecessor may prove to be the film's only major criticism; however, it is highly unlikely the majority of audiences will feel alienated by the fact that the adrenaline fuelled plot may prove hard to follow, and instead relish the chance to revisit the film multiple times to pick up on things they may have missed in previous viewings. In a film with as much to appreciate as this, it comes as no surprise that multiple viewings never seem to detract from the experience, but that the film seems only to increase in quality upon each viewing. Stylistically, the film is in a class of its own, employing hyper-kinetic cinematography and editing, which proves to be some of the most vivid and inventive work demonstrated in recent cinematic history. The film's score and musical selection is consistently pitch perfect, and endlessly catchy, never failing to amplify the seedy yet comical mood. Ritchie's sense of pacing is impeccable, and how a film which opens with a group of Jewish rabbis entering a bank, (which in itself sounds like the beginning to a particularly brilliant joke) only to steal its valuable contents, launching the film into an adrenaline fuelled title sequence could ever be considered not funny or at the very least oozing with style is beyond conventional logic. Ritchie also proves to have a real eye for location, and in each scene the viewer feels fully immersed in the grunge and filth of the underground, making the film that much more effective. The ensemble cast rise to the challenge of bringing Ritchie's brilliant screenplay to life, and turn out universally superb performances, each creating a unique and memorable character, complete with catchy names. Jason Statham is consistently strong as boxing promoter Turkish; his deadpan delivery and excellent narration carry the film wonderfully. Steven Graham similarly raises many a laugh as his consistently dumbfounded sidekick, Tommy. Benicio Del Toro makes wonderful use of his far too brief screen time as gambling addicted diamond thief Franky Four Fingers - his Las Vegas gambling flashbacks are nothing less than flat out hilarious. Ritchie favourite Vinnie Jones is savagely hilarious as mercenary Bullet Tooth Tony (a role it would seem is only a step away from his real life persona) and Russian actor Rade Serbedzija creates a simply classic character as arms dealer 'Boris the Blade'. Character actor Alan Ford makes for an exquisitely menacing antagonist as gambling shark 'Brick Top', and Robbie Gee and Lennie James are consistently hilarious as thoroughly unlucky attempted jewellery thieves. But surprisingly enough, the film's unlikely standout proves without a question to be its biggest star: Brad Pitt, waltzing in to steal the show as incomprehensible 'Pikey' boxer Mickey - an egoless and thoroughly hilarious performance. Though this may be familiar ground for those who have seen Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels, Guy Ritchie's Snatch is no less enjoyable as a result - brutally violent, caustic and hilarious, with Ritchie's trademark sense of incomparable style. Snatch excels in every possible aspect, and the truly talented cast bring their vibrant characters to life with unquestionable flair, each one flat out hilarious when given their moment to shine. Though all of the film's intricacies may not be entirely clear on the first viewing, this only makes each following viewing all the more intriguing and entertaining. For those who have yet to appreciate the cinematic genius that is Snatch... don't wait for protection from "Zee Germans", simply see it!-10/10


                
Snatch is definitely much better than Ritchies first movie "Lock Stock and Two Smoking Barrels" and is one of the most underrated films ever. I don't know why no one has ever seen this movie, its gotta be up there with some of the funnest, and most creative movies ever. Its fast the whole time, you never get bored, it has a good mix of action and dialogue. Its one of the coolest movies you'll ever see. Go out, rent it, and then buy it. Its better than any other below the belt action movies you can get. Its funny, smart, and there is really no other movie like it. The acting is good, story is even better, Ritchie is one of the best new directors and everyone should go out and see his movies. Go out and buy this movie before it disappears, you wont be sorry


                
Greed. It's everywhere if you just look for it. The fact that the film is called Snatch shows the main theme of the movie. The word "snatch" means to seize something in haste, which shows that greed is the motivational factor for all characters in the film. Vinny and Sol's use of fake guns b/c they were cheaper than real ones. The movie ends with the circle of wealth still being passed on to others. Boris shows his greed in the scene where he cuts off Franky's entire arm, he obviously only needed to cut his hand to get the suitcase, but took more than he needed. Recurring instances of pigs show greed also, sausages, Brick Top's pigs, etc. When the dog is given the toy, it greedily swallows it whole. Many instances of fighting for money. The movie has a widely diverse cast, which shows the interaction between cultures for the purpose of trade. Each of the character's names represents a common quality of their individual culture. In most societies, Men are dominant in the making and handling of money. This is why the film has no females in it's cast. Women are shown mostly with wealthy men, possibly possessions of these men. Greed is brilliantly presented in subtle and extreme ways throughout the entire movie. It makes the film more interesting to watch after you think about this.


                
What's amazing to me is that American filmmakers keep churning out movies with no plot, bad special effects, terrible dialog, horrible acting, cartoonishly fake fight scenes, and the public simply goes crazy for it. Hollywood is to movies what fast food is to fine cuisine.Here is a great British movie that didn't get a lot of hype. It's fresh, different, edgy, and creative. Why Guy Ritchie didn't do more like this I couldn't guess (Lock, stock & 2 smoking barrels is also a must see). Unlike most American movies, the acting is all around phenomenal, but the best performances go to the actors playing Brick Top & Bullet Tooth Tony. The story has so many twists and it'll keep you guessing until the end. The humor in this is very dark, & the film has a certain "grittiness" to it that is perfect for the story & characters.Do yourself a favor, & check this out. You won't be disappointed.


                
This movie had one flaw...Diction. The britsh was so cockney I couldn't understand a word they were saying. But other than that it was badass. It worked so perfectly. The story, the way it was filmed was totally flawless. It was boss. Jason Statham was very good in this movie. I was quite enjoying the depth in characters. Thats what I love in movies. I can't believe they put Brad Pitt in this. All together this was a brilliant. I love Guy Richie movies. Perfect Cast. Perfect Story. Perfectly Filmed. See it and be amazed. ********************************* out of *************************************.


                
I thought this movie was really entertaining . It really kept me interested the whole time . It was packed with loads of action , and also had some laugh out load humor . Brad Pitt once again stole the screen as a Irish fast talking gypsy . He did an amazing job . Snatch is one of the coolest movies of this generation . It was also a very comical movie . The whole plot of the story really grabs your attention from the get go . I loved the action and I loved the realistic feel of the movie , it wasn't some fake movie it made me feel like it was real life . This movie will keep you entertained throughout the whole thing and will make you laugh .Tava


                
that they see it snatch the Vincent is a gardener who who is at, Brad Pitt who does not early do what that. When a stone snatch is stolen, Pitt is ended on a bar rule. The way it returns is: this. Vinnie Jones is a hard nut slamming heads in doors again!! then. what does that guy have to say when he does it. of that. What a melon, moustache buns, stolen a 9-carat stone what is. then the routes are blocked by a reads vengeance. Sol,Vinnie and Dezz. who don't do i!!? . when he does not Mickey the Irish boxer. the dog Daisy is the one who does it all. when what happens happens to Boris the blade. Overall the film is a great masterpiece from Guy Ritchie and i recommend it to everyone who likes cockney gangster movies.
Wow! Thats basically all I would need to say to describe the film. Guy Ritchie was brilliant to come out with that kind of scenario and the execution was great with good actors (Brad Pitt, Vinnie Jones....). It is not the newest movie but certainly stays in my gold fond for a long time. I cant say that this is the best movie i have seen but competes in no doubt with the best. All the way long the movie kept going and there were not a single moment when I would of thought of taking a leak or making my self a sandwich. In one word my thoughts were all the time in Snatch. Usually the big errors in the execution catch my eye but in a moment i cant remember any that would of had disturbed me. OK i guess i have to see it again then.


                
The basic idea of Snatch is that a botched diamond heist leads to a wild and tangled adventure involving gangsters, boxers, and a detailed look at the London underground scene.The film has many story lines that seem to weave in and out of each other so seamlessly that it gives the film a unique style. Explaining the story is a real pig but here goes - The story goes something like this - Franky Four Fingers (Benicio del Toro) arrives in London to deliver a consignment of stolen gems to Doug "The Head" (Mike Reid), In the capital, Franky crosses paths with a "sneaky *beep* Russian" Boris "The Blade" (Rade Serbedzija), who is planning to half-inch the prize diamond for himself while Franky is at the bookies. Unfortunately, Boris's accomplices make a pig's ear of the stick-up, and the rock ends up in the stomach of a deranged mutt.Meanwhile in another plot line would-be boxing promoters Turkish (Jason Statham) and Tommy (Stephen Graham) find themselves in a "tight spot" with local kingpin Bricktop (Alan Ford) in a forthcoming illegal boxing match when their fighter is accidentally knocked out by Irish gypsy Mickey O'Neill (Brad Pitt). Unable to cancel the bout, the pair persuades Bricktop to allow them to enter Mickey in place of their injured man. Unfortunately, the "pikey" Irishman refuses to obey orders to "go down in the fourth", embarrassing Bricktop and his associates and losing him a few bob in the process Unafraid to use bloodshed to make his point, Bricktop exacts a terrible revenge on Mickey's family to stress the point that when he says go down in the fourth, he means it.This film is amazingly more of a cockney comedy than a serious ("the getaway" game style) London gangster plot. Vinnie Jones excels in the role of a London hard nut it's what he does best and the accomplices of the Russian are brilliantly funny and lighten the dark and gritty reality of the plot considerably A definite work of extreme style form Guy Ritchie with an urban soundtrack to match the plot, this film is a welcome follow-up to "Lock Stock and Two Smoking Barrels" which is also worth watching. No offence but this isn't one for heart warming characters or American critics they just don't understand a Great British gangster film<U+0085>with Balls!


                
I saw this at a preview showing 5 days before it came out in the UK and am glad I did.  Well what can I say basically 'Snatch' is 'Lock Stock' but with a diamond.  However, don't let this distract you from what is a very funny, well-shot and visually enjoyable film.Guy Ritchie propels the story along with blistering pace trying to fit a fast range of characters and in some cases this can become confusing to who is who and what is what.  In any normal case this would make the film a poorly put together piece however, it is down to Ritchie's exciting visual style, which keeps you, hooked to the brilliant ending.  You certainly won't get bored cause of the amount of images being throw at you, is incredible.This all round down in an astonishing final fist fight involving Brad Pitt, which mixes all the elements before hand into a visual adventure, with every trick included 10 times as good as any fight you will see in 'Fight Club'. All I say is that don't go and see this film and expect to see anything different to 'Lock Stock' in the story department, however, if you liked Ritchie's stylist touches then you will defiantly enjoy this cause it is full of them.  Enjoy.


                
It's pretty rare that you see a movie like SNATCH.  This movie hits its audience with action and just about anything else it can think of to throw. Every character is larger than life, and each performance is amazing. With characters like Bullet-Tooth Tony, Boris (the Blade), Freddy Four Fingers, and the unintelligible Mickey, this movie is definitely worth a viewing (or 10).


                
This is my first review on this website so bare with me! I was really excited about seeing this film as people had been telling me about it for years. I wasn't really sure what to expect at first, but it soon became clear that it was a fantastic film.The blackmail, the mindless violence, and of course, the cockney slang all made this movie a classic London gangster case. I thought that the camera shots all added to the live effect and made it all the more real.The storyline was fantastic, twisting and turning throughout the whole time. It never once bored me, and all the characters acted to the best the of their abilities, including the star of the show, Brad Pitt.I would recommend this film to anyone who likes London gangster flicks. You will not be let down.


                
this is the best film I've ever seen i watch it at least once a month every month. it was the first Guy Ritchie film i saw and since then i have been watching every movie he has ever made. this movie is not only funny but action packed and full of twist and turns. this movie has action, some violence, strong language and great characters all the makings for a great movie and it is the best i have ever seen. Brad Pitt plays a bad ass character as mickey he does some great boxing scenes. boxing the only true man sport. Also Vinnie Jones is excellent, along With Dennis Farina and Jason Statham are the big name actors but every one plays great roles.recommended for everyone.


                
Although they don't produce as many gangster movies as we Americans, the British know how to make some proper, first-rate, sure-fire crime thrillers. Movies such as "The Lavender Hill Mob" (1951), "The League of Gentlemen" (1960), "Robbery" (1967), "The Italian Job" (1969), "Get Carter" (1971), "Sitting Target" (1972), "McVicar" (1980), "The Long Good Friday" (1981), "Buster" (1988), and "The Krays" (1990) exemplify the upper tier of British crime cinema.This sub-genre of crime movies has not been tampered with until recently when an unknown helmer of rock videos and commercials made his first feature in 1995 called "Hard Case." Since then he has crafted the two of the best British crime thrillers in years and rekindled interest in the sub-genre with imitators mimicking his work. Were it not for his marriage to music diva Madonna, we'd probably not be sampling his latest effort in the theaters but waiting for it to appear on the video rental shelves. Guy Ritchie is his name, and Ritchie is rapidly becoming the Francis Ford Coppola of mobster movies in English. (Unfortunately, Ritchie's latest endeavor "Revolver" didn't fare well enough in its theatrical run or with the critics to follow up his previous hits.) Ritchie, who helmed the downright gritty, raucously violent, but thoroughly entertaining gangster epic "Lock, Stock, and Two Smoking Barrels," pounds the mean streets of London once again with his quirky crime comedy "Snatch." Starring Brad Pitt, Benicio Del Toro, Rade Sherbedzija, Vinnie Jones, and Dennis Farina, this splendidly-lensed, ballistically-edited, multi-plotted British mobster saga boasts elements of Quentin Tarantino's "Pulp Fiction," Martin Scorsese's "Goodfellas," David Fincher's "Fight Club," George Roy Hill's "The Sting," and Warren Beatty's "Dick Tracy." While "Lock, Stock, and Two Smoking Barrels" detailed the theft of two antique shotguns and the myriad hands through which the guns passed along with a rigged high stakes poker game, "Snatch" chronicles a diamond heist and the thuggish throng out to nab it as well as unlicensed underground boxing matches. Indeed, while both movies appear roughly similar in plot convolutions and revelations, even sharing cast members Jason Statham and Vinnie Jones, "Snatch" surpasses "LS&TSB" with its "Sting" ending. People that don't like Brad Pitt but enjoyed "Fight Club" will find "Snatch" just as rewarding a movie, too. Like "LS&TSB," the real star of "Snatch" is writer & director Guy Ritchie. He blends comedy and crime without compromising on morality. Bad people pay the piper in this movie, and the consequences of crime are never given the short shrift. Nevertheless, Ritchie has the gift of conjuring comedy in the most unsavory situations. Whether he shows us a dog that chomps a squeaky toy and squeaks afterward with every breath it draws or a fat getaway car driver that can barely squeeze into and out of a small automobile, Ritchie knows how to tweak the formula at the appropriate time and place."Snatch" opens with our reluctant hero, Turkish (Jason Statham), narrating his tale of woe about how his partner Tommy (Stephen Graham) and he have mired themselves in the mother of all messes. Everything starts when Franky Four Fingers (Benicio Del Toro) and his gang hold up an Antwerp jeweler and steal an 84-carat stone for his boss, Avi (Dennis Farina of "Get Shorty"), who is sweating it out back in New York City. Franky lays over in London, meets Russian racketeer Boris the Blade (Rade Sherbedzija) who supplies him with a gun free of charge if Franky will place an illegal boxing bet for him. Eventually, an alarmed Avi freaks out when Franky doesn't show up. Avi contacts his jeweler cousin, Dog the Head (Mike Reid), about Franky's gambling addiction and jumps on a jet for England. Meanwhile, Boris hires two inept black pawnshop dealers, Vinny (Robbie Gee) and Sol (Lennie James), to mug Franky and rip-off the rock. Their botched attempt at sticking up a bookie's secret betting joint will have you slapping your knees and laughing out loud. They wind up kidnapping Franky because they cannot break the chain on the attaché case cuffed to his wrist. The action shifts gears back to Turkish. He dispatches Tommy to buy a caravan to replace the dilapidated trailer that serves as headquarters for his boxing enterprises. Poor Tommy gets taken for everything by a band of Irish gypsies led by Mickey O'Neil (Brad Pitt of "Mr. & Mrs. Smith") who decks Turkish's new boxing champ, Gorgeous George (Adam Fogerty), with one devastating right hook when he challenges Mickey."Snatch" whirls giddily around in so many circles that you almost get dizzy keeping up with its characters that randomly pop in and out of the action. Turkish and Tommy find themselves in deep trouble now because they cut a deal with a crooked boxing promoter, Brick Top (Alan Ford, looking like a maniacal Austin Powers), to have George take a dive in the upcoming fight. Mickey agrees to replace Gorgeous, but George refuses to throw the fight. Anybody that double-crosses ruthless Brick Top can count on not only suffering a horrible death but having their hack-up remains vanish into the feed troughs at Brick Top's man-eating swine farm. Brick Top outlines a frightening but funny scenario about how to dispose of corpses at pig farms, explaining at one point that "a pig can go through bones like butter." The dialogue here is not nearly as incomprehensible as it was in "LS&TSB," except for Pitt's babbling character. The performances are uniformly excellent, with Farina scoring well as the best of the bunch as the New York diamond fence. Before this hilariously funny, extremely-profane, fast-paced fracas fades out, the dexterous Ritchie has ushered audiences on another surprise-laden, whirlwind excursion through an underworld as loony as it is lethal. "Snatch" is a top-notch comic caper worth catching.
somebody said.. not a date rental movie..i beg to differ... watched it on my first date n forgot all about the date got caught up in the movie...!! i have watched it over n over again ever since... i guess part of the reason why i liked the movie was its a complex mixture of detached black humor.. black humor that is over the top and is supported by an equally over the top performances.. just when you thought you were done with double-takes... more double-takes come crashing by..bullet tooth tony... i am even scared to say anything lest he should materialize from somewhere with his well crafted caustic remarks. for want of a better word all i can say awesome.


                
There have been a small handfull of watchable films in the past twelve months.  This is one of them.Guy Ritchie (Lock, Stock, and Two Smoking Barrels) does it again with this tour-de-force heist flick taking cues from Darren Aronofsky and Quentin Tarantino while building off them instead of merely ripping them off.If Quentin Tarantino had made more than one film in the past seven years (he hasn't) then we may never have even heard of Guy Ritchie.  But I'm glad we have.  He's one of the most visually inventive filmmakers of the past fifteen years and it's nice to see something original and creative instead of drek like Traffic and Castaway.


                
