"Snatch" may well be the worst movie I have seen over the past 12 months. Who ever told Guy Ritchie he can direct? Probably the same person who told him Madonna would make a good wife.There are so many places where this film went wrong, I don't know where to begin. But, I'll give it a shot.1. The movie is just too slow. Ritchie certainly is taking us for a wild ride, but the pace is almost as slow as an 80-year-old grandmother driving on the interstate. Ritchie spends too much time spinning his wheels before moving on.2. MTV-Style cinematography. Nothing really wrong with this, provide it is actually used to further the story and the pace of the film. But Ritchie uses it as a gimmick. His lame attemps to dazzle me actually bored me.3. The use of "ethnic types" and "ethnic humor." Again, I have nothing against the use of ethnic humor or the use of race, provided it is not done in a mean spirited manner. Ritchie doesn't cross the line, but he does tread it. Actually, from his portrayals I can see that Ritchie's knowledge of ethnicity is limited to whatever is white Anglo-Saxon Protestant. His use of ethnic humor makes Ritchie look like an idiot.4. Eccentric characters. I love to see really eccentric characters in movies. But again, this is something Ritchie can't handle. Half his characters aren't eccentric enough, and the rest go so far off the deep end that they are not even credible, just one-dimensional. Its as if Ritchie is trying too hard. Also there is a lack of "normal" characters for the eccentrics to play off of.The only positive thing I can say about "Snatch" is that this is the best acting I have ever seen from Brad Pitt. He totally disappeared into his character. Unfortunately, even with Pitt "Snatch" is not worth the time or money to see.


                
In 1998, when "Lock, Stock..." came out, Ritchie was relatively unknown, and that was part of the charm of the movie.  The comedy was refreshing, evenso with visual effects and story teller tricks;  the great surprise was the "everyone"-finale.  The movie was an alternative and commercial hit, which is not an everyday achievement.  The conception of "Snatch", however, cannot be driven by anything different from commercialism: it is an exact copy of "Lock, Stock..."; Ritchie didn't even try to hide it.  Plot, characters and effects are exactly alike - to give an example, the only change made to Vinnie Jones' character in "Lock, Stock..." is the name.  What makes it even worse, is that Ritchie needs visually not entertaining features (stills, name-tags, arrows) to tell his story.  Two highlights, however, are the performances of Alan Ford and Mike Reid: as evil as can be, and therefore entertaining.


                
Snatch has been critically acclaimed throughout and has been praised as such a great film with an interesting take on a British crime, involving many characters. However as watching the film, there were many characters but too many where we did not care for them. The plot at times is confusing with these characters all coming together but in the end we do not really care. For a film with a running time of a little over 1 hour 40 minutes, it feels longer than one should. As an ensemble cast, not many stand out except Jason Statham (in a very early role in his career) and Brad Pitt (though not in a good way, speaking with a difficult hard to hearing accent- and wondering why he took this role). Too many characters, and were not interesting, was hard to remember their names as well. What makes it worse is the constant jumping from characters and scenes. Snatch is quite the overrated film and wondering why it is currently in the IMDb top 250 with a rating of 8.3. Also praise with comedy and having humor but nothing into the film is quite at that, where the scenes feel bland and wondering as to what people found funny. Apart from some of the boxing scenes involving Brad Pitt, the scenes with Jason Statham and the last 20 minutes or so, Snatch is not a good recommend.


                
An atrocious comedic drama which glamorizes criminal activity, violence, and almost mind-numbingly pervasive profanity<U+0085>I had a hard time finishing it. Rest assured that your potential for gaining new insight or finding life-enriching meaning of any kind is slim to none; you definitely will not be uplifted. Even just measuring it in terms of simple entertainment value, its wit & humor don't come close to compensating for its violence. The kinds of flashy bloodshed and theatrical cruelty which are found in films like Snatch desensitize fragile minds and corrode morals in a way that, yes, does in fact facilitate real-world violence.Brief example: the film's analysis of the efficiencies of pig farms for human corpse disposal - some people inevitably walked away reflecting on the strengths & weaknesses of different corpse disposal methods<U+0085>a topic in which they would not have otherwise invested mental energy. I just wish we could have more honest conversations with ourselves and each other about the impact the media to which we expose ourselves has on us individually, and on those among us who are most malleable. Not to be preachy, but that there is any real market for this movie ought to be unsettling to those of us who value human life; this film almost entirely implies that it is worthless. Watch something else<U+0085>there is plenty of better out there to be seen.


                
i see that this is in the top 250.  i thought it might be in the bottom 250, but i guess they are a lot of brad Pitt fans out there.  i am not here to p*** you off or anything but the guy just cant act. the diction in his lines are so slurred, he tries these impersonations, but believe me he is no Kevin Spacey.as for the movie it depiction of blacks is very cruel, and i was totally bored after Benicio left the screen.


                
This movie is really dreadful. Like 'Lock Stock...' but 20 times more annoying. There are loads of famous actors (and Vinnie Jones), all wasted in stupid and underwritten 'character' parts. The dialogue is cliched mockney rubbish, the plot borrows totally from every other british crime pic of the last 50 years, the whole thing is just embarrassingly awful. In fact, the only good thing is Brad Pitt's performance as an Irish gypsy. Guy Ritchie should really stop pretending to be an east-end gangster and turn his talents towards something less annoying.


                
If you like really strange, revolting movies maybe you will like this one. Some of my guy friends convinced me to go see this movie and it was so horrible I couldn't sit through the entire thing, and neither could they! Not even brad pitt (who is a great actor in addition to being beautiful) could make it worth watching. It was the worst movie i've seen in the theater in years.


                
When "professional" movie people decide on a project and spend millions of dollars, (pounds in this case) on a long shot gamble, it must hurt like hell to see results like this.  I say long shot because the script would be full of dialogue like: Mr. Pitt,  "Mumf orf tooz isgmos".And scenes like: Cut to Russian shoots principle character in the head, killing him.Cut to scenes and dialogue out of other movies(why is being eaten by pigs so popular these days?).Cut to Disney ending with all the bad guys dead and the good guys smiling.What could possible be going through these people's heads when they ok'ed this movie?


                
There is no doubt that Farina's 'coolness' is an attractive quality but it is his ability to communicate passion and depth of character in combination with humor that makes him worth watching.  As with so many roles that he has played, his contribution to this movie was limited by a dimensionless character.  When will he be allowed to bring his special brand of warmth and toughness to the screen?  He did that week after week in 'Crime Story' so that leads me to believe it's the writing and directing.  Think what he could do for example, if he were to play a man left with the job of raising a hot-headed 14 year-old grandson!  I'll keep the faith.  It's bound to happen soon or later.


                
