The release of Tarantino's "Pulp Fiction" in 1994 prompted a schism in the staid gangster movie genre: the standard hallmarks - serious characters, gunfights, intrigue and damsels in distress - were enhanced with snappy dialogue, and gallows humour.  The biggest change however was the introduction of the mobius strip-style plot line, where the concept of time is no longer linear, instead constantly folding in upon itself, flitting between past, present and future that forces the viewer to pay close attention lest they miss some subtle detail.  Inevitably, numerous copycat films emerged that tried to capitalize on Tarantino's success, but it wasn't until 1998 when Guy Ritchie, an unknown British director, took on the challenge that a successor was found.  Now Ritchie is determined to prove that his first time out wasn't a fluke.Turkish is a young man with an entrepreneurial bent, who, when he's not running his gambling operation, manages bareknuckle boxers.  Through a business deal gone wrong, he becomes acquainted with one Mickey O'Neil, a mumbling manic motor-mouthed piker who also happens to be a one-punch marvel.  Turkish persuades Mickey to join his stable of fighters, but soon discovers that Mickey has his own agenda, and gets Turkish in trouble with the gangsters who run the underground boxing circuit.  Other characters that become involved in the drama include a four-fingered degenerate gambler/jewel thief, a vicious boxing promoter, a gang of inept robbers, a polite hitman, a crazed Russian gun runner, a group of Irish gypsies, a crooked New York jeweler and a pugnacious pet.  The common thread binding them all is a perfect diamond the size of a peach pit.  If you aren't confused yet, you soon will be."Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels", Mr. Madonna's (Ritchie) first film, was shot on a small budget, with a no-name cast (except for football bad boy Vinnie Jones) and quickly became a rousing success at home and found receptive audiences abroad.  While not a technically a sequel "Snatch" is stylistically very similar to "Lock, Stock<U+0085>":  Ritchie utilizes his trademark bombastic staccato sequences, and repeatedly bounces off on radical tangents to throw the viewer off balance.  He did however opt for a decidedly darker satirical tone in this film, that may make some people uncomfortable (think "Very Bad Things").  What struck me as particularly daring was his decision to create a story with such a voluminous cast.
Ritchie faced a daunting task with this film: how, with roughly twenty principal characters, does one adequately flesh out each character, and not hopelessly confuse the audience?  The feat was made doubly difficult, as several cast members are big name stars.  Somehow Ritchie manages - each actor is full bodied, receives ample screen time, and no one character is the centerpiece.  With so many talented actors, it is difficult to pick out one performance that stands out:  Rade Serbedzija is hilarious as the mad Russian who blithely burns through each of his nine lives, as is Vinnie Jones' manic gentleman hitman.  On the other end of the spectrum, is Alan Ford as Brick Top, the promoter with a penchant for pigs, who epitomizes cold-blooded viciousness. If forced to pick my favorite however, I would have to go with Brad PittPitt resurrects his trailer trash look from "Kalifornia" and adopts a nearly indecipherable brogue that sounds like my best friend's Uncle Wally on a bad day.  As Mickey O'Neil, the hard drinking wily grifter and part-time pugilist, Pitt displays a wide range of emotions, demonstrating again that he is not only a star, but also a gifted character actor.  And I would be remiss if I didn't mention the dog that subtly stole every scene he appeared in.While "Snatch" initially struggles to find its stride, and is very similar to Ritchie's earlier film, it is fresh and funny enough to make you forget any minor shortfalls and stand on its own.


                
Ok, so my preference is definitely Lock Stock - but I have to say, the Hollywood meets UK variety of films is really cool and fun. This film was a great combo of humour and action. Check it out if you haven't already.


                
In this fast-paced thriller-comedy Ritchie again takes us into the 'underworld' of England and this time he does it with more assured direction than in Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels. This is a world full of tough, gritty and eccentric characters who cheat each other on everything from rigged unlicensed boxing games to multi-million pound diamond heists. This heist is central to the wide montage of characters in Snatch who all want a piece of the action.Snatch has one of the greatest opening credits in film history. It follows then, that the rest of the film should be equally entertaining and stylish, and it just about makes it. It is a viciously styled thrill of crime, humour and attitude almost solely propelled by the dialogue and interactions of its characters. There are no sugarcoating action effects or stunning visuals to detract - the core is the focus, and the core is its many dynamic characters, like Bricktop, Turkish and Tony and the hilarious situations they get themselves into. The stupidity and amateurism of these 'gangsters' provide for the comedic effect, as is Richie's style.The only slight flaw, as I can see it, is the lack of cinematic harmony. In other words, there is no traceable thread throughout the film - more likes a series of entertaining scenes. You know how some people are just born to write, and others have to practice to get to the same level or articulation and vocabulary - but ultimately, the idea of 'what sounds good' cannot be taught and the natural writer will be the better one. It is probably the same in direction, and Guy Ritchie is not a natural talent as there is no harmony. It's pretty good yes, but not harmonic.When I say more 'assured' direction on Richie's part, I mean that in Snatch, every scene and character serves a purpose - unlike in Lock, Stock where longer segments were often used. But above all, you can tell that the director had fun with the script because it translates so well in the film. It is more hilarious than anything, and the accents provide for half the comedy. A wildly entertaining and highly stylish crime film. 8/10


                
This was an amazing movie. The dialogue was extremely witty and tied in with the acting perfectly. There is an element of hilarity which will also appeal to a lot of people. Not a single actor in this movie was bad, each person played their role perfectly. The different cultures were portrayed perfectly and the acting reflects on that. Another really cool aspect of the movie were the wonderfully colorful names that each character gets. They alone contribute to the culture.It's amazing how the entire movie revolves around one pivotal moment in the beginning but then branches out into the matrix of stories that are all entwined and then brought back together in the end.This is the epitome of a good movie, great acting, great actors, great story, great culture, great dialogue. "Snatch" has it all.


                
(r#93)Whine, whine, whine, is that all you people know how to do? I mean, sorry to burst your bubble, but Snatch is not the kind of film you give an in-depth analysis. Snatch is a roller-coaster ride that you just sit back and enjoy. It is a brilliantly funny movie, with an unimportant story which still takes a couple of viewings to fully absorb. Add to that a fantastic cast, including Benicio Del Toro, Vinnie Jones, Jason Statham, Brad Pitt, the dog, and Alan Ford as the sweet-natured Brick Top. Add to *that* that Guy Ritchie's fantastic way of using his camera and music to give the fantastic flair that is the trademark of his "lorry-gangsta" films. What more could you want?Everyone's raving about Brad Pitt's performance as the incomprehensible Mickey, and yes, he's great. But Rabe Serbedzija doesn't get nearly enough attention as Boris the Blade! This guy is pure comic genius. Watch the scene where he's selling a gun to Turkish's partner Tommy. A fantastic actor all around. But what am I talking about? Literally every single actor is hilarious in this film. Benicio Del Toro is a complete psycho, Jason Statham keeps burning his buddy Tommy, Alan Ford is brutal (in more than one way) as the crime boss who feeds people to the pigs. The rather unknown Robbie Gee, Lennie James and Ade all hit the right notes as three slightly-less-than-competent street thugs.Do I even need to say that the script is utterly brilliant? Who can forget these lines?? "I shoot you! You go down!"; "It was two minutes five minutes ago!"; "What? You don't think I've got the vitamins?"; "Do you know what 'nemesis' means?"; "It was *behind* you, Tyrone. When you reverse, things tend to come up from behind you!"; "Tommy, 'the tit', is praying. And if he isn't, he f-ing should be."; "Don't snatch!"; "I love this song!"; "Anything to declare?" "Yeah. Don't go to England."; the list goes on and on.Overall a hilarious, forgettable, but instantly quotable flick to just turn on and enjoy the hell out of whenever you're bored. And what's wrong with that? Do you really want every film to change your life? Snatch is entertainment at its finest, and if you have to whine about 1-dimensional characters, bad storyline, or style over substance, start a blog. At least then we won't have to read it.PS. IMDb doesn't know what a blog is.


                
I saw Guy Ritchie's "Lock Stock and Two Smoking Barrels" and thought it was an extremely disappointing piece of '90s cinema - I specify it was made in the 1990s because it's another one of those Quentin Tarantino rip-offs that borrow his directorial trademarks - the violence punctuated by irony and dark humor, the intertwining stories, the morally dark characters who have no remorse."Snatch" is a great deal better. Some people claim it's Guy Ritchie selling out to the American market because it stars Brad Pitt, Benicio Del Toro and Dennis Farina. If he's "selling out," he's buying something better with the money - this is a lot more fun to watch than "Two Smoking Barrels." Simply put, it's directed much better. I felt like "Barrels" was a British TV commercial extended to full length - all style over substance. "Snatch" has similar style but there's more substance.As for the performances... everyone is great. Del Toro opens the movie with a bank robbery - he steals a precious diamond and tries to sell it. This moves on to Jason Statham, as a boxing promoter, and his story ties into the previous one. This goes on and on and invites new characters into the mix.The standout is of course Brad Pitt. When I lived in England we had Pikeys living around us and they annoyed the hell out of me. They were constantly speeding down our road and stealing stuff. Once they smashed their van through a neighbor's fence, then fled the scene of the accident - as if the police wouldn't figure out who it was.Watching "Snatch" I was reminded of this and thought it was particularly memorable because I've never seen a "Pikey" in a movie before. Brad Pitt basically mumbles his way through the movie and he and his pack really do come across as genuine Pikeys.I hate to sound like a typical American when I say "Snatch" is better than "Lock Stock & Two Smoking Barrels," but I honestly think the plot, the direction and the acting is superior here. Statham is still great and Pitt is surprisingly effective in his role. The movie is lively and fun to watch, cleverly scripted with good dialogue and although some scenes are reminiscent of Tarantino, the overall product is far better than anything else Ritchie has done - and provides more originality than his other movies, too.


                
After watching lock stock and two smoking barrels and then snatch it feels like completely different. Unlike its predecessor this ones a bit more funny but also more serious. Still i want to highlight a view things in my review regarding my first watch of the movie (with several pausing and rewind of course); So far I'm still thinking how the hell this Guy Ritchie's mind function. I mean where does he start writing the story from. Its just so brilliant that i still think this is the best crime comedy ever. Though Del Tor0 only plays big in the beginning and i kind of disappointed in that, i think Pitt has done really well, so is all other actors with big role in this movie and even Del Tor0 himself. Most of the words spoken make me laugh all the way through the movie. Its just seem unbelievable the writing is.Anyway, check this bottom one out.Apart from all its positivity i found this movie quite confusing not for the subtitles i was using or anything but for the lack of its writing. Apparently i found myself confused with day and night as the notorious brick top state there will be another rematch for mickey in the next couple of days. but that happens only the next day. The part involving Vinnie, Sol and Tyrone though, is somehow slow. Picture this, somebody just got killed in your house, whom in this movie is the whatever four fingers guy Del Toro play, then you wait for the next day to move the guy from your guest room, which isn't even locked in the noontime. It makes a lot more sense if this Boris the blade guy see them in the afternoon, rather than night as is shown. And as for himself, i found himself quite flashing as he returned home after got hit by a car then in an instant return to the pub which is perhaps a block away while Bullet Tooth Tony just got away from the telephone. I mean, look at this, his car meets with Jason Stat's car somewhere on the road but when Jason reach Boris building he returned ON FOOT with a speed as striking as the light. Haven't yet spell that Jason's car was facing the wrong direction.Apart from the brilliant opening scene which stun me in front of the screen (i was planning to just test whether the video recorder worked) for the rest of the time, the ending is somewhat flawed, i mean what do the two black guys waiting for to bury those corpses in the noon light. Though i must say i forbid Ritchie as even the last scene when Jason Stat car pass by their place and the dog looking from the LEFT window is angularly correct, and so is the map of the location that i picture during the view. Still i think it lacks on the writing as it needs to be revised. But out of all the editing, directing and all is formidable, overall this is a pretty enjoyable movie as it is funny and seriously great, of course the twists brilliant too.
Thinking in the back of my head that Guy Ritchie's Snatch is just another clone of the Tarantino era flicks and also enormously fashioned after Ritchie's freshman effort Lock Stock and 2 Smoking Barrels, I didn't think Snatch wouldn't be that great.  But like how Ritchie's first film surprised me, so did this film, which does the best it can and succeeds, mostly.  The plot is pretty tangled and even though the premise deals with a stolen diamond, there are side stories.  Many funny moments, however Brad Pitt (with dialogue that makes Adam Sandler's inner voice sound coherent) and a squeaking dog steal the show.  A-


                
I watched it when it was released and I found it funny, clever and capturing. I watched it in recent times and I found it still funny, clever in a sort of way and, instead of capturing...silly. Hopelessly silly.Empty, I would say.I mean, what's the big deal about a bunch of dangerous blokes slaughtering each other? It seems like Ritchie carries a flame for dangerous blokes. He goes to the point to hire real dangerous blokes to play the dangerous blokes on the screen! It's a bit disturbing. A kind of "feticism", isn't it?I know violence is amusing, but what's the point of so much violence? What am I supposed to learn from this movie? That "heavy is reliable"?Nonetheless I still like it. And that's what disturbs me most.P.S.: In Pulp Fiction there were some females at least!
In a recent issue of Premiere magazine, The Italian Job director F. Gary Gray called Snatch. the greatest heist movie ever. It has numerous twists and turns, and, like all good heist films, you don't know what's going to happen at the end. However, for Snatch., I had no idea what happened during the entire movie! Guy `Swept Away' Ritchie directed this snazzy, modern crime film, but isn't consistent all the way through.Although it sounds like I didn't like the film, I did. A lot. What appealed to me was Ritchie's boldness to do weird camera tricks and shots. (Please keep in mind that I have not seen Ritchie's previous critically acclaimed work Lock Stock and Two Smoking Barrels.) At times, mainly during the heist scene at the bank, shots were flipped upside down, and weird transitions were used. It looked really cool and modern. Also, despite the often voice-overs (usually by Jason Statham's Turkish), a quick and effective way of transition was used. It was used a few times, when characters were changing countries, and I really liked it. You'll recognize it.In this convoluted script, which was also quite funny, Turkish tells us that he's under interrogation with his friend Tommy (Stephen Graham). He tells us of a diamond heist, with a group that includes famous robber Franky Four Fingers (Benicio Del Toro), and the subsequent hunt for the 84-karat diamond. Subplots include underground boxing, gypsies who you can't understand but look like Brad Pitt, and a dog that swallows a squeaky toy.Even though I had no idea what was happening, who all of the characters were, what they were doing, and everything, I still really enjoyed Snatch. Why, I don't know, I just had a really good time trying to figure out what was happening on screen. Statham is a really good actor, not like Vin Diesel, who may be a good action star but can't act his way out of a paper bag (note to self: avoid clichés like the plague). All of the other characters just kind of `go along with the flow,' but I wish I did learn more about how everyone was connected. Other than that, Snatch. is a high-octane and extremely enjoyable heist movie that may not be the best ever, but is still really good.My rating: 8/10Rated R for strong violence, language, and some nudity.


                
WoW !First I give 8.5/10 for this movie. But since we can use just integer it's appear 8. This movie is like fresh air in the so close Hollywood world.Not only this movie is very original but all actor are very good. Each contribute to make this film very good.This movie it's the proof they are intelligent guys who are able to create something new and wonderful.And funny ! Sure it's black humor... :)When we listen this movie time stop. Cause we don't see the time. Never we are bore one moment.Music is great too. For me this movie is a classical movie.A movie to have in our collection...


                
An English friend of mine recommended that I see both Snatch and Lock, Stock, and Two Smoking Barrels. He guessed my sense of humor right, because I love them both. The viewer needs to possess tolerance for a certain amount of violence, and a black sense of humor helps. It also helps if the viewer has seen a lot of BBC America broadcasts, or has a natural aptitude for interpreting accents, because they're pretty thick in places. Brad Pitt's mumbling is completely unintelligible to me, but my Limey buddy assures me that he used a genuine Irish-gypsy accent. Unless they're aching to see Brad Pitt, I wouldn't think most women would enjoy this film. The ones who do are my kinda gals! This is an enjoyable film...for the right audience.


                
A very funny film would get 10/10 if it was not for the poor Irish accent of Brad Pitt (Mickey O'Neil), Vinnie Jones (Bullet Tooth Tony) plays his usual hard man but plays it very well. But for me the Dog takes the Star Roll.


                
SNATCH, like Guy Ritchie's previous film, LOCK, STOCK & TWO SMOKING BARRELS, is a fast-paced, highly entertaining action comedy, that doesn't have the ambition of changing anyone's life or the history of cinema, but provides great fun. It's a pity that afterwards Ritchie gave us something we don't want to remember, and most of us didn't bother to watch. Do I have to mention the name of the "film"?8/10


                
Possible spoilers within.Pitt is competent in this movie. He is the center of every scene his in, which he's supposed to be. People seem to think his Irish accent is great but that's because Pitt does it. If someone else would have done it, the result would have been different. That's because people have foregone conceptions about him. In which they have an image of him as being cool, interesting or whatever. People who aren't familiar with him, probably just thinks he's silly.
One of the best fight scene in a movie, great performance by Brat Pitt,He almost single handedly steals the show but everybody should see Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrel. Original, not to confound with Quentin Tarantino, it's not the same thing, it's not a pale imitation.


                
2001 was no doubt the year of the heist movie.  Snatch came out in late 2000, but I'll count it anyway.  It is a great film, with great dialoauge. It's cast of characters is original and ingenious, and the Rabbi scene in the beginning is classic.  Benico Del Toro was made for his role in this, as was Brad Pitt.  If you count this movie as a 2001 release, it is the first great movie of 2001 (that I saw). 8/10, B+, *** out of ****


                
Three separate parties try to get their hands on a stolen diamond in the back streets of London.Oh Mr. Quentin Tarantino - just look what you have created. A thousand directors want to have a touch of your magic and judging by Jackie Brown you wouldn't mind a bit of it yourself. Your star pupil - Guy Richie (Mr Madonna to friends) - demonstrates here that not only has he got a complete set of Tarantino and Martin Scorsese DVD's - he's also seen The Hot Rock (1972): A diamond that is easily stolen but hard to actually keep.Richie is not a laugh-out-loud director more a guffaw-out-loud director as selfish and self-interested characters (all crooks to a man) play their cruel and violent game of cat-and-mouse. The black gang get the worse of it - getaway drivers that cannot even park, rob a bookmakers without money and then point guns with the word "replica" printed on the side.(All the things that happen are based on real incidents that were captured on CCTV. Yes - including the one where a gangster gets his head caught in a rising security gate!)Best of the ensemble cast is Bricktop (Alan Ford) the head gangster and fight fixer who over-articulates and explains everything to the rest of the cast: His explanation of how to dispose of bodies by way of pigs and how best to chop up bodies ("you need to chop them in to six pieces and gather the parts together in one place...") are a revelation.(Strangely he reminded me of a  character from a Noel Coward play. He manages to make even the most bland lines such as "you are not much use to me alive are you, Turkish?" and "hope I haven't come at an inconvenient moment" funny.) Congratulations to Brad Pitt for playing a gypsy fighter that no one can understand (not even in the movie itself!) A real piece of casting inspiration. We are deep, deep in black comedy land here and only by keeping it ticking over at a fast (almost pop video) pace can you get away with it. There is no real parts for women and no sex. The characters are far too interest in making a big score or staying alive for all that.Brad Pitt plays a fighter that - if he was as good as he is here - would surely be boxing for real rather than in the bare-knuckle world; but what the hell, this is a film comedy. The fight scenes are well done by the way - although seem a lot like those that featured in BP's other black comedy Fight Club.Snatch has must-see appeal to those with strong stomachs that cannot get enough of Pulp Fiction/Goodfellers smart-ass dialogue. Well done Mr Madonna - let us hope that the next feature is just as good. Then you will have made three great films to Tarantino's two.


                
Snatch is like a novel. Guy Ritchie handles scenes like simultaneous events in a Michael Crichton, or CLive Cussler novel linking them together as the story unfolds. Watch it for superb performances by Pitt and the rest. And most of all , this is a film where you can see the 'direction' Amazing. Oh. Watch it withe the subtitles.


                
Fast-paced, action-filled and with a sprinkling of comedy this film does very well.It knows exactly what it is and does not try to pull the whole world into itself and try to make a philosophic - lasting effect on you. - Because it will not do this.Nevertheless what it does do, which is to keep you constantly on your seat throughout the picture, it does very well. There is a great sense in this film of its left hand not doing what its right hand is doing being used to give a gritty, exact and candid feeling to the film.Brad Pitt and Vinnie Jones are marvelous and the way the three groups of characters are brought together towards the end of the film is hilarious.The ending is fairly obvious - but that will not stop you from wanting to see it again and again.8/10


                
Ritchie doesn't go to any great lengths to bring anything new to his formula.  But then, the formula worked brilliantly, so why should he?  While it could qualify as more of the same, and certain sequences are a little too showy, hyper and loudly stylistic, this is still an impressive piece of work.  It moves at a mighty pace, and is never, ever dull.  What's most impressive is the way it manages to keep track of a massive number of characters.  There's a sequence in the opening that gives us still shots of every character while flashing their name onscreen; it goes on for some time, and you're bound to think you'll never keep everybody straight.  It's a credit to Ritchie's storytelling abilities that it's never a problem.  In fact, he makes it all seem quite simple.  And while many crime films have now borrowed Tarantino's time-warping style, this one does take a new approach to it.  The entire cast does great work, although Pitt is going to take an unfair amount of the praise here in America.  He's hilarious, yes, but so is everyone here; even the dog.  8 out of 10.


                
When I entered the theatre to see Snatch, I had some idea of what to get. But I got a little surprised as well. I had read some reviews of the movie, and they were telling me that this was a movie, pretty similar to "Lock, Stock & Two Smoking Barrels". And the movie was, by all means.But sometimes there is more to a movie than just the plot. Consider the details that you experience in this movie, and you'll know what I mean. First of all, the "Gipsy-Pitt" is a geniously played part. You'll understand 50% of what Brad Pitt is saying, but that's how it is supposed to be. Another detail that is excellent, is the cutting from L.A. to London. Three small cuts, that is mixed together, and makes it understanding that a person leaves from one city to another. Great details here.As when it comes to the actors, I would say that the two best ones here, is Benicio Del Toro, as a gambling diamond robber (by the way a good Rabbi), and Brad Pitt as a ravelling gipsy. Two genious actors that is escalating the complete picture.Overall, go see the movie, and judge by yourself.


                
okay, most, if not all, reviews of "snatch" inevitably state that it is exactly like "lock, stock, and two smoking barrels," down to plot twists, dialogue, characters, and actors.  this is true.  "snatch" contains all of the elements that made "lock, stock" a major hit.  but it does it even better.  so what if guy ritchie's script and direction is nearly identical? he's given "snatch" a better script and better actors.  the script is just marvelous, the camera gimmicks are more entertaining and enhancing than pretentious.  and brad pitt gives his best performance as a gypsy irish who is even more indecipherable than benicio del toro's mumbles in "usual suspects."  mike reid as brick top is utterly frightening, boris the blade is hilarious, and the scenes with tyrone, vincent, sol and the dog are unbelievably funny.  go see this movie. it's fast, furious, and an absolutely wonderful time.


                
It is Quentin Tarantino a la "Trainspotting" style. Taste of British humor makes the big difference from other modern "tough guys" films of American origin. Acting excellent, in particular Dennis Farina is in another amazing role after "Get Shorty".


                
I can only confirm the comments of the previous commentator, but perhaps add that, if you are a guy, you may not have to fear your girlfriend does not like the movie because of the violence. Although there is violence in the movie, most of it is indirect and actually very originally shot (as is the whole movie) --- but apart from that, Pitt's performance is just grand with his incomprehensible accent, not just to mention his performance in the boxing ring, which may also be appreciated by your girlfriend. By the way: I noticed one minor possible blooper --- when discussing about a camper for his mother, a dog suddenly jumps up to Pitt and that frightened him somewhat while uttering the four-letter f word, and then continued with his lines but with a smile on his face --- I don't think it was part of the script, though. Did anybody see this as well? Anyways --- great movie, I like it more than Pulp Fiction!


                
