Cowboy Bebop is the best anime ever. I'm 21, don't tend to be fanboyish, and have seen plenty of others. And it's the best anime ever.What other anime features a mix of the best choreographed/energetic/ kick-ass fighting scenes - hand-to-hand, hong-kong gun fights and air-space battle?An unbelievable mix of comic, tragic, violent and fairy tale style episodes... An incredible sound track - Yoko Kanno is a genius that can do memorable and emotional jazz, blues, classical, fantasy-style, j-pop and even heavy metal. I wouldn't even consider buying the soundtrack to any other anime.It quite literally oozes "cool" - characters (Spike is probably the coolest - not awsomest, but stylishly coolest) music, action and narrative.Hell, it's the only show that has both a "cute animal" character and a "cute annoying kid" character that I don't wish a horrible death upon. And if that doesn't convince you, then nothing will.


                
Animation and anime I have loved for as long as I can remember, and Cowboy Bebop is one of the greatest examples of anime at its best. Everything about this show is exemplary. The animation is just wonderful, right from the detailed character designs, beautiful and haunting colours and the ethereal backgrounds to the coupling of the dazzling action and some of the most jaw-dropping futuristic spectacle in animation or otherwise known to man. The music stays in your mind for a long time and not in an irritating sense, always fits with the drama and shows complexity in mood and orchestration even with its very jazzy feel. Cowboy Bebop also displays some really fine writing, it is poignant and intense yet also humorous and thoughtful, and balanced without any qualms at all. The storytelling shows evidence of great ideas thoroughly and entertainingly explored with little too dark or too light-hearted, there is an ideal combination of both. The characters are interesting and not revolved around clichés, these characters especially Spike are well-developed and any person watching the show would relate to them. The voice work is very dynamic. In conclusion, an outstanding show in every aspect, don't miss it. 10/10 Bethany Cox


                
Perhaps what can best summarize Cowboy Bebop is one big free style jam session. In Cowboy Bebop, film noir, gangster flick, slapstick, martial arts, thriller, western, horror, screwball comedy, all see at least one episode with heavy influence from said genre. Primarily the biggest of these influences would be film noir and screwball comedy with a dose of action. This may sound like a mess, but it means that Cowboy Bebop gives us something different and wonderful each episode. Of course, this is just part of the show, the music is another element that MUST be talked about. Again, a jam session, the music cherry picks the best of music styles, bringing unique sounds to each episode, all supervised by the eminent composer Yoko Kanno(this was the first Television soundtrack I bought.) What can I say but, WOW. You don't know how good it is until you listen to it on its own. Visually the show has a great flair, terrific animation, and excellent directing that sometimes is evocative of old film noir. They smoke cigarettes, femme fatales, witty banter, tragic tales, a look reminiscent of 1940's America, almost every episode has a gun being fired... how could I not mention film noir?? !!Wait! I haven't even written about the concept yet. It's 2071, Earth is a wasteland after an accident with the moon, and humanity has moved to such places as Venus, Mars, Io, Ganymede, and the asteroids. Despite this, humanity still goes through the same struggles we do today, gangs, drug use, terrorism, wars, and economic woes. Spike Spiegel is a bounty hunter with a dark past, who uses his martial arts and marksmanship to bring in bounty heads. Together with the pilot and owner of their ship the Bebop, (former police officer)Jet Black, they travel around the solar system in search of the next bounty. Eventually they are joined by the super smart pooch Ein, femme fatale Faye Valentine, and hacker wiz kid Edward.I personally prefer the English Dub of Cowboy Bebop, but whatever floats your boat. Great animation, Superb soundtrack, good writing, fantastic direction, but most importantly, style! Not your Saturday morning cartoon fare(this aired at midnight in Japan,) Cowboy Bebop is an anime for adults, and well recommended for animation or film noir lovers.


                
Cowboy Bebop is a series that should need no introduction to anime fans. However, for anyone unfamiliar with the show, it's basically about space bounty hunters set to an old time jazz music soundtrack with plenty of classy old time stories and dark morals along the way. If you like action, space, jazz, or comedy, you may like Cowboy Bebop. If you like old time bounty hunter, private eye, or detective movies, you'll probably like Cowboy Bebop. If you like dark stories with twists that really make you feel for the characters, you'll like Cowboy Bebop. This is one series you don't have to be an anime fan to appreciate, but you have to be willing to give it a fair chance.A single episode of Cowboy Bebop packs more punch than a bruce willis movie. If you're not a fan of the show by the end of episode one alone, you probably won't be. The characters are as real as any old time bounty hunter / detective movie, and every bit as interesting. The sci-fi space twist doesn't take away from the show in the slightest, it adds much. A good way of thinking about the show is Lupin the 3rd mixed with Outlaw Star, with more depth. With episode titles like Asteroid Blues, Honky Tonk Woman, Waltz for Venus, and Jupiter Jazz, the space, class, and jazz heavy style is quite apparent from the beginning. This isn't just some theme slapped on top of an anime, rather a critical part of the show.


                
Cowboy Bebop is a story about the past. About memory. Spike, our main character, sturggles with his origins that are slowly and masterfully revealed to us. No episode is filler and every second is important to setting up the characters who we grow to love so that the story beats in the later episodes will truly affect us.The ending wraps up the story nicely and will force you to watch again: you will love every second and as a man who is not a huge fan of most anime I can entirely recommend this show.


                
Cowboy Bebop is great series and is considered to be one of the greatest Japanese animated and foreign-language series ever made.The Bad: 1. This is probably going to be my most controversial statement, and I can feel the relentless death threats from the fans of the English-dubbed version of the series, but the fact is, the roles of the characters from the series are skewed in the English-language actors' favour, especially that of Steve Blum as Spike Spiegel, due to the American national bias. Nothing against the actors themselves of the English-dubbed version, though. But, just because the dub is frequently praised for being well made, doesn't mean it eliminates the American national bias, and that is why I watched the series in the original Japanese with English subtitles.The Good: 1. The voice acting consisting of Koichi Yamadera as Spike Spiegel, Unsho Ishizuka as Jet Black, Megumi Hayashibara as Faye Valentine, Aoi Tada as Ed, Gara Takashima as Julia and Norio Wakamoto as Vicious, with the one-time characters, with Andy voiced by Masashi Ebara, Gren by Kenyu Horiuchi, Lin by Hikaru Midorikawa, Shin by Nobuyuki Hiyama, among many other one-time characters, is exceptional, and the role of the Japanese language complements it by giving necessary balance to the acting itself. 2. The series serves as an excellent example of how much Japanese culture has evolved to become more multicultural, due to it being a series set in a predominantly non- Japanese setting with predominantly non-Japanese characters, likewise with Howl's Moving Castle. 3. The series also challenges the common stereotypes of modern Japanese culture, unlike Pokemon, which perpetuates those stereotypes. 5. The music by Yoko Kanno and The Seatbelts is fantastic, and sometimes I listen to jazz music when the seatbelt sign is illuminated when I am inflight, because The Seatbelts is a jazz music group. Get it? 6. The characters are very well-written and interesting, with Spike Spiegel being my favourite. 7. The series has a very good balance of being epic and episodic, with the series giving characters other than Spike Spiegel to shine in the spotlight, whilst at the same time not distracting from the overarching story. 8. The writing of the series is very versatile with having different writers for each episode, like Keiko Nobumoto, Michiko Yokote, Ryuta Yamaguchi, Sadayuki Murai, Akihiko Inari, Dai Sato, and the director of the series, Shinichiro Watanabe. 9. The artstyle is unique as it challenges the conventional artstyle commonly used in Japanese animated series like Pokemon, for example. The character design courtesy of Toshihiro Kawamoto is excellent too.Cowboy Bebop is an excellent series that challenges the stereotypes of modern Japanese culture, directed by the great Shinichiro Watanabe.
I'm not a fan of episodic anime series unless they're either one season long or a slice of life series. Why? Because they have a tendency to get boring, or repetitive. But all rules and preferences have exceptions. And Cowboy Bebop is that exception.story~9.5We start our episodic space journey in an environment that is futuristic yet in many ways primitive. Due to the inability of the police to handle all criminals in such a large area bounty hunting is encouraged through media. Our four main characters that are bound together by greed, revenge, and desire.Little to no background information is given about any of the characters from the beginning. Each character has a past that is hidden throughout many episodes. Slowly, the audience learns of the sins and tragedies that quietly haunt those aboard the spaceship of Bebop.art~10Despite being over a decade and a half the animations in cowboy bebop are amazing in providing the dangerous rugged environment of this criminal filled space.Sunrise, who generally do an excellent job on animation, really pushed the boat out with this series. when compared with other shows that were released around the same time (Outlaw Star for example), it can clearly be seen that the art, animation and character design in Cowboy Bebop is something special. The animation during the numerous action sequences is especially impressive and the character movements are free-flowing and naturalistic.The outdated animations contribute greatly to the classy western style of the anime. Everything from the smoke of cigarettes to guns blazing are portrayed brilliantly. The choreography of martial arts and space flight is done in a fluid and smooth fashion. The characters look great and production never seems to drop for a single moment.sound~9.5 First off, the music. All music is performed by The Seatbelts and they are outstandingly good.I wholeheartedly believe that it is safe to say that regardless of your ideas about Cowboy Bebop, everyone can agree that the music in this anime is absolutely amazing. So amazing that without the music I believe that Cowboy Bebop would never have achieved the success it has had to this day. Never have I come across another example such as Cowboy Bebop where the music is such an integral part of the show. From the Blues to the unmatched soul of harmonica solos, the music in Cowboy Bebop does its job 110%. To say that the the music is fitting would be an understatement. Cowboy Bebop's music boosts the atmosphere and situation of every scene to its highest potential and provides a convincing atmosphere like no other.The dub of Cowboy Bebop is the arguably the most highly praised dub ever produced in the anime industry and also my favorite. Watanabe Shinichiro even stated that he believed the English dub surpasses the Japanese dub, a feat that is notoriously rare. Every character's voice is portrayed brilliantly with every word filled with real human emotion. The English voice acting is truly a one of a kind in a world of horribly ear wrenching dubs.The Opening and the Ending of Cowboy Bebop are probably one of the most popular Opening and Ending Themes of all time.The OP(opening) ("Tank!" by The Seatbelts) is a jazzy explosion of adrenaline. Listening to it is a joy and pumps the viewer's eagerness to watch the episode. It keeps you on your feet and is in many ways the most famous trademark of the Cowboy Bebop series.The ED (ending) for most of the show ("The Real Folk Blues" by The Seatbelts feat. Mai Yamane) is equally as amazing but instead of pumping the viewer's eagerness the ED in turn helps the viewer digest what was just displayed on the screen.Character~10Cowboy Bebop has one of the most memorable casts of any show I have ever watched. They are eccentric, unique, strong willed, and powerfully convincing. We have Spike Spiegel who is a male bounty hunter in his late twenties that is trying to escape an inescapable past.Jet black, The father like figure of the spaceship Bebop who has been stricken by unjust tragedies.Faye Valentine, the strong female character who is kept in the dark about her own life.And then we have Edward, the teenage female hacker with a background as confusing as herself.the characters of Cowboy Bebop are outstanding. Their strengths overcome their flaws when united as a whole. Beautifully drawn and creative, Watanabe Shinichiro has invented a golden cast.Overall/Enjoyment~ 10/10This anime is a classic and i strongly recommend this to anyone who is looking for something extra.


                
I'll have to say "Cowboy Bebop" is the anime with the greatest soundtrack ever(from what i've seen so far anyway)...it's all in the music...i just loved it. most anime shows have crappy music,it's not the case here :D. oh yeah, the storyline and characters are awesome as well. You'll fall in love with it from the first episode. Definitely worth watching, especially for the people who like jazz and rock (and not only). Two thumbs up from me!See you later space cowboy!Well, if i think about it Gungrave has a cool soundtrack too.


                
Cowboy Bebop is a smart, and fairly complex show compared to many anime series I have seen. It is a good mix of comedy, drama, action and adventure. There are many things that lead me to believe it one of the best anime series of all time.For one, the characters are well written, and you get to observe as they develop throughout the series. They each have their own distinct personalities, peculiarities and habits. This makes for interesting group dynamics, as they are each out to get something different from their shared experience on the ship. Their dialog is funny and ultimately believableSecondly, there is the storyline. The plot is most certainly the best part of the show. It alternates between the "main" storyline involving Spike and the others, and the occasional vignette or flashback about a character in particular. The individual episodes work well on their own for the most part, yet as pieces of the whole they complement each other very well.Third is the fantastic soundtrack. This show was the catalyst for my love affair with jazz music. The series prominently features a very bebop-style jazz song for its opening credits, and uses various other types of the music during the show. The music is so enmeshed in the series that something would be grievously wrong without it. I have heard that the creators of the show wrote the series around the music. The idea makes more and more sense as you progress through the story. Many of the episode names are even old jazz standards, or references to certain artists and albums. To top it all off, much of the music in the show are original compositions.I recommend this series to anyone in the mood for adventure, excellent characters and a spectacular story all set to some of the best music out there.


                
Let me start by saying, i registered today to write my comment on Cowboy Bebop.I finished the series for the second time yesterday, and it made an even bigger impression on me this time.Simply put, this is the best series ever created in my opinion, regardless of anime, live action, or whatever. The story is exceptional work, the characters are as alive and deep as it ever gets. It is (forgive me for using this word again, but there is no other expression)exceptionally well drawn, even for an anime. The soundtrack (oh the music)has been a part of my collection for a long time now. It is just fantastic, i cannot imagine anything else, that would fit the world of Cowboy Bebop better, than the kick-ass jazz, blues, medley that dominates this brilliant list.All in all, nobody should miss this stuff. Im sure there are and will be dislikers, but nothing is perfect, and thats the way it should be. Me, i cried at the end, sitting on my couch completely blown away. SEE YOU, SPACE COWBOY, SOMEWHERE, SOMEDAY! I'm gonna carry that weight...


                
These are excellent series, not just "animation" series. "Cowboy Bebop" easily reaches the pedestal of series such as "The Prisoner". Cowboy Bebop consists of stories about an oddball group of bounty hunters in, get this, action/sci-fi/western/detective/comedy genre. But the most amazing thing is that the creative team actually manages to balance all the genres well enough to avoid being absurd, in fact, well enough to be thoroughly enjoyable spectacle. The quality of each episode ranges from good to excellent. And even though the series borrows from easily identifiable sources such as 2001 Space Oddessey and The Good the Bad and The Ugly, it does it with enough finesse not to undermine itself. It really is ironic that the Japanese animators manage to pull off American pop culture references better than most American filmmakers can. But then again, good film-making/animations transcends all cultures. For those people who cannot get pass "Disney mentality" - that animation cannot be a vessel for "grown up" film-making... all I can tell you: Its your loss.


                
Okay obviously judging from my user name it may be bias but hear me out. I first came across Cowboy Bebop recently during 2012 summer. I read it was the "greatest" anime and was skeptical about it. This show was also to have introduced many Americans to anime being a "gateway anime". So I gave it a shot since it was surprisingly only 26 episodes. It was pretty slow in the beginning and it made no sense. Eventually the episodes began to have more meaning to me as I became more attached. (When Faye began uncovering her past, it was just deeply saddening) When it ended I was left feeling like I was missing something until I realized how great this show was. This show had everything from characters,(EXTRAORDINARY) music , and comedy relief.Many who decide to start watching Bebop enter with the wrong mindset. Many who were recommended to watch CB were given details such as "the greatest anime ever" which was exactly how I went into it. This gives the viewers a impression of expecting the typical "save the world, "fight crime", "win the war" anime but with an element making it far more superior than the others. However, this show provides sporadic episodes with hints of jazz. It's difficult to explain CB's phenomenon but it humbly provides satisfaction. It provides what many shows and viewers overlook. I would least expect myself to do this but many do not appreciate the art infused with CB.The characters Spike, Faye, Jet, Ed, and Ein were astounding. They were not your average anime heroes. Spike being the protagonist, wasn't a stereotypical anime protagonist. He was not a super-serious teen and/or superhuman; instead he had flaws and weaknesses. He knew how to have fun and joke around here and then. Faye was not much of a lady, being a serious combatant and thief. Jet being a ex-cop turned bounty hunter. Then there is Ein the data dog and Ed the happy-go-lucky hacker. This seemingly incompatible group eventually manages to bond and care for one another.The voice acting is also amazing. Steve Blum as Spike and Wendee Lee as Faye. English dubs do not get better than this.What many other reviewers forget is the soundtrack. Cowboy Bebop (a type of jazz) has an phenomenal soundtrack. From dog fights to close combat and upbeat to depressing. This subtly adds to the magnificence of Bebop.In addition I did not realize the various references there were. The titles of each episode or ending screenshot were direct references to famous songs. Some references showed Watanabe's knowledge of worldwide events and cultures. There were more references like Bruce Lee but the list goes on and on. It even influenced some areas in the recent movie "Looper", the "red eye" drug (spray into your eye), Joseph Gordon- Levitt saying "bang" like Spike, and Bruce Willis storming the mob base killing all like Spike and the Red Dragon Syndicate (the director intentionally had Bebop references).Also reading some negative reviews, I found some flaws in them. Claiming CB has bad animation but saying Code Geass was great is not a good argument since they were animated by the SAME studio "Sunrise". "The music's not that great", I do not know how one amateur can determine this but IGN rated CB with the number 1 soundtrack. Also many people claim this has no plot (which was also my first impression) but the show is meant to be episodic, the life of an average bounty hunter so you either get it or you don't. I don't know how new anime surpass CB since CB is the granddaddy of anime, setting the bar for current and future anime.Therefore Bebop is a brilliant and elegant masterpiece. It was carefully crafted with an amazing soundtrack, incredible character development, and critical artistic components that most anime/TV shows lack. Thus Cowboy Bebop is a masterpiece that will never go out style (as seen through CB's rating, for CB is #21 among every TV show on IMDb with at least 5000 votes).


                
Cowboy Bebop deserves all the praise it receives. This show can be appreciated by almost anyone, regardless of their feelings towards anime in general. I have heard a number of times from people who dislike anime that they really enjoyed these 26 short sessions of brilliance. There are of course a few (very few) episodes that don't measure up well against the others but all in all every episode is entertaining.Jazz, film noir, the golden age of cinema...I would use these words to describe Cowboy Bebop. To get the feeling of this show, think of movies like Casablanca, Brick, Swingers...you get the point.It's also worth mentioning this show's dubbed voice-overs are some of the best in all anime (dub voices or original). One of the few I prefer to watch in the English version.You have to give this one a try


                
Cowboy Bebop rocks it. Especially the last episode. After seeing
SPOILERSpike fall and the credits roll, not only was I sad that the good guys suffered, but that it was over. Believe me, by the first few episodes I was hooked. I've read all the books and god, this is anime at it's best. The soundtrack is also one of the best I've ever heard.
Set in the year 2071, we live in a galaxy where we have things called "gates" that allow us fast travel to other planets. The Earth was heavily damaged in an accident involving production of the gates, there are dangerous crime syndicates roaming the galaxy, and it's overall a very divided and dangerous place to live in. We follow a group of bounty hunters who hunt down criminals for whatever money they can get to scrap by, and throughout we witness these people bond through their many adventures and be forced to confront their pasts. Cowboy Bebop is so loved and cherished among anime fans that praising it is like singing to the choir. It is essentially "The Godfather" of the anime genre. And I can see why. While it actually took me two tries to get into it, I eventually grew a deep appreciation for the style and subtlety of everything. And overall this is one of the best TV series I have ever had the privilege to watch.First off, the animation is very impressive for it's time. It's very fast and fluid, offering up some amazing action from space battles to classic brawls. It also helps in pulling you into the world of Bebop, it has a certain atmosphere and throughout you see the various cultures and worlds and you truly feel like this is a real reality that you could reach in and touch. The style is wonderfully unique too, it's pretty fast paced and a joy to watch. Last but not least is the music. The music is, putting it simply, incredible. With influences from jazz and blues, the music is absolutely captivating with a wide range of memorable tunes. The most memorable ones for me are "Tank" and "Blue", but there are literally dozens of more pieces that are just as amazing.However, the thing that makes this show is the characters. Each and every member of the crew are memorable and it wasn't until the end when I truly realized just how much I cared about them. The main character, Spike Spiegel, is a lazy b-dass who is a great fighter and lives life with very little care or worry. He tries not to reveal too much of himself or get too attached to anyone due to having a very troubled past with the love of his life and former best friend. There's Jet Black, Spike's partner, who was a former cop before a fatal accident and decided to take up the bounty hunting business aboard his ship, the Bebop. He serves as the father figure and voice of reason on the ship when things get hairy. Now probably my favorite character, Faye Valentine, is a funny, spoiled b-dass who joins Spike and Jet in the beginning of the series, causing problems for them immediately. She also has a shrouded past that bothers her throughout the show. Finally there's Ed and Ein. Ed is an odd, young girl who always seems to be in her own world and is an expert hacker. While Ein is an adorable Welsh Corgi who becomes close with Ed. All these characters are memorable and unique and their pasts show their depth and flaws. What I love is that their relationships are so subtle that like I said, you don't realize how close they all are or how much you like them until the end. There isn't the expected bonding scenes or exact moments where they become friends, but instead it is through their actions and way they interact with each other that we see that change. It really is beautifully done.As for flaws, well, there's very few. There are a couple episodes where I found them to be a bit dull, but other than that the show is completely entertaining and great from beginning to end. Even in the "filler" episodes, there is bound to be an interesting side character (just a side note, pretty much every side character they run into is memorable, which is remarkable), a fun action scene or something that builds upon the world. There's something special in every episode, and that's something.Overall, I can't recommend this show enough. It has great animation, great music, great action, great themes/morals, and FANTASTIC characters. This is truly a classic, and any fans of good characters and storytelling need to see it.


                
"And the work that will become a new genre will be called: Cowboy Bebop"This is a series that knew exactly what it was and was so well planned that it puts most other Anime to shame! It transcends the genre and becomes something completely unique with it's intricate storyline, developed characters, great animation and one hell of a soundtrack. Spike Spiegel's 26-Episode journey is more tightly woven and masterfully presented than most stories in general. An action-packed series that smartly intergrates the past and present with the episodic plot; the backstories are all simply perfect for each character the show perfectly balances all these aspects to provide a more engaging narrative. It truly is a classic! 'Bang!'


                
First off, anyone who considers them self to be an anime fan (even if they are not at all seriously committed to watching anime), should see this series for their own good, no exceptions.That being said, Cowboy Bebop is one of those rares anime that can, on first sight, be enjoyed on many levels (as a quick form of entertainment or break from the chores and other boring things that make up our lives). However, as the series progresses it is inevitable that you become drawn into it and realize the strongest point of this anime, and that is its characters. The characters in this series are developed and created in such a live and believable way, that at times you might forget that you are watching a series and not just peeking into their lives. They will make you laugh, they will get on your nerves, they will surprise you and yes, they will make you cry.If you analyze the series in a completely analytical way, you might find certain segments that might bother you from time to time (for instance, the main plot might seem to get lost here and there thus resulting in episodes that might seem as unnecessary fillers, the music through the anime is good, but I've seen anime with much better soundtracks etc.) which is why there are some people who legitimately pose the question "what's the big fuss about this anime?".But here is the catch, like all things, this anime is more than just the sum of all its parts. In fact, as I watched it I enjoyed it to a fair amount and would give it a 8 or 9/10. But then one afternoon I sat down and looked at the last few episodes and I was stunned. Somehow everything came together and the entire series got such amazing depth and meaning, as well as the characters in it.This surely is one of the best anime I've seen with one of the most memorable characters you can sympathize with on different levels and, in my eyes at least, has the BEST ending I have ever seen in my life. Perfect, perfect, perfect.


                
Few, few shows can even come close to the almost perfection that this anime achieved. It is simply brilliant in every level. It stays far away from other animes that use to have childish and vastly exaggerated characters, with over the top and flashy dialogues and crammed all into a kind of cartoonish history telling (something that the Japanese likes a lot, from what i see). Instead, Cowboy Bebop has an Intelligent, sophisticated history with mature and very real characters. It amazes me how their creators could pull such an extravagant array of topics and genres and glue them all together in an incredible fashion. Action, drama, sci-fi, comedy,thriller, adventure, detective story, gangster, horror... you got them all here, and brilliantly executed and connected.The soundtrack is another thing that worths mentioning. It is absolutely superb. Jazz, Blues, Rock, Country, Electronic, Ballads... an all American array of music. As many, many other cultural reference to USA.A gem like this one is unique. Just watch it.


                
Fun reading through all the reviews, looking for my own, which I evidently haven't written yet.What can I say that hasn't already been said. This is the greatest piece of TV that I've ever seen. Period. On my 5th or 6th viewing (all subbed of course) and just going crazy yet again over it.Yes, style, music, but that alone will get you Samurai Champloo, great fun, but no real depth. This story really is religion. A la Joseph Campbell. (side note: most might call me an atheist, but I say my religion, all religion, is storytelling. WWJD? Read the story.) Cowboy Bebop is more than a fun romp in a Space Western, it's a Bible. What would Spike do? Ed? Ein? Faye? Jet? In a particular situation, in the situation you personally find yourself in?If you got my Joseph Campbell reference, then you know already. The Hero's Quest, that's all religion. And today, the media of religion is not church, but TV. And this is the highest achievement I've yet seen. With movies, I put this alongside Conan the Barbarian (so pure), Seven Samurai, and Star Wars. Live your life like the Bebop characters, and you'll do just fine.Edit: my favorite American, Kurt Vonnegut, would approve of this. All great art is tragedy.


                
After giving it a considerable amount of thought, I've come to the conclusion that simply telling you how good Cowboy Bebop is a moot point. It's been out for over 10 years, and all you have to do is Google the show and read the literal volumes of positive reviews that it has to its credit. This is a singularly unique show in the sense that I physically cannot deconstruct the elements that make up the show because they're blended together so flawlessly. I have nothing to add, and in fact, the only thing I'll say is that it's not only the greatest Anime Series ever made, but it's one of the best achievements in entertainment. Period. It's up to you whether you decide to watch it or not and ultimately; "Whatever happens, happens".


                
I never liked anime, that is until recently when I was told to watch this show and I couldn't be happier that i chose this as my first anime to watch.It's bittersweet and tragic story-lines are not what I expected but are executed so well. The characters are are beaming with personality and have great depth and great voice actors for the English dub to go along with it. The animation is beautiful and I doubt we will ever see anything similar to likes of that era again. And to top it all off it has, in my opinion, one of the best endings to a TV show I've ever seen.Is it arguably the best anime ever made? It's not for me to say but I do know that any anime I decide to watch in the future will have the unfortunate task of living up to the masterpiece that is: Cowboy Bebop.


                
It blew the squid-logs right out of my noggin. It was like Dingo Chavez took an M-16 and blew out my brains--or closer, Golgo 13 doing the same, but dead between my eyes. There's no point in describing the premise, because I could never do it justice with words. I don't care what you enjoy; the show itself says (and aptly) that "Cowboy Bebop" is a genre unto its own. It's the culmination of action, sci-fi western, drama, and kick-ass characters. A lot of people might have seen this in their youths; I, however, did not. Perhaps strangely to some, but I'm glad to have seen this first in my adulthood. It's that kind of show you can't truly appreciate for what it is until you're well past your anime entry days. To see it objectively, you can't have nostalgia for it, and damn, did I see it objectively, and DAMN was it good. It doesn't need nostalgia or anything else to make it great, except for a DVD player to slam all the disks in on a marathon viewing. This is all going without a word on the music. Let me put it plainly: John Williams is a poser next to this stuff, and I ain't foolin'. The music of Cowboy Bebop is unparalleled. Every time I hear "Blue" from the end of the series, I tear up like Father McKenzie. The opening and ending themes, "Tank!" and "Real Folk Blues," respectively, are peerless, and while the ending animation isn't the greatest I've ever seen, it's fitting, and the beginning animation is the greatest I've ever seen. People who die without seeing Cowboy Bebop won't die happy. As for me, my last word will be, "Bang," and my tombstone will read, "See you, Space Cowboy."


                
Even for folks who aren't into the whole Anime scene. Storytelling is at an all-time low in most television these days. Unimaginative "plot twists" and dusty dry trite "same-ol same-ol" story lines are seriously losing out to "no thought required" reality television. And something like Cowboy Bebop is the answer to that problem. The basic plot and premise are fairly cliché and overdone. That being said, the real genius is... they tell it so well that most wouldn't notice it. But far and away the best reasons are the DARING ending to the series. Plus so many animes drag on and on and on... for a hundred plus episodes 90% of which are filler setting up the other 10%. CB tells its story and wraps it up. A perfect length, leaves you wanting more and does not overstay its welcome. And what makes it transcend its root genre and place itself up there with avant garde TV art... the music. Well chosen and performed for each episode. Each song seemed almost written for the episode it appears in. It sets the mood for each ep perfectly, and does not get in the way of any of the other elements.


                
Everything about it was awesome. the imagery rivals those of john woo films. the characters were great, and if you are a stereotypical adult that says cartoons are for kids, this will change your mind. you know why cartoon network imports anime (japanimation for you old schoolers)for adult swim, because there aren't that many if any American animated series like this one. this turned out better than many live action series i have seen. drama, humor and action are rolled into this one great series. the characters grow right in front of your eyes. the musical action sequences are some of the most spectacular i have ever seen and heard. American directors wish they were this good. if you no longer watch animation or are looking for something different, Cowboy Bebop is it.


                
I can't start this comment without first telling you all that 'Cowboy Bebop' is the best anime series I have ever seen and I really don't think that anything could ever take it's place. Having said that, I guess I had better tell you why.Shinichirô Watanabe's 'Cowboy Bebop' is a hybrid mix of 1940's 'hard-boiled' detective movies, science-fiction, comedy, western, romance and drama. In short - it has everything. Normally, a series or movie with such a varied attribution would fail, but somehow Watanabe's creation is absolute perfection.The story's main character is Spike Spiegel. Spike is Humphrey Bogart's anime-incarnation. He is smooth, stubborn, fractured and only the hardest of the ladies can have his heart. Spike's partner is Jet Black, another stubborn man whose thoughts lay wrapped in honor, loyalty and survival. Our misfit femme-fatale is Faye Valentine. She is a woman with no scruples, she is out to get everything she can and she doesn't care how she gets it. But as life goes, she has a past and a story that unwrap her hard exterior layer and reveal the damsel in distress that she really is. Spike, Jet and Faye; along with Edward and the genius dog Ein, somehow create the perfect family of lost misfits.Watanabe's one season series of 'Cowboy Bebop' ends on the perfect note. The show never fails to keep up its pace. In between all the gun-toting, martial arts, space travel and jet racing; the storyline unfolds with expert timing. You'll never be disappointed with the progression of 'Cowboy Bebop'.


                
