Just when I thought that I had watched the most acclaimed anime, I find that there was Cowboy Bepop. How well it was reviewed and how much it was highly spoken of. So I decided to watch it within a week.Spike and Jet, traveling bounty hunters aka cowboys, seek to earn money by capturing bounties across the solar system. They come across another bounty hunter who likes gambling who joins them being Faye Valentine, who does a lot of fan service. The three of them revel and search their past for answers. Later Ed, a well known hacker, joins them to support them in their operations.The first episode was interesting to see Spike's skill as a bounty hunter and the general setting of the show. The Second episode was by far one of the funniest episodes of an anime I have seen. The rest of the episodes were quite plain, occasionally funny & repetitive.The animation was fantastic, very slick & smooth visuals. The sound was spectacular and done by a well performing Japanese jazz band. The voice acting was very fitting to the characters and on a side note Spike's Japanese voice actor did Ryoji Kaji of Neon Genesis Evangelion & Faye Valentine's voice actor did Rei Ayanami of Neon Genesis Evangelion too.This anime had so much potential with the Bebop's travels across Jupiter's moons, Mars & Earth. It could have been done with a backstory narrating of Earth's people colonising the solar system. It looks like it was made to be a run and gun anime with baddies, police and Western-like themes. Speaking of Western-like themes, the anime did not present many Western/Cowboy movie elements other than the bounty & traveler aspect. It screenplayed more action movie elements with a teaspoon of Western/Cowboy narratives and sci-fi.For the most part it appears like an animated action movie and topping it off with humour, jazz, bounty, tech & space traveling. Not like Total Recall (the original with Arnold Swartzenegger & Mike Ironside) more like Starsky & Hutch with its own unique flavour which makes it Cowboy Bepop.Not the best anime in my opinion even watching for the third time and even viewing on an episode basis instead of a linear story. Basically, I watched it how the fans said it was supposed to be watched and nothing much. It was fun watching itlike I would enjoy an action movie with Arnold Swartzenegger & Silvester Stallone.Simple to watch with its thrills & spills and appeals with its friendly viewing to variety of people.
