It probably needs to be said that I'm not well-versed in anime and that it's not usually my bag. But COWBOY BEBOP has the kind of reputation that even a greenhorn like me can't ignore. Sitting through the series (short as it is) proved an interesting watch, but only that. I have no idea what I was expecting and the hype probably did me in. I see the similarities to FIREFLY (they're often compared), but this wasn't nearly as watchable.But I'm not blind and can see that this is a well-made series. It's got great visuals (man, those establishing shots are something), great bluesy atmosphere, and attention to real firearms. The American voice cast seemed like good matches for their characters and I like that the Bebop crew just sorta fell in, no contrived reasons. And let me also just say that the music on this series was phenomenal, and enough for me to sell out the soundtrack. This show really had the knack for sneaking up behind you with a character's backstory. A session will proceed at its customary leisurely pace and then *bam!*, you just learned something major. The pacing did throw me off; here you have characters who are fluent in gunplay and piloting spaceships, and most of the time they're sitting back and talking. It was odd. The ending was also rather rushed for the same reason.I suspect a rewatch further down the road will change my mind on this. I certainly haven't given up as things like this tend to bug me. I'm the last guy to throw around "overrated", and that certainly doesn't apply here. But I do want to see what others do in this show.7/10


                
First, let me point out, the last anime I watched was Bleach and I regretted it. Extremely long, very predictable and just boring. It also was a very basic shouen jump show, so all the cleche's are in their. After that show, I watched Cowboy Bebop and have to admit is a much better show than Bleach. I will admit that most of the episodes seem like filler and the main plot arc is around 9 episodes. But the show is quite good. Not the best, but good. I think what make me appreciate the show was the ending. Overall, good show. Not the best, but decent.


                
Don't know why this got the rave reviews. It was kinda one of those series where you watch in bed to fall asleep to which is basically how I watch all my anime but must say I was disappointed


                
The worst episodes of the show can be boring, awkwardly written and incomprehensible. But the best episodes can be thrilling, beautiful and funny. Overall strongly recommended, just don't feel like you have to suffer through any of the bad episodes.


                
