This series was once voted the greatest anime series of all time, and so any criticism of it is likely to incur the ire of its many devoted fans. For me, though, this series was sort of the Miami Vice of anime - very long on cinematic style and flashy visuals and very influential, but pick it apart and you will find that the underlying structure is weaker than you first thought, at least in the early going. The science fiction details are well thought through and the animation direction is very good overall, but when you start looking at story structure and character, the level of originality drops sharply. The first four episodes have basically the same story line - the bounty hunting main characters go after a fugitive only to find that he has stolen something top secret that other people want and are willing to double cross the bounty hunters over. In the fifth episode we find that one of the main characters used to be an enforcer for the mob. How novel. Okay, this probably sounds worse than it is.Beyond this point, quite fortunately, the story line breaks away from the formula to explore more of the universe of Cowboy Bebop and how the characters relate to it, all of which is a plus. The show's incredible visual sense, with a great many wonderful science fiction ideas thrown out often in passing and glimpsed but never in other than purely visual terms, and this continues, while the story framework gets more ambitious. More of Earth and why humans spread out into the solar system is examined as is how the crew of the Bebop came together and where they are headed. Love, regret, revenge are introduced and added skillfully to the mix. The storytelling is assured and varied and a strong emotional atmosphere hangs over everything as characters examine their choices, and their motives and wonder where they are headed. But even then, it's long on cool and short on depth. There is a lot of music in the series - jazz, blues, heavy metal - in fact many of the shows have a thematic music style, and this is a plus, but the resulting music video montages, once again elevate superficial style over dramatic substance. It's a really cool series to look at. With less of a formula approach, especially in the early going, it might be a perfect one.


                
I am a huge fan of Futurama. This anime is another show set in the future that I like. But it's completely different. Futurama has a comedic setting in it's show, while Cowboy Bebop is actually an anime that makes me laugh despite it's genre of action/drama. Spike Spiegel an awesome protagonist who is your typical laid back tough guy, Faye Valentine the sexy deuteragonist who has an unusual outfit as well as an odd personality which is confusing, Jet Black (remember Victor Vance from Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories? Well that's basically what Jet Black is) also he has a robotic arm because he lost his real one, Edward Tivrusky IV (who I didn't know if she was a boy or a girl at first, but figured it out LOL) A little hyperactive teenager who is normally all over the place with her run on speaking and bouncy attitude. She's always literally all over the place. Ein is the dog who apparently is supposed to do things itself according to Valentine. Overall, this show is one of the best animes to watch. My only problem with it is how it airs at 3:00 AM and I'm normally asleep by then (thankfully DVR's exist). The only episode I didn't remotely like was Episode 13: Jupiter Jazz (Part 2). This anime is definitely recommended for anyone who likes the futuristic adventures of a group of Bounty Hunters.


                
Cowboy Bebop is a notable anime from the 1990s. A so-called Space Western, it manages to be both entertaining and thought-provoking. The future world of the series is well-realized. Thankfully, there isn't an explanation in the first episode about how the world came to be the way it is. You learn more and more about it as the story progresses. Character development is key to the series. The four main characters aren't a bunch that you immediately like. In every episode something new is revealed about them, and this way you grow to like them. Their pasts are very important to the story. Faye Valentine got on my nerves at first because she was so selfish, but later it's revealed how she became this way. This realistic approach to characterization is commendable. But there is a fun side to Cowboy Bebop as well. Since Spike, Jet, Faye and Ed are bounty hunters there are plenty of fights, chases, mysteries and humour.So, the series' setting and characters get two big thumbs up from me. Another reason why Cowboy Bebop is so respected is its soundtrack, which is excellent. Yoko Kanno fused rock, blues, country, jazz, pop and other genres into instrumentals and songs that are catchy and original. The music definitely makes the scenes better, in this case. But there are a few downsides to the series. Cowboy Bebop is similar to other 26-episodes anime in its structure. The first few episodes get it off to a good start because they're fun and well-animated, but the next several episodes are mostly a letdown in storytelling and animation. The series picks up again when Ed joins the Bebop crew. Most of the best episodes are in the second half of the show. The animation becomes gorgeous. Shinichiro Watanabe's direction gets better too. Cowboy Bebop includes many references to things that Watanabe grew up on. Most notably Western rock, Asian films like A Better Tomorrow (1986), and older anime. Cowboy Bebop gets a high recommendation from me. It's really one of the best anime ever; one that even adults can enjoy.The American Anime magazine Anime Insider (No. 50, November 2007) ranked the 50 best anime (available in America) by compiling lists of industry regulars and magazine staff, with Cowboy Bebop ranked as #1.


                
I got into this series around December 2005. I managed to see all the episodes during the summer. It took awhile to get all the DVDs.And I would agree with those who knew the series longer than me. It's very cool to watch.Cowboy Bebop takes place in the future, 2071 A.D. An alternate future when the economy and Eco system went bad on earth and numerous populations of humans fled to live on Mars, Venus, or any of the moons that are close by the other planets.The story is about a bounty Hunter name Spike Speilgel. Who has had a dark past which he doesn't talk about to many people. His partner is Jet Black owner of the Bebop starship. Jet is an ex cop who quit the I.S.S.P. for his own reasons. He's also like a father figure to Spike.Together they travel around the solar system to find some wanted criminals who have bounties on them. With those bounties Jet and Spike are able to get money with no trouble at all. Course they have to bring in the criminals alive, otherwise they won't get the reward money if the criminal is dead.Throughout the series Jet and Spike will get team up with Faye Valentine a young woman who's past is a mystery to her, Ein a data dog who is very smart, and Ed a girl who's naive but a talented hacker. With all these characters part of the Bebop team, they make one combination of teamwork, when they get along with each other.Each episode is good in it's own way. There's plenty of Character development too when you watch the entire series. I like how the series was influence by Lupin the 3rd. Which is pretty cool to see something that looks like it's Lupin, but it's incredibly different.Those who want an anime that's serious and not childish, may enjoy this show. It's very well animated, and since it's taken place in mixed cultures, it's very international. Featuring characters of all races and culture. Which I heard is why it's successful in the USA.So those who haven't seen the series, can check it out by borrowing the DVDs from someone you know or buy volume 1 of the DVD to see for your own opinion on the series. It's suggested for 13 and up due to it having language, violence, and some nudity.


                
It's 2071 and humanity has spread out to the rest of the solar system with the use of hyperspace gates. A gateway accident has left the earth's surface inhabitable due to the random rain of rocks. The kung fu savant Spike Spiegel and the weary ex-cop Jet Black are bounty hunters on their spaceship Bebop. They are joined on the crew by rival Faye Valentin, wacky hacker girl Edward Wong, and a data-dog Corgi.This is a fun, inventive space crime western. The closest comparison is Firefly. It's got great characters. I would have started the show with the entire crew instead of adding them one at a time. The ninth episode would be a great pilot where they add Edward, the final crew member. Each of their arrival on the ship could have been done as flashbacks. The jazz intro does lead to the jazz inspired feel of the show where the flow can be jumpy at times. A smoother flow would allow for an easier story telling. It's a stylistic choice that has both positives and negatives. As half-hour episodes, not every episode is a fully fleshed out story. It does lead to some two parters. This is an ambitious show with memorable characters.


                
I've heard Cowboy Bebop called "the greatest anime of all time" by the generation before me about every time it's mentioned. I do believe it's great and recommend it to everyone interested in anime, however that title needs to be altered a bit so people will understand what they're getting into. While all hyped up by nostalgic memories of now-adults, Bebop isn't the best anime out there any more (not that I know what is). It is, however, what shaped the best animes to date, what with its outstanding dub and animation style. And although I knew how revolutionary it was while watching it, I couldn't help but be a little disappointed. I absolutely loved the episodes revolving around the story, but there are only 5 of them, the rest of the episodes being filler. Well, I shouldn't say filler ... More like really good stand alone episodes with just enough dialogue to remind you they tie in together some how or another. Bebop's well written, but not "The Best" anymore. I think we should now be calling it "The Greatest Anime of ITS Time" or "The Anime that Shaped all Others".


                
I really wanted to rate this higher than 7 and probably would have if I would have stopped watching before the last few episodes. I came into the show with a lot of high expectations after reading some reviews and hearing about it from my friends and at first I wasn't disappointed. The feel is great and the mixing of genres is done very well. I watched the whole show in two days and was honestly addicted and fully ready to give it a 10/10, but then I watched the ending. I was so let down by what I saw as a highly predictable and rushed ending. Worst of all it was generic, the most generic part of an otherwise fairly unique show. So many things were left untouched, so many concepts that could have made the show all it was played up to be, but it just didn't live up to it in the end. Even with just ten more episodes the show could have been an absolute masterpiece but instead it just ended. I don't mind a few loose ends, it adds to the air of mystery you get from the show, but what I can't stand is when you bring in a concept and just let it die without touching on it more than a simple introduction, and Bebop was full of untouched concepts, loose ends, and honestly the ending was just cliché and boring to me. Still overall the show is very worthwhile and very entertaining, the ending just begged something to be desired. To summarize, I felt the show was very much worth watching, but it is over hyped and overrated. IMO defiantly not the best anime ever but still a good one.


                
