This series is just too huge to put into words. Classic Who has so many different styles and stories and protagonists. It's amazing concepts and different, iconic things.things that are just common knowledge in our culture today. Eight Doctors. Eight eras. There's just too much of it to put into words. Doctor Who is just part of British culture due to this fine, twenty six season long story of a time travelling alien.Each Doctor's era is very different. They seem to have the same style as the Doctor. The Doctor ran the show, with the exception of the First Doctor (William Hartnell) to a degree, who let his companions take charge. Each Doctor had unique personalities, and the style and stories of Classic Who matched the Doctor they were assigned to.The First Doctor was more of an adviser and let his companions take control, but he was still a crazy, lovable alien just like his other incarnations. The Second Doctor (Patrick Troughton) is my favourite, he's very childish but intelligent and was grown up when he needed to be. The Third Doctor (Jon Pertwee) was the earthbound Doctor started off as arrogant and annoyed, but gradually became more loving. The Fourth Doctor (Tom Baker) arguably made the show popular and is the most known Classic Doctor. He's also arguably the most childish and always had that huge smile.The Fifth Doctor (Peter Davison) was the youngest Classic Doctor, but acted like the oldest at times. He's arguably the most unlucky Doctor as he just wants fun but death surrounds him. The Sixth Doctor (Colin Baker) is arguably (yes, again) the most disliked Doctor due to his arrogance and choice of clothing (not his fault). He was very childish and serious most of the time. The Seventh Doctor (Sylvester McCoy) was the clown to start off with, but gradually got much darker and more manipulative but always remained childish. The Eighth Doctor (Paul McGann) was probably the most human Doctor, and seemed to be one of the most childish but had a hidden sadness and rage, leading into New Who.The TARDIS is the Doctor's iconic time and space travelling machine. It has became so iconic in British culture that if a child sees an old police box, he'll/she'll probably shout "TARDIS!" and point. The Master is the Doctor's nemesis, his Moriarty, who can also regenerate when injured as they are both the aliens called Time Lords from Gallifrey. Daleks are another iconic thing in Britain now, try and find somebody who doesn't know what one is.Of course, these are only brief descriptions and don't go into each era, which usually matches the Doctor at the time. The series is so massive that I could describe it for hours. So impressive. A small concept became such an iconic show. Possibly more famous than Robin Hood, another British achievement.I gave this series a 9 for a reason, though. I believe the pacing is too slow. It's hard to pay attention much of the time as things take so long to happen. This was normal at the time of 1960s Doctor Who, but not the extent this series. As fun and interesting as it is, it can bore me to a very large extent. If only each story was cut in half, bar some of the better paces stories.So a huge cultural thing, but the series itself has a number of problems. The concepts are so genius, though, that these can be forgiven. I just find the series hard to watch a lot of the time. I'll review New Who (2005-) separately.


                
I guess the only way you can do it is just to go over your own experience with the show. I grew up in Australia, the Australian bush specifically. The first doctor I was old enough to actually appreciate was Slyvester McCoy. I had seen all the Pertwee and Tom Baker episodes as a kid but hadn't taken them in, so my first episode I have any real memory of is Time and the Rani. And I was hooked pretty much from there. As a child of 7, I had no concept of good Doctor Who or bad Doctor Who, or, as I prefer to call them both as a grown adult; "Doctor Who." I just knew he was a Time Lord, from the planet Gallifrey, that he drifted around through time and space in a Police Box and helped people. I didn't care about effects or acting, I just liked the premise.It took about 5 years after the McCoy era ended in 1990 (in Australia) for the show to return, at 4am in the morning, and it was Peter Davison episodes they were showing. Every morning I would get up and watch the show and Davison ended up becoming MY Doctor.I spent a lot of the so called "Wilderness years" watching the old episodes, becoming acquainted with Hartnell's Doctor and re watching some Tom Baker episodes I never really followed as a child. I could see the changing world views on show, from the fear of nuclear destruction in The Daleks to the sympathetic look at Christianity in The Romans, to attacks on consumerism in the Sun Makers and anti-Thatcher sentiments of the Happiness Patrol and the increasing prominence of secular humanism within the show's ideals.I could notice stylistic changes from action oriented in early 70s, to hammer horror influences in the mid 70s, to bonkers Monty Python silliness in the late 70s and then glossy and pessimistic kill fests in the early to mid 80s. I came to admire the way the show changed and adapted as it got older. Season 22 was a disaster, both stylistically and thematically, but it was the only real clunker the show had in its original run which lasted 26 seasons. The key idea that the show had to keep was that the Doctor was an alien with a magic box who flies into a town, finds a problem, fixes said problem, and flies off.I'll list briefly the episodes that I enjoyed the most as a youngling and then take off, probably not having achieved anything apart from indulging myself.Remembrance of the Daleks- First episode I ever watched obsessively. Devious doctor, dalek civil war, creepy little girl, lots of deaths and a satisfying resolution. I hear criticism of this being too continuity heavy. All I will say is I was 8, and had no problems understanding that the daleks were fighting each other over Davros, the doctor had left the hand in a previous incarnation and he had got it from his home planet. Kids really aren't as stupid as some adults seems to think. As Peter Davison later paraphrased "The challenge with writing Doctor Who is keeping it simple enough for the adults to follow, but complicated enough for the kids to stay interested." Deadly Assassin- loved it. Crispy Master. Decadent Gallifrey. Awesome Castellan. Big stakes and Tom Baker at his best. This was another one fans at the time hated because it showed the Time Lords and Gallifrey in a different light to ever before.The Romans- got the VHS in 1996(I think) and loved this one. Ian became one of my favourite companions. Felt like such an epic. Again was criticized for its tone, but out of context it's a fun epic romp.Anyway, that's my personal experience with Doctor Who. Thanks for reading.
"Dr. Who" is undoubtedly the best series of the 60s and one of the best science fiction series ever, each episode better than the other and each season better than the other, and the concept of time travel and space. without a doubt fantastic. Highly recommend.


                
This classic series of Doctor Who is awesome with each era bringing something new to the Legacy of the. See were it all started with An Unearthly and see where is ended with Survival its a hell of a ride lets break down the eras.Now the first two eras i find really hard to watch due to most of the episodes being missing. However the stories i have seen i really enjoy Dalek Invasion of Earth is incredible and The Tenth Planet is awesome. With the second doctor i enjoyed The Invasion and Tomb of the Cybermen two great cybermen episodes who are my favourite villains now have seen 3rd Doctor onwards in its entirety and its Classic so lets break down then Eras.The Jon Pertwee era on Doctor Who such a classic era and a great part of Doctor Who history Pertwee plays this role beautifuly and this for me is when Doctor Who feels Dr Who unlike the two era's that came before.
This era introduced alot of classic monsters that would be remembered by Dr Who fans forever like the Sea Devils, Silurians and the Sontaran which had there first appearance in The Time warrior.
This era is also when I first saw the Ice Warriors in Curse and Monster of Peladon such great episodes now there some episodes I don't like for example the Green Death isn't brilliant and I've never really enjoyed Invasion of the Dinosaurs.
This era also introduced two of my characters in the whole show the first one being The Master a brilliant villian in Dr Who history and his relationship with the Doctor is always brilliant. The other being Omega who was in The Three Doctors such a brilliant character and has a great backstory and such a great part of Dr Who law this is a character I want back in the New series and I prefer his look in this over his look in the 5th Doctor era.
My favourite episodes in this era are definitely the three Doctors and the sea Devils which are just classic Dr who and episodes that all fans must see in my opinion.
I also like that fact the Dr is stranded on earth during his era didn't think it would work but I love it and him for Unit his just awesome and makes for some really good stories.The Tom Baker era of Doctor Who my second favourite era in Classic Who and one of my favourite Doctors.
This era has some of the best stories in Doctor Who history like City of Death, Pyramids of Mars and Deadly Assassin just to name few. However I think the best story in this era is definitely Genesis of the Daleks this story is just perfect and should be watched by any doctor who fan it's introduces one the best villains in tv history in Davros the creater of the Daleks such a great and interesting character and any scene with him and the Doctor is just pure gold and down Doctor Who's best moments.
Davros isn't the only great villian in this era though Sutekh in Pyramids of Mars is incredible and really want him back in NuWho and season 13 is my second favourite season in Classic Who.
I also really like the Key to Time season very enjoyable season.
However there are some stories I'm not a fan of like Underworld and Meglos very disappointing stories in my opinion and ones I probably won't revisit that often.
This era introduces me to my favourite companion in the Classic Run Romana II played by Lalla Ward.
I also want to talk about Logopolis which is one of my favourite and I think Tom has the most interesting regeneration in my opinion.My favourite era in Classic Who is definitely the Peter Davison years this was the era In classic who I watched from beginning to end and loved it all now there are some episodes that aren't perfect like Time Flight and Warriors of the Deep but there some of favourite stories in all of Dr who In this era like Earthshock being my favourite Cyberman story of all time and Caves of Androzani being my favourite episode from the classic era.
This era also some of my favourite villains introduced like the Tellaliptals in The Visitation and also the return of Omega in Arc of Infinity which is great.
Fantastic era all round and Davison remains my favourite Classic Dr.The Colin Baker era definitely the most underrated era of Doctor Who in my opinion I personally like this era and I really Colin Baker as the Doctor think he played it really well I dont think every episode is perfect I'm not a massive fan of Time Lash and Twin Dilema has some issues.
But there are some great stories in this era I love Vengeance on Varos and The Two Doctors. And trail of a Timelord, Revelation of the Daleks and Mark of the Rani are great as well.
However my favourite story is definitely Attack of the Cybermen such a great story.The Sylvester McCoy era definitely my least favourite era in Doctor Who and still my least favourite Doctor this era has some really bad stories like The Happiness Patrol and my least favourite Cybermen story in Silver Nemesis and Ghost Light is just plain weird.
However there are some great moments in this era and some stories I really like for example I love Survival and Remembrance of the Daleks and I really enjoy Curse of Fenric and Battlefield I also think Time and Rani is very underrated and one of my favourite episodes in this era.
This era did also introduce one of favourite companions in Ace such a badass character and loved were her story going but still there just are alot of flawed stories and sometimes I'm not a fan of how he played the Doctor although he does have some great moments just a flawed era overall.Verdict 9/10 great piece of British Tv not all eras are perfect but alot of fun to watch and Dr Who is still my favourite show
Doctor Who is one of, if not the, most original TV show to date. It introduces the concept of the Doctor, a two-hearted Time Lord, who uses a TARDIS to travel through time and space. As in, anywhere. Literally.I cannot begin to describe how much this series has affected my life, and I cannot recommend it enough to those who have not seen it. There are hundreds (and I'm not over exaggerating) of brilliant episodes, as diverse from each other as Marmite is from honey. A few of these are:An Unearthly Child, The Dalek Invasion of Earth, Doctor Who and the Silurians, The Tomb of the Cybermen, Inferno, Ark In Space, Genesis of the Daleks, Robots of Death, The Keeper of Traken, Frontios, the Caves of Androzani, The Trial of a Time Lord and The Curse of Fenric: to name a few. This series should definitely by watched by any fan of Sci-Fi, Fantasty, Horror, Drama, Soap Opera or anything else.


                
