This film has a silly premise, a lousy script, an implausibility factor of about +100 and a dreadful performance by Anthony Hopkins.  It's the last point that I'll mention about first:  has a more pretentious, breathy performance ever been seen on film before (outside of the Richard Burton oeuvre)?  As for plausibility:  can you imagine the FBI sending a trainee to interview a serial killer, seeking information about another serial killer on the loose?  That was a major flaw in the (also overrated) novel.  I guess it's easier to write about, or make a movie with, a younger woman who's still apt to get all scared-ified and emotional and who doesn't have those annoying crows-feet.  The script is terrible, too--it tries to present Hannibal Lecter as being some kind of 'psychic vampire'.  Witness Hopkins' expression after Jodie Foster tells him her tale of lamb-napping woe--like a famished person who's just been given a good meal.  Give me a break!  And don't tell me that the FBI couldn't have made a connection between the missing skin pieces on the dead girls' bodies and figured out what the loony-tunes they were chasing was doing.  It takes Jodie Foster's character seeing a dress pattern with darts on it to make the connection.  What a group of dim bulbs.  And they wait until HOW MANY young women are killed before they scratch their heads and say, "Hmmmm, maybe the killer knew one of the victims!"  How did this stupid waste of celluloid ever garner any critical praise?  I mean, I know the Oscars annually bestow 'Best Motion Picture' awards on undeserving titles, so I don't care that this movie won so many--but what were the nation's film critics thinking when this made so many 'Top 10' lists?


                
Ever since this one came out I've been reading great things about it, but I didn't get in that bandwagon as I always had the bugging feeling this was just another proverbial ruler without a decent wardrobe. Also I'm not great fan of Foster, neither I'm of Hopkins, but I decided to give this one a try anyway as, even if I didn't have much expectations I was willing to be pleasantly surprised by, fool of me, good plot and decent acting. But what do you know, that 6th sense had kicked up again. For 75 min. SOTL moves along in so-so territory, as there's nothing in it that would make for a classic. The main story is one that I've seen many times before, mostly in CSI, only difference being that here the police is trying to enroll one nut into helping them to catch another. But all parallels stop there. The characterization is practically nonexistent and after 60 min. one still doesn't know a thing about those cops, as they all act like the oh, so common, stereotypical, law enforcers. As for the two nuts, they are just caricatures. One thing that for 9 seasons made of CSI such a classic was the impeccable characterization, right from to the bosses down to the scruffy guys in the labs, thanks to the superb acting job by all involved--specially Peterson--so much so we'd even mention them as if we knew them personally. Granted, here they had only 2 hours but, please, how many 90-min. movies with unforgettable characters you can remember? This flick is so bad character--wise that not even Foster's is defined by her acting, behavior, but by the bits of life story she tells to Hannibal!. As for Hopkins, he didn't impress me at all; he looks just like another nut of the kind I see everyday in the street or the subway and he's most forgettable trying to scare us with his bad ass stare. Anyway, for 75 min. the flick slumbers along, barely sustaining itself while totally lacking in atmosphere, tension or emotion.Then the plot dissolves into lameness and stupidity. I'm talking in first place about Hannibal's escape. We are supposed to believe that the tightest possible security measures have been taken--someone even talks of calling the SWAT and cordoning off 10 blocks around-which means they are aware of the risks he represents. Yet in Hannibal's floor there are only two guards with no communication—radio, TV monitor--armed with clubs and maze (while everyone else carry guns). But it gets even worse: Hannibal flees in an ambulance disguised as a wounded cop, implying that all present cops & medics are morons. Later, when it comes to the part in the psycho's place the flick goes into standard Hollywood crap: awful dialogs; general overacting; chaotic camera work, editing--to give "atmosphere"--cliché antics by the lone, enterprising heroine, etc. The flick ends up with an avalanche of feel good clichés—most of the "law & justice prevail" kind, the only thing missing there being the final romantic kiss.The cinematography is mediocre and specially bad in the scene where they examine the body of a victim. Contrary to standards, they shot the whole scene using--instead of wide or medium shots, to give us the most possible info on the proceedings--one close up after another, specially of Foster's, for no reason at all. What's the obsession with those close ups that litter the whole flick anyway? After a while it gets annoying. But this is just one of many flows. For ex.: what's the idea of portraying the head of a mental institution as a spoiled brat? Why the police ever expected to get a psycho on their side? And why they'd give such a job to a kid who doesn't know how to handle mental patients? Speaking of editing, those flashbacks of Clarice's dad are terribly done.So, stay away from this one. Just another emperor....err, turkey in emperor's clothes. 2/10
It is certainly the most overrated movie ever.. and it is the first to depict super serial killers as real believable stuff.. let me say something, it is a B movie pretending to be a first class movie.. people must understand a simple thing, super serial killers are B MOVIE STUFF! Movies like Friday 13th or those with Freddy Krüger.. those are typical B movie where there is a super serial killer.Don't get me wrong, I like B movies.. I like how a B movie director struggle against time and budget to make a piece of entertainment.. I liked the first two Jason movies and that first Freddy movie.. they have the suspense of a B horror movie.. they are true B movies. Those Silence of the Lambs guys got a money to make an A movie and made a B movie, period.The plot is just absurd, there is a serial killer on the loose.. and a investigator tries find help with another serial killer, the super one, who is in jail.. I don't know exactly what kind of help an investigator would ask for a jailed man.. but it is what the movie is based on. Although the free serial killer could be anywhere.. the super serial killer uses his super powers to help that FBI investigator to find him.. but he likes to play with that female investigator and then he uses his superpowers to read her mind and find out everything about her life. He doesn't tell everything once, he gives her hints about the serial killer whereabout.. so she gotta come over and over again to him to beg some more hints.. it is stupid, I know, but that is one the most praised movies ever.It is like asking a jailed Freddy Kruger to fight Jason because they can't defeat him.. it is something like that.. if you make a real analysis of that sh*t. And it is not a thriller at all, and has a lot of highly laughable absurd bits.Unfortunately it created a trend people seems to like too much.. the super serial killer movie pretending to be a serious one, not a B movie which it indeed is.


                
First its not a thriller.... because it doesn't thrill but just tells a simple story... 2nd... plot holes are way too many to ruin the entire film up...Dr lectarz escape... how can you be so casual with a highly dangerous criminal.... you go in to give food to him.... and no cameras watching over.. wow...Finding the house of buffalo bill... well pretty lucky find i would say... i should be in FBI if it is all to work with luck Killing Him... MY GOD... with the night goggles on watching her from a distance he wouldn't kill her... wouldn't even load the gun beforehand... but would go all the way near her to load the gun so that she can hear it and shoot him... he is the most stupid killer i have ever seen.and without those 3 plot holes... you wouldn't have the end to the story... its like getting stuck with the story and then you don't know how to end it... so you just make luck do all the work and finish of the job... no clues... no thinking... just pure luck and a stupid stupid villain...
This is another movie that glorifies psychopathic behaviour. The bad guy is portrayed as an intelligent, witty, stylish, calculated guy while the investigators are shown as weak-minded, emotional, imprudent persons. One almost feels sorry(or maybe angry) for the FBI guys for being so incompetent. How can the screenplay for such a movie get 5 Oscars? The acting is not that great either, Anthony Hopkins is overplaying his lines while Jodie Foster is barely acting at all. She doesn't seem to change mimic during the whole movie and the whole story with the lambs is just lame. Some psychopaths are known to be good to animals, so saving some lambs doesn't automatically make you a noble and unique person, someone that can make the world a better place.


                
I saw this movie when new, and liked it plenty.  That was years ago, and I've grown considerably.  My interest in Thomas Harris' "Red Dragon", and the screenplay I'm working on based on it, prodded me into renting SOTL for repeat viewing. I've always held the Oscars in low regard, but have dropped that regard all together after viewing this nonsense.  The 1,000 word maximum on these posts prevents me from mentioning all the folly I found in the film.  But I'll try....Acting:  In most instances, overwrought.  Hopkins was a good psycho, but a bad Lecter.  The Lecter of the novels was far more sedate in his demeanor, prefering to "charm" his opposition, allowing himself access to their psyche.  Sniffing the air for skin cream is highly dubious.  Foster did a good job as a young recruit.  The problem I have with her is has more to do with the story.  Seems a bit too unrealistic.  Will Graham convinced me.  Clarice Starling didn't.  Dr. Chilton was played as a complete idiot.  Typical Hollywood bad good-guy.  Made the viewer biased for Lecter.  WRITER SHORTCUT!  I recognize this as a substitute for compelling writing and acting.  Simply bias the audience toward the main character by surrounding him with easy-to-dis-like characters.  No childish brat like the Chilton portrayed would ever hold a job of such responsibility.   Ted Levine was terrific throughout.  Voice, appearance, contortions, crotch, :  all wonderful.  Most of the supporting players were of TV movie quality. Canned dialog, playing dumb for an assumed dumb audience.  Posh on that, Director. As for direction, too many flubs and gimmicks to mention here.  I'll mention one:  The cat in the window growling as Buffalo Bill drives away with Fat Girl # Whatever. Like any cat is going to react in that fashion.  A cat would not bat a whisker if in the presence of such drama.  Would only move if the master was going to land on it.  Otherwise, no fur ruffled.  What a gimmick that was.The music was typical of Hollywood reality.  Never in my life, when confronted with drama of any intensity, have I heard violins out of nowhere. DIRECTOR SHORTCUT!:  Adding sappy "music" to enhance mood.  In most cases, this is to bolster or cover any weaknesses in writing, acting, direction, or all three.  (NOTE: This is certainly not exclusive to this film.  Most Hollywood productions employ this tactic.) The ending of the film was almost good about this.  No music, just Foster in the dark.  ***NO SPOILER***  But the ending could've been better.  Easily.MANHUNTER should have won 15 Oscars, if SOTL could win 5. Sure, it was a bit too 80's in appearance, but far more accurate and convincing.  Better book, too.In summation, too dumbed down.  Booooooo.


                
Academy Awards are rarely the sign of a great movie. The children of the Academy members, who do the actual voting, have notoriously pedestrian tastes. This movie does add some dramatic scenes and character development to improve on a poorly written novel. This movie's big draws, it would appear, were cannibalism, masogeny, and over-acting. Really great acting is transparent. If you're marvelling at the fantastic acting during the movie, then what you're enjoying is watching someone "ham it up" on the screen, not fine acting. The important thing is that the villain didn't have sex with the women, he just murdered them and skinned them, thus avoiding an x rating. And the females that we were aware of that did have sex were properly tortured for their sins. What I really find offensive is that Hannibal the Cannibal is portrayed as a likable monster, even after cutting off the face of an innocent guard in order facilitate his escape. Hannibal's a winner and American's love a winner, regardless of the atrocities he commits in order to achieve his goals. This movie sends the message that if we are clever and have no moral limits as to what we are willing to do, we'll succeed -which Hannibal does! This movie is truly a bottom feeder in the cesspool of American cinema.


                
I don't really know how anyone could like this movie. I first saw it when i was 11 and it freaked me out. Then my friend said that i should go see it at his house. I figured "hey, why not,i was just a little kid when i saw it, it can't be too bad". Well, i was Definitely wrong. I'll put in a quick summary: ooh, a cannibal took a guys brain out,cooked it and ate it,yeah. Oooh more cannibalism,how terrific. Thats really all there is to it. I completely lost my faith in the Oscars when it won best picture. However, i do have something positive to say: the acting was pretty good and stopped me from giving it one star.2/10
Ever since I was a little kid, I was obsessed with reading pulp horror. I've read more from the genre than anyone I personally know. Being a soon-to-be-published author myself, I've learned more about the genre by constantly reading than by any writing seminar I've ever been to. For those who don't read, by simple definition, pulp horror is: a story that is genuinely terrifying and thrilling, but purposely lacks any forced literary moral. Stephen King is pretty much the poster-child of this style of writing. With all of that said, when The Silence of the Lambs, the novel, was released and received mass critical acclaim for being the "perfect" horror-thriller, even being the major genre-whore that I am, I could really care less. Why? Simple because I'd read so many books EXACTLY like it, I had no interest. A few years later, when the movie was released, I felt the exact same way. This is why I've waited so long to view this "impossible-to-miss!" film. Because I knew it was just more of the same. When I finally decided to force myself to watch it, I found my gut instinct was underestimating. The Silence of the Lambs is not only just more of the same unoriginal story that we've all heard so many times that it's second nature to us, it's also cheesy, immature, over-glamorized, and, in the end, completely laughable. And here is why . . .First and foremost: The Silence of the Lambs is, unarguably, 100% unoriginal. There is not a single original—or even creative—concept in the entire runtime of the film. This paragraph of my review is not my opinion. The way I view the world has no bearing on what has or hasn't been done in storytelling before. Saying that it's my opinion that The Silence of the Lambs is unoriginal is equivalent to saying that it's my opinion that the sky is blue. And just as childish. With that said, I can literally point you, scene-by-scene, to where every single idea in The Silence of the Lambs has been written and filmed in the past. Dressed to Kill, for a major example. From the formula, to the characters, to the situations, to the set-up: it's all, unarguably, one giant genre cliché. And, as I said, I can point to every movie, every book that has used the EXACT scenes in the past. This isn't just a coincidence; it's an unabashed lack of creativity and intelligence from the writer. Just more of the same cliché Hollywood and pulp fiction conventions we've seen all our lives. All the standard clichés are here, folks: romantic subplot, tension at the agency, troubled childhoods, etc., etc., etc.Hannibal Lector himself is, admittedly by the author, nothing but a mash-up of various fictional and real-life serial killers. The two most obvious fictional killers he unabashedly rips-off are Leatherface (The Texas Chain Saw Massacre, 1974) and Mark Lewis (Peeping Tom, 1960). Leatherface's actions (cannibal, wears victim's faces) + Lewis's mind (pretentious, psychiatrist, study's human behavior, kills people to study reactions, gives long speeches about serial killers, has a supposed vast knowledge of the human mind) = Hannibal Lector. There is not a single character trait that Lector has that wasn't done nearly 40 years before he was written. Again, a kindergarten lack of creativity. I honestly don't even know how his character got past copyright laws.Not to mention Hannibal's cheesy persona. He pronounces "liver" with slurping sounds at the end. So did 3-year-olds, but I don't cower in fear of them. He never actually DOES anything on-screen, except talk. And talk. And when he does talk, he talks with the pseudo-intelligence of a high-school dropout who took a semester of psychology. Why? Because his psychological knowledge is laughably limited, and sometimes incorrect all together. He's supposed to be this oh-so-evil genius, but all he ever does is quote cliché phrases from dumbed-down Freud. He knows NOTHING about psychology. The pathetic writers just wrote enough cliché psychobabble between his laugh-out-loud cheesy slurping sounds to make it seem like he knew at least as much about the human mind as the average middle-school student. And then, just like all over-glamorized Hollywood, every time Hannibal is on the screen they point the camera up at his face with light shining behind his head as he stares at the ceiling without blinking. That's not good acting. That's made-for-TV directing they use in low-budget Jesus movies. Hannibal Lector is nothing but an awkward middle-aged man who is obsessed with talking and breaking copyright laws. How is that unnerving? If I met him, I'd laugh in his face and tell him to grow up.So, at root value, I'm just trying to ask: What is so great about this movie? It's a generic crime thriller. It opens up with a generic cop-meets-killer scene, and ends with a generic cheesy-killer-in-the-house scene. Everything in between is exactly what you'd expect from an over-glamorized generic Hollywood thriller. It has NO significance whatsoever when it comes to originality. And as far as entertainment value goes, I don't see what's so entertaining in watching a middle-age man talk for an hour on end. If that entertains you, I pity you.Oh my God! This movie TERRIFIED me! Why? Because an awkward middle-aged man pronounced "liver" like a 3-year-old.I'll say the same thing to those of you who gave this movie a high score as I'd say to Hannibal Lector: GROW UP.2/10
I gave this film a 1. It's not quite that bad, but I felt it necessary when I saw the ludicrous fact that it was ranked #20 for all time. That is as astonishing and appalling as the films five wholly undeserved major Academy Awards. To be shocking and unsettling for the purpose of art can be admirable. To be shocking and unsettling for the purpose of creating a lurid freak show is another. This movie never even makes the most cursory attempt to look at what motivates the serial killers it portrays. It just wants to be creepy. Creepy it is, and full of suspense, too. But since when does that earn you a Best Picture Oscar? "Jurassic Park" was creepy and full of suspense, in far skillful and artistic ways, yet the suggestion that it was award worthy would have brought guffaws.The performances of Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins are good, but definitely not Oscar worthy. In fact, for Hopkins supporting role to be included as Best Actor is abysmally ridiculous. And for all the hype that has surrounded the character of Hannibal Lecter, he is nothing but a by-the-numbers Hollywood pshycopath. In short, parts of this film are well done (others are not), and unlike most contemporary horror films it's genuinely frightening. But never for one millisecond does it begin to approach a level of depth beyond B-Grade exploitation. Well done schlock is still schlock, and when the Academy gave this film Best Picture, they damaged the dignity of an entire art form.


                
As a person who is going deaf, I had trouble viewing this movie since I assumed it would be a silent film, surpassing the likes of metropolis and Dracula. So I put the film on full blast, thinking it would be a silent film. Much to my surprise, the movie blasted itself into life, rupturing my ear drums and causing me to pass out. I woke up ten hours later covered in my salsa popcorn. I am writing this review to warn all persons with hearing issues that THIS IS NOT A SILENT FILM! Also beware, this film is not suitable for small children. I witnessed a man eating another man and calling him "tasty" like my salsa popcorn. My four year old son also was watching and he started touching his no no area. HE GOT SUUUUUUPER EXCITED!


                
Very boring movie
we are very bored
half of the film closed


                
