How can you start talking about a movie like "Forrest Gump" without being bias on the whole hype that has been surrounding it since it came out. For someone who actually knows about films, it is a personal insult that the Academy Awards considered this movie to be in higher standards than...
Pulp Fiction The Shawshank Redemption Quiz Show and even Four Weddings and a Funeraland how could Robert Zemeckis' (I hate that name) work be considered better than...Krzysztof Kieslowski for RED!!!!!!!!!!! Quentin Tarantino for PULP FICTION!!!!!! Woody Allen for BULLETS OVER BROADWAY!!!!!! Robert Redford for QUIZ SHOW!!!!!!! Not to mention that the Academy is such an airhead that Frank Darabont the director of The Shawshank Redemption wasn't even nominated!!!!!!Let's consider MANY important factors for this movie to be loved blindly, without a true sense of reflection and observation.Number 1: I have to much time on my hands,Number 2: It stars Tom Hanks who undoubtedly represents the white, flawless way of American Life. He is the Jimmy Stewart of today (that could not hurt). He is talented, but highly overrated. He has some excellent performances, but he always seems the same to me. He could never have the talent that actors like Gary Oldman, Ed Harris, Sean Penn, Russell Crowe or Denzel Washington have to reinvent themselves every time in a different role. He is the typical American male sweetheart, regardless everybody loves him. His star power more than his ability as an actor helped this movie to get sold and appreciated.Number 3: Stories about characters with disabilities always, and I mean always sell in Hollywood (Rainman, I am Sam, Nell, My Left Foot, Awakenings, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest) not that I am saying that these great films compare to Forrest Gump, but the idea itself whether good or bad sells.Number 4: The history of the United States is taken rather lightly in this movie, all the events that take place around the character happen without his knowledge in the most unconvincing of methods. Racism, Vietnam, meeting a number of American Presidents, his unheard speech at Lincoln Memorial, the hippies, drugs, Bubba Gump shrimp, apple computers, amongst other historic events in which the character gets involved, but does not seem to grasp the magnitude of those very events. He is mentally handicaped as we are shown from the beginning, so because we are suppose to believe that he is emotionally handicap too. He never seems to get emotionally affected by anything, unless it involves Jenny, even then it does not appear to be convincing or moving in any way.Number 5: The story itself appears to me as manipulative, sappy, uncompromised and made in half measures. It touches certain issues, but never dwells on them with justice. The ingenuity of the character, his disability seems enough reason to feel that all the events are seen with a certain depth. Which they are not. It is unfair, because Hanks' charm and Gump's likeable stupidity work as a hook to entangle people's emotions. It never allows for anyone to make an effort to see beyond the  story and into the gut of what was attempted to be said.Number 6: Stupid moments, everybody loves them, Hollywood is an expert of what people like and what they want to spend their money on. Gump begins a "marathon" across the country for no real reason at all, half way decides he's had enough, by then the entire country was following him (as a metaphor for the movie itself). Elvis Presley the King or Rock ends up as a youngster, who knows how, in Gump's house as a visitor. Gump who has braces in his legs miraclously teaches him the dance moves that made him famous. Something that I personally cannot consider to be taken lightly is an issue like the Vietnam War, but Forrest somehow manages to run in and out the jungle in the middle war saving people left and right. Maybe Zemeckis never read a book or even watched a film (Apocalypse Now, Platoon, Full Metal Jacket, Casualties of War) to illustrate him on what really happened on that war. Young soldiers were getting killed by the dozen. Forrest Gump is a fairy tale based on unfounded grounds and hypocritical notions of "reality". Oliver Stone dedicated his film Platoon to the American soldiers in Vietnam, he went there for real and saw what happened. Zemeckis has decided to ignore all these factors and still believe that his adored character could even be immune to a experience like Vietnam (in every aspect possible).To conclude please do not let yourself be manipulated, not just because Forrest Gump won the oscar for Best Picture makes it one of the best films of the 90's. The "sweetness" of this movie is not even sweet, its only the a ploy, a sales pitch of the American Dream. In 20 years who will remember Forrest Gump, and more importantly who will remember that film when The Shawshank Redemption and Pulp Fiction are still in people's memories for real reasons. They are art films, Forrest Gump the oscar's favorite.And seriously folks if you haven't seen Kieslowski's RED run over to blockbuster and rent it. Its the end of the Color Trilogy. Then you'll know what we mean.thank you. VIVA EL CINE!!!!


                
For the life of me I will never understand the popularity of this movie. It is nothing more than a tedious, painfully melodramatic mess.The entire film is based on a gimmick that is repeated ad nauseum until eventually I just wanted to chew off one of my hands instead of watching another minute.  That gimmick consists of inserting Forrest into an historic event and watching him emerge triumphant.  That the film repeatedly has Forrest living through (and becoming a hero in) the most tumultuous times in recent American history---Vietnam, segregation, the Cold War, etc.---is an insult to the people who lived through those times.  To say that Forrest, with all his moronic wisdom, is smarter than those who actually experienced the event into which Forrest is digitally inserted is nothing short of an affront to America itself.One of the greatest tragedies in its Oscar sweep is that "Gump" won for Best Editing over "Hoop Dreams," a movie culled from over 300 hours of footage. "Hoop" is riveting for every minute while "Gump" drags on and on with superfluous scene after superfluous scene.  Could that "Forrest running back and forth across the US" have possibly been milked any longer?  This lasts 15 minutes with no reason except to portray the passage of time.And as for Forrest's "soul mate," Jenny, this little slut is a despicable character who abuses Forrest throughout his entire life, both mentally and emotionally, and shows him nothing but disrespect.  This character does not deserve our sympathy, she deserves our contempt."Forrest Gump" is woefully, abominably bad.  Its main gimmick is cute the first time you see the movie, but after one viewing the entire facade comes crashing down to reveal a redundant plot, mediocre acting (Hanks is an Oscar-caliber actor, but not for this dreck; he was better in both "Cast Away" and "Saving Private Ryan") and inept editing.In my opinion, this stands as the least deserving of all Best Picture Oscar winners.Rating: 2/10


                
Make a movie about a retard, or play one. Look at Hoffman in "Rainman" or Miles in "Ryan's Daughter", they won Oscars for playing retards too. You can't go wrong with a stupid person as the focus, sort of like the chimp lead. Better yet, endow him with all sorts of savant-like talents like superhuman strength and sports agility. What silly, contrived hokum. This is a sentimental piece of schlock that is always simple and forced. "Life is like a box of chocolates", yeah, right! The only one who deserved the Oscar lost, Gary Sinise. Finally, use cgi to work the retard into all the key TV/pop culture moments, guaranteed to melt a boomer's heart. Have him influence the whole world with his simple homespun Gomer Pyle platitudes. If the director had another 10 minutes to fill, Gump would have redesigned the Apollo space ship program and got the astronauts to the Moon. Enough sugar here to rot our whole country's teeth. It proves that pop culture really sucks. "Pulp Fiction" was it's dark Oscar nominated rival in 1994. It was a better movie with a sicker message so it lost to this treacle,


                
You've got to give it to the makers of this film, they certainly tried every trick in the book to wheedle reactions from viewers.  A person with a disability who manages to triumph through the most extreme and traumatic situations thrown at him.  Was this meant to be some sort of metaphor for "the American Dream", whereby citizens by rights should triumph through whatever adversity is thrown their way, coming out the other side richer and stronger?  Give me a break - or at least, show it to me in an intelligent, thoughtful, non-manipulative way!The scenes with Forrest intercut into historic footage were quite nice, though.


                
The other nominees for Best Picture of 1994 were `Pulp Fiction', `Four Weddings and a Funeral', `The Shawshank Redemption' and `Quiz Show'.  ANY ONE of these would have been a deserving winner (my personal favourite was probably `Quiz Show').  Yet, of course, the award went to `Forrest Gump'.  I took this as a deep personal affront.  I took every undeserved success and wreath of flowers laid at the door of this miserable film as a personal affront.  It was a standing insult to my belief that `Forrest Gump' was just too stupid to succeed for very long.  Ah, well.  Life imitates art.Make no mistake: `Forrest Gump' is not just stupid but a hymn to stupidity, an extended celebration of stupidity as a virtue.  Gump is as innocent as they come and we're clearly meant to think that this is a good thing.  The trouble is that Gump has purchased his sainthood too cheaply.  He does not, for instance, display any real courage in the Vietnam War: he gives the appearance of courage only because he's too dumb to work out what's going on.  (If only a bomb had landed on his foot.  It would have knocked some of that insufferable self-assurance out of him, at the very least.)The film is just one big, long appeal to the Pope to have Forrest Gump canonised, and is about as bearable as any such appeal - and, as is so often the case, the subject of this appeal is someone you wouldn't want to spend five minutes with.`Forrest Gump' is one hundred and forty-two minutes long.


                
I can't believe this insultingly stupid, trite, and flabby film was nominated for any awards. The film is simply meaningless, having no comprehensible point of view and unwilling to look one millimeter past the surface of any of the events it attempts to depict. Something like this is even more flatulent and offensive than action garbage like _ConAir_, which at least doesn't pretend to have Something To Say.The popularity of this movie escapes me completely. I guess it makes people feel good about themselves in some sick way: "My life is bad, but lookie - this retarded man gets to interpret the highlights of American history and popular culture for me!" Hanks, who I normally like, seems to have based his performance on not blinking, or maybe he was just drugged (a rational response to the uber Hallmark Card that passes for a screenplay.) Wretched garbage appropriate for people scared of thinking.


                
I'm an action movie guy. Primarily, I like it when things blow up. So to begin with, "Forrest Gump" was not going to be my kind of movie. But I like an intelligent film that has something to say, and I think I "get it" about this film. It's a journey through modern American history, showing a window into mainstream culture from the plight of the main character.Unfortunately, the film is incredibly sappy. Everybody who can possibly get hurt gets hurt. If it's a sunny day, it will start raining in this film. Then we get to linger on this melancholy in endless melodramatic scenes. Meanwhile Forrest, who is stupid as a stump (unlike brilliant actor Tom Hanks who plays him) is an anti-hero who lets others push him around. There's no deep theme, and the movie is sub-intellectual.These things built up into what is essentially an amateur script surrounded by a blockbuster hype and star cast. "Forrest Gump" is basically a soap opera, and I do mean to conjure images of daytime TV at its worst.Who should see this film:-- Soap opera fans-- Everybody else, run for the hills -- even if you do havean artistic film school depthI'll give "Forrest Gump" a 2 out of 10, because it at least maintained a consistent tone throughout. If you don't like the first ten minutes, stop watching.


                
This has to be one of the most over-rated films of all time. I expected the film to be stupid, which it was, but I didn't expect it to be incredibly boring also. I couldn't even get through the video in one night; I was so bored I had to stop watching it and finish it the next night. Its winning the Oscar for Best Picture crystallized the opinion that I had been forming for several years that the opinion of the Academy is pretty meaningless.


                
Only saved from all-time worst status by a good soundtrack and Tom Hanks' best effort to turn a truly awful character into someone vaguely palatable.This movie is an insult to the audience, its own subject matter and to anyone operating on something higher than basic brain stem function.Oh, look at the funny retard - he's a moron but he has a simple wisdom that can redeem us all.  Fortune cookies are sophisticated when compared to the message of this film.  Ugh.It is a sad commentary on the Academy's milquetoast voting standards that Gump is not the worst film to ever win a Best Picture award.


                
I'm afraid that this film probably wouldn't have bothered me quite so much if it had been significantly shorter. I tend to forget boring, over-sentimental stuff if it isn't also seemingly interminable.It took me a long time after this film to be able to watch some of the better Tom Hanks films and actually appreciate them (The Green Mile, Philadelphia, Saving Private Ryan etc)As The Princess Bride was one of my all-time favourite films, I expected better of Robyn Wright, but no-one could have saved a film with such an inappropriate message


                
One of Oscar's low moments had to be in awarding this picturebest film, best director, and best lead actor. The movie's nothingbut a pastiche of sentimentalism and forced nostalgia, strungtogether with soundbytes and pasted-in beautiful visuals, like aHallmark card glued onto celluloid.The whole schtick of having Forrest appear at "key moments" inthe 60s and 70s is just a sort of emotional rorshach blot on film,designed to allow the viewer to see whatever she or he wants.Even the soundtrack is a formulaic greatest hits soundtrack.Vietnam? Creedence! Drug scene in the early 70s? The Doors!Want to relive the running craze of the 70s? Jackson Browne's"Running on Empty!"  Yes, the movie is that achingly literal.I'm also stunned Hanks got best actor for this film. Hollywoodreally does love actors playing "special" people, doesn't it? (DustinHoffman in Rainman, Billy Bob Thornton in Sling Blade, etc. )Hanks is a professional, to be sure, but given the plotless text andthe range of emotions in the character (the whole gamut fromscared and stupid to confused and stupid), it wasn't a whole lot towork with.In an allegedly enlightened era, too, there's a lot of humour in thismovie which is basically, "look at how stupid this retarded guy is!he doesn't know his mother's whoring! he doesn't know a shrimpboat isn't a tiny little craft! he doesn't get ironic humour like we do!ha ha ha ha ha!" Pair him up with another such person in theVietnam sequences, ha ha, it's so funny the two dummies don'tknow the other one is a dummy! So to compliment the trite,non-dramatic sentimentalism, we have sophomoric comedy at theexpense of the mentally retarded.The one curiousity is an early performance by Haley Joel Osmentas, of course, a preturnaturally loquacious but cute mop-toppedurchin (spoiler coming) named Forrest Gump Junior.
I'm either the only person in the world who didn't get this movie, or the only one who did. When I saw it I figured the only way to evaluate it was as a variation on the great "Being There"-a wicked satire. But then the mainstream reviews began pouring in and it became clear that people were taking this Charming Simpleton tripe seriously. Does anyone really believe that the same Robert Zemeckis who directed one of the most scathing, vicious comedies ever ("Used Cars") has suddenly gone simple himself and meant this to be taken at face value? It's not a healthy sign when so many people seem to regard a mentally challenged individual as a role model for all to emulate.


                
I read the book and saw the movie back in the 90s when both were out and popular. The book was wonderful. The movie was pure junk! All the darkly sad and darkly humorous parts of the book were completely chewed up and regurgitated into pablum for the masses, so that Forrest Gump the Movie would be the feel-good experience of the year. Which it was, apparently. The masses are stupid. If I was the author of this book, I'd be pi**ed at this movie.This review requires 10 lines, but if I were to write more, it would be to give too much of my valuable time to this crappy movie.But I want to warn intelligent viewers out there who might not have seen this clap-trap yet, to avoid it.So I will try to accomplish 10 lines via the return key.Do I have 10 lines yet?Edited 9/20/96 - adding 1 star to this; I've seen the worst movie ever made (Crash-1996) and it's a true 1-star; no movie deserves to be in the same class as Crash, therefore I am adding 1 star to all my previously rated 1- and 2-star flicks.


                
Absolutely awful concatenation of lachrymose sentimentality and right-wing politics.  I hated this movie with an intensity that cannot be measured. This was one of the most inward looking American movies to be seen in a long time.  Americans seem to believe that there is no other country outside "Godzone"


                
I think this movie (I haven't read book) seems to have an agenda. The main character is mindless but works hard at everything, so he fits into the American Way. Part of his mindlessness is a basically loving nature. This movie is saying that as long as you pick a direction, work hard, put the needs of others before yourself, and be persistent then you will wind up ahead of the game. You will have a basis of wealth, a home, and you won't have un-necessarily exposed yourself to diseases of the mind or body.If, on the other hand, you have a mind and set out to change or improve conditions in the world, you are a fool.That's what I get from this and I am somewhat offended because if there is any credence to the philosophy that this movie advances, then I must be the fool.If anyone sees where I am wrong in my interpretation of this story I welcome comments, as I am very much in the beginning stages of analyzing stories. This one got me in particular.Anyway, the agenda that I am referring to would be Conservatism.


                
A fairy tale expression of recent American history. This has Tom Hanks playing a simpleton as the embodiment post-war America and the fact it won Oscars tells us more about American pop-culture than any erudite books might wish to say.Tom Hanks plays Gump, a rather "slow" boy who grows into a "slow" man and yet manages to involve himself in major events in American history: racial integration, Vietnam, Watergate and so on, and yet always manages to remain unwittingly on the side of Liberalism.In other words, this rather saccharine and somewhat nauseous film is trying tell us that what is good about America is the simple homespun values of innocence and goodness whilst presumably anyone with an IQ of above average is not to fully trusted. A naive message in the least which to anyone with an IQ over 100 or anyone living in Europe seems the cause of so many problems rather than the solution.If you are looking for a black and white view of the world, an idealistic and simple and sop for conscience view of the world, then this might help.For those with an IQ over 100 I would suggest you go elsewhere.


                
Phew!  I gave this one two stars, just because some of the effects were quite good.  Other than that, I have to say, there is very little to like. Perhaps you have to be a baby-boomer to a really appreciate it.  I'm a buster myself, and I've never been able to understand the wodges of gooey praise that boomers like to pile on to this fetid piece of corn.Tom Hanks (whom I actually like) has to hold a record for the easiest Oscar in history.  How hard could it be to just belt out your lines in a flat monotone, without ever having to show any sign of comprehension or complex emotion?  Forrest Gump in love looks an awful lot like Forrest Gump confused, or Forrest Gump angry, as far as I can tell.  The members of the Academy are suckers for mentally disabled protagonists, but Hanks's Gump has neither the depth of Dustin Hoffman's Raymond ("Rain Man") Babbit nor the extraordinary movements and expressions of Daniel Day-Lewis's Christy Brown.If, like me, you like to see ALL the Oscar winners, I suppose you'll have to endure Forrest Gump at some point in your life.  Otherwise, stay away!


                
"Forrest Gump" failed to "grab" me from the outset. I kept wondering throughout what was its point: are we to float through life like a feather, barely being able to comprehend its meaning? Nothing which transpired did I find uplifting or involving. Indeed, it was one of the longest, most tedious journeys I've taken in a film.  Its merits to me are its technology, and not much more.


                
There must be a lot of Forrest Gump types who vote on this web-site, because this has to be one of the worst films I've ever seen. I saw this movie in the theatre, and my wife and I kept turning to each other and wondering what everyone thought was so funny about this movie. I remember one line from this movie, and it's not the one that everyone else remembers. "Stupid is as stupid does", that's just how I felt after this movie, when I realised that I just wasted 6 bucks on this piece of crap.


                
As is asked from IMDb to make a review and this was the first movie that called me to write something, I'm going to quote Melanie Griffith as Honey Whitlock in Cecil B. Demented "I f*cking hate Forrest Gump!". John Waters is a genius for writing that relatable line and I can't wait for everyone to stop praising this and similar films, I know people can like or dislike what they want, but I also have the right to be annoyed at their opinions and have my own. By the way, can one curse in reviews here? I was scared to type f u c k i n g and be banned or something lmao.


                
Truth be told, this is not a bad film by a long way. Yet I can't for the life of me understand why, as the time of writing this, Forrest Gump is the 13th best film on IMDb? The only asset I can see this film having is the advanced effect (For its time that is). As to the acting I agree that Tom Hanks acts the part well, however being realistic, an authentic autistic person would have played the part just as well, if not better. This may possibly be the most overrated film of all time, and a 7.5/10 would be far more adequate. -Harry


                
Other than the acting of Tom Hanks, the acting of the co-stars, and the set pieces, this movie is just not worth the hype, and I really hate myself for saying that. Tom Hanks plays Forrest Gump, who one day is sitting at a park bench waiting for a bus when he begins telling his life story to a woman sitting next to him. Over the course of a few hours he continues telling his story while different people come and go until his story catches up to the moment where he began sitting at the bus stop. His story involves many different points in his life where he unwittingly becomes involved during several historical events during the 60's and 70's, meets a number celebrities and presidents, influences other people and has a significant impact on society. All while this is going on his one true love Jenny continues to elude him while she lives a traumatic life on the edge from drugs, abuse, and near suicide.Now here is my problem with this movie...Forrest Gump's life is one big fantasy, a story so outrageous that the movie comes off as more of a comedy than a sappy drama. For one thing the movie is supposed to be about going where the wind takes you, living your life a day at a time, blah blah blah, and yet people seem to forget none of Forrest Gump's life would have happened the way it did had his mother not had sex with the school administrator. If that had not happened he would not have been on that bus, he wouldn't have met Jenny, she wouldn't have inspired him to run, and the rest of his life would have been far different. Second, it always amazes me how much success Forrest had with everything he did in life. He doesn't just go to college then to Vietnam, he goes to college AND becomes a football star, he goes to Vietnam AND becomes a war hero, he goes into the shrimping business AND becomes a millionaire, he learns to play ping-ping AND becomes an international ping-ping champion. I mean the way things turned out for him he could put his name on the ballot today, and be president of the United States tomorrow. If thats the kind of life you get when the wind blows then I need to go look for a breeze.Third, all logic in this movie is completely thrown out the window. For instance, during the running across America story, I still laugh at all the people who just quit their daily lives and started running with a complete stranger. Did they just feel it was okay to leave their family and jobs behind? How did they support themselves? How did they eat? Where did they sleep? How did they clean themselves? Where did they get clothing to wear when the seasons changed? Fourth, in terms of his low I.Q. are we really sure that was even his problem. I mean other than a couple of areas where he tended to stare off into space I never saw any evidence that he was the idiot he was made out to be. Honestly it looked like he was just born with a lack of common sense. I mean he sure as hell doesn't have a problem assembling a rifle together, he takes orders from the military quite well, he can operate a shrimping boat like a champ and playing ping-pong was like riding a bike. For a guy who was supposedly that stupid he seemed to all the things he did far better than the average guy. Fifth, he tells his life story to several different people and even after he claims to have done all these fantastic things and become an international celebrity....why do none of the people listening to the story RECOGNIZE HIM?!? I'd like to think if I was talking to a guy who was a football star/war hero/business mogul/celebrity at some point I would be going "hey wait you're that Forrest Gump guy!"All in all the movie had a great concept but the story wasn't thought out in the best way.By the way folks, I don't care if you are the fastest runner in the world, YOU CANNOT OUTRUN A NAPALM STRIKE!!!
So... a guy with an IQ of 75 is the man behind pretty much every important event in American History from the 60s onwards? And all of that while being blissfully UNAWARE of that? Please... I would have almost bought it, had it been a comedy, or a parody.But Forrest Gump is damn serious, or at least it looks like everybody took seriously that stinking pile of feel-good garbage and its cheap message.I even fail to see a clear political agenda in that god-awful movie: it somehow manages to reunite both right and left-wing, with its glorification of America and of the American Dream achieved by the walking stereotype of leftist self-righteous and hypocritical egalitarianism.But regardless of its alleged political orientation, Forrest Gump is a cheap collage of implausible situations, a far-fetched melodramatic story about a man who got lucky and didn't even understand it.Honestly, instead of heartwarming and touching, I found Forrest Gump utterly revolting.


                
Hard to believe an Oscar would go to acting like this. What acting. See it one time and impossible to watch again. Painful


                
