Great movie is great and have a great story and the chocolate looks great at the end. It contains a lot story that has been builded up great and is timed perfect for my eyes the movie makes me laugh every time i watch its okay funny for persons with that humor. its a great story line coming in the right order and have the right persons the right places . It is a big movie everyone have seen it at least one time in there life me in person have seen it more than 5 times at this time so i think its great that we have that great actors in the world. Actors makes a great job in this movie have seen better but in this movie they are special. and i think its great that they have Elvis in the movie i think that he does a lot in the movie. Highly recommend, sorry for spelling mistakes...
Winner of 6 Academy Awards including Best Picture in the year that had heavyweights such as Quentin Tarantino's Pulp Fiction, Frank Darabont's The Shawshank Redemption & Disney's The Lion King, Forrest Gump isn't as impressive as the above-mentioned classics but its optimistic take on the unpredictability of life, stability between its genre elements, and a charismatic performance from Tom Hanks turns it into a cinema that's as heartwarming as it is amusing.Based on the novel of the same name, Forrest Gump tells the story of its titular character, a simple-minded, kind-hearted & good-natured guy from Alabama whose life turns out to be a wicked blend of luck & destiny as he steers through as well as influences some of the historic moments of the second half of 20th century America. However, despite accomplishing great things in life, what he covets most is the love of the woman he grew up with, who never reciprocates his feelings.Directed by Robert Zemeckis, Forrest Gump is a series of brief episodes stitched into one wonderfully layered tapestry and is expertly narrated from start to finish. There are a few hiccups in between but it is a smooth adventurous ride for the most part. Eric Roth's screenplay takes liberty with the source material but what's admirable about it is its relentless focus on the central character. It does allow its supporting characters to breathe but none of them have an arc that's compelling enough.Production design team does a stellar job in recreating the time-specific surroundings. Visual effects is extensively applied throughout the story plus its tinkering with the archival footages of some of United States' most significant events of the later half of the 20th century was a VFX feat of its time. There aren't any glaring issues with its camera-work. Editing fails to give it a tightly- knitted structure, while the background score & incorporated songs are in sync with the unfolding events & depicted timeline.Coming to the performances, Forrest Gump features a dependable cast in Tom Hanks, Robin Wright, Gary Sinise, Mykelti Williamson & Sally Field, and although everyone does well in their given roles, the film is powered by Hanks' outstanding performance. Fresh off his Oscar-winning role in Philadelphia, Hanks chips in with another smashing work and is the soul of this tale. And he's well supported by Sinise & Field who play Forrest's platoon leader & mother respectively while Wright ably portrays the self-destructive life of his love interest, Jenny.On an overall scale, Forrest Gump often gets a lot of flak for stripping both Pulp Fiction & The Shawshank Redemption off their deserving accolades but it does have a heart & identity of its own. I wasn't very impressed by it during my first viewing but it has managed to grow on me over the years and now I do admire its positive outlook on life & the numerous mysteries it has in store. A delightful comedy, an emotionally resonant drama & nicely covering the themes of love, loss, redemption & stupidity, Forrest Gump is one of the best films of its year. Definitely recommended.


                
Robert Zemeckis directed this movie, Forrest Gump, in 1994. It well maintained the theme from the original version of book, "Life is like a box of chocolates" and "Stupid is as stupid does" This movie contains a lot of great actors and actresses who could act their own characters very well and showed the theme or plot. The reason why this film became so popular is because this story isn't just for the certain period or certain people, but for everyone.The movie begins in the small fictional town in Alabama but soon; the setting of this movie goes on to the whole world. The setting also proves about the universal theme, "Everyman" All the important events happen between late 1950s to late1980s. This movie doesn't only affects about late 1950s to late1980s but the present time also. Such as white trash and people who have physical problems didn't live only between 1950s to 1980s but they still exist.There are several characters that strongly affect the theme or the plot of this movie. First of all, the surrealistic character, Forrest Gump who was acted by Tom Hanks well represented the theme and also well showed of physical problem of Forrest. His IQ was under 70 and he had a problem with his legs when he was young. When he became an adult, he was still prejudged by people based on his intelligence. However, later he becomes really famous and rich. This event doesn't really mean to show that Forrest Gump became a successful person, but the movie is trying to break a strong stereotype of people, by using Forrest Gump. Also, it is telling not to judge people's ability or characteristics by intelligence or physical abilities. Like his quote "stupid is as stupid does." Mrs. Gump, Sally Fields, the actress was actor playing the mother of Forrest shows the theme of strong determination of all mothers in the world. Even though only ten year older than the grown Forrest Gump, her acting was so realistic that the audience didn't realize her age. Jenny, who was acted by Robin Wright, showed the reality of dark side of Americans' life. In the movie Jenny was the "white trash" but she isn't the only who is showing the theme of American life but partly, but through L.T he is somehow showing it too. He's character was so realistic. A deep friendship is expressed through his characterization.Generally, there are six most interesting events that are happening in this movie. In my opinion, starting the movie by grown Forrest Gump talking about his childhood from the present time on the bench is a good idea. His first interesting event starts when he entered school. He had a hard time. On the school bus everyone seemed to avoid him or be as far away from him, only because of his physical appearance. But later, Jenny who didn't look about her appearance came to him and be friend. Other than this, there are three events that Forrest Gump becoming all famous and meeting the U.S president three times. With this event, the plot goes really high in audience interest and I'm sure that viewers loved these events. Lastly, there is one important event left, about Jenny and Forrest that went audience very pleased but not a real happy ending.I was very impressed with this movie, especially with the acting skills and the themes of this story. This is a film that everyone would like and feel empathy with all these characters. The plot also appeals to average and ordinary people. I recommend this movie to all people no matter how old they are.


                
Without a doubt one of the greatest films ever to be shown on the silver screen and only solidified by a stellar performance by the cast and crew. One of the few films everyone can say they have at least seen once, this movie deserved every Oscar it won and will go down in history as one of the best and well-done films ever to be created. Many can say that this film does have some very minor issues, things such as the questionable moral depicted by the love interest, Jenny, throughout the course of the entire film. Some could take umbrage with the less-than amazing special effects (though the time of production should be added into context).


                
Forrest Gump (Tom Hanks) is a simple man with a sweet heart. It's his journey through American history. His childhood friend Jenny (Robin Wright) would travel the underbelly flipside of the same world. His journey is heavily influenced by his mama (Sally Field), Lieutenant Dan (Gary Sinise), and Bubba Blue (Mykelti Williamson).Director Robert Zemeckis has added another chapter to the American mythos. It is a magical tale where the good guys win out. That you can rise to the top no matter what handicap you have. That a good heart will enlighten all it touches. It is a tale worthy of Frank Capra.If I could have a wish, it is a deeper meaning to Gump's journey. For example, he's given a chance to comment on the Vietnam war but the sound goes out of his mike. I would have like to hear what he had to say. But that might have been asking too much. More than anything, Gump is not controversial.


                
This film is one of my all time favorite film. He goes through life on a cloud, which could be each of us. I hated that she penned the baby on him, which is crazy. I love the fact of the Bama football, roll tide. This is a great film, powerful, magical, passionate. He had a good life, only thing he couldn't figure out why she just didn't love him. I loved the comedy, also didn't know Tom had it in him. This film had some very powerful moments, that are life lessons. The story is truly a ride of a life time. Whatever he put his mind too, he did it and was pretty good at it. I would've loved to be apart of this cast, very powerful.


                
The movie Forrest Gump has become a well known movie all around the world. Tom Hanks, a very popular and well known actor, portrays the role of Forrest. Forrest Gump is a mentally handicapped man whose disability is not specified in the film. People try to degrade Forrest by calling him names. Whenever someone calls him stupid, his mother, who is played by Sally Field, tells him "stupid is as stupid does" which is something he continuously repeats during the film. Although he has a disability and is told by multiple people that he can't accomplish things, he ends up doing things that no one ever imagined that he could do. Graduating high school, going to college on a football scholarship, fighting in the Vietnam War, owning a very successful shrimp business, and meeting several different presidents are just a few of the things that Forrest accomplishes over the course of the movie. Jenny Curran, played by Robin Wright, first meets Forrest on the school bus when she allows him to sit with her. Jenny becomes Forrest's best friend and they then become inseparable, going everywhere and doing everything together. After they finish school, Jenny and Forrest eventually start to drift apart. Forrest serves in the Vietnam War and does countless other things with his life. Jenny's life seemingly goes in the opposite direction, she becomes apart of the "hippie movement" and gets involved in some things that she should not be involved in. Throughout the film Jenny makes occasional appearances in Forrest's life. Some of the things she says to Forrest when she sees him is enough to make anyone wonder "what the heck is she thinking?". Although there are plenty of other films in the world, this one is by far one of my favorites. With the story line and the different cinematic elements of it, including the feather falling and landing right beside him, this movie proves it is well put together and deserved to win the 6 Academy Awards it was nominated for, including Best Picture and Actor in a Leading Role.


                
This is the only film for which I can use the word "Beautiful" without any hesitation. 6 Academy Awards, $677,387,716 in box office & 8.8 rating in IMDb combined don't say it all.Tom Hanks portrayed the role of Forest Gump more than perfectly. Other supporting actor and actresses weren't that memorable. But that's for the sake of the story. Robert Zemeckis probably taught us how to direct. Hanks & Zemeckis did the best job of their career.Film editing was flawless. They shot the film in different locations and every single one of them added a new level of greatness to the film. The musics weren't much noticeable. Also weren't the visual effects. Which is actually a big success, because I thought they didn't use any visual effect.The story is simple, plain and for some mysterious reason also sad. Forest Gump will teach you how to live life. Miracles and shits both happen for a definite reason. You'll find out what's your destiny is, but not before you fulfill it. Just float around like a feather and you'll be OK. Do what you feel like, don't do it for any other reason.p.s. Those who are criticizing, there're more to a film than just the story. And about the academy awards, open your mind.


                
I find this movie funny and also a pleasure to watch. Each time I have watched I find something new the message of this movie. Great cast. Tom Hanks was awesome. The Message of this movie for me is never give up and no matter what people say or do you can always move forward with what you want to do. I love the fact that he was in the army and even though he was not welcomed he made a long and lasting friends. Another thing is that he was always keeping his faith in God strong and true. He is an honest man and his momma raised that way. She did what was best for him.even though at times is didn't seam like it. And last thing Is that no matter what life throws at you. Have the strength and courage and faith to always keep your head up move forward. There are always things in life that is always going to blocking your path to happiness get through them


                
Wow, I found a number of "good" and "bad" in this movie, too much to go into detail here without writing what looks like a novel, so I'll condense my thoughts with notes here. I don't expect many to agree with me but overall I found this good very good storytelling and a film that stays with you.The GOOD: 1 - a totally unique story back when it was released and still that way, unlike anything else I've seen; 2 - an involving story. You really care about the lead character "Forrest Gump," who is magnificently played by Tom Hanks; 3 - the story has a good combination of drama, action and humor; 4 - numerous memorable scenes that you'll never forget, especially if you've seen this more than once; 5 - an excellent 1960s soundtrack; 6 - very interesting characters throughout, with solid performances from Gary Sinise, Robin Wright, Myketti Williamson and Sally Field; 7 - a realistic look at some of the unflattering people of the 1960s who were not all "peace and love;" 8 - a sweet, tear-jerking ending.The BAD: 1 - The Liberal attitude that having children out of wedlock is just fine is not a good message. ("You didn't do anything wrong, Forrest," says Wright, after he discovered he fathered her child out-of-wedlock); 2 - a blatant anti-gun agenda in which every political shooting is duly noted, along with yet another cheap shot made against Richard Nixon, Hollywood's favorite villain; 3 - The Lord's name in vain used 21 times within a 49-minute period, mostly GDs by Sinise.Overall, the "good" far outweighs the "bad," making this a truly memorable movie and one that is fairly unfairly blasted by a lot of "critics." Maybe they didn't like the '60s radicals portrayed in a negative light. That's too bad. I owned this DVD and got rid of it. I'm sorry I did because I'd watch it again and I've seen it three times. Love it or hate it - you don't forget it.


                
Forrest Gump Film Review by Ivy SmithIn the movie Forrest Gump, Tom Hanks portrays the main character Forrest, a simple man that is not very intelligent but has good intentions toward his mother (Sally Field) and best friend Jenny (Robin Wright). Throughout the movie Forrest tells the story of his life but since he doesn't know any better he was put into the middle of some major historical events that have happened from the 1950s - 1980s. This movie is like no other of the time of its release in 1994, still now in 2015 this movie is a favorite of many. We first see Hanks' character Forrest on a bus bench in Savannah, Georgia telling his story to a stranger that sat next to him. He begins his story at the beginning, him as a boy having to get braces for his legs. His story goes on and he meets Jenny on the bus when no one else would let him sit down. From that moment on Jenny and Forrest are the best of friends. One day bullies were chasing Forrest and Jenny said "Run Forrest! Run!" and then he started running and his leg braces broke off and he is a very fast child. After a while Forrest finds himself running away from bullies again and he runs straight across a football field and he gets a free ride into college. He goes to tell that he goes through many big historical events and some of those were school integration, he gets to meet President John F. Kennedy, The Vietnam War, he was on a TV show and met John Lennon a few months or so before he died, he inadvertently helps expose the Watergate scandal and many more events. He tells them through his mind and it seems all too innocent because of his low IQ. His relationship with Jenny continues and he keeps trying to save her but she keeps running away. Through Jenny's eyes you see the hippie movement, drug and alcohol abuse, her sleeping around, and a failed suicide attempt. Jenny cleans up and decided to go back to Forrest and stays with him and soon after she runs away again. Forrest Gump is based off of a book called Forrest Gump by Winston Groom in 1986. The book was more harsh than the movie so the film writers took off some of the edge and made it into a more lovable movie. They took out some of the adventures Forrest had because they were a little ridiculous. The movie took great special effects in how they put the actor Tom Hanks into different scenarios in time, such as being put into a video with John F. Kennedy and using special effects to take off Lt. Dan's (Gary Sinise) legs after the Vietnam war scenes. The movie won six Academy awards for Best Picture, Best Actor in a Leading Role, Best Director, Best Visual Effects, Best Adapted Screenplay, and Best Film Editing. The movie was nominated for seven Golden Globe Awards. The film won three of them Best Actor - Motion Picture Drama, Best Director - Motion Picture, and Best Motion Picture - Drama. Forrest Gump was also nominated for six Saturn Awards and won two of them, Best Fantasy Film, and Best Supporting Actor. The movie is also on many lists and it mad #240 on the Greatest Movies of All Time list. I find the movie deserving of all the awards it got and being on all the lists it's on. The acting was great and i could really tell the actors were into the roles they were cast for. Tom Hanks does a wonderful job of playing a disabled man and getting the voice and actions right. I give this movie an 8 out of 10 stars only because it does jump around a tad bit but it works well in the terms how fast you have to go through his whole life. The movie is wonderful and i have watched it so many times with my family and friends. I always find something new when i watch it over again, just those little things you don't notice when you first watch it. I have always found that fascinating.


                
One of my favourite Maugham stories, one that's little known because it's so short, is 'Salvatore'. It ends with the following unforgettable words:"I started by saying that I wondered if I could do it and now I must tell you what it is that I have tried to do. I wanted to see whether I could hold your attention for a few pages while I drew for you the portrait of a man, just an ordinary fisherman who possessed nothing in the world except a quality which is the rarest, the most precious and the loveliest that anyone can have. Heaven only knows why he should so strangely and unexpectedly have possessed it. All I know is that it shone in him with a radiance that, if it had not been unconscious and so humble, would have been to the common run of men hardly bearable. And in case you have not guessed what the quality was, I will tell you. Goodness, just goodness." Substitute the "few pages" for "a little over two hours", and there's 'Forrest Gump' for you, in a nutshell.Goodness, unalloyed and uncontaminated, is always very difficult to portray on screen, and it's even more difficult to make a tale of pure goodness riveting viewing. Grey is always so much more interesting than white. Yet, there are the rare examples of cinematic excellence where the story is just about goodness, and the wonderful places it can take you. Told with panache, and essayed with sincerity, goodness still retains its power to hold. 'Yankee Doodle Dandy', with James Cagney's unforgettable performance as George M Cohan, is one such example. 'Forrest Gump', with Tom Hanks literally living the role, is another.The story is epic in scope. It spans more than half of Gump's life, and portrays how greatness has nothing to do with IQ. There is such a lot to learn, about human nature, from the film, that it can hardly be told within the limited scope of a review. Gump lives his life on the surface, and yet the film is introspective, of life, in the extreme. It breaks the wall of entertainment and takes us to a place where celluloid becomes Art.I'm saying nothing further about the story. And yet, I cannot but omit to mention the scene, near the end of the film, when Gump meets Jenny, luminously portrayed by Robin Wright, and her son. The chiaroscuro of expressions which cross Gump's face in that scene can serve as a textbook example for all who want to know what Acting is all about. The film is worth repeated viewings even for that one single shot.And yet, wonder of wonders, there are those who have panned 'Forrest Gump'. Well, it takes all types to make a world.


                
I can't think of a more powerful movie than this. It will make you laugh, cry and be on the edge of your seat all at once. I can see why this is such an iconic film and still talked about till today.


                
Forrest Gump famous saying "Life is but a box of chocolate you never know what you going to get." In life Forrest had to overcome the obstacle of having braces on his legs and eventually being able to run. Falling in love with Jenny and his love and her saying to run Forrest run saving his life as well as his battle in Vietnam War and becoming a war hero. Even after all the years that past Forrest finds Jenny, although Jenny has made wrong decision in life his love for her gives him the ability to take care of her until her death. The theme of the story is in life we determine what our destiny is. Not matter if we are not smartest person in the world we cans still accomplish anything that we put our mind too.


                
, Forrest Gump is the kind of guy that would take off his coat for a stranger if they were cold. The kind of person who forgives over and over and doesn't really want much in return besides friendship. He's not the smartest tool in the shed, but his love and compassion for the ones in his life go beyond what most normal people are capable of. Everyone knows he's basically the nerdy (but witty) underdog, and he is always teased or asked if he's stupid, to which he normally replies "stupid is as stupid does". He joins the army after he graduates college and meets his best good friend Bubba on the bus (a black man who is very similar in character to Forrest, and who immediately clicks with him). Bubba tells Forrest about the shrimping business, which has run in his family for at least 2 generations. They make a deal to form a "shrimping" team after they return home and split all the money 50-50. *SPOILER ALERT**DO NOT KEEP SCROLLING IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THIS MOVIE Not very long after Bubba and Gump make their pact, Bubba gets wounded in battle, as does their Lieutenant, Dan...and a couple other characters. Dan wants Forrest to leave him to get killed in battle (by bombs) because he lost his legs and he wanted to die with honor, but Forrest picked him up despite Dan's orders, and tries to save both him and Bubba, but after Bubba is carried by Forrest (also against Dan's orders), he is gasping for air and dies in Forrest's arms. I think this is one of the most important parts of the movie, because it shows not only how humble Mr. Gump is towards his friends, but his sheer backbone and determination to do the right thing. Thank you for reading
"Mama always said life was like a box of chocolates. You never know what you're gonna get." – Forest Gump.Forest Gump is not just a movie it is art, which bounces around in comedy, romance and drama. The naïve life of an individual who touches lives and influences his nation as a whole. Robert Zemeckis balances this movie in such a way that when you think you are getting swayed in the comic area he moves to romance, the moment you start to smile at blind love, he switches to drama/intrigue which captivates you.This movie has everything for everybody and its delivery is such that you remember the movie more for the adventures of Gump than his effects on America's history. Many Visual effects were used in the movie to incorporate Gump with historical American footages, like when he met President Kennedy.The movie is based on the 1986 novel of the same name by Winston Groom. The book and the movie do have some similarities and differences, the movie itself is based on the first 11 chapters of the book then skips to the end, some of the other occupations that Gump was involved in were omitted. Some parts that were not in the book were also added like his need for leg braces, also his autistic level in the book is more than what we see in the movie.The film is about an overly naive autistic man, named Forest Gump (Tom Hanks), whose life between his birth and the time he found out about his son Forest Jr. ran through American history, touching lives and influencing others.The most interesting thing to me is that Forest Gump was the man responsible for revealing the Water Gate scandal during Nixon's regime (this is bogus mind you).Winning six out of the thirteen Academy Award nominations, among the six awards, Forest Gump won Best Picture, Best Actor (Tom Hanks) and Best Director (Robert Zemeckis), the movie also won Three Golden Globe awards for Best Drama Picture, Best Actor (Hanks) and Best Director (Zemeckis)Forest Gump was a financial success, recouping more than 10 times is 55 million production cost, this movie has stood the test of time as a classic that all should have in the shelves. It is also recognized by the American film Institute, The film ranks 37th on their 100 Years...100 Cheers and 76th on their 100 Years...100 Movies (10th Anniversary Edition). www.lagsreviews.com


                
Three of the greatest films of all time came out in 1994: The Shawshank Redemption, Pulp Fiction and Forrest Gump. Each were absolute masterpieces and I thoroughly enjoyed each of these movies. 'Forrest Gump' is one of the better drama films I've ever seen. The casting for this film was brilliant, as was the directing and writing. The script was brilliant and the acting was phenomenal, especially by Tom Hanks. This film, is very similar to 'Edward Scissorhands' in many ways and are the two greatest romance films I've ever seen. What I found interesting about this film is how everything is narrated by Tom Hanks' character, Forrest Gump, whilst sitting at a bus stop and telling his life story to other people. The fact that the end tells us that Forrest is waiting to catch a bus to meet Jenny, the love of his life, after all these years was great. The scenes where we realize that Jenny has a kid named Forrest Jr. and that he is the father was nicely done. When Jenny died, you can feel the emotion and feel such pity for Forrest as the chemistry between the two was good, the music was very quiet and most importantly, they were characters we felt connected to. The other two great chemistries were between Lieutenant Dan and Forrest as well as Buba and Forrest. The scene where Bubba dies was extremely sad as I would've loved to see him for longer. Pretty much a classic film!
"Life is like a box of chocolates. You never know what you might get." This rings so true from this story of perseverance, survival and love. 'Forrest Gump' is such a beloved classic drama from the 1990s starring Tom Hanks as the title character (he won the Best Actor Oscar that year for this film), a simple man from Alabama who experienced many life-changing events from the Vietnam War in which he served to the end of his beloved's life from an unknown virus (she is played by Robin Wright(she no longer has Penn attached these days)). This film touches the heart of any viewer as he or she watches how the world changes in the eyes of this simple country man with an IQ of 70. This is an ingenious story that will make you want to watch this over and over again.
ATTEMPTING TO WRITE a review for this film has proved to be a very difficult job; in fact, it is probably the toughest review that we have encountered over this past decade. Producing a write-up is generally on one's overall like or dislike of the Film in question. Consequentally, our better efforts are rated higher than others for that very reason. Passionate prose requires a rationing of fist class, 'Grade A' fuel; strictly High Octane.THAT WE HAVE no really strong opinion about the worth of this now classic, Oscar laden favourite, leaves us with what we fear will turn out to be a figurative stalemate, a split decision, a statistical draw. And we are reminded of former Notre Dame Football Coach Frank Leahy, whose eloquence in surmising what it is like to neither come out a victor, nor failing in the attempt to secure a win.TO BEGIN WITH, the screenplay offers the telling of the story in flashback. The occurrences of what is nearly a life's worth of really unusual happenings and very unlikely coincidences, all seem to have been mixed into an emulsion of what can only be described as some of the most important moments in American and, indeed, World History.WHILE FULLY REALIZING that a Film, no matter how good it may be, is still just a movie, escapist entertainment. It is a powerful form of fictional day dreaming; but still it's make believe, nonetheless.WE ARE REQUIRED to be entertained by the incessant recitation of the narrative of all of these events that have led up to Forrest Gumps reunion with his life long friend and one true Love, Jennie. The long, deliberate cadence of Gump's delivery of this dialog is found to be very amusing, even to the most sour pussed stoic in the audience.SORRY FOR HAVING to throw cold water on our ongoing involvement in this mirth-fest but we really out to pause and give some serious and sober analysis to this, our cause of amusement.WHEN ASKED IN AN interview* about how and why LI'L ABNER creator, Al Capp, chose to build his comic strip around Hillbilly characte5rs in a most rural setting of Dogpatch, USA; his answer was delivered, quickly and in a most straight manner. Al stated that the use of Hillbilly characters was a nearly sure fire prescription for success. His reasoning being that the introduction of Hillbilly characters makes the job of succeeding in creating the desired yuk-yuks easier because everyone feels that they are superior to these American Rustics.WE MUST ALSO consider the characterization of Forrest as being not just uncouth or ill mannered; but rather that he is truly slow or mentally deficient. He most certainly must suffer from some acute degree of mental retardation. Is this what the pseudo intellectuals in the Elite of Tinsel Town believe to be the polite and proper cause for merriment and mirth? WE ALSO DETECT at least a smattering of snobbishness and sanctimony. This is amplified by an unabashed utilization of patronizing preachiness, which would seam to reassure the production team's moral and intellectual superiority; at least to their way of thinking, we suppose.NOTE: * This interview was done 1n the 1960's and published in a certain quasi-intellectual Men's Magazine; which also did a good business in peddling the exposition of feminine pulchritude and skin. Of course, Schultz and I only bought it for the articles. Honest!
About the film: Genre of this film is drama which also includes romance. The film is based on a novel by William Groom and produced by Paramount Communications Company. It is directed by Robert Zemeckis. Its executive music producer is Joel Sill. It was released in the US in 1994 and received many awards such as Academy Award, Golden Globe Award, and People's Choice Award. The major characters are: Tom Hanks (Forrest Gump) , Robin Wright( Jenny) , Sally Field( F's mother), Gary Sinise (Lieutenant Dan), and Mykelti William( Bubba(. The story is during the period of Presidency of Kennedy, Johnson, Nixon, Ford and Carter. Some part of film happens in Vietnam. The film shows that many people did not agree with Vietnam War. It also shows "Racism" in the US. For instance, black students were permitted to enroll in college of Alabama just during the summer. During the Vietnam War, the "Black Panthers" were shaped against the War and against racism and unequal opportunities for blacks. The protagonist is a low IQ boy who does great works but not according to specific reasoning and goal. His mother named him "Forrest" after the Great Civil War's hero; General Nathan Bedford Forrest. She believed "Forrest" reminds him that all people sometimes do things that do make no sense. His actions are really in harmony with his name, for instance, he is a great runner, but as he says in the film, he runs without any reason. When he learns to play Ping-Pong, he plays without thinking. Once in the film, he repeats one of his mother's sentences; "miracles happen every day". We can see that his success in any area is somehow a miracle. The feather which is shown at the beginning and end of the film is a means to show the passing of time to a destiny; a destiny in which F's mother believes. Lieutenant Dan loses his belief in God and in destiny especially after his losing his legs in the war. F.G doubts whether we are destined to do some things-as his mother told- or "are floating around accidental-like a breeze"- as lieutenant Dan believed- or both. Plot The story is about a man named Forrest Gump. It involves two phases; in first phase, F.G speaks about his past life and takes us to different places related to his past experiences. But the events happening for him in second phase are not narrated by him as past memories but are taking place at the same time of being shown. Most of the story takes place in first phase. F.G is sitting on a bench and waiting for a bus in Savannah. He has a small suitcase in which he carries all the important things he has. During the first phase, he talks about his life to strangers who sit on that bench for a short while and wait for buses. Now, his life story: F.G and his mother live in Alabama. He was a boy with low IQ, but his mother sent him to school. When he grew up, he got a football scholarship in college because he could run very fast. The college put him in the All-America Team. After five years of playing football, he got a college degree. After his graduation, he applied at Army. In the Army he made friendship with a person named Bubba who was crazy about shrimping and suggested him to buy a shrimping boat after coming back home. The Army sent them to Vietnam. His officer was Lieutenant Dan. In the war, F.G and Lieutenant Dan were shot and Bubba was killed. In the field of war, he helped other soldiers very much. He ran very fast and rescued injured soldiers from the field. So, he was awarded the Medal of Honor by President Johnson. Because he was shot, he was sent to hospital. There, he learned Ping-Pong from another soldier. He could play it as well as running. So, the Army wanted him to play Ping-Pong as the Special Service instead of returning to Vietnam. After some years, the Army decided he should be on the All-American Ping-Pong team. The Army sent the team to China. He and the team were the first Americans who visited China after many long years. After coming back to America, he became a national celebrity and was given the Congressional Medal of Honor. With Ping-Pong team, he met President Nixon. After Nixon's resignation, the Army discharged him and his service was up. After his being discharged, he bought a shrimping boat and worked on it by Lieutenant Dan. They made a lot of money in a few years and became the leaders of Bubba-Gump shrimping corporation. Lieutenant Dan's belief in God strengthened after being by F.G and seeing miracle-like situations like hurricane Carmen which led to their progress in shrimping. In second phase, we see the events at the same time as they happen. He marries his girlfriend "Jenny". Jenny dies because of illness. He takes care of his son whose name was "Forrest" too. His son was a smart boy. At the end of the film, the scenes are repeated with a difference: the roles of F.G and his mother are replaced by F.G and his son.


                
Taken by itself, this is a wonderful movie with a compelling plot, wonderful characters played by talented actors and a balls-out performance by Gary Sinise, who in my opinion deserved the Oscar more than Tom Hanks. It is really an emotional roller-coaster of a movie that people of all ages can enjoy.However, I'm rather conflicted about the sneaky the way the movie turns the truth inside out in pursuit of its aims. In the world of 'Forrest Gump', the Vietnam War was a just endeavor and its protesters were all drugged out, cowardly, sleazy hippies who turn innocent American farm girls into dope-dependent sluts. The social fervor of the sixties is presented as an irrational mania, and conservative norms are uncritically celebrated. The way this movie has been embraced by the hard-core right wing really creeps me out.Still, this is one movie where the 'Willing Suspension of Disbelief' can reap big dividends.


                
Forrest Gump tells the story of, well Forrest Gump. The man was born with some disabilities, but he has overcome them and somehow seems to be present at a lot of historical moments. He's in love with his childhood friend Jenny, who constantly eludes him. The film that beat my favourite film of all time at the Oscars. I'm not hating it, I think that both films deserved the title. Forrest Gump is something else. It seems to have been one of those, right place at the right time flicks. Everything about it simply works, it's heartwarming, funny, intelligent and depressing. Tom Hanks gave us an unforgettable performance that goes down in history as one of the greatest. He is lost in this character and Gump takes a life of it's own. Probably one of the most lovable characters in the history of cinema. Jenny, the woman of his affections is played by Robin Wright Penn, her performance is almost saddening. Her life is constantly spiraling out of control and you can do nothing to stop it. Gary Sinise is hilarious as Lt. Dan, the hard ass in the army who loses his legs. We love to hate it at the beginning, then we come around, much like his character. Speaking of losing legs, despite the film not needing a heavy load of CGI, it uses it beautifully. Inserting Gump into old footage and giving Sinise the lack of legs among other things. These are small things compared to what people are doing today, but Zemeckis has always been one to push technology in films, here he does it very well and never does it encompass the film. The story is forefront, something that he needs to get back into.Forrest Gump is an everyman film. Meaning the almost everyone will like it. Some political messages may turn people the other way, but the overall feel of the film is something that a lot of people share. Every once in a while there is one film that touches a lot of people, I think Forrest Gump is one of those films. Even though the film goes off in many different directions, it works. Forrest in the army in one segment, then running around the country in another? I love it.


                
A really moving film that everyone can enjoy. It will have you crying, laughing and questioning your views on things.


                
Tom Hanks is absolutely perfect. The story based on real history, using the special fact that were available at the time, is simply clever and sensitive.


                
As a big tom hanks fan forrest gump has to be one of my favorite of his movies great cast well written movie about a man with the mind of a child and they show the world through his eyes the man went to school played college football became a war hero met two presidents not bad for a man who people though would never amount to any thing overall this is a 4 star movie and wished more movies would have a great story to tell,if you like history comedy romance a few things getting blown up here and there then this movie is for you i was 12 when i first saw this movie and it keeps getting better every time i see it every one should see this movie at least once


                
