I've watched about a dozen episodes of Impractical Jokers and I still can't see what the presenters find funny. I don't think they even know what they're laughing at either. They just look like they're all putting on a fake laughing act which is really irritating. The pranks they do aren't even funny. It's all very basic and it's stuff that kids can do themselves. It's just a bunch of idiotic, clueless and unfunny adults who all laugh like 10 year old kids. They're trying to be the next Jackass but there is a difference between Impractical Jokers and Jackass; Jackass is funny and far more entertaining to watch. Cancel this show please and get the presenters new jobs............in McDonalds.


                
I cannot imagine how this show could possibly get a rate over possibly a 2??? Cannot even believe it has been on since 2011, I happened upon it on accident, it was a car crash! Most of the people they "prank", when they do realize it is supposed to be a prank and are being filmed, have a look of bewilderment as if "this is funny why?" The main actors amuse themselves more than they do anyone else and the over "acted" loud laughter for something that is less than funny is...don't know what to say???? Laugh after every sentence said??? People really watch this? I am sure these guys are nice, but they are less than funny and should look for a different career path. By watching this I realize just about anyone can get on TV...do one of them have a connection in the "business"? That is the only way I can see this show being on the air for 6+ years.


                
Don't believe these scores of 10 , this show is the most unfunniest program on TV , 4 unfunny men doing unfunny practical jokes
Go and watch your grass grow much more entertaining


                
Bunch of immature men playing immature pranks. No idea why this is appealing to so many adults? The "jokes" are very basic. There's no creativity or originality, just a bunch of not very funny guys acting like idiots and laughing at themselves all the time. If the likes of whoopee cushions or making fart sounds with your armpits is your kind of humour, this is your kind of show.


                
I don't understand how this show can be rated so highly. I've tried to watch it a few times but now I change the channel if it comes on. I confess to liking the " World's Dumbest " series on truTV, ( except when Tonya Harding commentates ) which is why I'm on the truTV channel at all, but if it is followed by " Impractical " I grab the remote and commence surfing. The little bit I've seen seemed to rely heavily on bathroom humor, sex, and " Will you sign a petition " and a bunch of forced laughter from the off stage cast. In fact, a large part of the on-air time seems to be devoted to the jokers laughing themselves silly over the least little response ( or lack of) from the ( supposedly) unsuspecting victims. To me ,a lot of their so-called jokes seem mean spirited and insulting. And how can the targeted "jokees" not be aware? Don't they recognize the jokers by now, especially if this series is so popular? Is the whole thing staged? It's not so much that I don't want to watch it, although that is true but that I CAN"T watch it.
My son loves this show, but he's 16. I can't figure out why so many adults rate it so highly. It's bunch of grown men running around acting like asshole teenagers. They try to embarrass each other, but more often than not, people in the general public get caught in the crosshairs and are treated poorly and embarrassed themselves. Also, more than half the time is spent just listening to the guys' super annoying laughter. No thanks.


                
This is not entertainment for anyone with an IQ bigger than their shoe size. The constant laugh track is an assault to the ears. The overacting and teenage humor gets old within 5 minutes. The vulgarity leaves me furious that it is actually aired while children are still awake. ABC should be ashamed of airing such rubbish. Please take it off or air it at 3:00 a.m. in the morning when other people who don't have to work for a living are still awake. That's the audience it's made for.


                
This watered down version of Jackass is the worst thing on TV. Without originality these "actors" are only left with their "personalities" to painfully push through scene after unfunny scene. Every episode is based on them trying to embarrass one of the cast members. Not with anything extreme what so ever, but by daring them do stupid or uncomfortable things in public. It isn't embarrassing so much as just dumb. The current way most reality shows work is through mimicking reality; using standing in actors to play guy-on-the street roles. I wouldn't be surprised if most the public on I.J. were just that, actors. So really, you end up watching a show where a bunch of fake actors dare each other to do boring, stupid, stuff while real actors walk by. This show is making America worse.


                
Re run after re run back to back all day sometimes the same episodes. Just program three episodes and hit repeat and go home and check every once in a while to make sure its still repeating. Easiest job on earth. Get a life. Nothing true about anything on tru TV? How does that work? Should be called untrue TV.the fact that the show is still on just shows how easily impressed and how low people's standards have become. If it were on comedy Central I could kinda understand but try TV it is not. Huhuhuhuhu. Clowns.


                
Surely the reviews are fake? How is this tripe getting 8.6/10? One of the guys looks like Steve Carrell but he is nowhere as funny.


                
Don't get all the hype based around this show. I tried after stumbling across it a few times since the network seems to play the program on loop twenty hours a day. Guess this is the best the channel can do. Hard to believe so much money gets thrown at garbage like this. They had a couple moments but their shtick is mostly lame. Seems like they're trying way too hard. The show is about as interesting as Bad Girls Club or Teen Moms.


                
This show is absolutely horrible. This show is nothing more than a  group of four friends who stole ideas from previous shows shown on mtv  that captured this idea years ago such as the TV show "boiling point".  It is very similar to boiling point. It's also a cross between the show  punk'd and Jackass with a few dorky guys trying to capitalize  financially off of unoriginal ideas.   The pranks these guys play on each other are not funny, and the other  guys are in a backroom laughing hilariously and uncontrollably like a  bunch of junior highschool boys. The one guy that is kind of heavy set  with a shaggy hair cut is kind of funny, but the other guys are total  dorks who are trying to be cool which is exceptionally annoying.  It's a disgrace that a network, even trutv, would even consider giving  a show to guys like this. This show I predict will be cancelled  shortly.


                
Four morons set out to embarrass the general public with childish pranks and inappropriate conversations? Has the human race sunk so low this is what passes for humour? The best that reality TV can offer? I can say with sincerity that if any of them tried it here in the UK it is highly likely that a serious beat down would occur more often than tittering laughs. In fact; that is a show I would TIVO to view again and again as the general public lay some hurt on these fools. Maybe we could add the TV exes that allowed this mucus to air? Seriously guys please come to England, specifically SE London that so we can provide what you are in desperate need of. Not because we have NO sense of humour but because we DO have a sense of humour and this is not funny. This show is so bad I have not watched Comedy Central for months just in case I catch a trailer for this excrement, and not a single person I have asked said it is funny, hence this review.


                
