Impractical Jokers premiered last night with two back-to-back episodes, and it had me laughing non-stop for an hour. The premise is simple: 4 friends compete in hidden camera prank challenges. Whoever loses the most challenges in each episode must face a humiliation concocted by the other 3 guys. While I initially thought this idea would get old fast, seeing it in action had me in tears from laughing.The boys' chemistry is delightful, and their ability to improvise their way out of embarrassing situations is impressive. The boys never fail to deliver the goods, and the reactions of those around them are just as funny. Great show, can't wait to see more of it.


                
Love the show, I haven't been able to find it on TV in Canada, i have been watching it online...I love anything and everything comedy. Some of my favourite shows are Curb your Enthusiasm, The League, Big Bang Theory and Tosh.0, the list really does go on. But I must say this show hands down takes the cake. I have never laughed as hard at something as I do watching this show.My friend actually had to leave my house after watching a couple of episodes of this show in a row because his abs were hurting him so hard. I would most certainly recommend this to anybody, my mom is pretty uptight when it comes to foul language in any form as well as dirty humour. Although this show is packed with it (dirty humour that is) she loves this show more then all of us.I can't imagine this show is on the cutting block, but if it is DON'T DO IT!I have been watching this show for 2 weeks now and have seen each episode twice, I can't stop getting people into it. All I can say is this show is a must watch!


                
Keep it up guys, you'll be famous in no time! This show is so raw and entertaining. My wife even likes it.Sal is definitely my favorite because he is always losing and is genuinely trying to be a nice guy in his delivery. Q is also very good, too good if you ask me, almost "creepily" good. The other two are also funny because Joe looks like Steve Carrel in some of his facial expressions and mannerisms. Murr looks like a thin pervert version of George Costanza and is funny as hell when hes trying not to laugh. The chemistry between the group is awesome and the delivery of the material is always creative. Its like jackass but a cleaner more watchable version. The only thing that i wish they would add is the participant's reaction when they find out its a prank. Not everyone but just one or two peoples reaction at the end of the show. Other than that, it keeps me tearing up. Thanks TRUtv for my new favorite show.


                
This show is a hilarious combination of real life pranks/dares filmed and prompted by 4 friends with a wonderful sense of humor and camaraderie.If you ever had a friend that you liked to prank (and who would lay in wait to get even) then you can identify and laugh with these 4 who take the greatest delight in making each other do ridiculous gags on the public. However, it's the stars of the show that get the humiliation rather than the unsuspecting victims a la "Candid Camera".So, if you want to watch a goofy, goodspirited half hour of belly laughs, check out "Impractical Jokers". It's a winner!


                
I think this show is hilarious!! I have never laughed as hard in my whole life as when I watch this show. Murr is definitely my favorite; he has the most infectious smile I've ever seen..he's just adorable. All 4 of these guys are very talented and what I enjoy most is the fact that their reactions are so genuine and don't seem scripted and fake as so many other shows do. The looks on people's faces are positively priceless!! Sal's reactions are perfect and he seems like someone who is very well-mannered and doesn't want to say or do anything to offend anyone; particularly if it's a pretty girl he's trying to pull one over on. This is a show I will continue to watch as long as it's on the air and my family and friends are big fans of it as well. Keep up the good work guys!!


                
I came into IMDb actually not sure what this would get. I was thinking a 5.9 or 6.3 but it was an amazing 8.7/10! 4 friends from college now in their mid life's have created a show that is funny, original, clever and nerve racking. Another thing I love is that the things they do aren't anything to extreme and not life threatening or too silly. And people were very harsh saying it was a complete rip-off of Jackass (it's nothing like it FYI), and also saying things like they force their laughs. It adds to the atmosphere of the show and what people have to remember is that these guys have been friends for 20+ years and are making a fool of themselves in public. If one of my closest friends started dancing around in public I would laugh my bum off. Overall I think anyone who likes a good laugh and has a good taste at comedy then I 100% recommend this to you.
If I could give this show more than ten stars I would. I have watched this show from the very first episode and have laughed from beginning to end in every one of them. It is the funniest show I have seen in years. The cast is very likable and pull some great pranks on the people around them. They actually had a meet and greet with their fans in New York City last year. The fans were waiting in lines the stretched out the doors to meet the guys. They shook everyone of their fans hands and took pictures with everyone that came out to meet them. A great show and great group of guys. I have recommended this show to all my friends. Hope this stays on the television for years to come.


                
I generally hate most of the things on truTV, I'm pretty sure that the majority of the population does but this show is different. It isn't like anything I've ever seen because although it has some "Jackass" aspects to it and some reality TV aspects to it, it is an entirely different show that never gets old. It's what you wish you could be doing with you're buddies rather than going to work, just messing with ordinary people and seeing how far you can take a joke with someone who doesn't know what is going on. It's hilarious and it only takes 15 minutes to get hooked for life. I turned on reruns of this show one day in a fraternity house and within 30 minutes the entire 30 person house was watching and laughing, that is how good this is, everybody who gives it a chance will love it, I guarantee it.


                
Unlike most shows, this show deserves all the air time it can get. Jokes are daring and quite hilarious. 10/10 well deserved jokers!


                
I don't know how anyone cannot laugh along with these guys. I always feel like I'm in on the joke. They all have such awesome personalities and it's so funny to see them interact with the public. The reactions are always amusing.The impromptu style beats anything rehearsed. Pure, natural comedy! Plus it gets me through my workouts. Sometimes I can't help but pause and watch intensely, only to collapse on the floor in laughter. This show is much more fun than your typical sit-com. So glad I came across it.If you have a sense of humor, you will like this show.


                
I just started watching this show, and I'll share a little tidbit of how I began to watch Impractical Jokers. When I was watching TruTV, advertisements kept on coming up for this show, and I thought that it looked completely stupid and idiotic. So, one night, I turned it on to see how stupid it was and low and behold, I actually began to like it. I hadn't even watched it for two minutes before I began to chuckle and it stayed that way for the duration of the show. Impractical Jokers is absolutely hilarious! What makes it even more funny is that it seems to be legitimate. With TruTV's programming, most, if not all, of it is fake. Shows like Operation Repo, Hardcore Pawn, Storage Hunters, Lizard Lick Towing, South Beach Tow, etc. all seem to be scripted. Impractical Jokers doesn't have that feel to it, as everything seems genuine -- the pranks, the laughs between the four guys, and everything else. That's what is perhaps the best thing about the show because it's on a channel that airs predominantly scripted shows. Many people seem to think that Impractical Jokers is a reality TV show, but that's definitely not the case. As I said earlier, I thought the show was idiotic at first, but then I began to watch more and more and I have now seen nearly every single episode of theirs.Another thing that is great about the show is that all four of the guys -- Joe, Murr, Q and Sal -- are very likable. Joe is the guy that never appears to be scared -- on certain pranks that have the three others tell Joe what to say, Joe says it nearly every single time, no matter how embarrassing, awkward, mean or crude it is. Sal, who is perhaps my favorite on the show, seems to be a very genuine guy who doesn't want to make anyone mad and most of the time, loses when the three tell him what to say. Murray, or "Murr" for short, is the part of the group that everyone jokes with -- i.e. calling him names, making fun of his looks, getting him to the more embarrassing things, etc. If it weren't for Murr, this show would be a lot less funny. Q... I really don't know about him (haha). He rarely loses and like Joe, is rarely scared.DEFINITELY check out this show if you haven't already. Impractical Jokers isn't a show like Jackass, as they primarily had very crude stuff on their show. IJ has primarily fun pranks that is sure to get the people around them to laugh hysterically. It's definitely a barrel of laughs and shows a great amount of camaraderie between the four pranksters.I would love to see Impractical Jokers come out on DVD in the future because there's no question that I would buy the first season or two as soon as it hits the shelves. There's also no doubt in my mind that this is unquestionably the best show on TruTV's network right now. When perusing through the user reviews, completely disregard the negative comments toward this show -- I was once one of those guys, but I'm definitely not like that now. This show is hilarious, check it out!Be sure to look out for new episodes of Impractical Jokers -- they come on Thursday night. You won't regret it!


                
So talented and creative. I've been hooked since the first show! A MUST WATCH!!!


                
These guys are the best. I've always seen this show playing at bars when I cant hear, but just seeing it always cracked me up. Then today I noticed it was on tru tv all day long, so I decided what the heck, and watched so much of it. Eatch guy has something to bring to the table, bit for a while I thought Joe and Murr were being picked on more than the Sal and Q. Luckily it started getting even and that makes it more fun in my opinion. Great great show!


                
I watched this and couldnt stop laughing, these guys have brass balls! I love the fat they dont bring politics into their show, their jokes arent crude and tasteless. This show is honestly carrying shows like Talk Show The Game Show (Failshow the game show) and Comedy Knockout where its just anti white people jokes 24/7 from a host who looks like an avocado with down syndrome. I honestly suggest watching this. If I could Id binge watch it all day!


                
I like to watch this with my grandad every time I go to Ireland. He's a pretty cool dude.


                
"Impractical Jokers" is a show where four friends dare each other into discomforting situations and embarrassing challenges including strangers who don't know what happens around them.The concept is pretty simple and exists as such since centuries. Nevertheless, you soon begin to get to know the guys better and that makes it easier to emphasize and makes the embarrassment of some of the challenges even more real. There are not too many shows that I find really funny but I laughed like hell here for several hours, and that alone is something very precious. Sometimes the humor can cross borders and I don't support every gag that is presented, but all in all you get the impression that the show is not meant to harm anyone.All in all I like how people around get confused by what the jokers do and it is stunning to see how much people do just to please and get out of situations. A hilarious show that I'm always looking forward to.
This television show is one of the few shows left that is 110% REAL! True reality television is so hard to come by now-a-days but this show is really living passed the industry standard. Wish this show was longer than its air-time. Also, the guys on tour featuring the Tenderloins is EXCELLENT! Must attend for any Impractical Jokers fan. Easily said to be one of the most successful shows on the TruTV Network. Hands down my favorite show on television!! After 5 seasons aired as of Summer 2016 & just getting the green light for Season 6; I hope to see many many more years of success for this TV Show, its cast, crew and fans! Kudos to the cast Murr, Joe, Sal & Q for fun family friendly comedy.


                
I had to text a family member after I saw a couple episodes of this because it's the funniest show maybe I've ever seen. I rank Seinfeld, Always Sunny, Trailer Park Boys, Curb as some of my favorite and this is every bit as good. They've been friends for 25 years from Staten Island. The whole point is to get honest reactions from themselves and the people involved with the pranks. What makes great shows, no matter the genre? Chemistry and where all of the people have something vital to add in their own way. It's like Always Sunny and Seinfeld in that regard. But it's not scripted "reality" nonsense. It's goofy, original, and quick witted. They had a comedy tour before starting in 1999 and finally got their pilot accepted. These guys are great. I can't say which one I like the best because they all add something unique. But the key is the chemistry and the likability. And they are naturally funny. Just watch it.


                
This show is hilarious. You should totally disregard any review that is negative about this show, as they are just haters. This show is nothing like boiling points Punk'd or any other show, it's just four dudes that do totally embarrassing/hilarious things with normal people onlooking or involved. This isn't a reality television show, so I don't know why people say it is, everything on this show is real. Which includes the laughs which are not forced. My favorite skits include: well pretty much everything, but I would say my favorite is when they are working at the sub shop. Watch this show you'll pee your pants, but you will be laughing so hard you won't notice.
So, I just watched the first episode of the latest season of Impractical Jokers, prepared for whatever wacky antics the four Jokers get up to. Then, the most amazing thing happened; It turned out to be better than I thought! I dunno if they've improved, or were just creative, but I feel confident that we're in for even more insanity from the Jokers. I dunno what you guys think, but I liked it very much, and I can safely say that with this episode being a success, I have a feeling this show's future is officially secure. Now that I got that out of the way, I can't WAIT for the next episode. Who knows what craziness will ensue for the Tenderloins?


                
I found this by accident channel surfing one day. Thought I'd hate it and the four guys would irritate me.I was completely surprised. All are great and the show has me in stitches. The four guys are incredibly likable and you can tell they are good friends. Well worth a watch and enjoyable in bulk sittings.The challenges/forfeits are sometimes a little tame for losing, but still usually good.I don't know why, Merr has a really punchable face, but you end up liking him despite this


                
Funniest show I have ever seen reality on TV period. I came across this show last week at like 2am; couldn't fall asleep so I was surfing channels and I was hooked right away. Imagine my horror when I found out that the show is in season 3! I have to look for season 1&2 stat. The guys are crazy funny and great at improve. Murr is my favorite but they are all fabulous and hilarious and keep my laughing for the entire show. I love the punishment that the losers get at the end. The funniest so far was when Q had to read a children's book about a dung beetle to a bunch of children and their parents. Lord I laughed so hard I cried. There was also another where Sal I believe had to use the bathroom in a coffee chop and open the door while sitting on the toilet to ask patrons for tissue because there was no toilet paper. LOL!!!!!! I love the interaction between the guys and I love that they are regular Joe's . There are like 10 episodes scheduled to play in 2 days and I have my DVR set. Can't wait
"Impractical Jokers" is the funniest show I have seen in a very long time. It follows four grown men (Joe Gatto, James Murray, Sal Vulcano, and Brian Quinn) who walk around New York City one or two at a time doing whatever they are told to do by the others. If they refuse, they put themselves at risk of being the ultimate loser at the end. Each with their own talents, these four never cease to make me laugh out loud. One thing that makes the show especially funny is that the people they are forced to talk to are real people, and their reactions are not scripted. I recommend "Impractical Jokers" to anyone looking for a good laugh.


                
I LOVE IT!!! This show, as mentioned above, is one of the only reality TV shows that is actually worth watching. I watch it with my brother all the time. Joe Gatto, known as Joe, Sal Vulcano, known as Sal, James Murray, known as Murr, and Brian Quinn, known as Q, make one of the funniest and creative comedy troupe I have ever seen. The real gist of the show is that you have to do and say what you are told, mostly, and sometimes other stuff, like trying to get people to do stupid things. It's one of these shows that you really don't care if someone loses, but if someone wins, hooray! Who cares if you might have done the stunts if you were two years old? It's even more funny if you are 35 years old and married. Well, some of them are. Anyway, the boys never fail to be hilarious, and them getting along through their lifetime of friendship makes the show even more enjoyable. Trust me, some of these stunts are making you be happy you weren't on the show. At the beginning of the show, it comes out with a warning that says "Warning, this show contains scenes of graphic stupidity among four lifelong friends who compete to embarrass each other. Viewer Discretion is advised." Making you think it's going to be graphic, but it isn't really. Even my dad laughs at it when I make him watch it, telling you it's hilarious. I laugh through all half hour, which is how long the show is. One of the only things I don't like about the show is that sometimes they curse, not a lot, but when they do, it's in a chain. It doesn't take away from the show, though. The scenes where they have to go up to random people and invade their privacy, are just downright hilarious. I hope this show isn't scripted, because that would really take away from the hilarity of the show. I can rave forever on this show, but, I think I summed it up well enough. This is also really short compared to my other reviews. See ya!


                
These guys Are the best , Literally. This show started back in 2011 with with very little hype and look at it now. It's Shining ! Both the 4 Jokers have Admiring Personalities ! Their content is productive and creative ! You can literally see thee hard work. New punishment in almost every episode. How do these guys come up with such ideas ? These guys will be famous in no time ! You can't stop laughing while watching thee show ! I had to pause sometimes , Laugh and then Resume! Keep up the hard work guys , You guys deserve all the love ! Also their latest season 5 is currently the best one, They are coming up with such new ideas . visiting new places and New punishments ! What these guys do is productive , Creative , Entertaining , Funny as Hell !


                
