I think the title speaks for itself, this is essentially Jackass lite, but with only 1/3rd of the comedy. For those who are unaware, this show involves four unfunny, talentless numbskulls who try to prank each other and punish the one who completed the least amount of stunts. Most of the show are three of the boneheads who giggle like schoolgirls at the awkward situation their "friend" is in. In a way, I find it kind of self-indulgent and narcissistic. "Ooh, look at this awesome prank we did and how embarrassed our friend is!" No, shut up.It's a shame too, as I originally thought this show was good for a cheap laugh, but then the novelty wore off when the litany of self-admiration and constant chortling bled into the natural comedy. That's the only reason why I gave it a 3, because it's only good when you're extremely bored or if you want background noise. Other than that, avoid at all costs.
The giggles drag on and the pranks pulled on people who have no idea who these guys are ?. That angle is getting harder and harder to sell to viewers. The show comes off as just being amusing and not funny. Sorry but like so many other comments I've seen its over for me too. Just more teenage girl giggles every five seconds wont make a normal person laugh or most people I know..But unless the show can come up with believed pranks and newer material then for me its Gilligans Island reruns for me. But to many the shows had a really good run and in the beginning when no one had a clue who they were it worked for me..I guess the same ol crowd that loves ' laugh tracks' will keep it going for years..too bad .the time slot could be better used.I love humor as much as the next guy ..but its hard to find this funny anymore


                
I'll admit that my sense of humor usually tends to be dry, sarcastic, dark and more.....developed that what you get with ''Impractical Jokers'' but upon my initial viewing I kinda knew what to expect and tried to keep an open mind.It was my brother and a friend (they like it) that turned me on to this show, there was nothing else on TV and I was too stoned to bother finding something else so I thought I'd give it a go. The main selling point of ''Impractical Jokers'' is that it's 100% improvised but this can also be it's greatest weakness. One cast member is instructed what to do by his three friends intending to embarrass unsuspecting members of the public and make their friend look like a fool (they all succeed in this aspect). More often than not the end result is what seems to be an uninterested member of the public and a cast that over acts and laughs at things that just aren't that funny. Most things they end up doing in this show is ridiculous and incredibly childish in the worst possible way.''Impractical Jokers'' comes across as a watered down version of Candid Camera or Jackass. The show gets stale pretty fast and ultimately ends up falling short of it's intended goal of making the viewer laugh (in my case that's me). The pranks pulled on various people in a string of different situations just aren't that funny. A recurring thought I had while watching was that the targets they chose usually knew they were on a TV show, it's certainly what I'd think if I had one or two idiots approaching me in public and behaving in that manner. The cast seem to laugh at anything and everything too which makes them seem retarded. My brother and friend seem to like this show and tell me that I read too much into it but at the end of the day this show isn't for me and I think I'm able to see it for what it is, something that had a lot of potential and ended up like countless other forgettable reality shows.


                
