These four longtime friends are hysterical. They think up clever (usually) stunts and then challenge each other, mostly on the streets of New York, to execute those stunts. Each is rated by the other three as to whether or not his assignment is successfully completed. The one with the most losses by the end of the show then must undergo one last humiliating stunt, again cooked up by his three buddies. 
It's a 'Candid Camera' with a twist. The hits far outweigh the misses. Unlike most tv comedies, this one produces numerous belly laughs. I once saw them filming in Washington Square Park.


                
This reality TV show features 4 pals from New York, Brian Quinn aka Q, James Murray aka Murr, Joe Gatto and Sal Vulcano who love to
perform improvised, practical jokes/gags on each other. They each 
have 3 challenges to tell someone to do something and vice versa via earpiece/hidden cameras. Anyone with the most losses must participate in an embarassing, challenge whether they want to or not. I started watching this recently and it's humorously entertaining. The guys are very funny (especially Joe) and the stuff they ask or do is outrageous. If you're into laughs & goofiness, definitely check this out.
When this show first came out, I didn't really have high expectations for it. I'm honestly happy to say that the show surprised me. It's not perfect, hence my rating but it never failed to make me laugh even If I had a stressful day. To share some light on the show, it's basically four guys who have been friends since high school, they had a comedy group called "The Tenderloins" and now their on TV. It's a hidden camera show, the four challenge each other to do humiliating tasks, if they fail they get marked up and at the end whoever had the most failures gets the ultimate punishment. I'm sure there are moments that seem staged. It's not surprising, it's TV. Regardless, it's very entertaining.
Four lifelong friends pulling pranks on strangers in front of hidden camera. Sounds generic, right? Wrong. The first time I saw this show I was laughing until I cried, as I did with all episodes of season 1. What makes this show different from other hidden camera series is that Q, Murr, Sal and Joe are caught completely offguard when told by their friends what to say and do, making their reactions just as hilarious as the unlucky stranger being exploited. Although this show is pretty dirty, these guys have dignity and reject lines that are too offensive. Whoever has rejected the most dares by the end of the show must be punished in a way that is extremely awkward, embarrassing, or dangerous.Then came season 2. I laughed at some things they did, but not nearly as much as season 1. The jokes were pretty generic and many things were repeats of things in the first season, the punishments were a little too boring or risqué. I still gave them a chance and watched the show. It was still good, but not great.Now that they're in the third season, the show has changed, but not in a good way. Joe got married, Q and Sal have ugly beards and Murr is more of a douche than ever. I have not laughed one single time at season 3 and some things they do are hard to sit through. Either I'm losing my sense of humor, or these guys are starting to sour. I'm still going to try and give them the benefit of the doubt, but if they don't surprise me soon, I will stop watching it.


                
Sal, Joe, Q and Murr have such natural chemistry together, making this show even more enjoyable. You'll be crying from laughter in just the first episode you watch, then when you pick up the quirks and personalities of each joker, it makes the show just that much funnier!
A must watch


                
