I'm not usually one to fall for a simple laugh. But these four friends remind me so much of the guys I hang out with, I can't get enough. Off the wall, who can make who do the most zany public display of insanity. It cracks me up. These four guys, who really have been friends since grade school it turns out, challenge each other each week to see who is willing to do the most crazy embarrassing thing in public. Usually one of them has an earpiece while the other three friends are feeding them instructions. If the friend with the earpiece doesn't do what they tell him to, he loses that round. At the end of the show, whoever has the most losses, has to do something EXTREMELY embarrassing. I watched the 'best of' where they actually interviewed these guys and that's when I became a real fan, because it started out just the four of them doing this without a camera. Glad they started filming, because it's really funny.


                
I love Impractical Jokers! It is hands down the best prank show I have ever seen. Each member (there are four of them) brings something great to the team with their own fears and unique personality. The only time I ever watch cable TV is when this show is on.


                
I can watch a rerun for the 20th time and still laugh. It's the ONLY good show on TruTV


                
Hahaha just thinking about this show makes me laugh.. The show is about four friends daring each other to act and say inappropriate and or funny things to strangers to earn points and the person with the lowest points gets punished at the end of the episode. Joe and Mirr are my favorites, but Q and Sal are super funny too. I've never laughed so hard watching any other TV show nor movie. These guys make me fall to the ground from laughing! They are so smart and clever with the skits. Aside from being so funny, the show is also very believable. I don't get any feeling to indicate that the strangers are acting like I do with some other shows. IJ is a weekly treat. This show is a weekly treat. It's the best comedy on TV, in my opinion. So glad I discovered this this show...going to tell everyone about it.


                
This is by far the funniest show on TV! I first started watching this show 4 years ago and I've been in love with it ever since.


                
Everyone has done what they do, in real life. It can be really fun to mess with people in real life. Impractical jokes is simply a show based around messing with people. Yet, despite the formatting of each episode, it always stays fresh in terms of comedy.9/10 would recommend.


                
Every episode is sure to give you laughs as long as you have a good sense of humor. And once you get used to the show and the hosts you enjoy the show even more. Each episode shows them out doing them selves every time. This show is shocking and funny at the same time. Sometimes it seems a little dumb but still supplies plenty of laughs.I can't wait to see what more this show has to offer, it isn't one of those shows that you have to watch one episode to understand the next but it still compels you to see the next episode. I can say that this is my favorite reality TV show on the air now and ever. The majority of reality shows on the air today are usually very un realistic and plain flat out annoying but this is not one of those shows.I know I haven't said much about the show but I highly suggest you watch it and judge for yourself. Thank you for reading my review.


                
Four friends, public humiliation,stupid presentations,16+ jokes, each and every episode is awesome.Soundtrack,editing,You ll never get tired of this show.I feel kinda lucky that i found it.


                
I've seen this show back when it first came out and I loved it. Now it's in its 3rd season and I still loved it. These guys are hilarious and I love all of them. They're always finding new and very creative ways of embarrassing each other for their amusement. They mention several times that they've been best friends since high school. I really felt that. Only best friends will tease each other for fun. For me personally, season 2 was the best. The challenges were fun to watch and the punishments were good too. I have real mixed feelings toward the season 3. It's definitely NOT going downhill. The season 3 challenges seem really short and not as funny as before. Also, the punishments seem a little bit extreme. Overall, I love this show and will continue to love it. As long as the guys remain wonderful as ever.


                
This show is right up there with Bubble Guppies as my favorite show. This is full of funny jokes that almost always get a laugh. The guys are fun to watch, especially the chemistry and camaraderie. The great thing about their chemistry is that you know that they tease each other out of love rather than out of spite. Each one of the guys has a great quirk that you can't help but love. This is a good show I recommend if you're looking for a good laugh while watching four guys in their late 30s making fools of themselves! :)You may disagree with me, but I liked the earlier seasons much better. Not that season 3 is bad, it's just not as good as it was earlier.


                
I LOVE LOVE LOVE you guys.. But just watched the MOST TASTELESS show EVER!!!! You did one on a kid's talent show... that was absolutely TASTELESS.... You have no IDEA how bad you've hurt those kids self esteem... That's just NOT funny at all... If this is where your show is going... I'm going to stop watching. And will tell all my friends on FaceBook just how tasteless you've become... Come on guys.. Really?? If you need ideas... contact me... seriously... I love what you do... but funny is funny... but lower a child's self esteem, which is usually low to begin with... that's just unacceptable.. How would you like it if someone did that to your child?


                
