Finally decided to jump on the hype bandwagon and im very dissapointed. I watched the first episode unimpressed but finished the first season because over 9 on IMDB is always good, right? Rick is annoying and just not likeable in any way, his constant burping and stuttering really grinds at you. Morty the same and his constant screams made me want to put my fist through the TV. There are some ok moments but it tries to be too clever sometimes. Rick laughing at his own jokes and talking to the viewer is so cringy, there are some original ideas and decent writing in parts, but generally its a loud, annoying mess. The father, Jerry was my favourite character and the only one that really made me laugh. 
Now the 'jokes' when did child rape and incest become funny? A 14 year old impregnating a robot and having a child with it? Anyone??? Maybe i have to be in MENSA to get these. Overall i really dont see the appeal, The Simpsons, Family Guy, Futurama, South Park, Monkey Dust(check this out) are all funnier, with more likeable characters.
You know, as this shows has such a wonderful rating, and it's hard to find anyone who doesn't absolutely adore it, this is going to be pretty hard to write. Please only read my review if you are willing to change your mind about this show, and see it for the bad cartoon it really is.I personally don't mind the animation. I mean, it's not good, but they were purposely going for that feel. What I hate is what this whole show represents. Basically: Genius scientist Rick takes his grandson on a bunch of 'wacky' sci-fi adventures.My first problem with this show is the humour. When attempting to make a joke, the characters use this annoying and over-used sitcom cliché, where the character makes the joke very quickly, followed by the character saying "Uhhhhhh..." I am dead serious, this is popping up in every sitcom, and it's just not funny. Secondly, I am tired of how many "Life is meaningless" jokes this show makes. Don't come telling me I'm too shallow to understand; that's not the problem. My problem, is that this is a trope that is so derivative, that it has literally just come to the point where you say "Life is meaningless" in a humorous way, and people think it's comic gold. Additionally, every single sci-fi flick seems to be making this joke now. Just take a look at how many sci-fis have done this. Hitchhiker's Guide did it, a Wrinkle in Time did... THIS IS THE MOST OVERUSED SCI- FI TROPE. Even Animaniacs cracked this joke, and everyone thought it would genius. The Amazing World of Gumball made a comical song about this, and every thought it was genius. I'm sorry, but when the main theme of your show is an overused sci-fi trope, it's just not very interesting. So, when I see people writing essays and making philosophical videos about the genius of Rick and Morty, I just don't understand. People need to stop counting humorous nihilistic messages as a strike of genius, and start viewing them as an overused brand of sci-fi.I will admit, I found a few jokes funny in this show, but they are just outnumbered by the sheer stupidity of its typical sitcom setups and its "Deep" philosophical messages, that really aren't all that deep. People need to appreciate that this show is nothing special, and is just jumping on the new "LOL NIHILISM" bandwaggon.
After watching this from the first day it aired on TV I was hooked, season 1 was brilliant full of references and nods to classic tv and movies, Season 2 came along and was just as good. Then Season 3, a little teaser, then you get what I personally call them fans, 'The Show Killers' Not only was season 3 a let down and not what I was hoping the fans completely ruined it. Take the McDonalds incident for example, screaming "PICKLE RICK" at someone, not only have I had to deal with people like this in my face just because I wore a T-shirt of the show, it really lets the rest of the fans down. I'm sure at this point everyone has heard of this line, if you can get past the awful fanbase then I would reccomend up until season 3 which seems like it was loosely thrown together to please these fans, at the time of writing, I would only reccomend the first 2 seasons. 
Not the greatest animated show although not the worst.


                
THE GOOD: More than a few times, it made me laugh out loud. The humour can be very sharp and silly, both things that I enjoy. Sometimes they address some interesting philosophical kinds of ideas. It's got some relatively intelligent writing. It's got some clear influences from Lovecraft (in more than just the aesthetics, too); and I like Lovecraft.THE BAD: Rick's constant burping and stuttering annoys me. So, so much crass humour - occasionally, it's kind of fitting & well-played, but for the most part I feel like it's just a "hey guys, this is an adult show, so let's make lots of obvious sex jokes!" kind of thing. Also, the dark side of the interesting philosophical concepts is that it can also come off as preachy, in a self-indulgent, pseudo-intellectual smugness sort of way. Like the writers were all sitting there with their atheist fedoras and neckbeards, thinking of ways to sound deep and nihilistic, and coming up with jokes about religion. It's really more grating than interesting, overall.So yeah, this show isn't entirely bad, but after watching the first season, I don't think I'll continue.


                
I'll give it four stars for the undeniably well-done hand-drawn animation, but otherwise I just can't stand this show. It's just a bunch of crass humour and offensive jokes in an attempt to be edgy, random cr*p with no rhyme or reason to it, and pseudo-intellectual sci-fi garbage that pretends to be intelligent by piggybacking off of 80's pop culture. I realize that everybody likes different things and I think everybody has a right to enjoy Rick & Morty if they want to, but I just find it intolerable at best. People often compare it to the earlier episodes of cartoon sitcom 'The Simpsons', but The Simpsons actually had lovable characters and genuinely clever and witty comedy, without leaning on crude humour as a lazy crutch. I mean seriously, where's the punchline here? Ha-ha-ha, something called Mr. Jelly Bean is trying to rape a child? If anybody can explain to me why this and other bizarre and disturbing instances are supposed to be "funny" or "creative", I'd be very surprised. People are always going on about how deep and philosophical Rick & Morty is, but I just didn't get it. It's childish, obnoxious, pretentious and disgusting, and call me an idiot for not appreciating it if you want, but I think once its hype dies down, it's going to see a major downfall in admiration.
Rick used to be a rebel, who fought against the Intergalactic Federation, yet they didn't tell us much about it. They destroyed the Federation, even though we didn't know much about it. Maybe they will give us more information in the future, but with the federation destroyed and so much time passed since then, it wouldn't be as interesting. They had Bird Person and Squanchy, they once again didn't give us much information about them. I know that they made Bird Perdon Pheonix Person, I mean that they didn't gave us much background information. Again, maybe they will do it, but then again, time has passed, it wouldn't be as interesting.A question: Why did the Council want to kill our Rick? Sure, they were mad at Rick for not wanting to join them, but not to death. In their first appearance the council members accused Rick and Morty for murder so they arrested them. They said that they wanted to torture Rick, but didn't mention anything about killing. Then they found out that Rick and Morty weren't the real murderers, so they let them go. The Council didn't have any reason to kill Rick, not even a bad one, they didn't have a reason at all! Even if they had a reason, why would they want to kill Rick if he was in jail? He couldn't disturb them if he was locked. Did they hate Rick that bad? He was in jail for crying out loud! Being hold captive for live is arguably worse than dying! Not to mention that some jails do practice death penalties.
I'm probably the biggest Community fan of all time, or in a close second to whoever is reading this review and disagreeing with me, so I jumped at the opportunity to watch another Dan Harmon series, and it being animation and sci-fi/fantasy just made it all the better. Then I downloaded it and... why is it rated so high? It's seriously not funny, it's also not smart at all and it just tries way too hard. A good series can be funny without purposefully going out of it's way to bring in religion as a joking point, or to abstain from needless sexual innuendos, that's what made Community or shows like Seinfeld, Friends and The Office the superstars they are, they appealed to EVERYONE. Rick and Morty on the other hand, only appeals to a select few, mostly Americans no doubt, but also probably to the atheistic non-intellectuals of the world, as it doesn't provide a single FUNNY joke, and tries to make up for it by dissing religion. Jordan Peterson once said to Bill Maher "you need to include the people who don't agree with you or else you really have a problem in the world" and Rick and Morty does it's fair share on supporting the creation of that problem. I stopped watching in season 2 of the series after suffering through season 1 waiting for it to become better because perhaps I missed something... It turns out I didn't miss anything, in fact I cought more than there actually was at times, which is another sad thing, because Community NEVER had you making up your own jokes to make it funny, there was ALWAYS a deeper joke for you to get. Rick and Morty is an embarrasment to comedy and Dan Harmon sure lost a lot of respect from me for approving such a weak story and such unfunny dialogue.


                
