Let me just say that I was very skeptical about this show. Judging from the sneak peaks and previews, I assumed this was going to be just another family guy/ Brikleberry lazily animated show with some cheap and low standards. Well gee wizz, I was very very wrong! Rick and Morty might seem like some stupid knock off of Back to the Future or some money laundering scheme as part of late night cable TV, but its not. Behind all the jokes, each episode surprisingly has a strong message and whether you can relate to it or not, you won't really feel like the end of each episode was a bummer.The weakest aspect is the animation. Its not pretty and seems out dated. Despite this, its hard to say that this pulls the show down. No, not even one bit. The absolutely clever writing and well designed character personalities are basically what this show floats upon. Unlike many other cartoons that have a sub plot in every episode, the ones in this show are actually relevant and memorable. They aren't just there as fillers and they are nearly as important as the main story. In fact, in most episodes its hard to tell which one is the sub plot and which one is the main plot.What I'm trying to say is that this show is near perfect. What are you still doing watching new Simpsons and Family guy, go watch this show if you haven't already. Its a great example of how TV hasn't turned to total crap.


                
i have watched the first season of Rick and Morty through and i can honestly say that this season has left me thoroughly entertained, amused and surprised. It is some of the best TV i have watched and i cannot wait for a season 2. it was epic and it was genius. the characters were honest and believable. Morty is a sweetheart that you cannot help but feel sorry for at times but you can only love him. Rick, with all his faults is an honest guy and you cant not like such an honest character. i get the same satisfaction watching this show as i did from shows like true detective, mad men and even vikings. its exciting in all the right places and its amazingly clever.


                
Dan Harmon's (creator of Community) Rick and Morty is perhaps the most popular and mainstream . Rick is an eccentric, alcoholic and a mad scientist who takes his grandson Morty, into dangerous adventures across time, space, parallel universes and dimensions. Morty, however is essentially kind and possesses a moral compass that stands in contrast to Rick's massive ego.Rick's character feels more like the one we have seen in the BACK TO THE FUTURE series.I saw all the three seasons and just loved it and it's like you can watch it again and again and not get bored.Talking about the other characters Morty's parents Beth(horse doctor) and Jerry(freeloader) have a broken marriage and blames Rick for all that.Summer(college girl just want to get famous) the sister of Morty feels nothing is right
An adult swim with great content of comedy,science fiction and sometimes zero logic adventures will surely make you feel good


                
This cartoon raised my IQ by 100. Now I understand the meaning of life and the science behind gravity. My vision has been completed.
This is one of the best shows I have seen on Adult Swim in a long time. Originally, having seen the promo commercials before the show actually aired, I was cynical, thinking to myself "Wow! This looks like crap.". Having now finished the entire series, I was pleasantly surprised. Before now, my favorite show from this network was Venture Bros (I'm not counting anime, as that isn't original content). This show makes a very close second, really appealing to my love of science fiction because of how goofy it is when it decides to spoof the genre. It was a fun watch throughout the entire series and it gives me a reason to stay up at night, even if it is for reruns of episodes I have already seen. I'm excited for a second season and I expect the show to deliver when it finally comes.


                
Is this show great fun? Yes. Is it .1 away from Breaking Bad and Game of Thrones? No. Not even close. Let's not get ahead of ourselves. We don't really see a recurring story line in this series. It's just the same thing over and over. "wh.wh..wh...what the f*ck rick?" "burp g..god isn't real m.. Mort. i...infinite realities m. Mort" "n..n..n.nothing matters Mort,". It gets old. If I were to rate only the first 2 seasons, this would be a 9. Season 3 was severely disappointing, with the only great episode being episode 7, and they don't even follow up on that story line.


                
I'm not sure it's 10-worthy but Rick and Morty has definitely found itself a cult following. Not for everyone, but this pair will have you saying "WTF" in your head many a time in a good way. Check it out!


                
But not for everyone. I feel like you have to be thinking on a different plane of existence to enjoy this show.


                
Everyone is always saying to me "Just watching Rick And Morty tonight" - there's a reason. It's hilarious!! Rick's burps are infectious.


                
Say what you want about this show but I think it still funny and shows us that we are still human. Unlike "Family Guy" or "American Dad" Rick and Morty are not afraid to let out their true feelings about themselves or other characters. The last episode of season three made me question about "Beth's" character but still there are more to look forward to the next season and I can't wait to see.


                
While Rick and Morty may have some inappropriate moments (I'm up for a lot, but when people make fun of the Lord) luckily they don't do this often, and the show is highly enjoyable and awesome. Great writing, character development and some wonderful animation make this series stand out among its competition and differ from the pack. Justin Roiland delivers great vocal performances as Rick and Morty as well as the hilarious Chris Parnell portraying Jerry, Sarah Chalke and Spencer Grammer alike. This is one of the most original animated comedies made since Family Guy and The Simpsons.


                
The only negatives are w/such content heavy dialogue that even with subtitling they run though their lines so quickly that one doesn't have time to appreciate, analyze or absorb the ideas. The other negative is that they jump character identities and scenes a little too quickly to follow the narrative and/or figure out what's going on. Otherwise, it's a timely & outrageous commentary script on practically everything


                
I was sceptical about watching this series but it was recommended by my friends so I gave it a go. the first 2 episodes I wasn't so into it but after changing my mindset I began to really enjoy this edgy, dark humoured cartoon series. I am a big fan of American cartoon tv in general some favourites of mine are Family Guy, The Simpsons, and South park. But Rick And Morty is different it requires a different mind set to enjoy it. It is amusing but themed like a kids cartoon series which it is anything but. the jokes are adult themed and there are no role models or positive messages in the entire series. As I got into the 1st season I began to thoroughly enjoy the bubbly cartoon style and crazy, trippy episode themes. Rick is an alcoholic scientist that is always using his slightly dumb grandson in his experiments. this is obviously morally disturbing. I recommend you give Rick And Morty a go but you will have to watch a few episodes to get into it. Not recommended for 13 and under.


                
when i first started watching this i thought it was hell, this is shocking. But it grows on you. its funny & offensive and has some brilliant story lines. if you're an American dad of family gut fan you will like this. a little drier then the others but worth a watch. i will be giving Rick and Morty an 8 out of 10


                
Rick and Morty is one the best adult cartoons out there. It has feels, it has excitement, funny moments and weirdness. What makes it stand out from the rest is probably character development, which is very rare in cartoons. Which puts me of most is probably that sometimes the show is a bit too weird for my taste. That is why the score is only 8, but I'm still looking forward what the future holds.


                
