This is kind of an odd story, another one of those based-on-a-true life tales. This was hyped up a little too much for me because I expected more than what the film delivered. However, it was still a decent yarn about a kid who impersonated people in different professions and forged checks along the way. He did all of this in his teenage years.Leonardo DiCaprio plays his normal cocky role while Tom Hanks is the straight- and-narrow looking FBI man on his trail. Although not a tense thriller, the movie holds the viewer's interest throughout the 2 hours and 20 minutes with the last half hour being the most interesting, capped off by a satisfying ending. The only thing I didn't enjoy watching was DiCaprio (as "Frank Abagnale") taking advantage of genuinely-nice girls. This guy was no hero, believe me.


                
Finally sat down and watched this film starring the always awesome Leonardo Dicaprio. Great story based on actual true events revolving around the criminal career of Frank W. Abagnale (Leonardo Dicaprio) a con man who as a young boy worshipped the ground his father (Christopher Walken) walked on .His dad teaches him some lessons at a young age on how to get things for free unfortunately not knowing how far his son would run with this info. Frank's world is shattered when his parents divorce causing him to runaway and start is life of deceiving companies and people for their money, major ally from a prestigious airline. Frank learns the art of deception in the form of creating fraudulent company cheques getting it down to a science and distributing them all over various point of the globe. During his tenure he imposed as a pilot, a doctor and a lawyer all the time switching identities every time the feds especially one FBI Agent Carl Hanratty (Tom Hanks) gets too close for comfort. Enjoy the cat and mouse game as Hanratty chases Abagnale all over the world.


                
Frank Abagnale Jr. (Di Caprio) makes his way across America posing as a lawyer, a pilot, a doctor whilst all the while being chased by Carl Hanratty (Hanks) Based on the true story of conman Frank Abagnale Jr. this ambitious crime caper is a turn for excitement harmless joy that encodes spurts of comedy in a dramatic construction of a man looking for a sense of mayhem and wealth, to live in his father's footsteps.Flowing with the energy you would expect from a Spielberg project alongside Oscar nominated scorer John Williams you would expect a ferocious appetite of crime shindigs and sharp tantalising scenarios across America and for the most part we see a relaxing and remarkable story that is hard and equally remarkable to believe really happened.Leo Di Caprio, in his first paring with Spielberg, stars as central character Frank, giving the conman an elusive personality whilst aiming to be naïve of the difficulties at home between his parents. Encoding uses of his father's charm and wit may seem corny but the resemblance between Di Caprio and Oscar nominated Christopher Walken is mirror like, giving the film a formidable consistency.Tom Hanks, in more of a supporting role, has his moments as the stubborn and driven FBI agent determined to catch Frank. Hanks uses the character's intelligence to his advantage to make his acts seem fruitless whilst all the while maintaining a key objective. Hanks even slides in some delicious deadpan expressions, the knock knock joke in the car for one arguably one of Hanks best ever comedy moments, which is quite something given the American's CV.The plot is the main drawback of the film's potential. Whilst the story itself is based on true events, there feels a lack of consistent believability, which is purely down to the messy structure placed upon it. Starting on a game show, it jumps back to Frank's youth, then to prison then forward to school years, then his fleeing, then forward to present and so forth and because of these Kangaroo style jumps there feels a reluctance to let us into the moment of the character and situation. We are just getting used to Frank being a pilot when the film shunts us to present day dealings and it is a real pain as if this film was portrayed in chronological order we would have had a flawless foundation for an endless chase without knowing the outcome.Williams' score is brilliant, especially the title sequence and Oscar nominated was a truly deserved. The title sequence matches the feel of the music so poignantly we are instantly engaged and ready for the off.The film collaborates usage of career mastery and unanswered questions to the eventual finale, that is worth catching and as mentioned, had this film gone from past to present with no flash back/forwards it would have been perfect. As it is, this is a charming often funny crime drama that is an enjoyable ride of a true story.


                
This movie is about the making and doings of an incredible con-man. The movie should NOT be seen as a biography of the real con-man (assuming that his co-authored autobiography is for real), since the interesting psychological background is made up and some of the incidents are fictitious. The movie uses a couple of framing devices to get started: the hunter goes to a French jail to get the hunted and take him back to the United States; the hunted is introduced on "What's My Line" ( a popular mid-century U.S. t.v. show). Then there is a flash-back to the hunted's childhood, and we watch his development into a con-man.The pacing and characterizations are well done, and the viewer is kept pleasantly off-balance by both situations and switching empathy for the hunter and the hunted.The period items (like the "What's My Line" bit, clothing, cars, ways of talking) do more than just ring true: they draw viewers back into that time and place.Although the film is primarily entertainment, the story it tells gives one pause more than once. What does it mean that a teen-ager could pass himself off as a professional in various fields? Was he really driven to do what he did, or was he simply a rogue? (This latter question might be answered differently depending on whether one is discussing the movie or the book).


                
Well, first I'd like to comment how easy it is to lure spectator into this movie, due to the great names involved in this project. Steven Spielberg, Leonardo DiCaprio and Christopher Walken are what made me wanna see it. To be honest, the film as a whole is good. Frank Jr. is a guy who is willing to do anything in his power to make easy money, even if it means stealing and cheating all around. There are plenty of moments in which the spectator gets to think "he won't get away with it", but, surprisingly, the well written plot always allows him escaping from the FBI. However, sometimes the way DiCaprio's character gets away feels over-the-top, considering that people wouldn't be THAT dumb in real life. I mean, how would Frank Jr. work as a physician in a hospital without EVER being asked about diseases or something related to it? Wouldn't Brenda's family make questions involving medicine? So, in my opinion, "Catch Me If You Can" is a well directed movie that entertains the spectator for the whole time, but sometimes admits to be just a movie and not a real thing.
CATCH ME IF YOU CAN is one of those films that it took me ages to get around to seeing because I thought I wasn't going to like it. I'm no huge fan of Steven Spielberg and the lavish devotion he attracts, even though he's made a lot of films I enjoy. It seemed to me to be a vehicle for a smug Leonardo DiCaprio outwitting the authorities at every turn. Now I've watched it, I admit that I was completely wrong. DiCaprio plays a thoroughly sympathetic character whose side you are on from the outset thanks to a clever set-up involving his relationship with his father, a decent Christopher Walken. The viewer can then sit back and simply enjoy watching him as he attempts to beat the system by becoming a master fraudster. The fact that this is a true story helps a lot too. It's not as assured as Spielberg's deadly serious fare like BRIDGE OF SPIES and MUNICH, but it's much better than his twee, sentimental body of work.
Frank's life makes an interesting story of intelligence and fantasy combined. A great cat and mouse tale based on true events, that will have you entertained throughout


                
There wasn't much that I found wrong or exceptionally great about this film. It had some great comedic moments, and I felt that it was an entertaining flick all the way till the end. How much of it is true is beyond my knowledge, but for a man to get away with so much.. it's kinda crazy. I will say that other than the great characters and their development, this did not feel like a Spielberg film. It just didn't have that masterful touch that I usually get from his other films. Is that bad? Well, no. It just doesn't feel like his best movie. So in conclusion I gave Catch Me If You Can a "Good" on theVade Review Bar or an 7 out of 10. Although I wanted to give it an "Alright" this film's characters and actors were outstanding and really made this film a good movie. The small issues with how the story was told, and Jennifer Garner's character (kidding) really held this film down from being a truly memorable one. If this film showed each event in chronological order this movie would have had great suspense and would have be a great movie overall, yet all it really gives us was Jennifer Gardner, and no one really wants that.Read more at theVade.


                
The movie opens up very very uniquely. Using the old show as a frame, it takes the audience's already owned recognition of DiCaprio to start telling the story chronologically. I really like how the movie immerses the audience in Frank's story. The movie moves forward nicely from event to event to depict the milestones in Frank's check forgery career. Also the cinematography at times indulges the audience with great moving shots. The acting work in overall is a great work. Having the cast comprise of an ensemble is a good thing to balance DiCaprio's acting in the scenes and also grab attention for them. Leo DiCaprio, despite his older age, managed to grab the youthful energy as an adolescent here. Tom Hanks did also well in portraying the relentlessness of the agent.


                
enjoyed this sanguine film immensely despite the Spielberg saccharine confluence... how believable was the plot portrayed? hmmmmm, knowing others who pulled off some major impersonation heists more probable but the pace and typical overkill of "whew, missed him by this much" is troublesome... Walken in a wonderful sympathetic role was my reward to take it all in without hesitation on first viewing.... Hanks unremarkable in the duality of his love/hate for Frankie... many laughable moments unexpected i.e. university of Ben Casey and Perry Mason, table blessing of the two mice, knock knock joke, prostitute paying customer, Ian Fleming fitting, necklace recovery, not Lutheran?, french class substitute, to name a few... perhaps only 50% of the 80% claimed by the real Frank for the events in this film is enough to impress and I was... loveliest scene of Judy Garland's Embraceable You kitchen sway with Martin and wife, ahhhh vive l'amore!! high recommend for chase thrillers in world wide locales, cheering for the bad guy theme with happy endings, Steven knows what most of us want.... kudos!
This movie is based on real story . Since this is a Hollywood movie probably some things were changed , but that doesn't really matter . What is important is this movie entertains . It's long , 2 hours and few minutes , yet it's never boring . It's set during the 60's and 70's and the humor in "Catch me if you can" reminds me humor from movies from that time. My favorite joke is the "knock, knock" joke from Hanks.The opening credits sequence is brilliant. It's one of the best opening sequences ever. DiCaprio fits in his role well with his boyish look .Tom Hanks is nice as the grumpy FBI agent. Christopher Walken steals the show with his performance as the charming , always optimistic father of our hero. He deserved Oscar nomination. It was also good to see Martin Sheen and Amy Adams. Jennifer Garner appearance was rather pointless.The tricks that DiCaprio uses look believable . I can only complain that he acts a little bit stupid during the second half of the movie , but maybe that's how it was in the real life ? Anyway the movie provides good fun . There is some depth here . Both DiCaprio and Hanks are lonely people who have nothing more than their jobs . Spielberg also tries to explain why Frank Abagnale Jr. started his criminal career . His explanation sounds logical – he was running away because he couldn't deal with his parents marriage problems (He was 16 years old then). "Catch me if you can" is a well made fluff entertainment. I give it 8/10.


                
When we were children, we used to imagine who we want to become: astronauts, firefighters, top-models, whoever. Apparently some people live their lives as if they are still playing in the courtyard; they easily change their occupations, looks, even characters. Catch Me If You Can is about such a man.This is a true story about Frank Abagnale Jr. who, before his 19th birthday, successfully conned millions of dollars' worth of checks as a Pan Am pilot, doctor, and legal prosecutor. He admires his father and from him he learns how to manipulate people and systems. Of course, he attracted attention of the police forces, and in particular of Carl Hanratty, man in charge of falsifications in the US. The pursuit that ensues is the main focus of the movie.The plot is based on the autobiographical book by Frank Abagnale Jr. himself, where he describes his adventures, and despite the huge potential that the book had to offer to the movie makers in terms of the characters, relationships etc, the movie turned out to be nice extra rather than the stand alone piece of art.The movie lacks personality. Charisma of real Frank Abagnale Jr. did not allow Steven Spielberg to put anything personal in the movie. It is simply re-telling of the book; the director or the screenplay writers don't have their own opinions on the matters going on, they simply take the back seat and show us what happened to the main character. This approach made the movie automatically inferior to the book – the audience still needs guidance; good movie is always a dialogue, not a monologue, not a dry ascertaining of facts. It is still amusing and interesting to watch, but poor Frank and Carl look like animals in the zoo rather than humans with human feelings and emotions. It starts to feel artificial game of cat and mouse.The famous director failed to inhale life in the characters. Little surprise that the star cast didn't manage to do it either. Leonardo DiCaprio and Tom Hanks clearly do their best. DiCaprio convincingly plays immature kid with little understanding of consequences of his actions. Hanks convincingly plays workaholic cop. But the lack of conflict, lack of deep interactions means that the characters don't evolve, and in the end of the movie we see the same two chaps that we saw in the beginning. Christopher Walken, Martin Sheen, Amy Adams – they all play their parts perfectly, creating exactly the characters they were asked to create. Shame they still look unnatural. And in the end, all the action around the master of reincarnations simply leads to the thought that maybe exciting, fulfilling life doesn't need to be full of action and pursuits and God-knows-what. Maybe what people actually need to live truly interesting lives is the presence of other people, who would guide, teach and just talk meaningful talks. Who needs all the checks and all the millions if there is nobody around to tell you where to spend it? The story of the man who never stopped being a small child is worth watching only for the sake of this idea.VERDICT: Good illustration to the book, amusing and interesting, even though it fails as the movie.m-picturegoer.blogspot.com


                
Review first published on Dec. 27, 2002.The one thing we do not see enough in movies today is a good animated opening credit sequence. That's why when "Catch Me If You can" began with such a treat, I immediately knew this was going to be an exceptional motion picture.And my prediction was correct.Starting off with the clever cartoon opening and the quick, jazzy score by John Williams, the perceptive observer recalls films such as "The Pink Panther," "Around the World In 80 Days" and "It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World.We are then swept into the world of Frank Abangale, Jr., taken from his book and adapted for the screen by Jeff Nathanson. In a nice opening scene, Frank, Jr. (Leonardo DiCaprio), a man — who because of various situations in life — impersonated a teacher, an airline pilot, a doctor, a lawyer and a Secret Service agent (and almost gets away with it), is introduced on an episode of TV's "To Tell the Truth." In addition to fooling hundreds of people over the years, he cashed over $4 million in fraudulent checks. During most of his escapades, Frank is hunted by an obsessive FBI agent, Carl Hanratty (a wonderful performance by Tom Hanks).In almost a Wile E. Coyote/Roadrunner fashion, the impersonator pulls off several miraculous escapes, leaving the law with a fresh coat of egg on its face. While DiCaprio's Abangale is clever, free-spirited, charming, sexy and charismatic, Hanratty is a lonely divorced father, dull, sour and doggedly determined to catch his thief.Both manage to communicate with each other over the course of several Christmas Eves because they know each others' minds. Both are also pathetic characters in their own way, although poles apart, personality-wise.While Frank's choice as a pilot (he only flies free as a "dead-head," never actually attempting to control an aircraft), is to attract women, he is forced into the medical and legal professions directly because of Carl's detective work.Hank's character — complete with a perfect Boston accent — can get close to his prey, but can never quite bring him in. Meanwhile, as a doctor, Frank (who watched episodes of "Dr. Kildare" to bone up on his surgical technique) attracts a naive young nurse in braces (Amy Adams) whose father (played by Martin Sheen), is a District Attorney in New Orleans.Studying for two weeks — and watching "Perry Mason" — he passes the Louisiana bar exam on his first try and becomes Sheen's assistant. Playing it super cool, as well as picking up professional jargon and vernacular, Frank bluff his way through several hilarious situation, including making $400 from a prostitute who thought SHE was ripping HIM off.Later, though, things become very dark, indeed, as Frank's constant dodging the law is less and less fun. During the masquerades, his mother (Natalie Baye) divorces his father (Christopher Walken, an Oscar winner for "The Deer Hunter" and who will probably get a nomination for this role, as well) after an affair with a lodge buddy (James Brolin).Frank's father, hounded himself (by the IRS), sees through his son's fraud, and while secretly envying him, knows it can only lead to misfortune. Finally captured, Frank is given an entire new career in a nice twist of an ending."Catch Me If You Can" is a major departure for director Steven Spielberg, whose last several films — "Schindler's List," "Saving Private Ryan" and "A.I." — have been of the utmost seriousness. This almost lighter-than-air picture still manages to tug a few heartstrings here and there, but maintains its cheerful look or the most part.Sometimes, a bit too long (at two hours, 20 minutes), audiences will nevertheless find the humor and breeziness of this movie too irresistible to let this bother them.
SPOILERS Each individual director has his own unique style. Whether including a specific type of shot, or links to past films, there is always something unique to directors. The same is true of legendary director Steven Spielberg. Spielberg's films always tend to have an almost childlike feel to them. Often feel good films, Spielberg will create a film which, irrelevant of subject matter, always has a colourful style of imagery and background. In "Catch Me If You Can", Spielberg repeats this style with a clever little film telling the story of Frank Abagnale Junior.From the very beginning of the film, Frank Abagnale Junior (Leonardo DiCaprio) is shown to be a clever boy. Learning skills from his father (Christopher Walken), Abagnale slowly begins to learn how to copy cheques and over the next two years spends his time travelling from location to location, conning his way into different professions. All the time however, Frank is followed by FBI agent Carl Hanratty (Tom Hanks).When Steven Spielberg directs a good film, the man directs a VERY good film. Able to create an almost cartoon like world, Spielberg manages to grip us from start to finish. Whilst the opposite is true and Spielberg can sometimes create the most appalling work, with films like "Catch Me If You Can", we can perhaps forgive his mistakes.From the opening animation of the film, we know the basic premise. As Abagnale travels from place to place, there are moments of pure brilliance as this quick witted boy (since he's not even 17 when he begins the journey) outfoxes Hanratty time and time again.The connection between Abagnale and Hanratty in particular is what makes this film. With two well developed characters, both DiCaprio and Hanks give brilliant performances as we begin to bond with both characters. Superbly assisted by Christopher Walken and a few other actors, the two stars thrive in this fun little film.The beauty of "Catch Me If You Can" is the partnership of the main stars and the direction of Spielberg. Working brilliantly together, these three men and screenwriter Jeff Nathanson, have examined Abagnale's story of his life and produced a great film which remains fun from start to finish. Great fun.
"Catch Me If You Can" tells the story of Frank Abagnale, con man. With Spielberg in the director's chair and A-listers leading the way, you'd expect something a little better than this story about a kid who conned his way into jobs as a Pan Am pilot, a lawyer, a doctor, and into some serious money. Reasonably entertaining and well crafted, this film runs a tad long and is smeared with comedic overtones making it difficult to take seriously. It might have worked better as a serious rather than playful drama. Nonetheless, worth a look by anyone interested in stories about scamming. (B)Note - If you like this flick, you might want to check out Tony Curtis in "The Great Imposter" (1961)


                
...but did Steven Spielberg's latest Blockbuster-fodder, Catch Me If You Can, have to be released now? The two leads, Leonardo DiCaprio and Tom Hanks have already turned in their best for the year (Gangs of New York and Road to Perdition, respectively), even if those performances weren't great, and Spielberg's other chase film released during the summer, Minority Report, was one of his best films. While the release date shouldn't directly effect the film itself, it might've given Scorsese's Gangs a little chance to breath without having this and that as two Leo films at once during the Christmas-break film rush. Catch..is inspired by the story of Frank W. Abignale Jr., who as a teen became a con-man, impersonating an airline pilot, doctor, lawyer, etc, and was finally caught in France. DiCaprio plays Frank, and tries to play him as a suave, if occasionally panicked, teen, and while there have been worse performances this year, it is very clear that the better work for him is in Gangs, not here- he's often too straightforward with his emotions and only hints to that he's someone outside of a conniver. Hanks, on the other hand, does a decent job, with a keen accent and demeanor, and Christopher Walken, who plays Abignale Sr., turns in the best performance of the film, and shows more depth than his son in the few scenes he has. Overall, there are some moments of fun that shine through, like when Frank Jr. does his first con as a school teacher at 16, or when he fools Hanks at the Miami airport, yet it can be seen in many scenes that more challenging material was manipulated by Spielberg and company. Still, it should appeal to the mass market of movie-goers.....this is a re-edit some four years later. On repeat viewings, the film works better. DiCaprio actually works as more effective with his character, and even Hanks becomes more interesting than just 'decent'. B+


                
This is a great casual film to watch and appreciate. Apart from Leo and Tom Hanks we also have minor characters played by the then new Amy Adams, Martin Sheen and Christopher Walken and all come together to create a near perfect feature film. Speilberg should be commended for taking on such a light fare and making something so interesting out of it.


                
Tom Hanks and Leonardo Di Caprio unite in this Steven Spielberg crime caper from 2002. Leo plays Frank Abagnale Jr. who happens to be a con artist of the finest order despite being only 19. He is pursued diligently by FBI agent Carl Hanratty played by Hanks. This is a great casual film to watch and appreciate. Apart from the aforementioned actors we also have minor characters played by the then new Amy Adams, Martin Sheen and Christopher Walken and all come together to create a near perfect feature film. Speilberg should be commended for taking on such a light fare and making something so interesting out of it.


                
I usually don't watch movies like this. I decided to give it try, and I enjoyed it a lot actually. It has a pretty talented cast behind it : directed by Steven Spielberg, starring a younger Leonardo Dicaprio, and having Tom Hanks play the antagonist of the film (Which I think might be the first time), they all do a good job. One thing I think I will congratulate this movie on though is the emotional scenes, because actually have..well, Emotion in them, they seem real. Overall I think this was a really good movie but it might be a bit lengthy for some people.


                
Tom Hanks and Leonardo Di Caprio unite in this Steven Spielberg crime caper from 2002. Leo plays Frank Abagnale Jr. who happens to be a con artist of the finest order despite being only 19. He is pursued diligently by FBI agent Carl Hanratty played by Hanks. This is a great casual film to watch and appreciate. Apart from the aforementioned actors we also have minor characters played by the then new Amy Adams, Martin Sheen and Christopher Walken and all come together to create a near perfect feature film. Speilberg should be commended for taking on such a light fare and making something so interesting out of it.


                
If you like the White Collar TV show you will like this or even vice versa!


                
Well, I've seen the movie but I still can't believe how a teenager pulled off the stunts that Frank Abagnale Junior (Leonardo DiCaprio) got away with. It's probably a good reflection of how clueless society must have been in the Sixties, a time when I was in high school myself. Frank Jr. had a pretty good role model for his conniving ways in the person of his father (Christopher Walken). I guess you could say like father, like son in this instance, although DiCaprio's character took it to the nth degree impersonating an airline pilot, doctor and lawyer.Obviously one can't doubt that a lot of this chicanery went on in the life of the real Abagnale Jr., but the picture is very much a superficial glossing over about what the guy got away with, for the amount of time he got away with it. As the detective hot on Abagnale's trail, Carl Hanratty (Tom Hanks) starts the picture out as something of a caricature of the bumbling FBI agent that gets suckered when he first meets up with his quarry, but eventually settles into his role as the responsible guy who brought the faker to justice. What I would like to have seen was some closure to the opening scene that had the 'To Tell the Truth' tease. That looked like a real clip of Dorothy Kilgallen asking a question, and it would have been cool if the film makers had used the rest of it to show the real Frank Abagnale, Jr. Instead, and I found this to be a fascinating piece of trivia, the real Frank Abagnale Jr. appeared in the movie as a French policeman taking DiCaprio into custody. So I guess you can add 'actor' to the list of his other dubious aliases.
One of the most important things a film should offer its audience is surely a story worth being told. "Catch me if you can" definitely achieves this. The story of a charming fraud, a young man that starts his career in crime out of desperation and boredom and achieves everything a regular man or woman can only dream of without really hurting anyone. The story of a most unlikely friendship between two men that play cat and mouse with each other for such a long period of time that they finally come to respect each other.While the story thus has a lot to offer, there are also some points that prevent this movie to really become a classic in my eyes. The characters, apart of DiCaprio's one appear a bit flat and one-dimensional and not much effort was put into their development. Some exaggerations further lead the way into a movie that's definitely entertaining, more so than many other blockbusters, but that in the end doesn't really leave a huge impact as well.Well worth a watch for an entertaining evening but not a must-see in my opinion.
Catch Me If You Can is far from other Spielberg's work, such as Trilogy ( forget the fourth film ) , Jurassic Park , Jaws , Munich ( yes I really like Munich , I greatly underestimated ) , Saving Private Ryan , even more so is a good movie , the cast has Leonardo DiCaprio , this great, the best performance of the film is it, besides funny tar in some time , Tom Hanks, that even not being performance in relation to level Filadelfia , cast Away , and especially Forrest Gump , plus it is very well , Christopher Walken , Martin Sheen , Amy Adams, Nathalie Baye , Jennifer Garner , James Brolin , etc., everyone is good, I found the last minute half dragged, take long in my opinion , and the script even being good level , has some problems , more Catch Me If You Can is a good movie with a great cast and a good direction of Spielberg master. Note 7.7


                
I enjoyed watching this movie, despite it features one of my least favourite actors, Leoanrdo Di Caprio. Tom Hanks gives a good peformance, although, compared to his performance in 'Saving private Ryan', it sucked.The movie has an excellent twist, as we see how the main character 'Frank Abagnale' cons thousands of people, when he relentlessly continues to pay for expensive purchases, when the amount cannot be obtained from his account.   Although I thought the film in general was fairly good, it didn't seem to be a movie made by Spielberg. To me, Spielberg seems to create superb master pieces again and again, for example; Schindler's list, and saving private ryan; and, this film seemed to be directed by a more novice director.Having said that, the characters, acting and dialogue are very good, and the movie concludes with a big thums up!
