At first I thought I was going to see a lightweight film from a great director but instead I watched another impressive achievement by Steven Spielberg. A few things stand out and of course the performances are terrific. Leonardo Dicaprio is believable as a guy that can convince people that he's someone else. Dicaprio is a charmer and is very smooth as we watch his character do some fancy talk to the young ladies. Tom Hanks as the FBI agent reminds me of his cynical character that he played in "A League of Their Own" and his mere presence adds more to this film. The sign of a great film star. And Christopher Walken gives one of his best performances in his already interesting career. The last scene of him as he talks to his son in the restaurant is so moving that it reflects on the great talent of Walken. You can understand why Dicaprio admires and loves his father. Walken conveys these emotions and makes the audience react just accurately. I'll be rooting for him at Oscar time. Another impressive thing about this film is the beautiful cinematography by Janusz Kaminski who's a real artist with a camera and has worked on several Spielberg films. One shot in particular stands out. The ray of sunshine coming in through the kitchen window on Walken. Very thought provoking. And of course since its a Spielberg film its very personal. Spielberg was interested in the Frank Abagnale character because as a youngster he also came from a broken family and wanted to be someone else. Spielberg would sneak onto the studios and tell people that he worked there. Also, the real Frank Abagnale jr. appears as a French police officer. Well made, extremely well acted and sharply written. Viewers seem to forget that this is really a film about the breaking up of a family and the aftermath. This really is a personal film from Spielberg, and a very good one.


                
This was an entertaining and fun piece of film making from the ever-reliable Steven Spielberg. It is a bit of a depart from his usual full-blown and hugely epic pictures, yet this does not detract at all from the fascinating story of Frank Abagnale Jr. I was interested in this man before I'd seen the movie, and it only served to increase my interest. Although it is important to remember (as with any such film) that this is only 'inspired' by a true story and not told word for word from one, the plot is fascinating and keeps you laughing, crying and wondering until the end.Frank Abagnale Jr. is an astounding and interesting character. The real life Abagnale originally said that he did not believe Dicaprio to be 'suave' enough to play the role, but he certainly does pull it off. Dicaprio's acting is superb, and totally believable as a man who could lie to, deceive, and con everyone he met without once losing any of his charisma or charm. Hanks is also excellent, he plays the role of the obsessed FBI agent well, and also with a likable quality. The interaction between these two characters was great, it was interesting to see a budding relationship slowly build between two characters who were actually positioned against one another.I loved the look of the film. It was a refreshing blast to see the 60s portrayed in such a vivid and colorful way. The whole setting and atmosphere of the film gave it a wonderful and almost (I hesitate to use the word) 'magical' sense. This tone appealed to me much more than a darker tone might have.However, the film is rife with moral ambiguity. As much fun as it is to watch Dicaprio jumping from one place (and identity) to the next, forging checks and spending inordinate amounts of money at a whim, the film never really focuses on the morally bankrupt side of the story. The portion of the film devoted to this at the end still seems to skim over the fact that this man has stolen millions of dollars. It ends on a high note for Frank Abagnale Jr., never fully spelling out the wrongs he committed. Still, this would probably bring the whole film down, and sometimes it's fun just to enjoy a bit of escapism without being told off for desiring such things. I mean, it's hard to be totally strict and upright - you have to love it when Dicaprio's character swindles Jennifer Garner's prostitute for $400! Overall, this is a fun film and really enjoyable. Not as much of an epic masterpiece as some of Spielberg's other movies, but still a great film!


                
I Don't know how accurate these events are but as they are based on accounts written by Frank Abagale Jr. himself, then i assume that they are probably only dramatised for the viewing audience.It's hard to believe that people were so naive, that they allowed Frank Abagnale to achieve what he did, but i have give the guy credit for pushing the system, and riding the high life for as long as he did.Leonardo DiCaprio does a great job of capturing the character of Frank Abignale Jr. (strange i didn't picture him in the role of a jet setting Gigalo) and the rest of the cast although only little more than fringe characters, are all very well cast and give typically fine performances, as you would expect with the calibre of Hanks and Walken.All in all this is a fine film, that most people will enjoy watching 8/10


                
"Catch Me If You Can" is based on the true story of Frank Abagnale, the most successful conman in history. By the age of 19, Frank had already posed as a pilot for Pan Am, paraded around as a medical doctor, and fooled everyone by taking an on-the-side-job as a lawyer. (By the way, he faked a Harvard-graduate diploma to become one.) During this time he cashed fraudulent checks at various banks around the country, and eventually around various places in the world. His is an amazing story, and this film is based on it.There's no real plot to go into, as I have already given it to you. Other than telling you that the film opens when Frank is sixteen and runs away from home after his parents (Christopher Walken and Nathalie Baye) have a messy divorce, you pretty much have the setup for a light, fluffy, and altogether fun film.Frank is played by Leonardo DiCaprio, and the man hot on his trail, agent Carl Hanratty, is played by Tom Hanks. There isn't really a Carl Hanratty in real life, but it adds to the story. Frank, on the run, actually starts to become friends with Hanratty, who realizes Frank is just an adolescent and does not realize the eventual outcomes of what he is doing. Hanratty sort of adopts Frank, even after he is caught and thrown in a French prison. He helps him get transferred to an American prison, and then even gets him a job in the FBI for spotting fraudulent checks.I read Frank William Abagnale, Jr.'s true-crime memoir, which was released a few decades ago. It differs from the film at times, and it isn't always as light-hearted as the film is. But in terms of pure, fluffy fun at the movies, "Catch Me If You Can" is a sure-fire hit. At times it seems to stray a bit too far off the path of realism, unlike the book, but that's part of the fun, really.The film is entirely watchable, and doesn't try to become an epic. Steven Spielberg creates a real dazzler here; it is effortlessly watchable and even at two and a half hours long, it doesn't become overbearing. I thoroughly enjoyed it, and, unlike most critics, I thought Tom Hanks did a great job in his role. I especially like how Spielberg captured the image of the '60s so well here, and John Williams' score fits the part of the film very well. And as for the cast, they are all matched perfectly to their characters. I especially liked Christopher Walken as Frank Abagnale, Sr., who steals every scene he is in. His performance was worthy of its Oscar nom. If you just want to sit back and relax, "Catch Me If You Can" is the perfect film for you. There's nothing all that special in the film, but the film kind of becomes special because it is so easy to watch. I recommend "Catch Me If You Can" to anyone who can enjoy a movie for what it is.
"Catch Me If You Can" is a true popcorn flick, and maybe a little bit more.4.5/5 stars -John Ulmer
Catch Me If You Can is a pretty interesting movie that is supposedly based on the life of Frank Abagnale, who, before his 19th birthday, successfully performed cons worth millions of dollars. He was allow to pull this off, by posing high income jobs, and forging payroll checks. The movie by Steven Spielberg is really trying hard, not to say based off true events, as the movie use 'inspired by a true story" in order to avoid controversy similar to other past biographical films, which deviated from history. In my opinion, the movie doesn't deviated from the autobiography of Frank Abagnale too much. The movie stars Leonardo DiCaprio as the teenager Frank Abagnale who after witnessing his parents awful divorce, run away. When he runs out of money, he begins to rely on confidence scams to get by. Soon, Frank's cons grow bolder and he even impersonates an airline pilot, a Georgia doctor, and a Louisiana parish prosecutor. He drew attention by the FBI Bank fraud agency lead by Det. Carl Hanratty (Tom Hanks). Soon enough, it become a game of cat and mouse, with Frank trying everything to try to escape, and Carl trying everything to try to catch him. Set in the 1960s, the movie has this early James Bond type spy genre escapism theme going with it. Even the opening of the film by Olivier Kuntzel & Florence Deygas, looks something out of a 1960s spy film with its one of a kind title sequence. The slender Lowreyesque stamp style animation figures run through environments that symbolize key plot points from the film to the 1960s jazz-era score by John Williams is amazing and memorable. The movie was shot with bright vibrant colors, bringing out the world that no longer exist, built on trust and a firm handshake. There is a few historical anachronisms, but nothing really standing out for too long. The movie is pretty predictable as it gives you the whole story in the opening shot of the film. Approximately 80 percent of the movie is true based on Frank Abagnale Jr's account, but there were some stuff, they didn't mention on the film, the producers change or Frank just make it up. After all, Frank is indeed a consummate liar. Lots of plot holes or scenes never truly explain well. There is one outlandish scene with him looking for female airplane attendant recruits just in the space of one day and another one escaping a jet through the toilet. You have to hold, suspense of disbelief here. There was a stint, not added to the film, where Frank was professor of sociology at a college in Salt Lake City, Utah that was supposedly cut due to time constraints; but the truth is, the college, Brigham Young University, repudiates this claim that he never did teach there. The film, somewhat change it to him pretending to a French teacher in the beginning a local New York school. Another thing is his relationship with his father. In the film, Frank has a strong relationship with his dad. His father love that his son is stealing from the government and business, because they didn't support him when his business went under. Not in the case of real life, as his first victim was indeed his father stealing $3,400 from him in credit card fraud. Also, Abagnale never saw his father after he ran away from home, unlike the film. Other minor changes is that, the movie omitted his two jail attempts to get away from prison and his time in France. It would be nice to see that, both the movie would had been long. One more thing, FBI officer who was chasing Frank was really Joe Shea. Frank Abagnale Jr. used the pseudonym "Sean O'Reilly" in his book because Joe Shea was still in the F. B. I. He has since passed away, but the movie still used a new name, Carl Hanratty. I love the relationship between Frank and Carl in this movie. The chemistry in their respective roles is what breathes life into this film. There is a great scene at a motel between the two. The whole act was so risky. Leo play Frank with integrity and accuracy. He got the suave playboy down being bold and stylish. Tom Hanks was great as Carl. Season actor by this time, going toe to toe with a then, still-green, Leo. There is another great scene where both of their character call on Christmas. You can really tell the lack of family in Leo's character making him sympathy giving him a Freudian excuse. As less, he wasn't unlikeable. Catch me if You Can deals with themes of broken homes and troubled childhoods so well. The female characters played by Jennifer Garner, Ellen Pompeo and Elizabeth Banks were alright, but in my opinion, I have to say, Amy Adams as Brenda Strong was the best. Amy Adams as Brenda Strong gave one of the best performance in the film, as the emotional Brenda. I felt sad on what happen to her character. Also check out, the real Frank Abagnale as one of the French police officers toward the end. The music is great. I love the way, they use Frank Sinatra 'come fly with me'. Full of fantasy glam. The movie comes with a good moral message. Overall: Highly Informative and Incredibly Life Changing, Yet Subtly Descriptive and Wildly Entertaining. Worth the watch. So catch it!
Steven Spielberg has what you might call D.W. Griffith disease. If he can't make a monumental film, he makes an insignificant one. I thought that, anyway, until a second viewing of "Catch Me If You Can" convinced me I was wrong. Like many great artists, Spielberg doesn't have to swing for the fences to make an indelible impression every time out.Indelible impressions are the sort of thing Frank Abagnale Jr. is good at, especially on the kind of phony checks that fool bank security. After his parents' divorce, Frank (Leonardo DiCaprio) sets off in the Big Apple, making his way as an airline pilot, a doctor, and an assistant district attorney, all by means of fraudulent credentials and irresistible charm, not to mention the ability to stay one step ahead of the law, as represented by FBI Special Agent Carl Hanratty (Tom Hanks).A film that owes a debt to Alfred Hitchcock by way of Henry Mancini, "Catch Me If You Can" zips along on its own kind of sneaky charm, making us root for a character who would probably steal our life savings if given half a chance. At the same time, Spielberg avoids the pitfall of relativism by making sure Hanks as Hanratty keeps some amount of our rooting interest, however much we feel for this crazy kid with his naive belief that, like the mouse stuck in a bucket of cream, he can churn his bucket into butter and crawl out. It's a trick every bit worthy of the subject of this engaging tale.From the opening moments of this film, featuring the best-ever Spielberg titles sequence (courtesy of Kuntzel-Deggas) and a very unusual but entrancing John Williams score that uses shushing sounds and finger snaps in place of his normal bombast, we realize we are in unusual territory for a Spielberg film. Right away, the theme of mistaken identity is introduced courtesy of a "To Tell The Truth" clip with host Joe Garagiola giving us three Frank Abagnales to choose from. We think we know which one he is, but we don't know as much as we think."You know why the Yankees always win?" asks Frank's father, Frank Sr. (Christopher Walken). "It's because the other team can't stop staring at those damn pinstripes." Walken, like Spielberg, works against audience expectations. Sure, he's a criminal, much what we expect from Walken, but he's got a good heart and a beguiling innocence. He believes in the American dream, even if he cons innocent ladies with phony jewelry to get what he wants. Ultimately he's a victim, and a lesson to his son about why the straight and narrow isn't the way to go.DeCaprio gives a solid, impressive performance, the best I've seen from him, playing a consummate conman who succeeds because he believes his cons as much as his victims. He finds the drama in his character, but also the comedy, in a film that shows Spielberg can be funny even when he involves us in a dramatic story. As we watch him fake his way aboard a cockpit, in an operating room, and even in a bedroom with an expensive callgirl played by Jennifer Garner, we shake our heads at what he gets away with but smile because he's succeeding.The film also benefits from an immersive sense of the period in which it is set. Williams' score, along with the costumes and set design, present us with a view of the 1960s in its more sophisticated adult form, with Dusty Springfield and Frank Sinatra providing the music rather than the pop and rock acts we think of when we think of the time.Does "Catch Me If You Can" go on longer than it should? Yes, I think tougher editing would have made it better. But I don't miss the mawkish attempts at uplift that pock Spielberg's lesser work, and the few poignant moments Spielberg throws in amid Abagnale's ruses ring true, especially a moment involving Frank and a little girl at a window near the end of the film that only Spielberg would try to get away with, because he can and does.No, this is not a great film, just a very good one that might have slipped past a few people on its first release, as it did me. But give "Catch Me If You Can" a chance, and you may find this as a con you not only enjoy being taken by, but wish to experience again just to see how the masters, Abagnale and Spielberg, make their plays.


                
An all-around good movie worth seeing.  The plot is pretty basic: Quick-thinking kid from a broken family that he loved.  He spent the next few years playing a pilot, doctor, and lawyer.  Think "Pretender" (the television series) but based on real events.  The surprise was the unique relationship of the FBI agent and the con-man in their cat-and-mouse chase they have over the years around the globe.  An engaging film that you are curious to see how it ends. That goes even for my girlfriend who stayed awake for the entire movie because she was captivated by it [Note: she has slept thru "Gladiator", "Shakespeare in Love", "Elizabeth", and the "Fellowship of the Ring" because they (apparently) didn't peak her interest].  So if your date is the discriminating-type, he/she should be able to sit through this movie and enjoy it.


                
Spoilers herein.Yesterday, I saw the first watchable Scorsese film in decades, and the same today with Spielberg. Something weird is in the wind.And yes, I know this isn't a `real' Spielberg movie and that he only stepped in after paging through a half dozen directors, and only to protect his investment as a producer, and only because he has no real project underway. Still, I'm surprised. The compact Spielberg usually demands of the viewer is that in return for allowing him to turn us into children, he will expertly push children's buttons. He has been consistent in this even as he plowed through `serious' matters of war and holocaust. All are steeped in juvenile sentimentality. His recent `AI' and `Minority' were solid attempts to escape himself. After all, he knows he will not be remembered well and wants to be before he dies.So even though this is something he stepped into late, I count it as a solid victory for the pressures from his peers to make a real movie, with an intelligent stance. He does. Its not a great movie, but it has smarts. And it is relatively original.The first thing is how he adopts the notion of making the film itself a character. Lynch did this first (to my knowledge) with `Velvet.' Most recently, Haynes did so with `Far from Heaven,' where the dynamics of the story occur not in reality but in the artificial reality of films of the era. So the limits of `society' were the action of the film as a force within the drama. So too here -- to denote this we have the colors of the stock of the era, we have the very air of the film world invading as smoke. And we have the director asking the actors to discard modern irony and act as if they were Michael Caine in the early seventies. `Pleasantville' was another in this line -- the production designer is from that project.The film is set up as a reverse con. We know in the first couple minutes what he did and how the con ends. The traditional con story is a film within a film, which gives the opportunity to make the inner film the character as already noted. It is a clever idea that only could be conceived by someone intimate with shaping film. It makes the outer film more genuine by making the inner one more counterfeit.Then we have the actors. The con artist is the most sought after role in all filmdom because the actor plays a character who is acting, something that allows them to exploit their own experience (often the only real experience these stunted lives have). Decaprio doesn't quite rise to the challenge. We've had one wondrous performance in `Gilbert Grape,' and another intelligent turn in Luhrmann's `Romeo.' Nothing of note since except occasional competence. He is competent here. Hanks gives us his regular routine: he's sinking fast, turning into another Morgan Freeman.The real acting here is by Walken, who exceeds Spielberg's shaping of the project so much that we suspect no one really noticed it made the others look bad. Amy Adams has a passion that Leo lost long ago.Incidentally, we have another filmworld jab at the French here. They really do have thuggish police who brutalize Americans when possible. Film `police' too. And the Mom in real life was a real tart who played a dumb soldier for US citizenship then sold herself to a higher bidder. But why introduce all this without developing it? The man in charge here has a special ax to grind, I think.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4: Worth watching.
This was the movie that personally convinced me that DiCaprio had a future as an actor beyond Titanic. People used dismiss him as that kid from Titanic, I did as well, but he has grown to become one of Hollywood's top actors and I personally saw this coming while watching this film.Catch Me If You Can is also one of those films that I'd recommend if someone had no idea who Steven Spielberg was and wanted to give one of his movies a try. Because in many ways it has a lot of his characteristics in it. It's seemingly light-hearted, has an A-list cast, has a great score and the story is pure entertainment, yet the movie also takes it time, here and there, to address slightly darker themes - in this case the reason why Frank Abagnale Jr. (DiCaprio) grew up to become such a trickster.The movie rides heavily on the charisma and acting abilities of its two main stars, DiCaprio and Hanks, and in this case there's really nothing wrong with it. The story is decent enough to support these two and it's a valid choice to have your movie focus on the characters, especially if they're interesting enough, like they are in here. That's the essence of a heist movie, which this movie really is, even though it's not about a single con.And that's this movie. Its focus on entertainment keeps it from being a solid nine or ten star film, but only just. As it is, it's a fun little romp that you're sad to see come to an end. Heavily recommended to fans of heist genre, and for those that like charismatic performances and fun little twists.


                
This is the story of perhaps the biggest American fraudster in history, and the cat-and-mouse chase to catch him. A hunt that in many ways brought Frank Abagnale Jr. (DiCaprio) and FBI agent Carl Hanratty (Hanks) together, since in many ways they were each other's lives at the time, and culminated in a lifelong friendship. Frank Abagnale Jr.'s story is an incredible one. By the time he turned 18, he had successfully played the roles of an airline captain, a doctor and a lawyer, and cashed in false checks for over $2.5 million. This is the film of his story, based on Frank's own accounts of the events. And it is an exceptionally entertaining film. Cocky con artists succeeding pretty much always make for a fun film, and when it's based on the true events of a young and likable man, it gets even more fun. It's amazing what you can get away with a little ingenuity and enormous amounts of nerve. But there's of course a price to pay when your whole life revolves around living a lie.Catch Me If You Can is actually a rather unusual film to bear Spielberg's name. The usual Spielberg trademarks are mostly absent from this film, without that necessarily being a bad thing. Initially Spielberg didn't intend to direct this film at all; it was Gore Verbinsky who first got the job. But when Leonardi DiCaprio was called back to film more scenes for Gangs of New York, delaying the shoot, Verbinsky had to withdraw. At that time James Gandolfini was lined up for the role of Carl Hanratty. It could've been interesting to see how the film had turned out with them, but looking at the film as it is, it is hard to imagine it being better than the Spielberg/Hanks collaboration it turned out to be, their fifth at the time.Along with Spielberg's departure from his usual style, there's also John William's soundtrack, which is very different from the pompous soundtracks he's most known for. It's jazzy and beautiful, and fits the 60s setting perfectly. The acting is first rate, from the leads of Leonardo DiCaprio, who started showing at the time that there was more to him than just being a heartthrob, and Tom Hanks, both delivering top notch work, to brilliant supporting parts from actors like Christopher Walken and Martin Sheen. It's a well crafted and playful movie overall, delivering the goods across all lines. It's a highly entertaining movie, that I'm sure will stand the test of time. Recommended!
.The inspiration of the movie "Catch Me If You Can" must have lingered in director Steven Spielberg's mind for decades after knowing the amazing misadventures our protagonist Frank Abagnale Jr. encountered throughout his very highly interesting life. Spielberg who as a youth in the 1960's used to get past security at Universal Studios just to sneak in and marvel at the art of filmmaking.Leonardo Di Caprio as Frank Abagnale Jr. is seen in the midst interviewing a Pan American supervisor to get a full report on the careers of airplane pilots for the purpose of writing an article for his high school paper. What's really going on is he's seeking knowledge on the many activities Pan Am pilots as he tries to successfully do everything he could to mimic them. Along with his savvy ways of impressions and conjuring up bogus cheques, the FBI is left high and dry as Abagnale Jr. leaks out millions of dollars from the banks. His pilot uniform gives him the advantage to cash in cheques globally.Christopher Walken is Frank Abagnale Sr. who at one time was a thriving businessman from New Rochelle, New York and is now been reduced to eating very little but his pride. The Internal Revenue Services has been giving him hell which resulted in him owing them a bucket load of cash. The Abagnales must leave their posh mansion to a small low budgeted apartment. If that wasn't bad enough, Frank Sr.'s Franch wife for many years has added flames to the fumes by divorcing the poor hard-lucked individual and goes off to marry Frank Sr's attorney friend (James Brolin) and Frank Jr's world is taken upon him.Frank Jr has often seen his father used shady techniques to get the upper hand of people, so he makes the attempt to follow his father's legacy and enhances a few tricks of his his very own. It's soon revealed that Frank Sr. was rather subtle in his manipulative tactics compared to Frank Jr. who seems like a prodigy in in white-collar criminal activity.The real turning point of the movie that will keep viewers on the edge of your seat is the exciting battle of wits between the slick con-artist as he escapes going to jail while hard-nosed FBI agent Carl Hanratty (Tom Ranks) is hot on his trail. and would love nothing more than to see this kid eat prison food. Carl is divorced, but he is truly devoted to his job and even tried to call him at his office on Christmas Eve. They develop a bit of fondness for one another as the film progresses as Carl is impressed with Frank Jr.'s methodical suave demeanor and the game of cat and mouse is proved effective because every chance the FBI catches on to him, he seems to full a fast one on them each time. Frank Jr. admires the devotion and never give up attitude that Carl possesses in his work ethic.The film is based on the true escapades of Frank Jr. who unfortunately gets arrested in a very dramatized situation in France. However, the FBI later in the film admire the white-collar criminal's tactics to catch other potential criminal minds.After Abagnale Jr. served his sentence,he no longer continued his craft and made a butt-load of cash as a security consulter in a corporate world. In a strange twist of irony, he owed millions all the while he ended up saving millions. I guess true stories do have happy endings.Martin Sheen has a supporting role as the father whose daughter wants to marry Frank Jr. but does not seem fond of his daughter's request. The unpredictable kid with a plethora of numerous alter-egos meets her as he's seen as an E.R. medical intern and before you know it, he's now a young lawyer who passed the State Bar in Louisiana. And next we see him as an assistant junior attorney working in his future father-in0law's firm.
I Don't know how accurate these events are but as they are based on accounts written by Frank Abagale Jr. himself, then i assume that they are probably only dramatised for the viewing audience.It's hard to believe that people were so naive, that they allowed Frank Abagnale to achieve what he did, but i have give the guy credit for pushing the system, and riding the high life for as long as he did.Leonardo DiCaprio does a great job of capturing the character of Frank Abignale Jr. (strange i didn't picture him in the role of a jet setting Gigalo) and the rest of the cast although only little more than fringe characters, are all very well cast and give typically fine performances, as you would expect with the calibre of Hanks and Walken.All in all this is a fine film, that most people will enjoy watching 8/10


                
Spielberg did it again with this one. After the entertaining but overrated Minority Report, he brought us one of his most effortlessly fun films in a long time. I caught myself grinning from ear to ear many times throughout the movie. DiCaprio turns in his finest performance since What's Eating Gilbert Grape & The Basketball Diaries. Even though the story is based on a true story/autobiography of Frank Abagnale Jr., it all seems like some crazy Hollywood plot that's just too irresistible not to love. As for the rest of the cast, Tom Hanks is (as always) thoroughly reliable as the G-man set on catching Abagnale. Christopher Walken steals every scene he exists in as dad Frank Abagnale Sr., Frank Jr.'s impetus and inspiration for his outlandish check fraud spree. Like father, like son indeed. Martin Sheen and Jennifer Garner make delightful appearances in key scenes and John Williams' score is top notch, perfectly catching the snappy-cool kitsch of the 60's in every note. It's all a refreshing mix of everything we've come to fall in love with the movies. Some may be taken aback by the lackadaisical pacing, expecting some action set piece to pop up - and thank Odin there weren't any to be found


                
Biographic movies are always populace, this one in particular would be my personal favorite of all. The ensemble cast in a Spielberg movie which happens to be a biography would be nothing less than good, true to keeping the name high, Catch me If u can is a terrific watch for those who love biographies and for those who enjoy quality movies.Leonardo Caprio And Tom hanks teaming up with Spielberg was more than enough for me to watch it way back like a decade ago. And never feel tired watching it even today, for its all handsomely shown, those life pictures of a con man from real life. Frank Abagnale JR would be your real life hero instantly, cant think of another person portraying Frank than Caprio, hes just handsome and his behavioral acting would have helped a lot in it. The music was tricky with a mystical feel adding tempo to the chase and tricky parts in the movie.When a hearty biography is directed by Steven Spielberg cant complain about a flaw anywhere, but to be fair, it wasn't that engrossing as a Schindlers List - i know its stupid to even compare- and would be able to give only a 8 though i thoroughly enjoyed it


                
I love sitting down to watch a movie, not expecting much, and then being pleasantly surprised by what a great movie it was. That is just the case with Stephen Spielberg's Catch Me If You Can. The movie stars Leonardo DiCaprio as Frank Abagnale Jr., one of the most successful and intelligent con men of all time. When Frank is sixteen his father runs into problems with the IRA and loses his entire fortune, which also prompts his wife to leave him. From then on Frank vows to earn back his father's savings. He does so through a slightly (i.e. extremely) illegal manner. Check fraud. Frank travels the world taking on different personas, faking work as a pilot, doctor, lawyer, etc. But once the money he is illegally earning starts to build up, red flags go up for the FBI and Agent Carl Hanratty, played so well by Tom Hanks, sets out on an obsessive quest to chase down and capture Frank.The film is clever, quick, and an absolute blast.The nice thing about Catch Me If You Can is that it doesn't take itself too terribly seriously. It is more of a lighthearted film with a serious undertone. This film is actually really funny at times before it grows into a more serious story of character development and winding plot progression. But from start to finish it manages to retain a feeling of witty intelligence that stays smart and intelligible, but also entertaining and fun. The film never gets unbearably boring, even when it slows down for more serious plot points. It is 140 minutes long so certain things are a bit drawn out and I can't say that every scene has a major purpose, but it's always fun and always entertaining.I have a certain asphyxiation with con and heist films, so Catch Me If You Can is sort of a dream come true for me. It is every single thing about great and clever cons wrapped into one film. Watching Frank Abagnale work is like magic. The situations he talks his way out of and the ways he manages to get around certain things is uncanny. The film is based on a true story so I'm not sure what about his cons is true and what is exaggerated, but it all makes for great entertainment. There's something so inherently fascinating about the way he manipulates people through ingeniously subtle psychology and the way it works seamlessly, most of the time at least.The film also succeeds by adding a new layer to a typical con film. It makes its incredibly clever and devious protagonist human. A lot of films portray the con man as a flawless machine that works everything out so perfectly and executes every minute detail without a single issue, so much so that they are more of a gimmick than an actual character. The character of Frank Abagnale is truly human, complete with all of his inner turmoil and realistic flaws. Throughout the film he grows more and more troubled as the law gets closer and closer to him. We see a very human transformation that is as touching as it is fascinating. By the end of the film we love this character not because he is a clever genius, but because he is human.If I had any tiffs with the film they would be that it runs a little long and some of the logic doesn't always add up. But it's nothing to make me dislike this film in any way. It was a blast to watch and a joy to reflect on. Strong performances helm the film while a great atmosphere and wonderfully intelligent character development make its roots run deeply sincere. This film is one of the most human con man stories I have ever seen and for that it deserves a hefty amount of credit. This is a fantastic film.


                
When his parents announce they are going to divorce, Frank Abagnale Jr. (Leonardo DiCaprio) runs away from home and embarks on a career as a conman. Originally only armed with some blank cheques, Frank cons his way into being airline pilot, a doctor, a lawyer and into a couple of million dollars. But hot on his trail is dogged FBI agent Carl Hanratty (Tom Hanks).Frank Abagnale Jr. a real guy, who did these real things. Sure there's some liberties taken with the adaptation from Abagnale Jr's own book, but regardless it's a fascinating story that transfers very well to the screen. Directed by Steven Spielberg, the film is perhaps a touch overlong as he slots in an on going father/son relationship that didn't happen, a classic broken home theme close to his heart of course. But this is no popcorn fodder piece. It's a black comedy that's tender at times but also also rather moving, even as the humour starts to kick in, we get plenty of reminders that Frank is running not just from the law, but also his unhappy past. There's no shirking from some of the darker aspects in the tale too. Infidelity, abortion and parental pressure all show their faces, never mind the troubling point of airline security eh!.Clocking in as it does at over two hours, the plot and its little thematics required the highest calibre of acting talent to keep the audience interested. Here's Spielberg's trump card. A fine ensemble gather and reward the bearded one with some of their best work. Certainly DiCaprio hasn't been this good since Titanic, while Hanks continues to live up to the Jimmy Stewart of his generation tag with another, yet different, everyman performance. As for Christopher Walken as Frank Abagnale Senior, well, get the hankies ready for you will have to have been cut from granite to not let Walken pull your emotional strings. Good support comes from Martin Sheen & Amy Adams, while Jennifer Garner pops in for a sultry and sensual little cameo.A great story is given exceptional treatment by some of Hollywood's biggest hitters. Score! 8/10


                
Frank Abignale Jr. (Leonardo DiCaprio) is running from a crumbling family life. Frank sets out reconnect his mother (Nathalie Baye) and father (Christopher Walken). Frank Jr.'s mother leaves his father because of some financial difficulties. Quickly Frank finds out that the real world doesn't come cheap and pays for his new lifestyle with fraudulent checks. Only being 16, Frank finds out that all the money in the world cannot bring back the past. Pushed by his father, Frank desperately tries to buy his parents reunion. A great true story of Frank Abagnale Jr., Catch Me If You Can shows the lengths a young man will go to in order to get back what he holds dear.Hot on Frank's heals is the smart, but often mistaken, FBI agent Carl Hanratty (Tom Hanks). While trying to reconnect his parent's lost marriage, Frank finds something he isn't looking for in Brenda Strong (Amy Adams). The two hit it off and quickly fall in love. A reoccurring color and lighting motif appears in the meeting of Frank and Brenda and suggests the possible downfall of Frank's new life. (It's always a girl.) Director Steven Spielberg manipulates lighting and color to show the glamorous lifestyle of a pilot, doctor, and lawyer, all careers Frank cons his way into. The contrast to the brightness of the glamorous appears in a drab, dark palette when young Frank's life isn't heading where he would like.Like Max in Where the Wild Things Are, Frank creates a new world for himself in order to deal with what is taking place at home. DiCaprio does a phenomenal job of creating empathy from the audience for his character. Although Frank is breaking the law, it is hard not to root for him.Frank manipulates people to get to his goal, an elaboration of something he learned early on from his father. Little did he know at the time, Frank's lifestyle gave him the education to now be the world's foremost leading authority on check fraud.Frank sets out to re-establish his childhood, but ends up growing into a lifestyle all his own.
This movie was pretty good. It really told the story of what Frank Abagnale Jr. did back then. Leonardo DiCaprio did really good and so did Tom Hanks. This movie turned out to be a dramadey including such scenes like how when Frank became a pilot for Pan Am, he seduced an older woman! That man is a player. It turned out to be Ellem Pompeo, who I think is hot. This movie told the story of how he became a pilot, a doctor, and a lawyer. Not very many people can do that. This was a good movie. I saw it in theaters and, believe it or not, I thought it would sort of be like a funny action/adventure about how somebody is after somebody because something happened or something. But, boy was I dead wrong? But I like what I saw. This was a good movie. 8/10.
Catch Me If You Can is the screen adaptation of the autobiography of Frank Abagnale Jr. (played by Leonardo DiCaprio), renowned as one of America's youngest and most successful con men. The story tells how Frank Jr. steals over four million dollars by forging checks while impersonating an airline pilot, a doctor, and a lawyer, all before his nineteenth birthday. The film also stars Tom Hanks as Carl Hanratty, the FBI special agent assigned to track down Frank Jr. By telling this cat-and-mouse story from both the perspective of the cat and the mouse, director Steven Spielberg shows that hard work and honesty are more rewarding in the long run than any get rich quick scheme.The theme of Catch Me If You Can is best illustrated in scenes involving Frank Abagnale Jr. and Frank Sr., played by Christopher Walken (nominated for an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor). In one scene Frank Jr. treats his father to dinner in a fancy restaurant, where he tries to make a gift to his father of a brand new Cadillac. Although Frank Jr. has been forging checks and only posing as an airline pilot, he lies to his father and tells him that he has become a co-pilot for Pan-American airlines. By lying to his father, Frank Jr. shows that he understands the values his father has tried to teach him, even if his actions don't reflect those same values. Although he has stolen everything he has, Frank Jr. knows that he can only gain his father's approval by posing as someone who is hard working and respectable.In a later scene Frank Jr. meets with his father to announce that he's getting married. When Frank Sr. reveals that he knows that his son is wanted by the FBI, Frank Jr. begs his father to make him stop. Frank Jr. storms out of the bar when his father encourages him to continue running from the law. Frank Jr.'s reaction shows that he regrets his choice of a life of crime and wants to stop running.By showing Frank Jr. as regretful and ready to stop committing crimes, the audience is allowed to develop some small amount of sympathy for an otherwise unsympathetic character. This ploy has been used by writers of the heist and con-man genres for years, for example 2001's The Score, and 2003's Matchstick Men.Spielberg uses many film elements to illustrate the theme in Catch Me If You Can. For example, When Frank Sr. is accepting an award honoring his hard work, he is filmed from a low angle. In contrast Frank Jr. is filmed from a high angle in the same scene. The combined effect of these two angles is to place Frank Sr. on a pedestal in his son's eyes.Catch Me If You Can is a twentieth century retelling of Aesop's fable of the tortoise and the hare. Frank Abagnale Jr. is a smooth-talking con man who stays several steps ahead of the plodding FBI agent who pursues him. But by the end of the film we see the tortoise's deliberate effort pay off as he finally catches up to the exhausted hare.


                
29 December 2002. This is one of the best dramas I have seen that incorporates humor. While audiences have been offered horror genres that have humor and comedies that have dramatic elements, Catch Me If You Can is one of the few dramas I have come across that includes a wry sense of humor that isn't tacky or add-ons. Christopher Walken delivers a great performance and a real award-winning performance. The editing and the placement of scenes in flashback fashion is timely. This really is a feel good movie with substance, with real drama. This is entertainment at its finest. DiCaprio is making the transition from Titanic in grand fashion and making a statement that his earlier performance wasn't a one time deal. He must have a fabulous agent. Now only if Tom Hanks had an accent that was...different in the movie.


                
This cat-and-mouse crime caper casts DiCaprio as a young con-man and Hanks as the FBI guy on his tail and is a wonderfully entertaining, excitingly detail-oriented and generally fun affair throughout, with several seriously suspenseful sequences scattered about the pacy yet eclectic narrative and some properly funny moments perforating a generally light but appropriately weighty tone. 'Catch Me If You Can (2002)' is well-made and enjoyable throughout, the kind of flick to put a smile on your face and keep it there. It's got a killer score and an even better script, with smart callbacks and sneaky foreshadowing aplenty. The piece represents some of the best work that Spielberg has ever done - and that's saying something. 8/10


                
Spielberg is damn versatile. He is able to craft some of cinema's hard hitting dramas (Schindler's List), biggest blockbusters (Jurassic Park) and child-friendly tales (E.T.). This film is rather overlooked in his filmography, which surprises me considering the talent on screen. Part biopic and dramatisation of Frank Abagnale Jr's youth where he was able to utilise the power of deception to successfully disguise himself as a pilot, doctor and prosecutor in order to check in cheques. The youngest counterfeiting fraudster in America at the time. The greatest compliment I can give the story, is that it doesn't take itself seriously. This could've been a melodramatic crime thriller, but instead Spielberg twists the style and turns it into an exciting watchable chase that consistently put a smile on my face. Would it have been more poignant and resonating if it was powerful? Perhaps, but the film successfully entertains and sometimes that's just what the doctor ordered (no pun intended). There was only one actor who could pull off the suave deceptive con artist, and that's Leonardo DiCaprio. An absorbing performance that gave him an opportunity to be slightly cheeky yet maintain a sense of class which I'm sure paved the way for his role in The Wolf of Wall Street. I loved the use of psychology and how the human mind can be convinced through simple sleight of hand gestures. A story of how living in a lie can often feel better than residing in reality. Utilising false identities to reinvigorate one's self and change their way of living, albeit being extremely illegal. Tom Hanks plays the FBI agent tasked with hunting down Frank Jr with what is one of his lighter performances. A young Amy Adams was also likeable. Spielberg is a chameleon. He can take any genre and create an excellent film without the need of over-stylisation. His techniques just blend in. Also, the opening credits scene was hypnotising, adored the animation. An irresistible light hearted tale.


                
Leonardo DiCaprio occupies the role of Frank Abagnale with such ease that it is easy to forget that he is just a teen at the beginning - and barely an adult when it is over. I suppose it is easy for him to forget this too; slipping into these alternate identities lets him live the life he wants, get back the money they took from his father, and escape from a broken family. When he mimics the famous two mice in a bucket of milk speech when asked to say grace, it is funny, but also contains a hint of melancholy like Walken's sparse appearances throughout his con life. The suit, the cadillac, the money...all just items to show off to his father, to show that he has made it, to try and piece this family back together again. How many windows has he peered into to see happy Christmas celebrations? How many half-sisters has he waved at?Momentarily, he distracts himself with the thing he is good at. A little folded note, a little substitute teacher impersonation. Then onto bigger things, and although we know how the story ends, we are nevertheless fascinated. Spielberg's direction is visually captivating - the peering reveal over to the bathtub full of model air-planes, the swing across to the frightened bank teller informing her manager (to signal one plan that doesn't work - so he learns and adjusts his cons), the way he racks focus from the fine print of the check to DiCaprio to indicate just how precise and alluring his charms and deflections are. Williams is great too - the way he builds momentum and confidence as Frank becomes more adept, and twinkles when we see closeups of the favourite trick that he inherited from his father. Completing the effect are those endearing voice-overs of faux-success and worldly experience to his father - no doubt a very important part of his motive is to impress him. This is one of DiCaprio's better performances. He doesn't have a whole lot of emotional range to work with (for example, the real Abagnale left his medical supervisor position because he realised he was putting lives at stake - in the film it is completely comedic) and even when he does emote it is somewhat an act - see the bait and switch where he seems to confess to Roger Strong, but becomes a soppy romantic instead. His best moment is the way he slides effortlessly into the Secret Service Agent 'Barry Allen' only after a tiny second of realisation of what he has been caught in - the way his approach disarms Hanratty so subtly ("Here, take my whole wallet"), the way he mimics his tactics to build authenticity ("Mind if I see some identification") and how he is able to uses his own knowledge to pose as someone who has been diligently chasing himself down. Hanks' Hanratty is decent as the straight man who is initially consumed by the chase; there are some juvenile moments including a harsh cackle over the phone at Christmas which doesn't quite work because Hanks is not mean enough for it and because their dynamic works so much better when they are ribbing and teasing - Hanratty not falling for his whole sickness routine in jail, and constantly trying to pry his methods for passing the bar exam. It even manages to be a little poignant at the end between the two. Feeling suffocated by the never-ending sentence to bust the scams he once mastered, he takes off and even makes it to the airport to seek that life of lies that seems to be easier than confronting the truth; the death of his father, and the new marriage and family of his mother. Hanratty is all but ready to let him go, but reminds him that no one will be chasing this time. Perhaps he was right when he realised that Abagnale had no one to call at Christmas. DiCaprio's frenzied reaction to seeing him deep in hiding in France suggests that he is most at ease constantly moving from place to place and busying himself with the thrill of the chase. Even James Bond had to call it a day when his time was up, and Frank is now ready to accept it.
A cat and mouse game repeated over and over sounds a tad dull, but not when it's directed by Steven Spielberg! Leonardo DiCaprio's Frank Abagnale is deceitful and deceptive, but not nasty. Instead he's huge fun to be around. Same goes for Tom Hank's catcher, who incidentally, finds it difficult to do the catching. Catch Me If You Can, to not seem too rigid or sound mundane, splices the story from when Abagnale's already captured, to the how and why, the very beginning, up until Abagnale's inevitable capture. It's a slick, cool process held strong by its two leads. I wish there was more room for Hanks to thrive, as DiCaprio fills the screen with his charm and intelligence.


                
Catch Me If You Can is a film Directed by Steven Spielberg in 2002"A true story about Frank Abagnale Jr., who, before his 19th birthday, successfully conned millions of dollars' worth of checks as a Pan Am pilot, doctor, and legal prosecutor."Catch Me If You Can stars Leonardo DiCaprio as a young con artist being chased across America by the FBI investigator Carl Handratty (played by Tom Hanks) as he is chased across all 50 states in America for stealing over $4 million in fraudulent cheques. It really is a movie that you can re-watch over and over again, however although I found it very entertaining and fun to watch, like all movies it had it's flaws. Obviously the movie is an adaptation of the life of the real con artist Frank William Abagnale Jr. and the events that took place during his life when he was growing up. From impersonating a substitute teacher at his high school to becoming a lawyer just to marry a girl whom he fell in love with, the movie follows Frank's life and engages the audience by keeping them entertained. The biggest flaw that the movie had for me was the significantly huge lack of Christopher Walken in it. Although he was a very influential and important figure in the movie, specifically for Leonardo DiCaprio's character, I personally would of liked to see the majestic works of Walken more frequent throughout the film. On a more serious note, sometimes the scenes can feel detached from the Actors and it creates a feeling of confusion as some things feel less believable than others.The acting is to be applauded though, with such an amazing cast it's hard to make a movie like this not enjoyable. Most credit should be given to Tom Hanks and Christopher Walken for their characters and the interactions that they make with Frank. It is these relationships that engage the audience as they show the feelings between a struggling father and his son, along with the relationship between a criminal and the man chasing him down. Watching a young Leo cheat his way through life and avoid any confrontation with the FBI is both thrilling and entertaining as we truly get to see the retold events of Frank Abagnale on screen. We sympathize with him and understand the struggles he is going through. Leo's character is a prime example of an Anti-Hero, we know what he is doing is wrong but we don't want him to get caught because we want to see what he does next. Yet again Steven Spielberg combines a good cast, well written and entertaining script along with the magnificent music created by the phenomenal John Williams to create an exciting adventure inspired by real events. The setting of the 1960's is captured well and the audience really gets a feeling of the era that this took place in.Overall Catch Me If You Can was an enjoyable experience with a lack of my on screen time for Christopher Walken, but made up for that with it's easy to follow and engaging plot.8.0/10~Reel Time Reviews


                
