While watching 'Catch Me If You Can' I had so much fun I smiled constantly. Well, that smile was interrupted by laughs. The movie tells the story of Frank W. Abignale, Jr. who is just a kid as he pretends to be a schoolteacher. After his father and mother get a divorce he runs away and starts pretending to be a co-pilot, a doctor, a lawyer. The way he does this is funny and brilliant.I am not a big fan of Leonardo DiCaprio who plays Frank but in this movie he is perfect. He gives a very fine performance. Tom Hanks is the FBI-agent Carl who is after him, and as always Hanks is good.The story is inspired by a real story. I don't know in how many ways it is true but watching this guy all I wanted to see was him pulling more of his nice little tricks. The scene where he pretends to be a schoolteacher is just great. If you want a nice funny movie, not too heavy, this one will definitely please you.


                
One thing is for sure, Steven Spielberg has an amazing range.He made this engaging movie in a five-year period that included "A.I. Artificial Intelligence", "Minority Report", "The Terminal", "War of the Worlds" and "Munich".Set in the early 60's, the movie tells the story of Frank Abignale (Leo DiCaprio) and how he impersonated an airline pilot, a secret agent, a doctor and finally a county prosecutor before he was 21-years old. Unfortunately, he also made a lot of money passing bad cheques. This brought him to the attention of Carl Hanratty (Tom Hanks), an FBI bank fraud agent who pursues him relentlessly across the United States and finally to France.The pursuit becomes a personal contest between them, and although a rapport develops, it is still a high stakes game. However, the film has a surprising outcome; the perfect close to a movie that is enjoyable on many levels.It's a long movie but it doesn't outstay its welcome, Spielberg gives the movie a light touch, and demonstrates a genuine sense of comic timing comparable to a John Hughes, a Frank Oz or maybe even a Preston Sturges.Although not necessarily a comedy, the film is studded with genuinely funny moments, much of it generated by Frank's sheer audacity. There are a number of scenes where Spielberg holds back the punchline, we can fill it in for ourselves such as Frank's knock knock joke or when Jennifer Garner as the high class call girl gives Frank $400 in change when he signs over his homemade pay cheque to her - we know something she doesn't.Between them, DiCaprio, Hanks and Spielberg make every bit of business work without losing sight of the story, which promises inevitable tragedy for Frank.There is a serious side to the story. It tells how Frank is at first dislocated by his parent's financial troubles and then shattered by their breakup. He is also affected by the behaviour of his father, Frank Abagnale, Snr, (Christopher Walken) who seems to believe that image is more important than reality. These forces conspire to push Frank into pretending he is something he isn't.The film also reflects a more naive time as far as security at airports and banks is concerned, Frank capitalises on people's innate respect for professions and institutions, but his actions hurt people, not least himself.Of course today, Frank would probably have to perpetuate his scams online, but the anonymity of the Internet doesn't require the amount of chutzpah that Frank shows as he stands at the counter in his pilot's uniform to cash his rubbery cheques, or "concurs" with his fellow physicians when posing as the head of emergency at a hospital. It's that element of daring that makes Frank's crimes entertaining rather than despicable.I have seen this film quite a few times, and like the best movies, the reunion is always rewarding.


                
Everyone see movie and try to find out a part of stories that match their own, I mean personal life. Some stories more or less similar their personal experience. There are something inside of everyone that can not be reveal for some social reason. This thing and whatever it is like pain, past, situation, dream, mistakes all that you can not tell to someone makes you alone. You have everything around you that can make you happy related to material. But the thing inside of you makes you condemn. Because you can not say it out loud to others to accept. It is very hard to tolerate to bear. You know a simple incident could happen to many of you but you can't confess or sometime hide. When you find the similar thing also happen to someone else then you will find that it's not only you there are someone else who are like you. It seems like someone share your burden and feel much better. The story of the movie tell you that you are not alone and of-course teaches you not to take a role of the same mistake. The effect of the relation between parent on their children is very meaningful. It motivate your children.It's my personal aspect of seeing movies.


                
'Catch Me if You Can' has such a talented cast, the true story is a fascinating one and while Steven Spielberg is an inconsistent director he was a big childhood influence and he has proved several times that he is capable of masterpieces of iconic status.While 'Catch Me if You Can' is not quite one of Spielberg's best films (in a list that sees the likes of 'Schindler's List', 'Jaws', 'Raiders of the Lost Ark' and 'ET'), it is one of his better later films, for me that's since 'Schindler's List'. There are occasional lapses into overly-sentimental schmaltz with the depiction of Abagnale's family life, not the first or last time with Spielberg and a long way from the worst case, but that is the one fault that was had for me.Spielberg directs impeccably, both in visual style and dramatic momentum, a directorial job that just screams of pure class. 'Catch Me if You Can' further benefits from as always beautiful cinematography from Janusz Kaminski and 60s period detail that not only looks sumptuously handsome but also evocative to make one think that it is more than just a film with a 60s setting.John Williams' score is not one of his best or most memorable, but still fits really well and has the right amount of slick jazziness, whimsy and understated pathos without over-emphasising (over-emphasis was the reason why his score for 'Amistad' was a rare misfire from him). The story takes a fascinating story and makes a ceaselessly engrossing film out of it, from the ingenious opening credits sequence to the heartfelt ending, the film is long but never feels it.This is further helped by a script that has a deft mix of genuinely funny comedy, poignant emotional moments and nail-biting suspense. The characters are intriguing. Can't praise the performances enough. Leonardo DiCaprio is movie star charisma personified, and brings wit, larceny and charm to a character that is a true crook in every sense but it is easy to see why one would fall for his actions.It is easy to overlook Tom Hanks, due to the role being not as colourful or as showy, but he brings charismatic command, generosity and doggedness in a role that could have been really bland and annoying in lesser hands. Of a sterling supporting cast, Christopher Walken is especially superb, particularly in the latter parts of the film as his life is ruined. Martin Sheen and Amy Adams are memorable, and Nathalie Bye solid.Overall, even if 'Catch Me if You Can' is not one of Spielberg's masterpieces it is one of his better later films and one of his most purely enjoyable ones. Well worth catching. 9/10 Bethany Cox


                
Catch Me if You Can is a fast-past adventure, but a major departure from Spielberg's usual films involving dinosaurs and aliens. Spielberg shows in this film that he is more than capable of creating an entertaining film without the use of expensive special effects. The film is a biographical true crime film depicting the life of conman and counterfeiter, Frank Abagnale. As a teenager, Abagnale began a crime spree that would result in him cashing over $2.5 million in fraudulent checks and take on the false identities of a pilot, pediatrician, lawyer and college professor. In the film, Abagnale (Leonardo DiCaprio) begins his crime spree after his parent's divorce. When he is faced with deciding which parent will retain custody he decides to run away. Throughout the film, Abagnale uses various identities including that of a pilot, doctor, and lawyer to facilitate his check cashing schemes. It's clear that Abagnale hopes that with enough money he can somehow reunite his separated parents. Throughout the narrative, Abagnale is hounded by FBI agent, Carl Hanratty (Tom Hanks), who grows a begrudging respect for the young con artist. The development of their relationship is very believable and adds a lot of depth to the overall narrative of the story. Leonardo DiCaprio masterfully takes on the challenging role of Abagnale simultaneously illustrating to the audience Abagnale's genius (albeit misguided) and his naivety regarding his family. Christopher Walken provides great acting as Abagnale's father while Tom Hanks provides his usual great acting acumen portraying an FBI agent who becomes a father figure to the troubled Frank Abagnale. If there is one aspect of where the film fails is its failure to truly analyze the real Frank Abagnale's motives. The motivations of Abagnale are romanticized throughout the film as a young boy who naively believe he can bring his parents back together. The real Abagnale wasn't so innocent and was far more motivated by women and using his ill-gotten wealth to meet beautiful young women all over the world. This weakness is rather small and takes away none of the entertainment value that the film has to offer. This film is incredibly well acted and is a rare true crime film that deviates from the expected blood and gore of the drama usual of the genre.


                
If you're looking for a movie that's lighthearted at times, sad during others, and charming overall, this definitely meets those requirements. I was laughing throughout most of it, but there were certainly some very poignant scenes in which the strong emotions felt by Frank, Jr. (played brilliantly by Leonardo DiCaprio) were illustrated perfectly.I thought one of the things that Steven Spielberg does a good job of with this film is providing the audience with a psychological understanding of why Frank does what he does. Spielberg gives us Frank's past and background through the use of flashbacks throughout the movie, and this really helps the audience sympathize with the young con artist to the point where you're almost rooting for him albeit his illegal criminal activity. Another thing Spielberg also does well is the emphasis he puts on how much effort and time the clever Carl Hanratty (played by the incredible Tom Hanks) puts into capturing Frank, and by showing how similar they really are despite the cat and mouse game they play.Overall, the film is great. The acting is superb, but with an A-list cast such as DiCaprio (whose baby face fits the role of young Frank, Jr. perfectly by the way), Hanks (who gave excitement and life to a potentially bland character), and Christopher Walken (Frank, Sr.) with a quick appearance by the always wonderful Jennifer Garner, this is to be expected. The charm that DiCaprio brings to his character is fun to watch as well. I gave it 9/10 because I do think it runs a bit long, and the flashbacks sort of take away a bit of the suspense, but the film is exciting and certainly makes up for it in other areas.
SPOILERS BELOW This is one of those movies that you're not sure you are going to like, and you watch it, and you end up loving it. It's fast paced, well acted and directed, and great fun.Leonardo DiCaprio is utterly charming and endearing as Frank Abagnale, Jr., a teenager who in the 1960's posed as an airline pilot, a doctor and a lawyer-all the while evading the FBI who wanted him for check fraud. Tom Hanks shines as Carl Hanratty, the fed who first wants to nail Frank, then ends up taking him under his wing and giving him new direction in his life. Christoper Walken and Nathalie Baye as Frank's star-crossed parents also give fine performances. Amy Adams nearly steals the movie as the young woman who steals Frank's heart.The film is about a young man who is traumatized by what the US government has done to his family so he decides to literally become other people to escape from whom he really is. Frank is a charming smooth talker with an uncanny knack for forging checks and documents. He's so angelic looking and unassuming that none of his victims are aware they are being conned. As he has proved time and again in films like "This Boy's Life," "What's Eating Gilbert Grape," and "Titanic," DiCaprio is more than just a pretty face. He has the talent to back it up, and this role is tailor-made for him. Under Spielberg's direction, he's taken that talent to another level. Ultimately it becomes about a surrogate father/son relationship between Frank and Carl. While he's trying to outwit and outrun the sometimes curmudgeonly FBI agent, Frank admires him at the same time. Carl, for his part, does hold a soft spot for Frank, and he leads him down the path to redemption.The sets, the costumes, and the music all capture the essence of the sixties, when anything was possible and nothing was out of reach if you wanted it.I was pleasantly surprised at how much I liked this film-I give it a 9 out of 10.
Catch me if you can is the story of a true fake, and is cleverly told through the fine acting performance by Leonardo Dicaprio. There is a great supporting cast too especially Frank Abagnale Senior played by Christopher Walken who is hilarious when he lies, and who's character along with Dicaprio's I generally sympathized for despite always trying to scam the authorities. I thought the chemistry between Leonardo's character (Frank Abagnale Jr) and Carl Handraty played by Tom Hanks was great to watch. The story is a bit hard to believe but if anyone can get away with passing as a Lawyer, Doctor, Secret Service Agent and Pilot its Leonardo, and if anyone can make a knock knock joke funny its Tom hanks. This movie is a keeper.... 9/10


                
This is an excellent piece of entertainment from Spielberg,as I throughly enjoyed it, with an engrossing story and amazing performances!. All the characters are awesome, and I really liked the ending, plus Leonardo DiCaprio and Tom Hanks are simply amazing in this!. All the characters are extremely likable, and it's often very suspenseful and hilarious, plus Martin Sheen cracked me up as Brenda's dad!. I thought the ending was really neat, and even at 141 minutes it was never overlong, plus I wish they gave Jennifer Garner more to do. Christopher Walken is wonderful as the dad, and I felt bad for DiCaprio's character when his parents were getting a divorce, and he ran away, plus it's extremely well made and cleverly written as well!. The opening was quite creative, and the dialog was quite awesome as well, plus Tom Hanks knock knock joke was very funny. It keeps you guessing throughout, and Tom Hanks and DiCaprio had some wonderful scenes together, plus this deserves it's 7.6 rating!. This is an excellent piece of entertainment from Spielberg, as I throughly enjoyed it, with an engrossing story and amazing performances, and I say it's a must see for everyone!. The Direction is top notch as always from Steven Spielberg. The Camera work, is awesome, the angles are fantastic and he kept the film at a very engrossing pace. The Acting is amazing!. Leonardo DiCaprio is amazing here, he really had a brilliant character, and had plenty of charm and likability, and while I admit to not seeing a whole lot of his movies he was really amazing here, and managed to carry the film with ease, as I absolutely loved him!. Tom Hanks is amazing as always and is amazing here, he is extremely likable,even funny when he was mostly serious throughout the film, has some great scenes with DiCaprio, had a very cool character, and some terrific dialog! (Hanks Rules!!!!!). Christopher Walken is wonderful as the Father, he was funny, extremely likable, was perfect for this role, and just did a wonderful job overall, I just wish they gave him more screen time(Walken Rules!). Martin Sheen is hilarious as Brenda's dad, he clearly was having a hoot, and as a result I did too! (Martin Rules!!!!). Nathalie Baye is good as the mother I liked her. Amy Adams is cute, and was quite perky as the love interest I dug her. James Brolin is OK in his small role, wish he had more of a part. Jennifer Garner is incredibly gorgeous, but what was she even doing here??, she was totally wasted, as I was angry about that, it was still great seeing her though! (Garner Rules!!!!!!!). Rest of the cast do fine. Overalll a must see for everyone!. ****1/2 out of 5
If your looking for an honest, true review on whether to watch this movie, READ this one AND DO NOT SECOND GUESS WATCHING THIS MOVIE. In short, its brilliant. It is one of my favourtie movies ever.People love watching movies that I call 'excites them'. To explain this, think of Harry Potter, you may wonder why it is so popular and it is becasue it excites people as they wish for that world to be true. People love to watch movies they wish they could live in or have charaters they wish to be like. Fact. It is the same with the movie Wolf of Wall Street, people love it because in a way they wish they could live (minus the consequences) the way Jordan Belfort lives in that movie (but they may not want to admit it), the different life style excites people as it is different from their own. It is the charm and wit that Frank in Catch Me If You Can that people love to watch and contributes to people loving this movie.This movie literally has everything else, wit, humour, a fantastic cast, amazing director, good music. SO DO IT. WATCH THIS MOVIE NO DOUBT.


                
This is what you get when two great actors like Leonardo DiCaprio and Tom Hanks play together in a movie under Steven Spielberg's direction


                
I'm shocked this is a Steven Spielberg film. I had no idea he would direct something out of his crazy wheelhouse, but nevertheless, it was executed perfectly.When you have an all star A-list cast such as Leonardo DiCaprio, Tom Hanks, Christopher Walken and Martin Sheen, what you end up is a film that is a fun ride and very entertaining!Leo DiCap's role was played perfectly and very convincing in every disguise.Not a unique film by any means, but certainly this one played out quite well.It's a 9/10 from me!


                
Leo created the perfect character for Mr. Abagnale and it was wonderful to see all the crazy things he pulled off. Most of the time when I was watching this movie and Leo executed some incredible action I couldn't help but smile and say "No way!" I'd highly recommend this movie to any looking to have a great time watching an excellent film from the marvelous Mr. Spielberg. Christopher Walken did a superb job as the father, he's not the traditional mentor and it works extremely well in this movie.Tom Hanks does a marvelous job portraying the agent trying to catch Abagnale and his mind games work perfectly through every scene. His darker sense of tone works against the light hearted Abagnale. Leo is one of my favorite actors and this just amplified my belief in him. He is so charismatic in every role and this one is no different. Not much else to say, it's Leonardo DiCaprio!


                
"Catch Me If You Can" is one of the Steven Spielberg's gorgeously crafted real life adaptations, along side with "Schindler's List" and "Saving Private Ryan". The only major difference between "Catch Me If You Can" and the other two is that this is obviously the only one with humorist moments, but not because of intended comedy, which is none, but due to one of Leonardo Di Caprio's most interesting and charming characters, Frank William Abagnale, all combined with the hilarious moments.This movie also features Christopher Walken in almost his best acting performance, as Frank Abagnale. Just like in Quentin Tarantino's "Pulp Fiction", Walken touches us only by saying a few words, and so, he is simply magnificent. Furthermore, we have Tom Hanks, which fits perfectly in his role. A no-sense-of-humor federal agent, devoted and implicated in finishing his task? Hanks is definitely the best choice.To conclude, "Catch Me If You Can" is another entertaining, effortlessly watchable Steven Spielberg film, that catches us in a lot of positive ways.


                
Catch Me If You Can (2002): Dir: Steven Spielberg / Cast: Leonardo DiCaprio, Tom Hanks, Christopher Walken, Martin Sheen, Amy Adams: Clever true story of the things that compel us to survive. Leonardo DiCaprio plays Frank Abagnale, the youngest person to appear on the F.B.I. most wanted list. His father was arrested for tax fraud, which led to the loss of their home and a divorce soon afterwards. Frank splits and learns the art of impersonation and becomes an airline pilot, a professor, and a medical physician all while dodging the law. Great work by Steven Spielberg who also scored with Minority Report the same year. DiCaprio is superb with the impersonations and lifestyles as he attempts to elope as well as stay ahead of authority. Tom Hanks is funny as an F.B.I. agent propelled by his unwillingness to be outsmarted. This leads to a lot of humour and an unlikely respect. Christopher Walken is terrific as Frank's father whom himself was a fraud but not as successful as his son. His wife is having an affair, which trails to his unfortunate fate. Martin Sheen appears as a potential in-law who sees through DiCaprio. More of Sheen would have been great. Amy Adams plays a nurse whose abortion caused a division between herself and her parents until DiCaprio enters their lives. It seems to reference old spy films, and is styled similar to The Pink Panther and equally curious. Score: 9 / 10
This movie catch me on my seat from the first minute. Every minute had something to show us. Tom Hanks, as one of my favorite actors, made an exceptional acting here. Leo DiCaprio had a pretty cool character and it was very good performed. The story of Frank Abagnale is very interesting as the whole movie, the script was very well adapted from the book.I recommend it 9/10


                
I liked almost everything of this movie. Acting is superb (Tom Hanks, Leonardo DiCaprio, and Christopher Walken: do I need to say more?), Spielberg's direction is flawless, music is interesting and adds the right amount of tension.The story tells of (real-world) con artist Frank Abagnale, of his complicate family and the reasons pushing him into a criminal life while still very young. The movie is brilliant, at times entertaining in showing how our reality is partly made of paperwork and false perceptions. At other times, I found it intense and emotional in representing the struggle of Frank's father to emerge from his low social condition out into the "little club" of those "who have everything". Overall the movie is very balanced and I would not have minded watching some 30 minutes more of it.My advice: absolutely watch it, even multiple times to spot some more visual details.


                
The movie is yet another great one by DiCaprio.The title of the movie itself temped me to watch it at first.Its a great blend of con tricks that keeps you attracted throughout the movies.Though its a little old movie for now but its appreciably entertaining.The most beautiful part of the movie is that its based on a true story.The slight emotional blends in between that guide the storyline of the movie was real success.Personally,I am a lover of Drama,Thriller,or Action but this ,though completely different Genre,that I stated above was equally entertaining.Overall,I would call for this movie as a must watch in lifetime.


                
Catch me if you can is a movie about a con man played by Leonardo DiCaprio. The story portrays how he is close to his father, also via incidents where his mother takes him out via bail in bits and parts. The nature of con that he is an expert at is fake paper work (mainly bank cheque's). When it comes to be a con his talent is unparallel. He cheats students, women, his family and government particularly. He is finally arrested and is freed in returning help to government. Officer who gets him caught adopts him as well.Pros: Superb direction by Steven Spielberg as always, his movies with emotional content are worth praising (extra marks for that). Superb acting by all leads, highly powered -emotions and thrill between Frank Abagnale Jr. (con) and Officer Carl Hanratty, raise height of biography.
*** This review may contain spoilers *** The plot is based on the eponymous autobiography forger Frank Abagneyl that before his nineteenth Birthday successfully steals millions of dollars, pretending Flight pilot, doctor, lawyer and prosecutor. Inspired by real-life fate "Catch Me If You Can" tells the story of Frank Abigneyl Jr., who has extraordinary talent allows him to take possession of impunity millions of dollars. His main crime was the spice of checks. The FBI agent, it picks up the geraniums and aims to to justice. Frank Abanyale comes dressed in the dark , neatly pressed uniform of a pilot plan to cash several forged check airline . It seems the whole world is staring at him, because he is really very handsome pilot. Frank was pleased because , even without money, jobs and diploma for high school, he learned an important lesson - one is who they seem and well kept. Finally he becomes so good at it that the FBI turned to him, to catch other cheaters.Great movie by the Great team
Catch Me If You Can can be a smart movie, funny and at the same time light to watch. Its two hours and twenty go "flying", he does not feel, so much that you can have fun and hold this film.He has a very good plot, with good performances - mainly DiCaprio and Christopher Walken -, DiCaprio because commanded sensationally the movie showing multiple identities, knowing to be a character with a lot of insight to act in many different ways and in many different situations. And Walken manages to come because he transpose his emotion in your life with a lot of problems. Tom Hanks had a good performance, but when I think of his performances in The Terminal or Forrest Gump, which were sensational, in Catch Me If You Can not seem so great, but also is very good.The direction was very good. I'm no fan of Spielberg in particular, but I recognize that he has great movies, so that i've watched a lot and I liked the most. This was no different a light direction, which does not force the bar to the viewer. Knowing how to be smart, know how to be subtle, knows how to be funny. Although I found some unnecessary scenes on the life of Frank Jr., which lengthened a little movie, but nothing that hinders the viewer, the film still holding you from start to finish, no doubt.Overall, this is it, it is nothing revolutionary in the cinema, but still, it's a great film by a great director, is very light to watch and you probably do not feel the time passing.


                
There are a lot of classics i have been wanting to see but haven't got the chance. I have had a lot recommended to me, whilst i watch a hell of a lot of movies i haven't seen them all. I recently got my hands on a copy of Catch Me if You Can and had high hopes. Afterall, i've heard nothing but praise for the movie and the two main stars Leonardo Dicaprio and Tom Hanks are two of my all-time favourite actors, how could i not love this?! So i watched it.. and i love this film! It had me hooked in from beginning to end and I couldn't take my eyes off of the screen. It was a fun movie as well as one that just keeps you wanting to know more and guessing how it will end for the characters.. especially Leonardo Dicaprio's Frank Abangale Jr.The plot follows Frank who leaves home at 16 after his parents divorce and poses as a pilot.. then a doctor.. then a lawyer.. all before he turns 21. I tell you, this guy has lived. Hot on his tail is an equally brilliant Tom Hanks as FBI detective Carl Hanratty who figures out Abangale's tricks through a series of fake cheques he is cashing out. This leads to an entertaining cat and mouse type movie full of twists and turns. The two actors play off of each other perfectly and are two completely different characters. What i like about Leonardo Dicaprio's portrayal of Abengale is that he is an incredibly smart guy and he is so good at showing this without completely overplaying himself. Christopher Walken also does great as Abengale's father and adds some moral backbone to the twists and turns and we get a young Amy Adams who is also great as Abengale's love interestEverybody in this film does great.. in fact.. even a Jennifer Garner cameo was awesome!In the end, from the fitting music in the soundtrack to the animated opening sequence to the climax of the film everything was almost perfect and i will be watching this film a lot more times in my life because i had a great time and it really showcases why these 2 actors are 2 of the best working today. It comes highly recommended with the perfect blend of humour and entertainment.. if you haven't seen Catch me if you Can then see it now!


                
love the relationship between the father and the son -lio-. the color was amazing in most scenes, I remember the first time I saw it , felt sad and happy at the same time , thank god he become a good man at the end :) this made me have closer with this picture , there is some jocks that are very funny , knock knock .. who is there F** u, its not that smart but made me chuckle the 70's theme is breathtaking, i cant get enough of it. the music was epic too, loved how it was handled. loved also the attention to the details. the actress was very good at the role of naive girl. the near sink dance by the older couple was very cute at the end I concur :)
Young, pure, wild, brave, intelligent, and Frank's magnificent adventure let people drunk in. At the age of 16, he relies on superhuman courage, imitation and interpersonal clever eyes color check forgery extract millions of dollars in just two years, disguised as a copilot pan American travel, the doctors and lawyers, also depend on their ability through the judicial examination.He was less than 18 years old, but like a 28-year-old man wandering between cars beauty,.However, after him ,Carl isn't so good luck, is a dull personality, career and marriage failure, middle-aged men.Unpopular between colleagues, boss hated, daily work, is a workaholic.Two people one after one escape, this is the natural enemy.On Christmas Eve, Carl's telephone always remind of, the end, is lonely, frank.Carl saw through his disguise, from the start he laugh to shoot a Frank confidence.However, it was from that moment on, Carl became depend on Frank.He is the only man Frank say one "Merry Christmas" at Christmas.He is the only man can let Frank willingly let Frank handcuffed himself;He is all the way from his illness and death on the edge of the foreign country home;He is on another lonely goes to the prison to see his Christmas;He is the man to Frank, a second life.He is the only one who see Frank the heart of children.He understood that, in the heart of Frank has always been longing for the warmth of family and family reunion.We saw Frank watch at mother's home town have a happy family.On the day the news of his father, standing in the snow outside the window and looked at mother happy new family, and the warm in the room is what he can never match, that the child's eyes, and couldn't help but tears, finally revealed an insecure fragile heart.Fortunately, he and Carl in the side, two people from the enemy to the friend, even the fathers and sons, also let gradually into the arcane master plot, A ray of sunshine into the dark.We CAN see our shadow from Frank: young little.Future is so long, the world and how much pleasure, which have time to consider the consequences?So, we heartily squandering youth, escape may for all consequences and punishment. And Carl, that always behind us, let us always scary guy, just like a kind of responsibility, an obligation to do so.We can't escape forever, of course, but when I was young, who does not think his extraordinary, is the god care for?Until one day, we grow up, began to look back, only to find that we were very precious things would have been lost.At that moment, we all are Frank know father's death on the plane. How much regret, how much pain are irreversible established this facts.Finally, we invariably captured by Carl, tidy up the past gained and lost, in the face of possible consequences and punishment.From that day on, we'll stay, stay in the Carl's side, and we said the day is called "grow up".


                
Catch Me If You CanListening the name of the movie at first, it didn't interest me much. But I had a damn keen interest in it. Tom Hanks +Leonardo DiCaprio and you get a direction from Steven Spielberg as a topping. What better a serving can you ask for.First things first. Creativity of the movie takes you from the very first moment, when credits are shown. I mean thats what I love about Hollywood. They take their jobs so possessively. Even something as minor(in comparison to the hell lot of other things a movie includes) as starting credits are designed so creatively, so attractively, that you rarely see such stuff in the East. Then, talking about screenplay it was none the less just fabulous . You know movies of such kind..they make you feel right between those characters. You never feel you aren't a part of that movie. Such is the beauty of all the hard work, that even though watching it at mid night with college the next day,you don't feel to pause it for a moment. The guts of Frank William Abagnale are what took me by awe. His confidence he puts into whatever he says or does. Bravo to the thought improvisation in the script. And what brilliant execution.What next hit hard was the relation between Carl(Tom Hanks) and Frank (Leo).When you are an ace thief the most faithful and trustworthy relation you can and you have is with the agent chasing you.It is true and is strong. Both of you stay committed to each other yet against each other.Also, this one really shows that you are what you believe at that moment.! Nothing else.The end again had its complete touch and the few facts shown at the end about Mr. Frank added even more to what the movie had successfully portrayed. Loved it totally. And glad watched it.. ;)Tom Hanks as always is lovable and even though you give him lesser screen space, he makes his presence felt so serenely. Leo . Well, watching his movies till yet and now this one, I'll just say he is one of those actors who are of a different league and always keep evolving themselves. Always Always fascinate you.! You just feel happy about yourself for watching them doing what they do best.! Glorious movie.Must watch!!Steven Spielberg has done yet another simply amazing work directing this one.!


                
