Two trucks full of explosives have to be transported. Four fierce men try do the job for the money. This film is highly overrated. None of the actor stick to its character . If you wanna watch this film and you haven't seen it please don't read any further. Here's what I have to say. M. Jo gives away the pistol to his opponent in a brawl and looks heroic but gets scared on his way to deliver the stuff. Why is the brawl scene required? It is suggested that he kills another man so that he can go for the job (he was not selected) but that is not confirmed until the end. You sit for 2.5 hrs to see a truck finally reaching its destination. There are no twists and turns in the film. The only twists director could imagine were a wooden bridge and a big rock. How imaginative. There is a build up of an hour before the film really starts, I thought that one hour was about characterization but thats not true either. Its a waste of two hrs . Acting wise its OK. I have a problem with the depth of characters so no point in discussing that. I am giving 4 points for oil leak scene and actors who did that scene. A very boring and senseless film. 4/10.
In order to earn $ 2000, four men have to navigate two trucks loaded with nitroglycerin through a grueling terrain. Mistakes mean sudden death by explosion. It almost sounds like a modern reality TV concept, and yes, it's a great premise for a 1953 movie. The location (French Guyana, I suppose, but it could also be Venezuela) is fresh. In many ways, "Le Salaire" is a road and action movie avant la lettre. But someone has to take a stand and say it: this movie is terribly dated.Why is it dated? For one, the pacing is off. The movie drags and is about 40 minutes too long (and then I liked the long intro!). Second, the tension isn't managed up to modern standards. Clouzot is a great and innovative director, but many scenes are lacking in execution - you can often tell from a mile away what is going to happen. Third, it lacks appealing visuals. Many 40s and 50s movies have great black and white photography, but not this one, except some nice images towards the end.Finally, I thought the characters were poorly done. Yes, they are macho, and they are MEN. But we've known for a while that men like this don't really exist, something Humphrey Bogart had already found out in '42. "Le Salaire" is vaguely similar to "Treasure of the Sierra Madre", but while the latter excels in showing the dark side of humanity through evocative dialogue and timeless conflicts, the characters here left me utterly cold. Sorry.


                
Okay, let's make an atmospheric movie about gritty people in a gritty locale doing gritty things. Hmmmm, we need an American, a Dutchman, a Brit, an Italian, a German and some locals – and, if we pick the right location, some of those locals can be NAKED. We need a "hunk" for the lead and a "waif" for the love interest. If this sounds like a typical RKO "B" flick, you'd be wrong – it is WAGES OF FEAR. Yves Montand will always be a pleasure to watch. The director's wife, Véra Clouzot, is gorgeous to look at but an actress of very limited range. Charles Vanel's attempt at being a hard-as-nails villain makes George Raft look like Paul Muni. Close-ups and slow pacing were failed attempts at building tension. Enough said?
Save 2.2 hours and watch something else. For such a high review, this movie sucked. The biggest problem is that it kept telling us about more interesting events happening off screen that would have been great scenes. Told about an explosion, told about one of the characters narrowly escaping a country, told about locals dying, told about some dude dying. I kept waiting for the action and tension described in the movie summary, but it never happened. It's been 5 minutes since I stopped at the 50 minute mark, and I'm already forgetting the characters and the movie. Not a classic by any mark. Doesn't even stand up to classic movies of the era.
