In Clouzot, relationships are arenas of conflict: violent, callous, and often destined to sink into a whirlpool of deceit and destructive cruelty<U+0085> Clouzot forms with "The Wages of Fear" two teams of four desperate European expatriates who agree to drive two trucks of nitroglycerine across miles of rocky mountain matched with craters to a site of an oil refinery fire so that the oil company can then blow the pipeline and put out the blaze... The audaciously slow, atmospheric opening establishes both characters and the malignant influence of US oil interests in a dusty South American village, before the odyssey begins<U+0085> The tension never stumbles: friendship falls prey to financial greed, honor to a sweaty fear of sudden death<U+0085>
In The Wages of Fear, four men in a remote South American town have the enviable task of transporting a metric buttload (technical term) of nitroglycerin across mountainous roads in poor condition. It's a taut, superbly suspenseful thriller, guided with a steady hand by director Henri-Georges Clouzot, who would go on to direct the classic Diabolique in 1955.Yves Montand, in a rare dramatic role, plays Mario, the ostensible protagonist of our tale. He's been stuck in this backwater for some time, but it costs a lot of money to get out – plane fares are through the roof, and there's no train, and there's no neighboring village. In short, you're stuck there until you can buy a ticket – and pay for a passport, of course.Mario spends his days looking for work, wooing tavern worker Linda, and despairing about the lack of work. There's an American oil company in town, but they're no longer hiring. His monotonous lifestyle is interrupted by the arrival of fellow expat Jo (Charles Vanel), a tough-looking older man who quickly wins Mario's favor at the expense of the rest of the men in town.The oil company, in fact, has its own problem – one of their large derricks has exploded, causing a huge oil fire. Company man Bill O'Brien decides to send two trucks loaded with nitro from the town up the mountain to the derrick. (The eventual idea is to set off charges, which will somehow contain or extinguish the fire.) O'Brien has no trouble scaring up volunteers for the task, since the men of the town are largely unemployed. Four men will be selected to take the two trucks. Only one truck is needed; the second is truly just in case there's an accident with the first one. The men will receive $2000 when the work is finished, more than enough to secure passage out of the backwater.Mario and Jo are chosen, as are Mario's roommate Luigi (Folco Lulli) and German expat Bimba (Peter van Eyck). The two trucks depart early in the morning, full of gas and of nitro. Danger awaits.Theirs is not an easy task. The road is full of ruts. In one place, the wooden deck that trucks use to make a sharp turn up the mountain has been damaged from disuse. It's hot and muggy. And one has to be very, very careful, as even the smallest bump might set the whole shebang off. There's also tension among the four drivers – Luigi is unhappy that Mario is spending more time with Jo than with him, Mario is unhappy with what he perceives as Jo's cowardice. Bimba seems to get along with everyone, though.The whole time I was watching this movie, I was certain not all four were going to make it. I will not spoil what is now a sixty-three-year-old movie, but I was still genuinely surprised by the ending. This ain't no fairy tale or sitcom. This is a movie about desperation, redemption, sacrifice, and comeuppance. It's not necessarily about justice.The Wages of Fear is a singularly terrific movie from start to finish, exquisitely shot and expertly written. Its money maker is its tension, something present here in spades. The writing is impeccable; even personality changes make perfect sense within the film's context. There are intricacies within a straightforward plot. This is a must see for lovers of thrillers.


                
I've often heard of Clouzot referred to as the 'French Hitchcock' although this film seems to share more of a cousin hood with the work of John Houston.Wages of Fear is about how a bunch of immigrants in Latin America, for money, take on the reckless task of transporting a large consignment of explosive nitroglycerin across 300-miles of obstacle-riddled paths, every moment aware that a single concussion could ignite the entire shipment, blowing them all to bits.The film begins with the setting of the locale and introduction of its principal characters - the regular irregulars Mario and Luigi (just realized the striking similarity to Nintendo's famous plumber duo, hmm), the mafioso type new entrant Jo who strikes up a friendship with the raffish Mario becoming his mentor but antagonizes the rest of the townsfolk with his bossy attitude, Mario's mistress Linda who naively worships him but is in turn kept as a pleasure item. The town is a dead-end rife with poverty and unemployment, its only industry being the Southern Oil Corporation (SOC) a Yankee enterprise. The residents are too demoralized to even consider escape to better climes. Like Mario explains to Jo in the course of a brilliantly spliced sequence of jump-cuts that covers the entire aspect of the town, "It's like prison. Easy to get in, but escape is impossible."A major fire at the oil-wells calls for immediate shipment of explosive to isolate the blaze, but it's too late to bring in the specialized transportation. The company offers a payment of $2000 each for 4 locals who will carry the hazardous shipment in ordinary trucks. Mario, Jo, Luigi and a Jew Bimba take on the job, the promise of money to help them escape from the town sufficient even to temporarily offset the fear of death. Thus begins the arduous, tension-ridden journey that occupies most of this 148-min film. The trucks must move above a certain minimum speed to minimize vibrations (a ruse reused in 1994's Speed). On the way they face various blocks including a rickety wooden bridge the trucks must back up over. Mid-journey one of the trucks blows up. Mario and Jo who are in the other truck must overcome their horror at the catastrophe and cross further hurdles including a lake of oil created by the bursting of a pipeline.In the course of the journey we see a reversal in the roles of Jo and Mario. Initially Mario looks up to Jo, in awe of his cool and worldly-wise manner. But Jo is soon revealed to be in reality a scared old man for whom Mario has only a contemptuous pity. This character drama makes for engrossing viewing and in no small measure due to the excellent performances, especially Charles Vanel as Jo.The story moves smoothly thanks to very precise cutting, and some of the nighttime photography, as also the scene at the oil lake, is worth mentioning. Clouzot obviously has a sure hand over the bulk of the proceedings although he slips up in a couple of places: The oil company is portrayed in a rather ham-fisted (and badly acted) way as this evil uncaring monolith that would gladly blame dead employees for disasters to avoid compensation and resort to thoroughly unethical means to get its job done. Most of the supporting characters are cardboard. Also, some of the miniature work is painfully obvious, although that'd be likely a limitation of technical facilities available to the crew. The ending of the film is finely executed but seems all too contrived to give you your daily dose of irony.In the end, this remains a taut and finger-licking good old-school thriller, which bothers to provide characters interesting enough for us to care about their life and death.
Thanks Turner in TMC, for having this gem in stock. I just caught it and was mesmerized all throughout. Edgy, crisp, tense, not for the weak of heart! Yves is superb...this is the flick that made his career. Such a muscled stud, too. Little Miss Darling was a sweet love interest and M. Jo was equally great. What direction, what cinema, script, starkness of B & W.Check it out, please!


                
We had the opportunity of watching the wonderful Criterion DVD with the director's cut recently. This version is what the director intended us to show, since the version that was released commercially was shorter. We had seen the film years ago and frankly, we were more impressed then than now. Don't get us wrong, "Le salaire de la peur", Henri Georges Clouzot's has a lot to admire. The previous copy that we saw must have been the one that was cut for its American distribution. The film was deemed anti-American at the time it made its debut.Clouzot, like most of his contemporaries, had clear ideas about how they perceived American corporations overseas. Which is the case he makes with the oil company drilling in what appears to be Mexico, or a Central American country. Clouzot shows us a dusty town in the middle of nowhere where a group of mainly European expatriates, idle their time in the oppressing heat with nothing to do.It's into this milieu we come upon when the film opens. We are taken to the local cantina, where the men go to hang out. When Jo, a French man on the other side of the law arrives, he finds a fast friend in Mario, who appears to be the leader of the men we meet. Mario, who is much younger, yearns to go back to Paris. His wish is such that he has kept a ticket for the Metro to remind him of his beloved city.Jo, who has been friends with Bill, the American administrator, goes to see him to see about a job. What he proposes is something different, he needs four men, for two trucks that will bring badly needed nitroglycerin to a drilling site about 300 miles away. The road is treacherous and the drivers must bear in mind that any little thing will make their cargo explode and kill them.Mario is chosen to be in one truck with another man, who never shows up at the appointed time. Jo, appears instead. The other truck will have Luigi and Bimba. The four men don't realize the size of the task they must undergo and the dangers along the road.Clouzot's cut added the scenes in town in the cantina. Linda, the bar maid and the lover of the owner, is played by Vera Clouzot. The role appears to be superfluous since she doesn't add anything to what we are going to see, slowing the action. Once the men are on the road, a different movie emerges.The great Yves Montand plays Mario. It was his first starring role and he impresses with his virile looks and his no nonsense approach to his character. Charles Vanel, another excellent French actor makes the most out of his Jo. Jean Gabin, who was supposed to have played Jo, declined because he felt he didn't want to appear as a loser to his adoring fans; his loss was Charles Vanel's gain. Peter Van Eyck and Folco Lulli are seen as Bimba and Luigi, the second truck drivers.The transfer to the Criterion DVD has been done with extreme care because the film still has a great look. Clouzot made an excellent thriller that even after more than fifty years still moves us.
What can I say -- this is a fairly simple but excellent movie that has become a classic and is rightly considered must-see viewing by many movie buffs. And as far as existentialism goes, it's a lot more fun to watch this than to read one of Sartre's brain hemorrhagers. The plot is super-simple -- a bunch of pennyless adventurers are hired to drive two trucks loaded with nitroglycerine to a drilling site where it is desperately needed to blow out a fire. It's essentially like Smokey And The Bandit, only with nitrogylcerine instead of beer. Beat that, Burt Reynolds.The characters come across as realistic and intriguing, though not necessarily as terribly affable. I particularly liked Peter von Eyck as Bimba the German. The only scene I didn't like was when they had to back up their lorries onto a bridge-like construction ending over an abyss, because I thought it was contrived and overly dramatic.I've heard from two persons who saw this back in the day when it came out, one said that they almost couldn't bear the tension, the other that it changed their perspective through its bleak existentialism. I'm just remarking this to give you an idea how this movie was originally received.Finally, they really did a good job of making the South of France look like South America!


                
In a shanty town somewhere in South Africa, men come from all over the world to run away and hide. Jobs are scarce and hunger is common. They are free to walkabout but soon realise that the town is one big prison as any of the men lack money to get a ticket to fly out of here.Salvation comes in the form of an oil field fire several hundred miles away. The task is to drive two trucks packed with nitroglycerin explosives to put it out, but the roads are treacherous one nasty bump and the truck can go boom. Hopefully one of the trucks can make it through, the prize is $2000 each to any of the drivers make it to the oil field fire and deliver their cargo.Corsican Mario and the much older Jo drive the heaviest truck. Mario flirts with the waitress in the local bar. Jo is a new arrival on the run from Paris with a reputation as a gangster. However once they start their treacherous journey, Jo gets the shakes and is frightened. It is Mario who is determined to finish the journey.Director Henri-Georges Clouzot made a classic film of men putting their lives at risk for money but it is also a character study as well. Mario is at first in awe of Jo as he arrives in the small town. Jo persuades Mario to get on this venture and he will show him the ropes. When the drive begins, Mario is initially frightened but gets the upper hand and starts to bully Jo around as age has finally caught up with him and Jo is scared.The film starts off in a leisurely manner as we see these disparate group of men, bored, causing trouble at the local bar. The tension soon mounts as four of the men begin their dangerous journey.


                
The film starts off with a setting which is very reminiscent of the opening to Huston's 'Treasure of Sierra Madre' in the way that we meet a number of Europeans stuck in a South American town where literally nothing happens. They have no job prospects and they don't have the financial means required to leave the deadbeat town. Although the opening act of the film is a bit uneven,it still works to make the viewer well acquainted with the characters. Henri- Georges Clouzot manages to convey the utter disenchantment and poverty of the characters, which helps to underline why these men would feel desperate to find a way out of this town and will probably go to any lengths to materialise that. There is also a very clear anti-American capitalism statement being made in the opening act. The Southern Oil Company(SOC) who end up employing the men for the central mission is portrayed as this monstrously exploitative entity that doesn't care about people's lives as long as their materialistic oil needs are met. It is also interesting to note that the characters themselves remain pretty unlikable in the first part of the film. But when the come together in their mission and as we spend time with them on the road and fear for their lives, they become more and more engaging.As soon as the 4 primary characters jump on the trucks and start the mission, the film completely changes. It becomes a fascinatingly exciting, edge of the seat thrill-fest as the characters encounter and overcome a series of obstacles. This was my first viewing of a Clouzot film, but I can clearly see why he was nicknamed the 'French Hitchcock'. Clouzot's tour de force direction in each of these obstacle sequences is very reminiscent of Hitchcock. He ratchets up the tension through a combination of various elements like meticulous use of silence and ambient noises, precise camera placement and absolutely pitch perfect editing. I think every single person watching this film will at at least some point or another find themselves on the edge of the seat during the film due to the sheer effectiveness of the white-knuckle-ride experience that ' The Wages of Fear' offers.A clear theme that is being explored in the film is the irony and the mysterious ways of the concept of fate and mortality. The manner in which all the characters meet their respective fates in the film are genuinely unpredictable, sudden and unquestionably ironic.In conclusion, 'The Wages of Fear' is a must watch for everyone as it has something to offer for fans of a wide range of genres. Even though I think the opening act is comparatively a little uneven, however in an overall sense, the film is a knockout and has directorial mastery written all over it. Highly Recommended.


                
Opening in a remote South American town we are introduced to a group of expats who have gone there seeking their fortunes but ended up broke; what little work they find might be enough to feed them but it won't get them out of town let alone back home. The town supplies workers for the American Southern Oil Company (SOC). When there is an explosion at one of SOC's wells it is determined that the only way to put the fire out will be to blow it out using nitro-glycerine<U+0085> the problem is they don't have specialised transporters and the well is a few hundred miles away over rough roads. Four men are required to drive two trucks there; the slightest bump could cause an explosion that would mean instant death but the $2000 per man would pay for them to get home.The four men are a young Corsican named Mario, an older Parisian named Jo, who travel in the larger truck, and Italian named Luigi and Bimba, a Dutchman who had survived being a prisoner of the Nazis, in the second truck. Once they set off the tensions rise, especially when Jo gets more and more afraid as they come across various dangers.This film may be over sixty years old but it is still impressively tense. The first half serves to introduce us to the characters and show the boredom and desperation of their lives<U+0085> this is emphasised when one of the expats who is not offered the job hangs himself and Jo does something, we don't see what, to ensure one of the selected drivers doesn't turn up so he can go himself. The characters aren't particularly likable; they are frequently arguing and protagonist Mario treats the woman who loves him with contempt<U+0085> still once they are on the road it is hard not to care for them and wonder who, if any, among them will survive. The cast does a fine job, most notably Yves Montand and Charles Vanel, as Mario and Jo, in whose company we spend most time. They are able supported by Folco Lulli and Peter van Eyck, as Luigi and Bimba, and Véra Clouzot as Mario's lover Linda. Overall I'd certainly recommend this tense classic film.
French screenwriter, producer and director Henri-Georges Clouzot's ninth feature film which he co-wrote with screenwriter Jérôme Géronimi and co-produced with French film producer Raymond Borderie (1897-1982) and Louis Wipf, is an adaptation of a novel from 1950 by French author Georges Arnaud. It premiered In competition at the 6th Cannes International Film Festival in 1953, was screened In competition at the 3rd Berlin International Film Festival in 1953 and is a France-Italy co-production which was shot on location in Camargue, south of the ancient metropolis of Arles in Southern France. It tells the story about four men who are located in an isolated and desert South American town called Las Piedras which is marked by high unemployment and poverty. After a fire in an oil well at an old field owned by a South American Oil company, the Oil company announces that they are seeking young men to carry out a mission that the employees at the Oil Company are able to do themselves, but has evaluated as too risky. Motivated by the appealing assurance an uncommonly high salary, numerous men who perceives the task as a golden opportunity eagerly volunteers, and out of this group the four men named Bimba, Jo, Luigi and Mario are chosen to transport two trucks loaded with fuel containers which are filled with highly explosive nitroglycerin to the oil field in order to put out the flames.Distinctly and engagingly directed by French filmmaker Henri-Georges Clouzot (1907-1977), this exceedingly suspenseful fictional tale which is narrated from multiple viewpoints, draws a riveting and incisive portrayal of how four men's personalities alters when they embark on a long, sweltering and hazardous journey that bares promises of a brighter future. While notable for it's naturalistic rural milieu depictions, prominent black-and-white cinematography by French actor and cinematographer Armand Thirard (1899-1973) and use of sound, this adventurous and existentialistic low-budget film which examines themes like friendship, capitalism and greed, depicts several condensed studies of character and contains a good score by French 20th century film score and classical composer Georges Auric (1899-1983).This often humorous, somewhat romantic and pervasive psychological drama from the early 1950s, where a man from the Netherlands, a man from Italy and two men from France are driven to the edge of their sanity by the notion of wealth and a voluntary suicide mission, is impelled and reinforced by it's cogent narrative structure, quick-witted dialog, substantial character development, the poignant acting performances by Italian-born French actor and singer Yves Montand (1921-1991), French actor Charles Vanel (1892-1989), Italian actor Folco Lulli (1912-1970), German-born American actor Peter van Eyck (1911-1969) and the fine supporting acting performance by Brazilian-born French actress Véra Clouzot (1913-1960) in her debut feature film role. A memorable thriller which gained, among other awards, the Grand Prix du Festival International du Film at the 6th Cannes Film Festival in 1953, the Golden Bear at the 3rd Berlin Film Festival in 1953 and the BAFTA Award for Best Film from any Source at the 9th British Academy Film Awards in 1955.


                
Four men, including Yves Montand and Peter van Eyck, are desperately down and out in an unnamed South American country. They're hired by an oil company to drive two massive trucks through rough and dangerous territory with loads of unstable nitroglycerin. The two trucks depart with sirens screaming, warning away the town's residents just in case the nitro decides it doesn't want to wait to reach its destination.And what a trip it is. From corduroy roads through collapsing wooden bridges to impossible changes in direction. The four men don't get along well either. This isn't the story of four ordinary goes performing heroic deeds. They bitch and squabble their way through the jungle and over the mountains.I've checked the "spoilers" box but I don't think I'll lay out the ending anyway. This is one of those films where some of the suspense depends on our not knowing how things will turn out.This isn't some dark European drama, shot on a shoe string budget in the dark, drenched in philosophy. No monolingual English speaker should be put off by watching an old black-and-white movie with subtitles. For one thing, the characters sometimes lapse into English. For another, there isn't all THAT much dialog to begin with. And finally, the film itself is so filled with tension and action that the subtitles soon become ground instead of figure.If the plot sounds familiar, by the way, it's because you may have seen it before, if you watched William Friedkin's 1977 "Sorcerer." Hollywood has a way of remaking movies involving adventure, action, or gripping mysteries, if they've been successful in other countries. And why not? American stars are bankable, more money can be spent on visual effects, and the English remake can dispense with those noisome subtitles. The fact that very few copies are as good as the originals -- and certainly not as inventive -- makes no difference. Not if another nickel can still be squeezed out of the story.
For a brief period during the 1950s, French director Henri-Georges Clouzot captured the mantle of "The Master of Suspense" from Alfred Hitchcock, owing mostly to his two most recognised thrillers, 'The Wages of Fear (1953)' and 'Les Diaboliques (1955).' It's a difficult title to live up to, but Clouzot knows precisely what he's doing, even if he seems to lack Hitchcock's distinctive sense of showmanship. What I've always loved about cinema is its ability to manipulate reality, to elicit genuine emotions from situations that, in real life, would seem mundane, or even ridiculous. An example I've used before, I believe, is Tarkovsky's 'Stalker (1979),' in which a peaceful and benign forest is inexplicably transformed into an environment of intense mystery and foreboding. Now consider 'The Wages of Fear,' when actor Peter van Eyck funnels what is probably water into a drilled hole in the rock. There's zero suspense in this simple act of pouring. However, taken within the context of the story, this water suddenly becomes nitroglycerine, and I got sore fingers from gripping the chair so tightly.'The Wages of Fear' contains two particular sequences that rival anything Hitchcock ever did in terms of suspense. In the first, to which I briefly alluded above, a small amount of nitroglycerine is utilised to demolish a huge boulder blocking the road, the slightest lapse in concentration certain to lead to disaster. In the second, Mario (Yves Montand) and Jo (Charles Vanel) wallow pathetically in a deepening pool of crude oil, drowning in the black tar of America's capitalistic greed {the motif of oil epitomising greed is not an uncommon one in cinema, and most recently turned up in P.T. Anderson's 'There Will Be Blood (2006)'}. What I think prevents Clouzot's film from being truly brilliant is the opening half-hour or so, which is not only unsuspenseful, but damn near uninteresting. Of course, I suppose, it's important to note the changes that take place in the characters both before and after their new job <U+0096> the dominating Joe quickly reveals his cowardice, and the sycophantic Mario takes over the role of boss <U+0096> but Hitchcock, at least, would have made these introductions far more compelling.Towards the film's ending, I have conflicting emotions. On the one hand, it is a wonderful masterwork of cinematography and editing, as Mario's driving is intercut with the waltz of his acquaintances back in town, to the tune of Strauss' "The Blue Danube." There's an astonishing momentum to the camera movements; we foresee what is about to happen at least a minute before Montand's character does, but are powerless to stop it. He carries on his Dance Macabre (a figurative "waltz with death") until he loses control of the truck, begetting a spectacular, fiery plummet over the cliff edge. On the other hand, the entire incident <U+0096> however satisfying filmically <U+0096> doesn't seem like a natural progression of the narrative, possessing the air of a conclusion affixed only to achieve a surefire audience reaction. Unfortunately, similar cases of characters acting illogically litter the story, providing what might be described as mere cheap thrills: Mario continues to reverse the truck even after being told to stop, and Luigi, at one point, ludicrously decides to run towards an impending explosion rather than away from it.
The acting belongs to the French Noir strut and fret school, instead the modern acting as posing and shouting school, with a great deal of sentimental schlock about good labor-management relations, the nobility of labor, and revolution -- e.g., the woman who complains before the crowd about the oil well explosion and the resulting loss of limb and life is the same strikingly noble heroine shot in 3/4 profile from low camera angles that graces post office walls from the 1930's (and college dorm walls in the early 1970's) in the U.S. A classic instance from Ronald Reagan's "Hollywood Communist" agenda, albeit French. Mario is a Eurotrash clown, but muy macho, while Linda (Vera Clouzot), the "half-savage" adoring victim of Mario's apache, is impossible to portray in post-feminist film. Imagine a brunette Paris Hilton sans skank. If you've seen Sorcerer, Wages of Fear looks profoundly silly in places, especially the unsophisticated ending and brotherhood of laboring men ritual. Like Sorceror, the film features nude Yanamamo Indian ridicule of stupid white guys. One of my favorite movies, anthropologically speaking.


                
The Wages of Fear (French: Le Salaire de la Peur) (1953) 
Director: Henri-Georges Clouzot 
8/10 Wasted first hour, 
Some boring and dated parts, 
Forced and rushed ending,
Ironically fitting. 
But complaints end there. 
From psychology standpoint, 
Effective, telling 
Human nature inquiry. 
Cowardice, pride, 
Four men are "paid to be scared", 
But paid very well. 
Nitroglycerin transport, 
One wrong move ends all. 
"To fear is to be human", 
But is it worth it? 
These men find out the hard way. 
Once started, hang on! 
Clouzot sets up key scenes well, 
No Michael Bay here, 
More subtle suspense and thrill. 
Slow but steady wins the race. Choka (long poem) is an epic storytelling form of poetry from the Waka period, an unrhymed poem with the 5-7-5-7-5-7-5-7...7 syllable format (any odd number line length with alternating five and seven syllable lines that ends with an extra seven syllable line). 
#Choka #PoemReview


                
SPOILEROverall this is a classic, no doubt! There are some moments where a bit more attention to logic and detail would have hoisted it so much higher around attention risk and explosives.Why they are transporting Nitro long after Nobel had stabilised it to Dynamite is not clear. Seems it was made 'on site' after the Wells Fargo Office incident of 1866. A bit of Cirque Du Soleil wobbling on OHS nightmare planks whilst loading the goods by the 'workers' presages impending events. Generally though it holds up reasonably well until the boulder in the road.It takes much 'golly gosh darn why us?' before note they note they have explosives... (wow!) which would be the first choice of any road builder. Luigi hops up and 'drills a neat hole with a steel bar the size of a mans forearm in the time it takes Bimba who seems to know his stuff, to wobble precariously off the truck with a jerry can of Nitro, and set himself up for a Nitro Head Spliter by syphoning it orally. The 'rope' suspending the hammer is clearly safety fuse but logical they had some with the Nitro but no detonators. Not 'rope'. Now this is lit and suddenly they remember, having backed up the trucks, the 'rock rain'. Too late. This is where Gerard Depardieu in Jean De Florette wears it. Salaud! But given the size of the flask and the position in the sometime porous rock it would be unlikely to project upwards. And miraculously the road is clear bar a black patch of burnt ah... imagination. Now we get to the Luigi and Bimba crater. No sing of the truck or the guys: given blast is going down and forwards in respect of the truck. No metal nothing. They have I think 42 cans each assume 5 gallon each. So about 800 litres. One lunch thermos full produces blast 1 (rock) whilst 42 cans produces blast B. Um. Blast B looks about right sadly given in 2016 we have many Explosives in Truck Bombs in recent history to compare to.Pedantic? Perhaps but otherwise its brilliant. I recall 'Mario running down Jo' years ago as a kid. It stayed with me. OBriens voice in the office sounds like Daniel Plainview (There Will Be Blood 2007), and the sense of trapped listlessness in the town at the start echoes the despair in Heart of Darkness (Conrad) and recalls parts of The Passenger (Antonioni) and goes some way to explaining the behaviour of the characters. All filmed in France too.The ending? A 'moral ending' with the wages of xyz in his pocket was 'correct' if rather illogical & smacked of 'how can we finish this?' Mario oblivious to basic risk having survived the trauma of the scenario and killing Jo, then literally waltzes off the road with his money.Salaud! Oh yeah, the English subs on my version didn't quite reflect some of the abuse hurled in French. I have worked around but not with explosives in mining and have been in a 'rock rain'. A little attention to detail would have made this great movie 'complete'


                
From the director of Les Diaboliques, The Wages of Fear is one of Henri-Georges Clouzot's best-known works that remains as effective today as it was back during its time of release. Certainly amongst the finest examples of suspense in cinema history, the thrilling manner in which it manages to sustain its nail-biting tension for the majority of its runtime makes it an instant classic.Set in an isolated South American village, The Wages of Fear tells the story of 4 men who in order to escape from their miserable lives accept a handsome-paying but highly-dangerous job of driving two trucks over mountain dirt roads. The trucks are loaded with the extremely volatile nitroglycerine which might go off at the slightest bump, thus required extra attention on the part of the drivers.Co-written & directed by Henri-Georges Clouzot, the first hour of The Wages of Fear isn't an easy sit for the picture takes its time to introduce & acquaint its characters but once those trucks start moving, every single moment that follows is an edge-of-the-seat stuff for there is a foreboding sense of tension that looms over the film throughout its remaining runtime.Shot in crisp black n white, Cinematography makes excellent use of camera plus its clever execution single-handedly elevated those suspenseful moments to a nerve-wracking level. Editing could've done away with more sequences in the first hour but it's perfect in the later half. Sound design also deserves a mention for it plays a key role in keeping the suspense alive.Coming to the performances, the cast comprises of Yves Montand, Charles Vanel, Peter van Eyck, Folco Lulli & Véra Clouzot, and their input is as commendable as it is valuable to the story although Mrs. Clouzot does go a bit overboard at times. But what impressed me the most about these characters is that each one of them has their own identity, their own history & their own fear plus their chemistry with each other is pretty much spot-on.On an overall scale, The Wages of Fear is certainly amongst the greatest films of the 1950s & is a cinematic treasure whose quality will never be diminished by the test of time. While the first half isn't without its shortcomings, the second half of The Wages of Fear is smartly directed, deftly written, brilliantly photographed, tightly edited & fabulously performed. An ingenious piece of quality storytelling, The Wages of Fear comes thoroughly recommended.


                
A group of disparate foreigners are all stranded in a desert Mexican town. None of them has work and barely scratching out an existence. They don't have enough money to pay for a ticket out of town. The town's main employment is Southern Oil Company. There's a fire in the oil fields and the company needs nitroglycerin explosives to put it out. Foreman Bill O'Brien hires Mario, Luigi, Bimba and Smerloff to drive the dangerous cargo to put out the fire. When Smerloff fails to show, Mr. Jo gets the job.The first half is a bit slow as the movie spends time with the various characters meandering in this dusty town. The second half is one of the most thrilling drives around. It is a better thrill ride than most modern movies can achieve. The desperation and the sense of impending doom never leaves this trip.


                
The book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die has been a great source for finding films I otherwise would never have heard of, and possibly would not consider seeing, and this was a French/Italian foreign language film rated well by critics I hoped would be a worthy entry. Basically in a desolate South American village several men are trying to find a way out, their main problem is that they are essentially marooned there, there is only one road out of town, it goes as far as the oil drilling rigs, but they are nowhere near having the money needed for a flight, and there are no jobs to be had, so each day just blends into the next. But then change comes when a major fire breaks out at the oil drilling site, the oil company needs to find and hire men who are willing to take a risky journey to transport highly volatile nitroglycerine across rough terrain and virtually abandoned bumpy roads, four men are hired to drive two trucks: sarcastic Corsican playboy Mario (Yves Montand) and French aging ex-gangster Jo (Charles Vanel), and Mario's Dutch roommate Luigi (Folco Lulli) and quiet but intense salt mine worker Bimba (Peter van Eyck). On the journey the trucks encounter many perils, not just the bumpy road and having to drive at a steady pace to not explode, but tight roads to turn, unstable bridges and structures to cross and reverse on, large rocks in the middle of the road that they need to blow up to remove, and when one of the trucks explodes it leaves behind a deep puddle of oil to trawl through. The four men accepted the job because of the money being offered was more than enough to allow them to leave once the job is done, but with the job being so dangerous few people expected them to return alive, in the end Luigi and Bimba were killed with their truck exploding, Jo dies from severe injuries, and Mario is the only driver to make it safely to the oil drilling site to assist the fire, he is ecstatic to drive away in the empty truck and return to devoted lover Linda (Véra Clouzot), but careless driving means it is a shocking and fateful end for Mario. Also starring William Tubbs as Bill O'Brien and Darío Moreno as Hernandez. The film starts very slow as you are introduced to the characters and seeing the terrible lives the live in the village, but once they accept the dangerous job and get driving you are gripped, you are compelled knowing that any minute something could go wrong on the three hundred mile journey and their cargo could blow up, they sweat and shudder all the way, and obstacles put in their way keeps the tension going, it is a fantastically suspenseful and nil-biting adventure thriller film. Very good!
In a decrepit South American village, men are hired to transport an urgent nitroglycerine shipment without the equipment that would make it safe.Bosley Crowther wrote, "The excitement derives entirely from the awareness of nitroglycerine and the gingerly, breathless handling of it. You sit there waiting for the theatre to explode." (One might think he was explaining the plot of "Speed", but this is far better.) Due to the negative portrayal of the American oil company SOC, the film was accused of anti-Americanism and several scenes were cut for the U.S. release. In 1999, the Criterion Collection released a DVD which included 21 minutes of film which had been removed for the U.S. version. This latter, at 147 minutes, is the one everyone should see.The film brought Clouzot international fame, and allowed him to direct the better-known, if not quite as critically-acclaimed, "Les Diaboliques".


                
