"The Wages of Fear" was awarded by unanimous verdict the Grand Prix at 1953 Cannes Film Festival where it won over 27 films, some of which were made by Jacques Tati, Alfred Hitchcock, and Luis Buñuel. Cluozot's own screenplay (based a novel by George Arnaud) focuses on four down-and-out European adventurers (Yves Montand, Folco Lulli, Peter Van Eyck, Charles Vanel) who stuck nearly penniless in a festering town in an unnamed South American country. An oil company need a load of highly dangerous and explosive nitroglycerin to be delivered to a remote well fire 300 miles away burning out of control. The route is through jungles and over crude and treacherous mountains and those men are desperate enough to take the chance. None of these men is heroic or generous, they are in for the money. The four were chosen by the managers of oil company because "if something happens to them, no one would care, they have nobody to worry about them". Henri-Georges Clouzot's view on humanity is not particularly optimistic but he finds a way to make a viewer care about disenchanted but desperate characters. Thanks to Clouzot's ability to create not only a gripping action film but a powerful study of failure, the four men will stay for long time in our memory.


                
Georges Arnaud's novel LE SALAIRE DE LA PEUR has been filmed twice, by Henri-Georges Clouzot as THE WAGES OF FEAR (1953) and by William Friedkin as SORCERER (1977). While both films are worth seeing, the earlier version is the one regarded as a classic, and rightly so. Although SORCERER goes into more detail about the political climate and the various misdeeds that led the four desperate protagonists to the South American hellhole where they accept high-paying but life-risking jobs driving nitroglycerin through treacherous terrain, WAGES... distinguishes the men's personalities better, giving the audience more rooting interest in them. Both films have excellent casts, with charismatic leads in Yves Montand (WAGES...) and Roy Scheider (SORCERER), plus WAGES... also provides feminine charm in the form of beguiling Vera Clouzot as the café waitress who loves Montand. Both films have tense action sequences as well, but somehow for all the staging and skillful editing, SORCERER's action scenes seem strangely slow, slogging along in the mud just like the protagonists in their less-than-state-of-the-art trucks. Both versions have enough good things in them to be worth a look, but if you only have the time and resources to check out one of them, it's WAGES... that really pays off!


                
In a remote South American town, four men are hired by an American oil company to transport two truckloads of nitroglycerin to an oil field, to put out a fire. It's a very hazardous task - the nitroglycerin can explode for the slightest reason, the road is treacherous and the journey is a long one. However, the money is very good and their current situation in the town is rather dire - they will do anything to improve their situation. Great thriller-drama by French director HG Clouzot. Starts slowly and even once the hazardous journey is in progress, it doesn't seem that brilliant. However, Clouzot builds the tension and from a point it is absolutely nail-biting stuff. The scene with the boulder has to be one of the most tense movie scenes I've watched in my life. A good character-drama too - the way the characters develop and the relationships between the four change adds a new dimension to the drama and makes for very engaging viewing.Not perfect though. Some events and plot devices don't make much sense, though aren't crucial to the movie. The ending felt quite silly and contrived. A similar result but with a more plausible, less predictable, less stupid way of getting there would have seen the movie get a perfect score.


                
I intend to deal explicitly with the ending of this film. Be warned.Many comments have dealt with the gradual build-up of tension and character which makes this film so riveting. They are all true. But a lot of people cannot understand the ending, and therefore condemn it. The ending is, however, integral to the meaning of the film as a whole. These four men are warned that taking this job, no matter how much it pays, will cost them their lives. We understand that they are in a situation where one mistake will cost them their lives, and only fearlessness can save them. We see that M. Jo, a bully who gets what he wants by pushing people like Luigi around, turns into a snivelling coward when faced with a couple of tons of nitro he can't bully. His fear causes him to lose others' respect, his self-respect, and eventually his life. But our hero has no fear, and so of course he must survive, right? Wrong. Fear protects us, keeps us from endangering ourselves. Without fear, our hero cannot keep himself out of danger. Therefore he dies. Stupidly. And it's his own fault.Think about what was going on in 1953; millions of people had eight years earlier come out of a situation as nail-biting as driving a truck full of nitro. They talk about the "lost generation" being the survivors of the First World War, but the same happened in the Second. The ending makes sense of the title; not only the wages of sin but the wages of fear (of having to face extreme fear, that is)is death. It is brilliant how a film which is so entertaining on a superficial level is also so deep.
The first quarter of this movie was not particularly exciting but did set the stage for the rest of the movie. So, if you initially feel bored--STICK WITH IT!!! The plot is so incredibly simple that it seems like it must be a pretty boring picture: an oil company in South America needs to transport shipments of nitroglycerin 300 miles to an oil fire ASAP. However, due to the rotten condition of the roads and equipment, the trip seems like certain death, so they get some hungry out of work guys to do this. It doesn't sound very interesting, I'm sure, but it is. The writing, editing, pacing, acting and direction are PERFECT during this LONG trip. So many times, I found myself tensing up or moving in my seat as each near-death event occurred. The only negative? Well, the ending might be a bit of a letdown for some (though, in hindsight, I liked it despite being a bit of an anticlimax).


                
Four unsavory down-and-outs whiling away their hours in a poverty-stricken South American village accept the fool's errand of transporting two truckloads of nitroglycerin across terrible roads to an oil company accident site. Once some preliminary character development is disposed of and the men are on their way, the movie settles into one hell of a nail-biter, sort of a French, 1950s inversion of "Speed" -- if they go too fast, or make one false move, they go up in flames.The first hour of "The Wages of Fear" is a marvel of production design. Director Clouzot packs his frame with things to look at, and the village, though built specifically for the movie, reeks of authenticity. The mise-en-scene alone is fascinating to watch -- some incidental action going on in the background of one shot (like a hothead smacking his girlfriend) is then picked up as the principal action in the next scene. And the Blu-Ray looks terrific; every mud puddle and heat-dazed fly is clear as a bell.The second half of the film is pure suspense. It's a study in male machismo and one-upsmanship. The oldest member of the group, who struts around like Mr. Big Shot in the town when he has nothing to fear, crumples like a baby when faced with the prospect of death for real. But the movie doesn't let us be disdainful of him. As he says at one point, he's scared because he has enough life experience to know what death is, unlike the young hotshots who think to be frightened is to be weak.Clouzot doesn't seem to have a rosy outlook on life, if the film's fatalistic ending is any indication. Or maybe he's just making the point that life is futile for men who approach it in a certain way."The Wages of Fear" feels way ahead of its time, both in style and substance. I had trouble believing that it was actually made in 1953.Grade: A


                
Clouzot tells a tale of suspense and drama that man finds himself captive to. The thing that creates the drama is very straightforward and easy to grasp (a truck full of nitroglycerine). I think it is that simplicity contrasted with the complex and impossible to understand nature of man that makes this story so compelling and successful. Definitely worth checking out.


                
If you want to talk about a film that is exceptionally dark for its time then look no further than The Wages of Fear. The film follows four men in a desolate South American village who are strapped for cash and will do almost anything. They agree to transport a shipment of nitroglycerin by truck across the rugged terrain of Central America. The catch is that nitroglycerin is an extremely dangerous substance that has to be handled with extreme caution. Thus one bad bump in the road could be the end for these men. Along the way then encounter all sorts of obstacles, including each other. But they have no choice but to press on, desperate for the money that awaits them at the end of their treacherous journey.The Wages of Fear captures what true suspense is all about. The film is full of incredibly high tension scenes that will leave you on the edge of your seat in stomach churning anxiety. You feel every drop of anguish the characters feel as they run into obstacle after obstacle, growing more and more tired and frustrated with their circumstances. The tension amongst the group mixed with the tension of the situations these men get themselves into makes the suspense almost unbearable but wildly exciting. This film engages its audience so fantastically. You feel a part of you amongst the action as the film draws you further and further into the riveting suspense this film delivers. I don't remember the last time I was this engaged in a film and was so anxious about what could happen. The gravity of the film is so immense as it forces its fear upon you so unapologetically powerful.But of course it gets better. Not only is The Wages of Fear an riveting suspense film, it is also an intense character study. We have four characters transporting the nitroglycerin, Mario, Jo, Luigi, Bimba. Each of the men have a unique personality and different ideas about this job. Some are desperate for the cash and will stop at nothing, even if it means risking not just their life, but everyone else's as well. Then there are those who would rather give up when things become too harrowing and too risky. The clashing of these two ideas create some intense scenes of psychological anguish. The ironic thing is that these four characters begin the film as friends, but the journey transforms them and turns them against each other in thrilling and disturbing ways. The film has a fantastic script which examines these things intensely and eloquently. It is a truly brilliant cinematic feat.The film works so well as a character study, while also being an incredibly intense film full of riveting suspense. The combination of these two elements is done so perfectly, neither one taking over the other. Instead they blend beautifully, making an astoundingly powerful film. I wouldn't hesitate to call this film a masterpiece, so I will. The Wages of Fear is a masterpiece.


                
Henri-Georges Clouzot is probably most famous for his atmospheric mystery drama 'Les Diaboliques', but just as good is this film; Wages of Fear. The film gives a commentary on the things that people will do for money, and it follows a treacherous journey across South America for two two-men teams of truckers transporting nitroglycerine across the continent for an American oil company, on the promise of $2000 when they reach their destination. The men taking this task on know very well what the risks are, but they decide to do it anyway just because they need the dough. Rather than just feeding us this premise, however, the great maestro has opted to make sure that we fully understand the situation that our protagonists are in. The first hour of the film just sees the main characters in their native village, scrimping and slowly killing themselves just to make enough money to live on. These guys have to drink lemonade when they go to their local drinking establishment, and this image of themselves is putting them on the back foot further still, as no one in the town will employ the people that they see as tramps. This back building gives the audience something that the main crux of the story wouldn't have otherwise; and that's understanding from the audience.Once the action starts properly, Clouzot really lets rips with his awesome directorial talent. Like he did with Les Diaboliques two years later; he really shows that he knows the meaning of suspense. The nitroglycerine loaded trucks in the movie could explode with the slightest vibration, and once again Clouzot makes sure that you understand the situation. The movie firmly balances itself on a short string, and any minute the leads could go up in flames; which gives the action a very potent degree of tension and suspense at all times, even when there isn't all that much going on. There are some very good stunts in the movie, however, and things such as the oil lake and the huge boulder in the middle of the road represent the best of them. The characters are both well introduced and well rounded, and Clouzot has given each of the four main men in the film their own distinctive character and because of the extensive situation building that the director gave us towards the start of the movie, we always care for them; which helps the movie no end when it comes to the more touching moments of the story. On the whole, this is a GREAT motion picture. It's a lesson in suspense and it's a film that anyone who considers themselves to be a fan of thrillers should see.


                
It's the rare thriller that will allow itself time to build effectively to leave a longer lasting impression. Henri-Georges Clouzot's "The Wages of Fear" is that kind of a thriller--one much more deeply invested in bringing out the nuances of the character than the sensationalistic impulses to blow stuff up, but nonetheless creating gripping, stylistically gorgeous drama.The story is about four men who are hired to drive two truck-fulls of nitroglycerin over a rocky mountain pass for use in extinguishing a oil rig fire. The infamously unstable nitroglycerin results in one of the slowest albeit extremely tension-filled races against time ever filmed in cinema (forget "Vertical Limit", this is the real deal). Every bump, every falling rock, every obstacle potentially becomes a life-threatening situation. Of course Clouzot gleefully sets everything he can within the limits of reality in their path.Of course, this main story begins after a long opening featuring the characters in a small, desolate South American town. The objective of these opening scenes are two-fold: to develop the characters so that their emotional reactions to the ride are more fully significant, and to provide a strong political commentary on the actions of oil companies (especially Standard Oil) in the region. A biting commentary it is, and no more distracting to the cause of the storytelling because of the way the characters are eventually treated. Jo's story is, of course, the most interesting of all, as he pretends to stand as the more comfortable, capable man of the world only to become the most cowardly. The beginning ultimately also justifies the ending.Of course, the main character we focus on isn't actually all that likable, and what's interesting is that's the point. Mario is abusive, self-centered, and rather narcissistic (though possibly not as much as the German fellow). His own fate is rather more fitting to the ending than a lot of people complain; I've heard some say that the ending is unnecessarily dark; I had to think awhile about it, but considering the rest of the movie I have to disagree.This is a movie that many film-buffs and up-and-coming filmmakers should make an extra effort to see. It's the type of movie that takes what is an almost shockingly simple premise and turns it into an intricate, involved character study, social drama, political commentary, and genre thriller film, all at once. It also shares aspects with Clouzot's famed noir "Le Corbeau". That would be another movie to check out.--PolarisDiB
The Wages Of Fear was one of those films that I didn't instantly want to see. It's an old film, but that doesn't take away how awesome this film is. The Wages Of Fear is the most intense film I have ever experienced, and possibly one of the best adventure films that I have endured. The only complaint with this film I have is that the start is too long and tedious; with a quick edit this could have been rectified, but besides that, this film is a true piece of art.The Wages Of Fear doesn't hold back at all. It shocks you and with twists and turns throughout the whole film, it becomes somewhat unpredictable, which makes for a great bit of intense viewing.


                
"Le Salaire de le Peur" ("The Wages of Fear") is a harrowing journey of four men going down in bumpy roads, miserable places, won over by the most difficult obstacles, a long way performing their jobs transporting a great load of dynamite to be used on a burning oil well. It's a job, it pays well, those guys are the best in it but it's a hard, dangerous and exhausting service that can cost their lives. All the way, almost like descending to hell. This is the road to hell. It's a story about the battle between courage and cowardice and how fear can take over even the bravest of souls. This is Henri-Georges Clouzot masterpiece along with the equally brilliant "Les Diaboliques", both featuring a tension that rises into an endless crescent that never leaves you at ease.I saw "Sorcerer" (the American remake), read Georges Arnaud's novel and watched this film. To me, they all stand on the same level. They're incredibly good, very exciting but they're not great. Arnaud focus more on the mission's perils rather than the characters and sometimes the story doesn't turn to other interesting possibilities; neither Clouzot or Friedkin films are the book, lacking of some of its good ideas but developing some new ones."Sorcerer" is an adventure about mercenaries looking for money and thrilling experiences while "The Wages of Fear" is a human drama about desperate people risking their lives to earn a living in the only possible way, and therefore more realistic than its remake. But Clouzot is a master in creating scary and real danger at practically every frame. A bar fight against local power man; the training closely observed by their patrons with conductors sabotaging each other; a truck making a difficult turn in a place that threats to collapse at any moment; the fear in the drivers eyes and hands, maneuvering as if each turn could be the last. The director delivers one of the most inspired and frightening moments of all time (not present in the book) when a giant stone stands on their way and the solution found to remove it to use part of the explosives. Heart couldn't handle very well that scene so perfectly made, with no soundtrack, very few dialogs and a constant action. And you relate very easily with the characters struggle, amazingly performed by Yves Montand (and I could never imagine him in such role, one of his earliest), Charles Vanel, Peter van Eyck and Folco Lulli, similar in being all afraid of what they're doing but their fears are expressed in many different ways. Some panic, some control it, others disguise from time to time trying to look adventurous. The difficulties I had with this were the erratic and long introduction of each character, too many humored bits that weren't so effective (those could have been easily trimmed down) and the ending - not in the sense of being a let down but its goofy presentation seems awkward. The treatment given to the theme, the heart of the matter which is their mission and the rest (even the romance involving Montand and the girl, which is slightly distractive but useful) achieves a positive result. Certainly a movie of a different level and exciting even today. 21st Century flicks can only aspire to be something like this. Call me crazy, but Hollywood can even try again with a remake but this time read the novel, make wise choices and you might reach something similar or better. There's themes that can be explored in a very interesting way to make it a more challengeable film and adventurous. 9/10


                
A 4K-restoration screening in the Shanghai International Film Festival, Clouzot's pièce-de-résistance is a vehement testimonial of his aptitude in orchestrating white-knuckle thrills and chills, meanwhile, it is also a scorching dissection of human's abject fear and cruelty.
 
Set up in the boondocks of Las Piedras, allegedly Venezuela, a posse of foreign deadbeats is vegetating under the blistering sun, jobless and hankering for a plane ticket to leave the purgatory, they are churlish opportunists and rowdy bar brawlers, among them stands the French ladies' man Mario (a sexpot Montand), who toys with the affection of the barmy barmaid Linda (Mme Clouzot in her film debut), and has no qualms about jilting his benevolent Italian roommate Luigi (Lulli, truly the salt-of-the-earth type), to hobnob with his blow-in compatriot, the ex-gangster Jo (Vanel), fancying an easy way out, but the truth is, Jo is also at the end of his rope. A perilous job opportunity emerges when the American corporation Southern Oil Company needs to transport nitroglycerin to extinguish a massive fire in the oil fields, four drivers are chosen to drive two trucks in conveyance of the highly explosive products in a 300-mile rugged haul, with no safety precautions at hand The sideswipe of American capitalistic avarice and callousness is pretty much in your face, yet, for these hardscrabble expatriates, $2,000 is an offer too tempting to refuse, after some backhanded maneuver Jo gets the last spot to drive with Mario, while Luigi is paired with Bimba (Van Eyck, stolid and unbelievably cool), a taciturn German who endures a dark past.Henceforth, Clouzot viz. the Gallic Hitchcock takes audience on an ensorceling edge-of-the-seat road trip where one single substantial bump can cause their trucks to be blown up to smithereens, like a ticking bomb hanging over our heads. Compelling set pieces, a gripping turn on the precipice, and detonating an obstructing rock, one mobile, one static, are textbook paragon of tension-building and suspense-eliciting, not to mention the effect graced by Georges Auric's captivating accidental music.However, physical obstacles aside, it is the mental exertion that takes a heavy toll en route, Jo, the hard-nosed, savvy spiv, gradually yields to the mounting fear and his cowardice starts to turn Mario from his toady to a hectoring boss, sending contempt and verbal abuse to a humiliated Jo, up to a merciless last-ditch attempt knowingly leaving him mortally wounded, here Clouzot's astutely differentiates true grit from Dutch courage, and examines the phallocratic pride with utter acumen, its reverberations is astounding, much also owing to the two protagonists' unyielding tours-de-force, especially Vanel, completely devotes himself to the grueling condition (that petrol wallowing sequence is awestruck), and more credibly, he tenaciously enlivens Jo's transformation from a despicable wide boy to a resigned old geezer, for whose aftermath we feel deeply sympathetic. Our compassion towards Montand's Mario also undergoes a sea change when the plot thickens, his raffish charm morphs into an admirable determination midway, until his ruthless color takes the upper hand, Montand perfectly showcases his marquee idol charisma, and his baptism-of-fire triumph is unqualifiedly hard-earned, but Clouzet ratchets up the morbid irony in its dizzy ending, as augured by its opening, the quartet's fate is hanging on the same thread, negligible, expendable and inescapable.Incontrovertibly, THE WAGES OF FEAR is a daunting progenitor for late comers to emulate but impossibly to surpass, denotes a hefty import of Clouzot's unrivaled cinematic legacy, that reinvented narrative cinema with its high-octane vicariousness.


                
I absolutely loved this film. First off, the tension must be acknowledged. This is a true edge-of-your-seat film once it gets to the meat. Bsic plot summary; a group of men are stuck in a dead-end town in South America. They have no jobs, no money, no escape and no hope. The town is chained to the American oil company nearby. An sudden explosion at a derrick requires a powerful explosion to extinguish it, and a huge amount of nitroglycerin is the only solution. The only catch; someone needs to deliver a large amount to the remote rig. The job is near-suicidal, so they offer a large sum of money to those in the town who are brave enough to do it. Ultimately, four men are chosen from the town to deliver the incredibly dangerous cargo to the raging oil fire at prices that will deliver the desperate men from their misery in the dying town. Two teams of two men are tasked with driving gallons of unstable chemicals across impossibly rough and dangerous terrain. The slightest wrong move will end their lives in an instant. At face value, this could carry a film on it's own. The washboard scene alone, only a few films have managed to put me on such edge. The rock demolishing scene is another incredibly intense scene; pouring the nitroglycerin into the hole; the fear and risk is absolutely palpable, a credit to the excellent acting, direction and editing. The switchback scene, also, is a memorable event.But, and maybe more importantly, after the initial impact of the plot, you really get into the characters of the film. To me, the most fascinating character was Jo; we are introduced to him as a incredibly self-assured, in-control alpha male who knows how to handle any situation he encounters. The show-down at the cantina solidifies this image. We see Jo as the superior to Mario; a father figure who we expect to lead his younger compatriot. But as the film progresses, the roles switch as we see him for what he truly his; a fearful, risk-averse, cowardly old man. This character progression is so central to the action of the film. We experience what the average person might go through in a similar scenario, we see our weaker side in him when he flees the collapsing wooden bridge. We feel his defeat at the stronger personality of Mario at the crucial moment We understand his utter, fatalist acceptance of his true nature as a flawed human being. Which, at the end, makes his lat scenes so devastatingly powerful. We identify so strongly with him in the face of such impossible odds that it makes his ultimate fate so devastating; he sacrifices himself for his partner despite his numerous failings and the touching finality between the two masterfully brings the two characters together in the most realistically human of ways.I find the ending a bit melodramatic, a little rushed and frankly a little cliched. I won't spoil the ending but I felt like I knew what was going to happen before he even took the wheel of the truck to head home. This is probably my only gripe with an otherwise spectacular film.I'll admit, I find a lot of films from this era hackneyed and melodramatic.This one absolutely blew me away. An absolute classic. Great storytelling, excellent directing, masterful acting for the most part (Linda, imo, overacted a bit and seemed to be unnecessary to the story beyond a stereotypical love interest), gripping tension and a great study on how humans are in the most dire of situations
If there's one element that keeps this film going it's tension. After we are introduced to the characters in the setting of the small South American village, the film turns into one of the most gripping adventure stories ever. There's a scene where the characters have to get a rock out of the road in front of them that is so tense I was literally white-knuckled. This film will inevitably be compared to the remake by William Friedkin, Sorceror. That is an inferior film, if only because it has a very clunky sets of character introductions and relies too much on the physical mechanics of the journey and not the characters. The Wages of Fear is all about the characters and the situations that arise due to their greed and hubris. Perhaps the most chilling scene of all is a decision Yves Montand's character has to make while driving across an oily pond. It's scene like that one that make the film great. This is Clouzot's best film in my opinion, just edging out Diabolique. Find it and see it.


                
"Wages of Fear" is a tense thriller from the French director, Clouzot, about desperate men willing to risk everything for a chance to escape their lousy existence.The story involves a group of men stranded in a South American oil company town. None of them have steady work and none can afford to take a plane out of town, so they sit around and drink and argue with one another.Then one day, an oil well explodes up in the mountains, and the company needs volunteers to drive two trucks full of nitroglycerine up to the drill site so they can blow the fire out. The company's union drivers are too valuable to risk, so the foreman offers the job to the men stranded in town, knowing full well they're desperate enough to do anything.The four men selected to drive are Mario (Yves Montand), Jo (Charles Vanel), Luigi, and Bimba. Each has different fears and motivations for making the journey, and the director develops each one's personality from the start of the film through the drive itself."Wages of Fear" is a very tense film in the second half as the two trucks make their way over treacherous roads, encountering obstacles along the way that require the men's creativity in overcoming. Some rise to the occasion, others crumble under the pressure. A quick death awaits anyone who makes the slightest mistake. By the end of the film, the viewer is emotionally wrung dry.From the European period of stark cinematic drama, this thriller is one of the best.


                
"The Killing" Stanley Kubrick's 2nd/3rd feature. Both are totally relentless, as is "Bad Lieutenant" by Abel Ferrara.This 10 lines thing is a pain. But whatever, much of life is about pain, we know that if we are on here because we love a movie like "The Wages of Fear." Have I reached 10 lines yet? No? Well...Consider this the light that will lead us home. I saw this movie again recently after first seeing it once about 10 years ago, in an art-house theater, the Castro I think, in San Francisco. What stuck through the years was of course the suspense, also because it's what the movie is famous for. What my recent viewing of it revealed was the richness of the characters and relationships in the story. The relationship between Mario (Yves Montand) and Jo (Charles Vanel) is the most deeply explored and turns into a clever and ironic mirror of Mario's relationship with Linda (Vera Clouzot), whom he mostly treats like garbage in the beginning of the movie, especially after his new friend Jo has arrived and the two of them become inseparable. Only later, when the two men start to go through hell together, does their relationship take a turn for the worse, and Mario assumes the same dominating, emotionally and physically abusive role he has in his relationship with Linda.


                
For about forty minutes of this film, I wasn't sure what I was getting myself into. Nothing was really going on, the characters were ambling about, talking in circles, and there was no semblance of a plot developing. Despite my best intentions (and everything I've learned about cinema), I lost interest.However, once the oil well disaster occurs, sparking the plot, I was hooked. It's such a contrived and nonsensical story (was there really such an urgent need for the nitroglycerin that the oil company was willing to risk it all blowing up?) but it's pulled off so expertly and thrillingly that the film thrives because of it, not in spite of it. Every trivial problem is life-threatening, every moment is potentially deadly, each normally banal act becomes increasingly important and serious. The sense of doom developed is palpable, and it's entirely because of the plot.Coupled with that sense of doom is a terrific atmosphere of fatalism. It lingers just under the surface throughout the film, finally bursting forward when the first truck explodes and Jo becomes injured in the bog. That great final conversation between him and Mario, in which he expresses his desire to survive, despite taking the high-risk, low-reward job, is a perfect summation of the film's themes; Mario's subsequent collapse in front of the exploding oil well is one of the great shots in all of cinema (reminding me strongly of There Will Be Blood) and superbly symbolizes the dread and desperation that he has undergone. That final twist is just icing on the cake.That first act hurts it, but this is a nearly perfect thriller.
What can I say? From the first time I see this movie as a kid on our national TV I was blowed out! It is so simple and yet so tense with incredible ending that you simply must love it.I also watched Friedkin's "Sorcerer" but that adaptation of same novel never hit me like this gem.I highly recommend it to everybody who want to experience tension in true meaning of that word ...10/10


                
I have seen literally thousands of movies, and this one is unique.  It is its own, and holds its own.The suspense is sometimes on a par with Hitchcock's best. [Twice, even my fourteen year old son had to sit up, and forward onto the edge of his seat!]The International flavor is unparalleled.  We hear four different languages spoken.  We see a mixture of cultures that other filmmakers can only dream about -- White European, White American, Native American, Hispanic, African, and on and on.The acting is flawless all along the cast.  Particularly interesting is the interaction between characters within and across genders.While the story starts out slow, overall it is entertaining.  And while melodrama is approached, it never is breached; reality is never really abandoned so a very difficult and fine line is successfully walked.Highly recommended.


                
This outstanding film about a highly dangerous transport job establishes character in depth before the real suspense begins.  Anti-American sentiment runs strong in the depiction of oil-company managers in a Venezuelan shanty town. They are thick-skinned vulgarians who, in the process of "just doing their job," have desensitized themselves completely to the poverty and hunger around them. One foreman hires an old friend, who is French, along with another Frenchman, an Italian and a Dutch man to transport nitroglycerin in two trucks to a distant site.  The slightest jolt will blow the trucks and their drivers to smithereens.  The men selected for the job are desperate for work, being foreigners stranded in an economically depressed country and desperate to get out of the abyss of poverty they have fallen into.Once the journey begins, the tension is unrelenting.  The director masterfully plays on the viewer's nerves.  I was often shrieking out loud, so complete was the illusion of suspense and fright.  Unlike so many American action films, the destruction depicted is not contrived but is an inevitable consequence of the difficult work conditions and the generally depressing environment.  Most viewers, I think, will expect some of the 4 men to die along the way, but the ending is full of psychological irony. This film also amounts to an insightful study of virility and courage in the face of death.


                
Don't be put off by the long, leisurely first act.  Once the trucks roll out your heart will be in your mouth, and even the most jaded action-adventure fanatic is likely to go rigid with anxiety and stay that way right through the horrifying coda.  Among the uniformly excellent principals, Vanel is superb and Montand sublime -- a fully human action hero who, without bulging biceps or snide catchphrases, could eat Schwarzenegger's lunch and make him say "thank you" for the pleasure.  Clouzot's other great thriller, LES DIABOLIQUES, is an MGM musical compared to this.  Not to be viewed by anyone about to take a driver's test or renting a U-Haul for the first time.


                
A real classic. I enjoyed watching it just as much as the first time, more than half a century ago. Not many movies made that long ago are worth watching today ! The ambiance was perfect and the tension was building up all the time, .


                
When I wonder which movies of our era people will be still watching 100 years from now, WOF is the first one coming to my mind. A masterful study on the most basic of human emotions, probably the first we know when arriving in this world and the last we'll leave behind: pure, naked to the bones, unmitigated fear. The plot is simple: four men volunteer to truck hundreds of gallons of nitroglycerin along the 300 miles of a dirt road, to be used to extinguish an oil rig fire. And they'll do it because they are all Europeans stranded in an Amazonian shanty town; men desperate to go back home and the $2000 U.S. they'll be paid each for the job will make that possible.Fear is the single topic here, even if you may get confused after watching the first hour, which may seem slow and uneventful. But there's where the story is being set, where the characters are introduced. We come to know Mario, the Corsican pretty boy way too full of himself; Luigi, the jovial, ebullient, honest Italian cook. Bimba, the cynical but reliable Dutch survivor of Nazi camps; and Jo, the French tough cookie, an ageing gangster. They are all stranded in that Amazonian hellhole where they are looked upon as tramps even by the raggedy locals. That explains why they would ever risk their lives in that job. And then the trip and the thrill starts with no let up until the journey's complete; even after that.Many movies have tense moments, moments of fear, of terror. Well, the moment of terror here is just one, but one lasting one hour. How different you see life when each of your moments can be the last, every breath your one left, every thought your definitive! That, I think, resumes what WOF is all about. Beautiful cinematography, even in B/W--I loved the dancing shadows of tree trunks at the beginning of the trip--a pace that doesn't let up, and a gritty depiction of proceedings. This is not about being fearless, mind you, but about doing a job while being scared to death.WOF has a few intentional flaws, with the purpose of emphasizing the men's desperate mood & situation, their isolation. The first: why a company that is losing tons of money in that oil rig fire doesn't bother sending trucks with explosives and construction stuff ahead of the foursome, to clean up the road of boulders and emergency fix structures in need of repairing? Why won't SOC bother issuing the men a two-way radio to be kept informed of their progress? These yanks are cheap but they aren't stupid. Another flaw, of technical nature, concerns the suspended platform. The trucks didn't need to go all the way into it. Truckers don't do that. They just go a bit back, then forth, back again, turning a bit every time. But if they had done so we wouldn't have had those intense moments of both trucks hanging over the abyss. Also, someone pointed out that pipelines don't carry oil in that state and, while a total ignorant on that matter, I agree. There is no pump strong enough to push oil that thick along miles--but a water-clear pool of oil wouldn't have made possible the most dramatic sequence of the movie. Other flaws are not so intentional.A major flaw concerns the character of Linda, which looks superfluous to me. At that time there was usually no place for women in such a plot, except as love interests for men, waiting for their guy(s) at the end of the line or as simple toys for sexual relief. Anyway, here she's eye candy more than anything else; but already at 40, Clouzot looks way too old to play an urchin less than half her age-—judging by her body language and overall behavior--and her jumping of the truck looks silly rather than moving. Another flaw concerns Jo's sudden metamorphosis from toughie to pussy. The same guy who hours before calmly stared down the barrel of a gun in the hands of his enemy, who rudely took out the competition, turns into a chicken just moments into the trip. Such a transformation, while not impossible if well developed, lacks credibility as seen here. I also see as a minor flaw the fact that we are given so little background on the men. We know more or less their past but not of their journey to this place. On the other hand I disagree with the dance and drive ending being a flaw. Linda's dance is open to discussion but for Mario that conclusion makes all psychological sense. He feels he has defeated Death and now he wants to run & roll over his enemy's body. He has loosen up, he is exultant, euphoric; but most of all, he's tired--and that brings up the logical outcome. Anyway, one to keep. 9/10.BTW, I disagree with the journey being such a revelation of characters. The men, except for Jo, work as a team. That's what people usually do in such situations.
There are very few thrillers that can turn a very simple premise in a diatribe in suspense and terror and in that aspect I think it is important that a film like Wages of Fear is celebrated for both its effectiveness and its simplicity. Whereas others will seek the causality of their thriller in convoluted plots, police procedurals, supernatural killers and what not, Wages of Fear is content to be inspired and firmly grounded in reality. Four unemployed foreigners, trapped without visas somewhere in Latin America, are hired by an American oil company to drive two trucks filled with tons of nitroglycerin that is needed to kill the fire in a burning derrick. The wage is $2,000 each; a getaway ticket and a promise of luxury. But at what cost? The wages of fear indeed.At the hands of a lesser director, the premise could have been handled in a workmanlike way, with a movie-of-the-week attitude. Clouzot instead spends the first 50 minutes setting up a very believable world for the rest of the movie to unfold into. Not only is every player given his due shades of characterization, but their motives (escape from Latin America and money) become fully understood. The small town they live in is depicted as a living hell of sorts. Full of mosquitos, the scorching weather, impoverished natives, malaria, little food and money. The set-up is so expertly handled that the decision the characters have to make (take the job or not) becomes painfully obvious.And then comes the bulk of the movie. A grueling lesson in suspense that would make even Hitchcock himself green with envy. As if driving a ticking bomb through bumpy roads isn't enough, everything else that can go wrong does. Clouzot adds another layer of hard-hitting realism by making both the obstacles the characters have to overcome and their efforts to do so utterly believable and as hard as they appear to be. The total absence of music only enforces this sort of pain-staking realism. Even if it appears to be a little far-fetched at times; it's still a movie after all. But it's so far removed from the studio melodramas of the 50's that it shines by comparison. Just think of the relationship Mario, one of the drivers, has with a poor girl. What appears to be the requisite love story is turned on its head and becomes one of abuse and need. There's no "I love you/ I love you too" schmaltz to be found here. Some people may be too eager to accuse Clouzot of misogyny but I wonder where the line stops; is it the screenwriter, the director or simply what this character is all about. The way Mario treats the girl might leave an unpleasant aftertaste in one's mouth, but sometimes that's how life is. All the Hollywood sugar-coating in the world can't change that.A perfect companion piece to this kind of solid 50's film-making would be John Huston's Treasure of the Sierra Madre, if the analogy has any merit. As a testament to the movie's absorbing power, I was glued to the screen for every one of 146 nail-biting minutes. Truly a classic thriller that stands up to close scrutiny and remains one of the best, 55 years later<U+0085>


                
