Please don't read this if you don't want the ending given away.I've noticed a lot of people complaining that the ending spoils the film and is clichéd because the underdog and not the better fighter wins.I'm not suggesting that my interpretation is the right one but my view is somewhat different than the one some people hold. It is perfectly logical to point out that Brendan had hard fights to get to the final and that he would probably have been exhausted and that Tommy has had a much easier route.However, the point is that he made that route easier because of his rage. Tommy is only the more destructive force because of that. His demons are driving him on because he is lost. He cannot or will not reach out to connect with his father or brother. The point is that the dam is broken when he sees his father in the hotel room raging against Ahab. This is deeply symbolic. I think you are meant to draw the connection with Ahab who was driven by his own rage with the rage of the father which destroyed his family to the rage which Tommy now feels. Even though he is drunk it is no coincidence that his father refers to Tommy as Ahab and bellows at him to stop the ship. At the point that Tommy takes him in his arms and holds him he begins the healing process but loses what makes him such a formidable fighter. Thus he is simply unable to blow his brother away in the way that he has done to every other opponent.The other crucial point (and you would have to be a younger brother to fully get this one) is that Tommy doesn't really want to beat his brother at that point. He needs to know that his brother loves him and perhaps that he regrets not reaching out to him when they were younger. The fact that he taps out only at the point when Brendan says he loves him is significant as is the fact that he breaks down in the corner before the final round. Had he still been carrying his rage he would surely rather have been rendered unconscious than submit.In other words, for me it was the perfect ending and the more you think about the film the more profound it seems.All in my view of course. Which could be a load of old rubbish.


                
Just saw a sneak peek of Warrior. All I can saw is WOW! Great film. Great performances. The characters are deep and believable and the story will probably have you leaving the theater in tears.The fight scenes were done really well. I've been cage side at hundreds of MMA fights as a photographer and believe me when I say this is some of the most realistically portrayed MMA action I've seen to date on film. Tom Hardy, Joel Edgerton, Jennifer Morrison and Nick Nolte all give good performances and I think Nick Nolte had a couple of moments in the film that should be considered Oscar worthy.I know a lot of people won't agree with me on this and I can understand, but Warrior has bumped Rocky out of my top 5 favorite movies of all time. IMHO (which some of you will consider worthless) I think it's that good.


                
Grab your popcorn, buy your soda..and get ready for a great movie.From start to finish, this movie will have you hooked. There is no weak spot in this movie. The acting is amazing. The story is great. The music is catchy. You will get emotionally invested throughout this story.This movie will make you FEEL something. This movie will ENTERTAIN you.This film has great drama, action, and story. I walked out of the movie being so impressed, and in shock how this hadn't gotten more attention or done better at the box office.This movie is a MUST SEE. And I'm pretty picky. Enjoy.


                
I had the pleasure of watching this movie last night. I went since its a "guy" movie my husband was the one excited about it more than I was. I must say I was more than impressed with the leading men in this film. It has been a long time since a movie has had me on the edge of my seat, biting my nails as this movie did during the fighting scenes. If you are looking for great acting, family drama, awesome fighting scenes than this is the movie for you. After we left the theater we couldn't stop talking about it. I will definitely go see it again when it comes out. We really enjoyed it! Nick Nolte was amazing, and even my husband I think cried in a few scenes, (last time that happened was during Marley and Me) so I must say this movie is a MUST SEE!


                
The official trailer itself is a little bit of a spoiler. I didn't even have an IMDb account and made one just to rate this movie. One of the best iv ever seen. First movie iv ever cried during, and i cried twice lol. Whether your a guy who likes fighting movies or a girl who doesn't know what MMA stands for, this movie will blow you away. Seriously, I don't know how anyone could watch this and think it wasn't at the very least, a Very Good movie. It kept me on the edge of my seat, and its also more realistic the most fighting movies. Watching rocky and most box office fighting films, there tends to be over-dramatized punching noises and the boxers seem to fight without attempting to guard themselves. Aside from the realistic fight however, is a very emotional drama which is sure to move anyone who pays attention to the film.


                
"Warrior" may be one of the best movies of the year that no one sees. That in itself is puzzling. Mixed martial arts and UFC are in the cultural mainstream; in fact MMA is more popular than professional boxing. Director and writer Gavin O'Connor did the amazing "Miracle" a few years back about the 1980 U.S. Olympic Hockey Team. So he has the touch for inspirational sports stories. In "Warrior" estranged brothers Brendan Conlon (Joel Edgerton) and Tommy Conlon (Tom Hardy) fight each other in the finals of the winner take all mixed martial arts tournament Sparta in Atlantic City. "Warrior" is an inspired story of family, honor, and redemption. I applauded at the end of the movie along with the rest of the audience."Warrior" is a paradox of styles as inspired by its leads. Tommy (Hardy) is the AWOL Marine war hero from Afghanistan. He literally tore off a submerged tank door, saving those inside. Tommy plows through opponents with sheer rage and power. He is explosive technique. We witness this as he savagely dismantles world middle weight contender "Mad Dog" Grimes (cocky Erik Apple) with kicks, punches, and throws in an impromptu sparring session. Tommy mysteriously appears at his Dad's door step in Pittsburgh. He blames Paddy (powerful and sublime Nick Nolte) for the death of his mother. Brendan (Edgerton) is the high school physics teacher and former UFC fighter. He and his wife Tess (strong Jennifer Morrison) work several jobs to pay their upside down mortgage. Brendan gets an entry into Sparta to save his family home. He is smart and willing to take punishment to leverage his opponent's mistakes—getting a tap out. Brendan like Tommy has no love for their recovered drunk Dad (Nolte).At the narrative arc Brendan says to Tommy, "I love you!" And neither will back down. I think O'Connor and writers Anthony Tambakis and Cliff Dorfman at times overstate the family dysfunction. "Warrior" could have been leaner, as strange as that sounds. The mixed martial arts fighting are world class and many of the fighters are MMA stars. Former professional wrestling champion Kurt Angle is fierce and dominating as Russian champ Koba. His match with Brendan is vicious and amazing. "Warrior" authentically gets the brutality and precision of mixed martial arts. Hardy and Edgerton are awesome. I read that Hardy trained intensely gaining 30 pounds of muscle. He broke ribs and fingers. Edgerton tore his knee out during the shoot."Warrior" has a gritty atmosphere that is all about character and adversity. O'Connor seamlessly captures this in the simple camera shots and intimate dialog. He generates amazing performances. Edgerton is the delicate balance of compassion and focus. His Brendan is a good and decent man. Hardy has an electrifying enigmatic presence. He provokes a painful sadness and rage in Tommy, for whom honor and family are everything. Nick Nolte poignantly plays their broken father, who is pivotal in the redemption of his sons. Ultimately, "Warrior" is about forgiveness and love. It is one of the year's best.


                
This is not your typical fighting movie. This movie has so much emotion and meaning built into it that it's able to overcome what we're all used to seeing from MMA films and other sport dramas. Tom Hardy, Joel Edgerton and Nick Nolte deliver powerhouse performances that are all deserving of reward recognition. I may be biased because I was involved in martial arts for most of my life so I connect to the sports aspect of the film more than other movies about sports but to me, this movie is something that needs to be watched as there is so much more to this than your typical sports drama. This is now my favorite movie of all time and I hope that you all decide to check it out!


                
Minutes after watching this piece of art. And I feel like over- powered godlike human being. What an inspiring movie! Oh, the pace! This tone makes us fall into the world of the 2 bros, who's life seems so much full of pain, loss, confusion and, above all, a kind of love that they couldn't express. The character of the Father is tragic and realistic. His attempts to rejoin his boys are truly pure and gets to the heart.Acting is quite memorable, specially Hardy's. I've found his exceptional and natural. The magic of the combination of characters, story, pace and music ends up with a creation of rare feelings shouting into your spiritual world and that's not something that every movie is able to manage.Thank you for making this true, thank you for that awesome experience!


                
As a teenager, I'm definitely inexperienced in the world of MMA. But this movie is not about MMA, and that is set very clear from the start. Right from the start of the 2 minute trailer. So naturally I was ecstatic to take my seat in the theater.Tom Hardy (Tommy Conlon) delivers a moving and emotional performance of a man who has suffered greatly from the ones he loves, and from the field of battle, an all to real reality for people of today. While the younger Tommy suffered the loss of his mother firsthand, his older brother Brendan (Joel Edgerton)has put together a life that a man dreams of, yet is still haunted daily by his past. Only to have it threatened to be destroyed by the bank. Nick Nolte the alcoholic father of the two, has suffered years of remorse and regret from the abuse of alcohol and the neglect of his wife and children is trying to forge a bond but is meeting a stone wall with both of his sons.The fighting, though it is very well acted and shot, is not about fighting. It is the physical representation of the struggle between the three men, the struggle to forget and forgive and to move on. The demons that possess all three of these men are of such great proportion, the only way they can be relinquished is for them to come together.It hits home on such a high level on so many different subjects, that you will be floored into your seat as the credits roll in.An ABSOLUTE MUST SEE :)
Over the years, the sport of boxing has provided film-goers with undeniably great films like "Rocky", "The Champ", "Million Dollar Baby", and "The Fighter". In today's culture, though, boxing has been replaced by mixed martial arts as the fight game of choice. This is a movie that speaks to that culture.For a basic plot summary, "Warrior" tells the story of two brothers. Brendan Conlon (Joel Edgerton) is a high school physics teacher moonlight as a UFC fighter in parking lots at night for the money. Tommy Conlon (Tom Hardy) is a former Marine and former high school wrestling champion. Their only two common interests? Hatred of their father Paddy (Nick Nolte), and the opportunity to win the biggest even in their sport of choice.Simply put, "Warrior" is ever bit as good as "The Fighter" (in fact, both films share many of the same superb characteristics). This movie is a human drama first, with MMA fighting being the backdrop for the dramatic material. It is a visceral story that is not simple in any sense of the word. It is very dramatic, to be sure, yet it still maintains a very healthy grip on character relationships and thus stays as true to reality as possible. There are shades of grey in everything, with nothing being cut-and-dry.For hardcore MMA fans, "Warrior" also offers some great fight scenes and action. When you are watching the fights, it seems as if you are truly watching a live UFC event.Thus, "Warrior" is a top-notch drama that compares very favorably to the best fight films ever produced. It will truly make you care about the characters and be rooting for them (or even against them) in a variety of complex ways. It's "The Fighter"...only with triangle chokes and arm- bars.


                
"Warrior" ist definitiv einer der besten Filme 2011! Ein Sport-Drama der Extraklasse! In diesen Film ist alles vertreten: Gefühle und Emotionen, Spannung, Action und eine grandios schauspielerische Leistung der 3 Hauptfiguren Tom Hardy, Joel Edgerton und Nick Nolte.Die Story ist von Anfang bis Ende sehr ergreifend und fesselnd. Die problematische Vergangenheit in der Familie und auch die aktuellen Probleme der 3 Hauptdarsteller werden durch eine nahezu perfekte Schauspielleistung von Beginn an dargestellt und sehr emotional vermittelt.Als Gegenstück zu den vielen ergreifenden Dialogen der familiären Problematik überzeugen auch die sehr gut gelungen Kampfszenen die im Gegensatz zu viele anderen Boxfilmen sehr realistisch wirken.Direkt zu Beginn wird klar, dass es hier keineswegs um eine sinnlose Aneinanderreihung von Kampfszenen geht! Die emotionale Geschichte und deren Entwicklung bis hin zu einem traumhaften Ende stehen eindeutig im Vordergrund. All dies wird jedoch noch durch emotionale und realistische Boxkämpfe ergänzt.Insgesamt kann man sagen, dass man in "Warrior" eine perfekt Mischung aus Drama und Action - eben das, was ein gelungenes Sport-Drama ausmacht - findet. Jeder der diesen Film sieht, wird von der grandiosen Story begeistert sein und noch lange an "Warrior" denken müssen!Fazit: Ein Film, den man gesehen haben muss, der das Geld und die Zeit wert ist und der zurecht in den Top150 der besten Filme ist.


                
Have never reviewed a film on here but believe this one justifies it To define the film in one word I'd simply say wow !! Brilliant fight scenes, raw emotion, brilliant acting and an edge of your seat film that keeps you hooked all the way through. Being a huge fan of the rocky franchise and with a general love of sport when I first starting watching this I wasn't expecting much. But I was simply blown away. I found myself stood up cheering Brendan on with the hairs on the back of my neck stood on end I'll go as far as to say this is as good as my favourite film of all time, shawshank redemption for the amount of emotion this stirred up in me Wonderfully film that I will never get bored of


                
First and foremost let me say this: this is not an MMA movie. This isn't really even a sports movie, per se. It is really a drama about a family and the relationships inside that family and the sport of mma just happens to be the backdrop that carries the story forward. I know a lot of people that didn't watch it because they don't like mma or even sports movies and I tell them exactly what I wrote above. I rated this a 10; and I only give movies a rating of 10 if they manage to move me emotionally - they have to move beyond just mere entertainment. This movie will make you cry and it will force you to reevaluate your own relationships with those around you. This is an an amazing movie, and amazing drama and it's disappointing how many people haven't and won't ever see it simply because they think it's a "mma movie."Seriously, watch this movie.


                
There aren't many fight movies I'd rate as high as a '10', and by fight movies I'm talking about boxing as the subject. "Rocky" and "Million Dollar Baby" are the only two I can think of off hand. But this movie transcends the genre and is so much more than a film about a pair of brothers reaching for the gold ring in the arena of mixed martial arts. There's a lot of human drama on display, and the three principals in the story pull off some of the most incredible performances one is likely to see in a film like this.I was taken aback a bit by the number of other reviewers on this board who admitted to shedding a tear over parts of the story line. Some of the scenes affected me the same way and it's a little difficult to explain why, but the characters are so anguished and real that one can relate to them on some visceral level. I was especially heartened to see how the students of Sparta High School got behind their physics teacher, Brendan Conlon (Joel Edgerton) during the War at the Shore. That just showed a whole lot of loyalty and civic pride for the school to turn out the way they did.The entire backdrop to the fight story of course is the anguished and disrupted home life of Paddy Conlon (Nick Nolte), an alcoholic on the mend approaching a thousand days of sobriety, but with the inability to connect with the sons who abandoned him. I was a little surprised that the resolution to the story didn't involve Nolte's character engaging more purposefully with either Brendan or Tommy (Tom Hardy). It's left open ended, just as Tommy's status with the military is left open ended, though if you follow your instincts, the outcomes wouldn't necessarily be rewarding.As for the fight scenes, I'd have to go on record stating that this movie has the best edited action in the ring I've ever seen. Though the pace is often relentless, none of it looks staged or phony, a credit to all the players involved and the principal photographer. Regarding the outcome of the final match, well before ring time one's brain scrambles trying to guess the outcome, as this is one film and one battle where you don't want either brother to lose, and you can't imagine the twist that will make the final verdict worthwhile. I won't spoil it here either, you'll just have to see and judge it for yourself.
If you are looking for a fight you'll get it. You'll also get a lot more. This was the first movie I have EVER shed a tear in. Gripping and powerful. Even though the trailer made it clear how each fight was going to end I was still on the edge of my seat.The family dynamic was heart wrenching. Nick Nolte's performance as a lonely old man grasping for a hint of forgiveness from his family is Oscar-worthy. The roles of the two brothers were pretty archetypal (tough guy fights for honor, peaceful guy puts gloves back on to fight for family) but were played well, and the family relations make up for the lack of originality.


                
The movie Warrior, truly is a great movie. I enjoyed everything about it. It was inspiring, uplifting, real, and just flat out good. Everything a movie should be.You don't have to be an MMA or fighting fan to enjoy this film. But I'm sure you'll like it by the end. It pulls you in from the start, and you can't help but care about these characters. Played by Nick Nolte, Tom Hardy, and Joel Edgerton.Nolte is the father of Hardy and Edgerton, and both sons are MMA fighters trying to win a tournament for their own different reasons.Throughout the movie you're rooting for both these men, and hoping for the best. I have a brother and we saw this movie together. By the end, we didn't know whether to be happy or cry. And that's good.I was not disappointed with this film in anyway, and by the end of it, it almost brought a tear to my eye. I love this movie, and recommend anyone and everyone to go and see it.


                
Eight months into the year and this is easily the best film of 2011 thus far and a sure Oscar contender. Saw an advanced screening at the Landmark in L.A. and haven't seen a reaction like that from an audience in a very long time. Cheering. People crying coming out of the theater. Very blown away. The performances are across-the-board phenomenal. Tom Hardy and Joel Edgerton give movie star turns and should be nominated for Best Actor, and Nick Nolte hasn't been this good since AFFLICTION and should win Best Supporting. He's the best American actor never to win an Oscar and that should change this winter. Edge of your seat excitement, raw emotion, humor--WARRIOR does everything. Expectations weren't high going in (the trailer is very pedestrian and makes it look like a genre sports movie, which it isn't), but I was completely floored and wiped out by the end (a song by The National plays over the film's final scene and if it doesn't make you cry you're tougher than I am). Hats off to director Gavin O'Connor for this one. Not only is it better than THE FIGHTER, but it's on par with ROCKY and RAGING BULL and is something of a combination of the former's spiritedness and the latter's grittiness. Incredible movie.


                
As this film is about fighting, one cannot help but compare it to other fight films that have gone in the past (Rocky, Raging Bull and more recently The Fighter), but I think it would be fair to say that film breathes fresh air on a genre which could easily produce films that are all a bit samey and prescriptive.This film has many things going for it, primarily the excellent performances by the three key protagonists, perhaps the best of all by Nick Nolte, as a reformed father longing for the forgiveness of his two sons. It's this story which really captivates you throughout the film. Yes the fight scenes are excellent, but it's the scenes between Hardy, Edgerton and Nolte that drives this film. It feels strange to say that Warrior's best scenes are not those inside the cage, but I think that is a good thing. Often within this genre you wish you could fast-forward to all the fights but to do that with this film would be to miss many memorable moments. The direction is good and it has a bold story with multiple subplots which i didn't expect. The violence isn't as graphic as you might expect but i think the 12A certificate explains why. Highly recommend this film, even for those who wouldn't normally choose to watch a fight film.Warrior is a well made beat 'em up drama that hits hard, but tugs even harder on the heartstrings.


                
Enough of Boxing films already. Warrior brings us to the world of Mixed Martial Arts, which has been around for years, but never really making it to a notable big screen interpretation save for the Hong Kong film Flashpoint starring Donnie Yen taking down a string of bandits led by Collin Chou in the film's climatic finale. Perhaps its more contemporary slant meant a little less understanding of the art to effectively bring it to the cinemas, but Gavin O'Connor's film will open doors for MMA to work, and work well.Structurally it adopts from the many boxing films already out there where you know that bouts alone do not make a meaningful, moving film, without that degree of humanity and adversity, especially if coming from within family. providing avenues for some deep rooted family estranged ties to be addressed along the way. The story by O'Connor and Cliff Dorfman recognizes this key point, and stripped away of its violence, it's this emotional tussle the characters have to face up to that's more daunting than beefy opponents in the ring, providing Warrior its very crucial heart that keeps the film alive and pumping from the get go.Tom Hardy bulks up for this role and his next as Bane in Christopher Nolan's The Dark Knight Rises, and plays Tommy Conlon, a mean badass of a soldier who had deserted his comrades and made his way to his father's home, whom we learn is a no good drunk during Tommy's formative years, and hence comes the resentment. Needing a place to crash and then grudgingly engaging his dad's help to train him for an upcoming MMA tournament, Tom Hardy owned this role in providing that gruff exterior who has to make compromises in his life, and basically living with the enemy and with a closet full of skeletons that threaten to burst open as his profile becomes larger and more prominent given the public tournament.Then there's his brother Brendan (Joel Edgerton), a physics teacher and once MMA exponent whose soaring bills to pay to sustain a family led him to go back to moonlighting in underground bouts, much to the chagrin of his wife Tess (Jennifer Morrison), which is understandable since getting injured or killed, regardless of his assurances, would leave the family very much exposed and weakened. But one's paymaster is always extremely cautious about having employees moonlight on the side, and a choice has to be made whether to drop his interest totally, or decide to go serious with it especially with a five million dollar carrot dangling at the end of a large tournament known as Sparta, where winner takes all and each brother having their own reasons to have a crack at it.So you pretty much know how this is set up for the final act, but trust me the journey, and not the destination, is what Warrior excelled in, with wonderful powerhouse performances put in by Hardy, Edgerton and Nick Nolte, who plays their father now in his twilight years and hoping very much for his sons' forgiveness. This three way relations form the emotional crux of the film without which Warrior would have limped. With Hardy's and Nolte's middle act focused much on their training montage, Edgerton's character development piece was the more uplifting of the lot, and setting up the underdog role quite brilliantly as you'd soon find yourself rooting for him not to have his livelihood and lifestyle destroyed, putting himself forward for a once in a lifetime opportunity.The fight scenes during the Sparta tournament are what made this film stand out as far as action is concerned, providing that no holds barred front row seats as exponents slug it out in brutal fashion, each scheming, grappling, punching and kicking their way to an opponent's submission, or knock out. There are a lot of gladiatorial sport films out there, but Warrior had designed and crafted sequences that don't employ too much bullshit techniques used to cover up the lack of true ability. It is as convincing as it gets here, and you're bound to reel and feel for the fighters.But for all of its bite in the action sequences, Warrior makes a fantastic balance between the need to thrill, and having a soul through its more dramatic moments, thanks to the very well written roles that the various cast members managed to deliver. Highly recommended, and going into my shortlist as one of the best the year has to offer.


                
I'm not even an MMA fan but I was totally engrossed in this and even moved to tears more than once. Heartbreaking and compelling, I guess you could say the story is also somewhat predictable (we've seen similar done in other sports themed movies before) its even far fetched, especially when it comes to the schoolteachers storyline, but the thing is, it just doesn't matter because it's such a great movie.And the acting, wow, its downright amazing. Nick Nolte's character is heartbreaking, but on that note (except for one slip up) we don't get to see him when he was a practising alcoholic either and from the state of his broken, shutdown boys you know he must have been a really, really bad man. I liked how this was left vague.Yeah his sons; Joel Edgerton and Tom Hardy, so many layers to these guys especially Hardy who is captivating. He plays the youngest son who returns home and enlists the help of his remorseful (recovering) alcoholic father -and former coach- to train him for an MMA tournament awarding the biggest purse in the history of the sport. Meanwhile his older brother is on the verge of losing his house and also returns to the ring which sets the estranged brothers on a collision course for the title.The fight scenes are gripping and intense and had me peeking through my fingers "arm bar for the tap out." In the end, I mean you do want the brothers to come together and face off in the ring but jeez... that final round rips your heart out. A big hit and instant classic for me. 10/10/14


                
Oh my God !That is the least you can say after seeing this movie. Let's start by saying that I am a huge fan of boxing and fighting film in general. My baseline for comparison until now was, of course, Rocky. After seeing Warrior, I might just have to change that baseline.What a movie, what a script, and to my surprise, what acting! Nick Nolte is, as usual, remarkable. But, to my surprise, Tom Hardy makes one of the best performances I have seen in years. I'm not going to spoil this for you, I am only going to tell you this: I was so reluctant to watch this film, and have had it for several months. After seeing it today, I'm truly sorry for not watching this earlier; after so many disappointing films, this is the one we have been waiting for...Must see !!!


                
With all due respect to the excellence of film artists amidst the hype of Hollywood stardom (even without having seen the other movies), this one, "WARRIOR," I really wanted to get BEST PICTURE 2012, and I could see no other in its place. And far be it from me to say, but I think the voters kind of dissed Beethoven because he was too wonderful in this picture, but then again, I'm a musician. Nobody could have rightly fit Beethoven into personal tragedy in these times involving the effects of war rising out of decades of U.S. conflict in the Middle East—beginning back with Desert Storm and Kuwait and Iran, and then later Afghanistan and Iraq after 09/11, and God knows what after. Fittingly, the film brought much of this into play. Called "Warrior," the story tells of two, warrior types, brothers in conflict affected by the unexplainable things that face our own human condition, just trying to grow up and raise a family in this world, and then with this utter senselessness of war pounding them further down. Immediately you pick up on the tension happening with the brothers. And Eegad! They're Irish! And then<U+0085>catharsis takes you in—you begin to feel that purging, evolving steadily, slowly out of the Beethoven streaming "Ode to Joy" gloriously all throughout. And you felt this burliness too, of the fighters—despite the terribly awesome intensity of emotions the brothers were called to portray, their smash-down burliness served only to heighten an indescribable "machismo" in these two actors, whose names I did not register immediately, so much were they into their character—Tom Hardy and Joel Edgerton. Nick Nolte, on the other hand, was just coolly brilliant. Right at the beginning, you caught glimpses of his saddened eyes of repentance for his derelict ways, with just a wee smile of hidden pride in the boys. Aw jeez, I felt like I was almost watching "Long Day's Journey into Night" — seriously! The whole cast and crew should still be partying up! Amen?


                
Warrior is an action-drama centered around Tommy (Hardy) and Brendan Conlon (Edgerton) who get into a multi martial art fighting tournament called Sparta. The film is directed by Gavin O'Connor and stars Tom Hardy, Joel Edgerton along with Academy Award nominee Nick Nolte, Frank Grillo and Jennifer Morrison.Pros :A very overdone plot - where a guy fights to save his family and the ones that he cares about -was very well presented. The story wouldn't have been able to attract the crowds if it wasn't handled well. The story was well built and had a perfect balance of drama and action as it slowly moved from the family life to the tournament. The whole second half was full of nail biting fights in the championship along with peoples' reactions and expectations. The writer gave proper attention to the characters giving details of their backgrounds that ultimately gives them the motive to be a part of the tournament. A Russian fighter named Koba, played by Kurt Angle, was introduced. He never lost any fight and was proposed to win the championship. As an audience you know that he won't but you are anxious to know which out of the two Tommy and Brendan is going to fight him. Once that question is answered, there is a bigger one for you. Who will win? You as a viewer don't want to answer that, because not only it is hard for you to decide but also difficult for you to pick your favorite. The director had so cleverly introduced the protagonists and narrated their stories that it is simply impossible to choose. The action director must be credited for all the fight sequences as both the protagonists had their own way of fighting which was completely different from the other. The climax was unexpected and appropriate. I really like endings that don't have a montage at the end saying '<U+0085>and they all lived happily ever after'. I like films that cut as soon as the conflict is resolved. The dialogs were carefully written and placed to reduce the pressure on the viewers that is building continuously. They will definitely bring a little smile on your face. You can read a few of these here. The movie was very well directed, giving no space for any kind of loopholes or continuity errors. I was waiting if there is an error in the movement when the camera switched to different angles, but I couldn't find any. From my experience I can say that the pre-production was really strong. The director knew exactly what he wanted and hence even minute details like stubble, random messages on the gym white board etc. were taken care of. The art department did a nice job taking care of the different looks of gyms, classrooms and of course that of the tournament. The cinematography was had something new. There was a very slow shift of focus from one subject to another in various scenes, which I felt was nice. There were some POVs in the fight sequences that looked brilliant. It appeared as if the hands came out of the camera and hit the fighter. The actors did full justice to their roles, the efforts in bringing out the appropriate look was seen. Cons:I loved the movie completely. I am not going to say anything here just for the heck of writing something.The Verdict :Tom Hardy already has movies like Inception, Rocknrolla and awaited The Dark Knight rises in his credential and Warrior is an edition in the same. The movie will definitely bring Joel Edgerton to the limelight and we expect to see him in good projects in the future. This is one of the best films that of 2011. It's a Must watch for guys and girls if you find no reason to watch it, just go for Tom Hardy. Acting and Cast : 9/10 Script : 9/10 Direction : 9.5/10 Cinematography : 8.5/10 Editing : 9/10OVERALL RATING : 9.5/10It is these kinds of films that make us like the Hollywood so much.
This movie killed me. I truly could not stop crying, it really gets to you - and hard. People everywhere are saying this, and one must genuinely be without empathy if this movie does not touch you. I'm astonished by how incredible every aspect of this movie is. The script, the directing, the acting - everything. I've seen a lot of good movies in my<U+FEFF> lifetime, but when the characters gets so realistic and the story so real that you are left with all these emotions and this overwhelming impression - that is truly rare.It's apparent that this is a very personal film, and I'm so glad it was shared. This story, this film has so many layers, nothing is random and very little is just what you see at first glance. It's capable of being discussed on so many levels, that you end up talking for hours - which my friends and I did. There are not enough superlatives to describe this film, they would not do it justice.I take my hat off to everyone who was involved with and in the making of this film. Especially Gavin O'Connor, Anthony Tambakis, Tom Hardy, Joel Edgerton and Nick Nolte. Thank you for a heart-wrenching, touching, wonderful, thought-provoking, unforgettable and amazingly incredible ride.I'll never forget this film, this story, these characters. This film is raw, this film is *truth*. One of the best films I have ever seen. Brilliant film, simply brilliant.


                
This movie...is just exceptional. I'm not a fighting fan, I was convinced to see it by my boyfriend. But I do not regret it! The characters are perfectly cast and beautifully acted. The story is incredibly written, it tells the story of the boys perfectly. I don't know about anyone else, but I started out disliking the father because of how he was inferred to treat the boys and in the end was sobbing with sympathy for him.The appearances from the real fighters really added some reality to the film.Tough, gritty and an incredibly emotional film. A true masterpiece for fight fans and everyone else.
