First off - great camera-work, hence the 2. Now for the core of the movie - brother vs brother is a fun plot that can be twisted every which way. However as soon as some obviously fake Russian character is introduced with the completely out of place Visotski song playing in the background... the pieces start falling in place. This is a classical American tearjerker feelgood movie. The idea alone of a classic underdog has been made into film 100 times better in Rocky, where not the selfish victory but "all-in" attempt at it is what really counts. A battle that could not be won, yet one does not give up. This is the opposite. What could have been a very dramatic (and believable! and almost heartbreaking!) plot of two brothers pitted against each other is washed down the tubes. For someone who has a moderate interest in MMA it is clear the the ending was completely unrealistic and would have never taken place. This is not 1900's, today people are not beaten to within an inch of their life in the ring. To contrast this to any VanDamme flick - think of this movie being a much better attempt at a fighter movie, minus actual fighters who have no acting skills, but add to it American superiority complex and you have the "warrior". Overrated, and sad to say this "warrior" won in the ring but lost to idealism.


                
Oh boy! We've got yet another Rocky movie, this time written by an over-the-top hardship pornographer. All this film needs is a girlfriend recovering from heroin addiction, and the pathos of that, and her illegitimate child who needs an operation no one can afford.... The hero will go in the proving ground and battle for the blah blah blah.The women ogle pectoral definition and the men clench their fists and swing their shoulders. Really, this film just rehashes all those old 1970s buttons and levers to try to make us root for the fighter and his noble cause. There's nothing new here and in a year or so it will have slipped from the top 250 to a more reasonable middle-of-the-pack seat on the list.Most sports movies have a set pattern to some extent and almost invariably involve an underdog, a villain, and a subplot of some family issue. We expect it and it's the variations on these themes that make or break a movie. This is all cliché stapled to a newish sport.


                
Really??what kind of scenario is this.... are we at the 90s when the good and weak must always win??? or must always the ruined family to be loved again...??? It is impossible for an amateur and an old fighter to win this competition. I was expecting a much realistic scenario in which the characters should be responsible for they decisions. It is another thing to give us a happy ending and another to give us a fairy tale. Too bad....rocky was much a better movie and also they stole the Cinderella man inspiration...they don't even make us to feel the emotions they wanted us to feel.. Bad movie...too bad for hardy cause he is the next big thing!!!!


                
Whoa, this was terrible! Full of clichés, agonizingly boring. Be warned: only MMA fans will enjoy this.I read that some people are comparing this to Rocky, that is a laugh. Rocky keeps you going with a strong and well paced story, this is unfortunately laden full of clichéd seen before boredom, usually the kind you find in Steven Segal movies.Nick Nolte was the only redeeming character in this movie, his performance was fine, but not Oscar worthy. The rest of the cast is just so boring.If you're an MMA fan watch it, otherwise steer clear of this snooze fest.The 8.3 rating is very deceiving, the votes are most definitely from MMA fans.2/10


                
Can't believe the rating of this movie on IMDb. Apart from the acting by Hardy this is drivel. There's no depth whatsoever to the characters and that the two brothers would end up fighting each other is so predictable it almost cancels out the high school leveled biblical intentions. Even Rocky has great depth compared to this, all five of them.There's supposed to be severe hurt in the main characters of the story. Too bad it doesn't come through. The opportunity to really feel with the father and brothers never arise as they are given no time to become real people. They're just put in three formatted frames that everybody has seen at least 200 000 times before. One- the guy about to lose everything he's got and has to fight to survive. Two- the alcoholic trying to redeem himself and falls off the wagon when confronted with result of his previous life. Three- the barrel of rage in the form of a deserted son.All three very good ingredients to put in a movie-stew. But the taste of this one is sadly bland.


                
OK fans, just hear me out.First, why Tommy made up with his dad?because Tommy liked him better when he was drunk? Second,why movie waits a long long time to tell you what was happened in "THE TAPE"? let's skip a bit. Main flaws: Brandon was tired like hell, he got beat up in his previous matches, suddenly he Wins against COBA the Russian! OK that's fine!I believe you!the guy never lost, and then a physics teacher knock him out!!! Other side, Tommy fought just for 10 seconds in total, before the final!Final match: 2 brothers against each other... one is exhausted, one is fresh like a new day vegetable! How the hell Tommy didn't finish him up like the others??? I just Don't get it. It was a joke to me my friends. This whole movie is based on a "brother killing" philosophy!but only one of the brothers has this philosophy!it's a very bad movie! I cant understand why everyone is so happy with this! it's full of flaws! not in the directing and acting of course,but a lot in the screen play!!!!even the fight scenes are very bad! and I can't find out why is it on the top 250! thanks!
