How this film got 8/10 stars is beyond me. They meet on the beach at night for a tête-à-tête? Puhleez. The music is overblown and sappy. The fight scenes are absurd. Nolte reads from a script that is nothing but a chain of clichés.8/10? #145 in the top 250? I guess the knuckle draggers who enjoyed the film know enough to rate a movie online, but not enough to distinguish between this dreck and something that actually required artistry and intelligence ("There Will Be Blood," or "The 400 Blows," or "Barry Lyndon," for example, which are given lower ratings).No wonder "Idiocracy" was buried...it was too close to the bone for the audiences who screened it.


                
Comparing this movie to Rocky is an outrage, so shame on you if you dare compare a poop pile like this to Rocky. Warrior has some decent fighting scenes in it but thats where it ends which unfortunately isn't enough to make an entertaining movie. The acting was below average and the way the entire story was put together was a train wreck. This one just drags on and on and on and it's so unbelievably boring that you would have to be a warrior to stay awake. I think spending 2 hours watching grass grow would have a better plot. The fact that the story in a way tries to rip off Rocky makes it pretty pathetic as well but I would still never dare compare this to Rocky. I gave the movie a 3 because like I said the fighting scenes were OK.


                
I know 3D does not really take of, but does a movie have to be as one dimensional as this one? The moment the viewers were told the two brothers were going to fight in the same tournament, the outcome was foreseeable. I must admit that the sweat, the blood, the atrocity was all filmed very impressively, also thanks to the sound design, but the story is really very, very shallow. The good brother versus the bad brother. The wife opposing the fight, but turning like a leaf. The school principal opposing the fight, but turning like a leaf. The outsider, bound to win. The uncongenial favorite, who doesn't stand a chance against the hero. The no-good father, but still a rough diamond. The American fairy tale that, no matter how violent, the hero deserves our sympathy. I could go on, however, the only scene I anticipated, but to my surprise was not there, is the famous daddy-daddy scene; you know, the scene where the children run over a fresh green field to their victorious father, crying out "Daddy, daddy!" So, all in all, it could even have been worse...


                
It was boring movie!waste of time!you get tired of the movie in the middle


                
I have several gripes about this film. The characters are shallow. The dialogue is bland. The score is boring and derivative. The editing effects are undramatic. The plot manages to be predictable.I just don't get the high rating, unless the average viewer is over- stimulated by gratuitous violence. To be fair, I am not a fan of mainstream fighting sports. I have more respect for oriental martial arts like Wing Chun.As they say with cooking - if the ingredients are good, it'll taste good. So conversely this film tastes like unsweetened gruel.I have tried to see this film through several times, but it just doesn't manage to keep my interest enough to stop me bailing out.


                
One the worst films a saw in while - and that goes especially for the screenplay. The only reasons for holding up until the end were the fight scenes. And even they became so unreal and the end. The plot was definitely not worth the book it was written on. War hero, Russian bad guy, school teacher MMA world champion ??? A broke war veteran, without PST, who will donate his prize money to the widow of his war buddy? The writers had totally NO idea where the story was supposed to be going to. Fragments of anonymous family biographies, desperately linked up to produce a script. This quality is even worse than a beginners failure... sorry
This is the boringest martial arts movie I've ever seen.. and I liked the Rocky movies (which are really boring).There is so little action, and the characters and plot are just... sigh.That's what I was thinking after sitting through more than an hour of it-- I was going to give it a 2. Then it got better.Still crappy American lots-of-cuts action, but at least there was some action.I can't fathom this movie. You will get much more mileage about MMA and brothers if you youtube search Emelianenko.


                
I'm a big UFC fan and have started to watch all the MMA movies I could find. I went into watching this movie completely ready to enjoy the story line, the fight scenes, and whatever other magic this film would have to offer. That is, I was ready to like it. Well, sad to say, this movie disappoints on many levels. It starts out fine, with good character development, the hint of some intrigue, the modern theme of foreclosure, and it seems like the movie will be good. The problem is, the way the story unfolds, it definitely is not a feel good movie. Of course, it's obvious to everyone where it's headed, so that's another disappointment - there is no surprise as to how the tournament will turn out, except for who will win. Ultimately, I expected some sort of resolution where both guys win - meaning, one guy wins the fights, yes, but both guys come out winners in real life. The director does the best he can to get to that conclusion, but I think it's just yucky by the end. How can I really feel good after seeing the final fight? Not knowing how the prize money, which has good intentions for both guys, will be used or split? Of course, there had to be the brother reconciliation, that was to be expected, and that part was OK. The two things that really made this movie a stinker are these. The MMA scenes are awful. Just terrible. Why? The camera work! It's dizzying, moves way too fast, there is never any focus, and it all just feels, well, not even frenetic, just like it was the best that could be done to splice together bits of the acted fighting to make it feel intense and high action. I had to look away for parts of the fight because the camera work was so bad, and certainly, you get no sense of what is developing in the fight. Of course, they can't show even a full 5-minute round, but the editing down to what it ended up with was terrible. Then, the final part where one brother gets injured badly - forget it, right then and there, it's just pointless. At least if they'd ended the final fight at the 3rd round at that injury, there would be a semblance of reality in terms of how MMA fights really wind up. The second thing, now, is that everyone kept saying this was the next Rocky feel-good underdog movie. It wasn't. The reason being, by the time you get to the final fight, the whole lead-in is awful, and you feel conflicted knowing brothers are going to fight. How does that feel good? Of course you know why - because the brothers will reconcile. So there should be triumph. But there isn't, not to me. And how could there be? One brother has to lose, and he gets devastatingly injured in a very similar fashion to the way that Antonio Nogueria was in real life (granted, that was after this movie was released). Rocky feels good at the end. Rudy feels good. This movie does not. I usually feel very confident relying on IMDb movie review ratings, and I could see this coming in at 6.5 to 7.0, but no way it's 8.3 in my book. If you're an MMA fan, and if you have any expectation of a feel good Rocky type movie, forget it. This movie turns out to be quite disappointing. Better: Never Back Down 2. That movie isn't as high production quality, but it's better overall to me.


                
Let me submit another review that is sure to accumulate negative votes from people who enjoy any brainless series of images you throw at them. Why not? The only problem is that it's really difficult to review this movie--to describe its crapitude--without including spoilers.This could have been quite a good movie. It really could have. But rather than make it even the slightest bit realistic, they take the low road. All the main characters are caricatures.I am very good at avoiding the temptation to predict what will happen in movies. I don't find it enjoyable to guess what will happen. A good movie will help to this end, by not being painfully predictable. This movie is so painfully predictable... it hurts. The kind of "predictable" that is utterly annoying. And unbelievable.We have two brothers who look absolutely nothing like brothers. And neither looks at all like their father. Already, this movie is making it difficult to suspend disbelief.One brother is an absolute monster in the ring. The other was not good at all, even in his prime. Yet we are supposed to believe that the guy who sucked when he was a young adult has become the world's best fighter in his late 30s, after a few weeks of training listening to Beethoven.The middle-aged brother is so opposed to filing for bankruptcy that he decides it's better to get pummeled to make money, because hey, $500 here and there is so worth it. And he loses his teaching job along the way. Great plot. But oh!--There's a huge tournament coming up with a massive payout! How lucky! Good thing middle-aged brother has a Rocky-like ability to overcome the ravages of time and reality.It becomes annoyingly obvious early on what will happen: The motivated middle-aged guy will defeat his talented brother (who magically ripped the door off a tank), and a mysterious, monstrous Russian who has wiped out everyone in his path thus far. Yeah, OK. The movie tries to stem predictability by adding a contrived bit about the talented brother giving the (huge) fight winnings to a fallen comrade's wife, but it doesn't help much toward that end. The movie is still painfully predictable.The crap relationship the brothers each have with their father goes nowhere. The best and most realistic part of the movie is when Nick Nolte's character falls off the wagon and gets drunk after being berated for the billionth time by talented son.Please, please rate this review as not helpful. I need to feel like I'm not a mindless sheep and helpful votes will not achieve that end.
