Fullmetal Alchemist. Thanks to the channel Cartoon Network, many now know of its existence. And I admit, seeing the promos almost a year ago definitely sparked my interest. When I received the chance to check the series out, I took it. I was expecting a fantastic, revolutionary series that made praised anime shows like Yu Yu Hakusho and Paranoia Agent look like Tekken the Movie. Boy did I let my hopes up.I might as well talk about the one decent thing the series has. Studio Bones really put themselves into high gear with the animation. Movement is fluid and the artwork is well defined and detailed. But when it comes to terms of plot and character, FMA falls flat on its face.First off, the characters are as shallow as they come. They start out as essentially cardboard cutouts. Guess what? They never evolve beyond them either. There's the typical hot-headed young hero that acts first and never thinks about his actions beforehand yet has a heart of gold, the cliché kind-hearted always-thinks-of-others youth, the smug, manipulative character, the "sexy" clad-in-black villainess, the would-be tough guy that acts against the heroes but winds up allying with them.... stop me if you've heard any of these before.The storyline itself is utterly laughable, with every major "plot twist," coming a mile away, eventually ending in a convoluted alternate reality saga that just keeps on piling with cheap revelation after another until it becomes the story equivalent of a train wreck. Even the pathetic attempts at humor to lighten the mood are unfunny as they come: they often consist of main character Ed throwing a temper tantrum(there's that being a hot-head), usually because someone by complete accident calls him short. As a result, the humor eventually winds up becoming just as stale.Hopefully Cartoon Network will finish showing the second half of this waste of half an hour, and thus get this crap off the air and an actually decent series, anime or not, on. I know to a typical FMA fan I probably sound incredibly harsh in this review. Guess what? I had many high expectations for this show. It didn't live up to any of them.
