I was sick last year (2005 this is '06) for three days straight. So as a result I ended up 'channel surfing' all day and all night. I didn't get ANY sleep.Eventually I turned the channel onto Adult Swim. Mostly because I had seen the title Full Metal Alchemist and was drawn in. I remembered the myths about alchemy although vaguely mostly from random books I had read.The episode I ended up watching was the exam episode which should've been the actual beginning to the series but is actually around the third or fourth episode.And was hooked. I had thought that anime was a useless Japanese art form. Man was I wrong! Intriguing storyline AND amazing animation. This was an aspiring animators dream world.I ended up spending the rest of the year watching all the episodes on Adult Swim...I'd even wake up in the morning and think Full Metal Alchemist's on tonight! And plan my day accordingly. I also ended up buying the Manga which if you have cash to burn and love the series you should do so.The story itself is pretty straightforward at first and seems almost like Inu Yasha where there's the same premise behind every episode but that's only for a little while until you know the characters and than it starts adding to the background situations starts to show whats really going on and whats really behind their quest.The animation in itself just adds to the story with the rich backgrounds and the amazing fights.Overall this would be a good anime to start with if your looking for one. There's only 51 episodes, a movie -Full Metal Alchemist and the Conqueror of Shamballa- and a couple of games so it won't burn too big of a hole in your pocket.


                
If I were to pick one word to describe FullMetal Alchemist, Hagane no renkinjutsushi, it would amazing, or ohmygod, or simply just a drop of the jaw and "wow." But that wouldn't do something this great justice. For those of you have heard this series can't compare with Naruto and Bleach, no, it can't, it's 100x better. This series will make you laugh, feel a very deep compassion for the characters, want to make you scream in rage, make you want to scream with happiness, and yes, even cry. Yeah. I cried a couple times. And the plot, oh yes, the plot. It's one of the best I've ever seen. Some might say it's too dark, I disagree, it's just honest. It explains that what's gone is gone, and we can't bring it back, people die for a reason, people die for no reason, life isn't fair, you only get what you give, all good things come to an end and we can only make the best of what we're given. Now the Characters, from Edward to Envy, Winry to Hughes, Scar to Rose, Riza to Roy, all characters have something special about them, and it will make you feel a deep compassion for them, weather it's Edward or Roy. Each character is developed and deep to it's full extent. The music is great, the Japanese voice actors are amazing, and the English Dub is one of the best I've seen. In short: If your an anime fan, or just dipping your toes, FullMetal Alchemist is a showcase of wonderful characters and plot, action, drama, tears and laughs.


                
It has been 2 weeks since I have finished this series and the ending is still lingering with me. I heard that this was an excellent series from a friend so I decided to check it out myself. Well, all I can say is that FMA has exceeded all my expectations and have become my favorite anime in recent years. It has actually surpassed my other favorites including Neon Genesis, Cowboy Bebop, Berserk, Escaflowne, GTO, and even Gungrave which is second on my list. The writer and director of this series has such a wonderful imagination. I just don't know how they come up w/ these ideas. The voice acting (Japanese), writing, animation, music, and action is awesome. I just can't praise FMA enough. This is definitely a journey worth taking for all those looking for a good anime.


                
When I heard of "Full Metal Alchemist" i didn't know what to expect! But only after watching the first episode I knew this series was special! From the start it drew me in and took me on a journey in to incredible adventures! It is the story that is truly amazing! At first the story is quite simple,but after a couple of episodes you will get some twists and turns you won't see coming! They managed to dazzle and surprise you almost every episode! Once you start watching "Full Metal Alchemist" you will not stop! The anime successfully mixed different genres (sciencefiction,drama,action,horror and comedy)! Also FMA throws in some serious subjects for us to think about and be entertained at the same time! But what really makes this anime works are the characters! A lot of attention is paid to them! The good guys,the villains all have their good qualities and bad qualities! Evil characters don't have to be pure evil! And the good characters also make mistakes! In that sense most of the characters are very similar to us humans and therefore are very appealing! This anime sure will make an impact on you on different levels! A MUST SEE!


                
When I first started viewing anime, I was at the age where anything action-packed was likely to impress. I regarded the classic DBZ and Gundam Wing to be the best anime ever made and quite frankly I did not agree with the later charts which placed Fullmetal Alchemist above all others. The name said nothing to me but the fact it constantly received comments of high regard persuaded me to watch it...It did not take more than the first episode to bring the realization that this was something of higher class. A superbly polished and well-built story which takes the viewer away from traditional level-up characters and fillers, combined with some of the best characters ever drawn make Fullmetak Alchemist a totem of originality. Whoever said anime are for kids has not been exposed yet to the sheer genius of this series. At the end of the viewing, the only regret for anyone will have been that only 51 episodes were committed to the story (and there is not one which can be called disposable). Fullmetal Alchemist sets a standard of anime which will probably stay unsurpassed for years to come.


                
I finished watching this two weeks ago and I have been recommending it to other people even before I finished the series."Full Metal Alchemist" is a world populated with people who use technology and alchemy to achieve roughly the same powers as those found in North American comic books. Instead of their powers being based on a mutant gene or exposure to radiation or a refugee from another planet, alchemists get their abilities by altering the molecular structure of matter.If you liked "Ninja Scroll" because of its story, unique characters and action; than you will be blown you away with the depth and constantly changing plots and subplots of Full Metal Alchemist.I also have to mention I watched this from poorly subbed DVDs; it was so bad that in the last DVD one of the main characters had a different name in English subtitles but it was still the same in the Japanese audio. There are 51 episodes, I initially watched one or two episodes per day but in the end I watched the remaining 20 episodes in two days. From what little I could understand from the subtitles I still thought the Full Metal Alchemist is amazing and I look forward to watching it again with proper English dubbing.It is very important to watch this series in a row.This is not an anime for kids.BTW: The 52nd episode in the series is the movie. Full Metal Alchemist the Movie: Conqueror of Shamballa. The story is still open even after the movie ends.+++++Spoilers Below+++++ If you are willing to give Full Metal Alchemist a chance than do not read the following. ++++++Spoilers Below+++++The series is about love, loss/death, revenge, abandonment, loyalty and the mistakes people commit when trying to do the right things. With that in mind, the main bad guys are named after the Seven Deadly sins (Pride, greed, lust, envy, gluttony, wrath, sloth).There are also "good" people, I am not sure if they are supposed to represent the Seven Virtues but some do have those qualities.The main plot starts off with the two brothers needing to find the Philosophers stone so they can undo a mistake they made. So it starts off like any other story with the great never ending search but with Full Metal Alchemist they do find what they are looking for early on in the series. However there are shocking revelations surrounding the stone.
Fullmetal Alchemist (Or to the purists Hagaren no Renkinjutsushi (Not sure I spelt it right)) Has become one of the most popular animes in both America and Japan. The story revolves around Edward and Alphonse Elric who attempted to bring their mother back from death by attempting human transmutation. But they paid a hefty price. Edward lost his left leg and Alphonse lost his entire body. Edward then sacrificed his right arm to seal Alphonse's soul into a suit of armor. The Elric brothers now seek the legendary Philosopher's Stone (Not the Harry Potter one, lol) to restore their bodies. However there are others out to get the stone for their own purposes. In my opinion this may actually be the best anime around. Sadly it's only 51 episodes :(. But it's worth every second to watch this show.Really excellent show 10/10
This anime first came out in English when I was a freshman in high school. I was a real anime geek and would watch whatever would come on Adult swim, but there are certain shows, books, or movies that can change a person's life because of the characters. That's what Full Metal Alchemist was to me. The characters were so well written, each with a past that was unique. This show had me on my seat routing for the two characters Edward and Alphonse. They made the personalities of the characters into someone that people could relate to. They even made the "Bad guys" the homunculus into people that you, in the end, felt kind of sorry for (with the exception of Envy, he can burn for all I care) Also, may I just say that normally I don't like English dubbed anime, but the dubbers of this anime did such a fantastic job and put all the right emotions in to all the right places and they did an extraordinary job with each of the characters. Especially Vic Mignogia with Ed, my hats off to that man, he is an awesome actor! This anime actually, as cheesy and lame as it sounds, helped me a lot with my own personal life. There's one phrase that Edward says, that stands out to me, and that's "You've got a good strong pair of legs on you, it's time to get up and use them" It made me think a lot about how people just sit on their butt and dream, but if you don't take action, then those dreams and things that you want will never become attainable.
While it may be nothing like the Manga in many respects, Full Metal Alchemist is, without a doubt, one of the best anime series out there (at least in the top ten). How it achieves this is by having to-the-point dialogue, excellent storytelling, action that can't really be done anywhere else, amazing voice acting, wonderful symbolism, and a tie-in philosophy that permeates all points of the storyline.I can't even begin to speak about how aptly played the voices are, or how time is never wasted in weaving a tale of ambitions, hidden sides, and the boundaries and secrets no one must know or cross, lest they be punished.And the action... Superb! In all the series I've seen (and I've seen a few) there's no other action style that could compare to that which is exemplified in this series. Avatar had element bending, Naruto has jutsus, Bleach has overglorified sword fighting, Dragon Ball has excellent hand to hand combat, and Tengen Toppa Gurren Lagann has giant robots and explosions... Full metal Alchemist has all that and more! (minus the giant robots) Finally, all the characters are so well done. The Elric brothers are wonderfully delved into more than the relationships between them, but also to their relationships with others. The minor characters (even the villains) quickly become major characters of their own right. All the characters are quirky, yet sophisticated, funny, yet serious.In a nutshell, Full Metal Alchemist is original action, story, character, and WOW factor all rolled into one. Filled with short jokes (you'll see why), refined storytelling, amazing characters, and a beautiful performance altogether. My only peeve is the cliffhanger at the ending (but the movie afterword cleared it all up, so it's OK). They also recently came out with another FMA series (Brotherhood) that is truer to the original Manga, I suggest watching this series through first before watching Brotherhood, as it really gives you more appreciation for the different storyline, the short jokes, and the different take on the amazing world of alchemy. But besides that, this series is totally worth getting, you won't be sorry.
This show... wow. It was my first real anime. I got into it on episode 7, one that's extremely emotional, probably the reason I got into it. I hadn't a clue what the hell was happening, but it made me cry. This series is absolutely perfect. People assume anime is all about chicks, crappy animation and crappy story lines. No. This is one of those few that stick out.The animation is a perfect 100. It's clean, it's neat, and easy to draw to. The plot line is one that people can relate to - losing a parent, struggling to move on, being determined for a goal. No one could have guessed the ending. There are many points where you laugh and many where you cry. The characters are so real that you get attached to them and you laugh at their jokes, cry if they do die, feel their pain with them - it's extremely realistic, in the sense of human error. That's what I think the theme is - pure fact of being human, and that humans have errors. The anime doesn't contain slutty girls, either, which is a plus. Including that it isn't set in Japan, but a fiction world mirroring Munich in the 1900's.The manga is even better, one, for the fact that it goes longer. The fact that the anime is only 51 episodes and one movie doesn't bug me at all but the manga and anime are two different story lines. I love both. People at my school, such as the popular kids who think anime is a waste of time, don't understand the plot when I explain it to them. All they see is an armor with some kid with horrible fashion sense, who gets picked on by some ebony haired dude. That's all they see, because they don't understand the characters. At all. If you've ever lost a parents, or a loved one... if you only have a sibling for family... if you have ever felt like when someone dies, there's a way to bring them back, somehow, then this show is for you. Of course, many teens nowadays can't get past the fact that a show or movie is animated, or it's not cool enough, or not popular, or that liking an anime makes you gay. Don't believe them and get over the fact that it's animated (it's better that way, anyway!), and you'll see a show of gold.It shows many vital things; character development, some hints of romance (especially in the manga), sibling love, family issues, determination, tear-jerking moments (MANY), laugh-out-loud moments, those warm moments, and how one boy who dared to try the impossible and almost lost his brother matured and starts to understand slowly that he's only a human, and that although he is an alchemist, things can still happen that no amount of alchemy can repair. He'll gain friends, gain allies, lose friends, lose battles, have to kill, have to be leashed to the state like a mutt, and he'll have to relive a nightmare he can't escape. But he'll mature, and understand that the world moves in only one direction.Fullmetal Alchemist, in the end, is THE best anime out there, in my opinion.
*possible light spoilers!* In a forbidden alchemic experiment to attempt to bring back their dead mother, Edward lost an arm and a leg, and Alphonse lost his entire body, and would have died if Edward hadn't secured his soul to a suit of armour. The two Elric brothers set off to find the philosophers stone in order to regain what they lost, aided and opposed by various individuals and groups along the way.If I could give this anime my own star rating, it would be about one million out of ten! Full Metal Alchemist is one of my all time favourite shows (not just animes); the story lines, drawing, voice acting and soundtrack are all fantastic. But most notable are the characters, particularly the contrast between the two brothers: the strong, determined and short-tempered alchemic prodigy Edward, against the sweet, naive Alphonse who puts others before himself. The supporting characters, both major (such as the arrogant, driven Roy Mustang, my personal favourite, and Winry, the brothers' machinery-obsessed childhood friend) and minor (like Rose, Marco and Barry the Chopper), are perfectly realised, and the host of evil beings they face are scary indeed.As well as watching the entire Japanese series, I have also seen some of the English versions of episodes. The dub is extremely good, particularly in comparison with other recent efforts. Some of the voices are even improved, such as (in my opinion) Roy. I prefer the anime over the manga, but I don't think it really matters which version of the anime you watch, as little has been changed.I would recommend FMA to anyone over the age of 12, mainly because they would get more out of it, and because the themes are sometimes a bit dark (there are significant character deaths as well). FMA perfectly balances humour and adventure with the more adult issues of war, politics and revenge, allowing viewers of differing ages and interests to interpret it as they wish.


                
This story evolves around two brothers, both blessed with the gift of alchemy, that are traveling through a fictional world that is a combination between 19th century Europe and The Wild West. On their journey they discover that alchemy - a kind of magic that can pretty much do anything - demands a sacrifice as an equal trade. This means that if you use it, you'll lose something of value. In the case of the boys they used alchemy to bring back their dead mother, resulting in that young sibling Alphonse lost his entire body. Devastated by this cruel fate, older brother Edward created a kind of harnass for the soul of Al to live in, losing his right arm in the process.I liked this show for being happy and slightly childish on the outside, while being so thoroughly dark and sinister in the core. It's a pretty dark world Ed and Al live in, filled with serial killers, scientists playing with lives to enhance their alchemy skills and untrustworthy people betraying those they love, and many, many more bad people. But at the center of everything are these two brothers, following each other to the outskirts of their world to find a way to claim back their physical bodies. Their relationship is so cute. While big mouth and risk taker Ed is somewhat of a short guy, the young sibling Alphonse is a huge talking cyborg with the voice of a child.


                
When I first saw this show(Starting off in like..the 30's), I was so interested. I started watching them, and still do. While I haven't seen the Japanese, I watch it on Adult Swim every..morning at about 1:00 AM EST. Well, it's about two brothers, Edward Elric, and Alphonse Elric. They go searching for the Philosopher's Stone, turning up nothing, but helping people along the way.After losing their mother, Edward his right arm and left leg, Alphonse his whole body, his soul which is in a suit of armor, now, set off to become State Alchemists. Someone named Roy Mustang tells Alphonse he cannot take the test, because others will inquire as to why he's a suit of armor with no body inside, and mind you, Human Transmutation(which is what the Elric brothers did to deserve this) is forbidden for this reason.Edward passes with flying colors, finding out he doesn't need a transmutation circle(Something that alchemists need to use to use alchemy). I just recommend you watch this, because this was a poorly made thing and I shouldn't have done it in the first place. Seeya.
I had no idea that there existed such an anime! So a week ago a friend told me that this is the best ever anime. Well, I decided to find out my self and guess... IT IS THE BEST EVER. I always prefer 3D animated movies or TV series but the point of this anime goes far beyond the pictures. It has to do with the human. YES, it has social and anthropology messages. I would not recommend it for a child but every adult should watch it. The plot is perfect and everyone will bound with each character. The writer or writers are genius. Even the words that Al is saying in every introduction of a part are changing and describe the state of their understandings. There are so many things I would like to write about this anime but I don't want to spoil it. In conclusion, this is a MUST SEE animated TV series.


                
I decided to start watching this show almost grudgingly. I thought it was going to be outright depressing and maybe even a chore to watch. Boy, was I ever wrong! This is possibly one of the most well balanced animes I've seen. It's sad at some points, but it's a very uplifting series. It doesn't dodge realistic problems-- many of the problems of wrong-doing and corruption can be related to in real life. At the same time, it maintains a demeanor all its own with a nice splash of liveliness and some excellent quotable lines. The main protagonists are less than sullen. They're lovable and endearing, and you quickly become absorbed in cheering on their victories and hoping the best for them in their adventures. It gives a lot of meaning to the importance of one's family.With seriousness, humor, action, an engrossing style and such a unique cast of characters, this is an easy series to get into. I highly recommend it! :D


                
Full metal alchemist (FMA) is definitely the best anime I have ever seen. It is perfect for anyone of any taste, including Action, Comedy, Horror, Scifiish-fantasyish-ness, Angsty/drama, and just a tad bit of romance perfectly! It is good for somebody of any age and don;t worry, it's story's great too!! Just be ready to get teary every now and then :)Its characters are well developed, and you are almost definitely going to be able to connect to at least one of them through the series.As for the art, its done great! Its not quite classic anime but close enough to where it would be perfect for drawing and can be beautiful AND cool, even at the same time.If you watch this, though I recommend the books too, which are just as good even though somewhat different.If you like this series I also recommend:Kino's Journey (its a beautiful world)-for a good deep oneEscaflowne-if you like the adventure styleKiddy Grade-One of those ones that tends to be a lot about what you believe in and the relationships between characters + some cool action :)


                
This was one of the best anime series I have ever seen. The level of detail and attention paid to its story, theme, plot, basis and every idea as well as animation was fantastic. The characters were amazing and the viewer is thrown from one end of the emotional spectrum to the other. I must warn beginner anime fans not to start with FMA though as you will find yourself comparing all other animes too it, mainly unfavourably. Also, some of the military characters look very alike to start off with, and if you're not used to picking out distinctions you may struggle at first. Another warning is that this is a long series. With 51 episodes it took me three days to complete fully, including the movie (a must see also). The series throws you in headfirst, which means you have to be quite alert to remember place names, people and previous plot points. Pay close attention to the flashback episodes or the series will make less sense, if any at all. By far the best anime I've seen. Nothing I have seen as yet comes near to paralleling it.


                
This anime will break you psychologically, when you think you are prepare to something the opposite happens, always happens the things you don't want to happen.FullMetal is a very sad anime through the death of the mother of Ed and Al Elric, to the the transmutation that went wrong and for me the death of Maes Hughes, that puts the anime in a very deep emotional stage, but there are others stories in the middle like the story of Winry Rockbell parents and Roy Mustang that makes the anime even more emotional.And the subject of the anime, alchemy, gives that mystery that everybody loves.If you like to be surprise or like a very emotional story this is the greats anime you will ever see.
This has to be my all-time favorite show. Fullmetal Alchemist is bursting with character development, plot twists, and amazing features. Edward Elric and Alphonse Elric both go through amazing developments throughout the series, and are immature early on, but we see them mature over time. Everyone central to the story plot has a lot of character development involved. Plot twists abound in this series, with many surprise deaths, and mysteries solved. Features include the astounding music used, composed by Oshima Michiru. The music is amazing by itself, even if you haven't seen the show. Oshima does an awesome job with all the music. The opening and ending themes are also definitely noteworthy. Every one of them is a good song, and matches the tone of the particular set of episodes. The only downfall this story may have is that it's very angsty and depressing often. I didn't find that the angst dragged it down, though those looking for a happy story should probably look somewhere else. Even though that's the case, there's still room for plenty of jokes at Edward's expense, especially in Episode 13: Fullmetal vs Flame. Filler episodes are virtually non existent, and those that seem like filler eventually advance the story one step further in the end. The only exception might be Episode 4: A Forger's Love. This did very little for the storyline, though it still wasn't altogether horrible. The ending episode was definitely the most emotional for me overall, as it may have been THE most unpredictable ending I've ever seen. Voice actors are all wonderful in their roles. Romi Paku(Sub) and Vic Mignogna(Dub) both do an awesome job portraying Edward Elric, while Rie Kugimiya and Aaron Dismuke both do an equally awesome job as Alphonse Elric. There wasn't a single time I was wincing because of the odd voice actor, even for the dubbed version ^_^ You can probably see why I really love Fullmetal Alchemist(Hagane no Renkinjutsushi) so much, and why I gave it a 10/10 rating.


                
Alternately strange and wonderful, horrifying and hilarious, heartbreaking and uplifting; Fullmetal Alchemist -aka Hagane no Renkinjutsushi - is a story of brotherly love, determination, perseverance - and alchemy. Just in case you haven't seen it, I've clicked the "contains spoiler" box. Stop reading right now if you haven't.The storyline is deceptively simple: First, imagine an alternate Earth where it is possible to perform alchemy. Although set in the early 1900s, society has developed quite differently from our world, particularly in technology, and the roles of women. Abandoned by their father at a young age, Edward, and his little brother Alphonse Elric live a quiet life in the small village of Risembool with their mother Trisha. When she dies a few years later, her heartbroken sons attempt to resurrect her in the forbidden act of human transmutation. Both suffer great physical handicaps as a result. Edward feels it's all his fault, and he takes it upon himself to regain what they have lost. Detailing it would take too long, but you can be sure of a wild roller-coaster ride of adventures.
In 2003 a anime giant was born in the form of Fullmetal Alchemist. The first and one of the very few shows in general (not only Japanese or animated) to be well balanced. It got great action, but it also got great dialogues! It got great humor but it also got great drama! It got a great timeless soundtrack but once it also got great pop songs in the openings and endings!
It got it's flaws (particular with the ending). But even then it's balanced up! It's very hard to find a story THIS balanced in any media, and when I find a show like this, it just make my day better. I definitely recommend it.


                
Damn it... 
I cry after watch this anime...
This anime most watch for u wibu


                
First of all this series is a masterpiece The visuals, The brilliant story/ Characters and the Soundtrack is beautiful. This is a must watch for any anime fan, At times it's got the child like fun but at other times it's some dark stuff and I would not recommend leaving your children watch it.


                
I remember watching this tv show over a decade ago back when it used to air on Adult Swim. It was a much different anime series than what I was used to at the time. It was dark and gritty, but it still had fair amounts of humor. It doesn't matter if this show wasn't faithful to the manga because the original is still one of the best. This is a show that has to be seen to believed and it is so captivating even over a decade after its original release that it's easy to forget that this show is animated. I call that a true testament to the writers, animators and director that poured their heart and soul into this series. The story follows two brothers Edward and Alphonse Elric as they go on a journey to reclaim what they lost. Years before they tried to bring their dead mother back to life using alchemy, but it went horribly wrong. In the process Edward lost his right arm and left leg while Alphonse lost his entire body and had his soul bound to a suit of armor. That's the basic synopsis but the story gets more complex and engaging as the show progresses going into deep themes of war, family, corruption, genocide, and even religion. The story can be funny in one episode and then be dark in the next and still flow together. It is even heartfelt at times that it still makes me cry all these years later. The story is fairly faithful to the manga up until the Laboratory 5 arc then diverges and tells its own original story. Normally the story would have suffered in quality because of such a divergence but here its not the case. The story is still captivating and engaging. Now the characters are what really drive the core of this show because without captivating and interesting characters then the show wouldn't be watched. Edward and Alphonse Elric make for one of the best anime duos of all time and maybe even in all of television for that matter. Their brotherly relationship is very genuine, warming and they play off of each other extremely well. The supporting characters are all great as well and each of them gets to shine throughout the show. The main villains are artificial humans called Homunculi named after the Seven Deadly Sins and a man known as Scar. These are not your typical two dimensional villains out to control the world. The original FMA is probably one of the only tv shows I ever watched that made me sympathise with the villains and that is something that few shows even, live action are able to pull off well.The animation is great for its time and still holds up very well even by today's standards. The music by Michiru Oshima is very excellent bringing out the full emotion of the entire series. The most memorable for me was "Brothers" which serves as a somber theme to both Edward and Alphonse.The show is very notable for having a fantastic dub done by Funimation which is almost if not just as good as "Cowboy Bebop". Vic Mignogna is excellent as Edward and he does a fantastic job of bringing out his hotheaded personality and genuine emotions. Likewise with Aaron Dismuke who plays Alphonse. Dismuke was actually 12 years old around the same age as Alphonse in the tv show which added extra depth to the character. Both Mignogna and Dismuke play off each other very well and you really do get the sense that these are brothers looking out for each other. The rest of the cast is great too all giving great performances with Laura Bailey as Lust and Travis Willingham as Roy Mustang being the standouts.As you can probably tell I really love this series and I think it truly is one of the best animes ever made. I don't say that lightly. It really is that great despite it not being faithful to the manga unlike its sister series "Brotherhood". The show does a great job at telling its own original story and it is so captivating and engaging with each passing episode that its hard to stop watching. If anyone is looking into getting into anime, the original "Fullmetal Alchemist" is a great place to start.
Always been my most favorite show of all time and the only anime I truly love and care about. For a series that explores warfare and genocide, the darker tone and realistic atmosphere fits the series very well. I'm so glad that the directors and writers of this show adapted the mediocre stereotypical manga into a more philosophical, religious, and coming-of-age tale that is the original 2003 anime. I enjoyed how much the protagonists - those two alchemist brothers named Edward and Alphonse Elric - had more screen time which allowed their relationship and love for each other to blossom. The backstories, origins, and identities of the villains and were well done. Really loved how secretive, competent, and thrilling they all really were. There were numerous morals and sheds of gray throughout the show overall, rather than the usual lame old thin line of black and white seen in many other shows. The State Military characters were great as well, such as Roy Mustang, Maes Hughes, Kimblee, Shou Tucker, Maria Ross, Sheska, etc. Had the anime been following the manga directly from start to finish instead of deviating from the norm, it would have never had been this great. All of the major death scenes were handled extremely well and the ending to the whole show was beautifully bittersweet. The ending was by no means depressing and neither did it made you want to cry or anything like that. It was just simply bittersweet. Despite endless tragedy, the characters still believed in hope and made the best of their situations.Not only was the show depicting warfare, genocide, sin, redemption, and overall human nature maturely and realistically, but also a character-driven series as well as a coming-of-age tale for the Elric brothers. Unlike in the original manga series of the same name and its 2009 anime rebooted version, Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood, no character was a side character or a filler character. Each character played an important role, they moved the story on. The story felt neither too fast nor too slow. It was moving at a steadier pace, unlike many other anime shows, which allowed us to grow attached to the characters rather than the action. The show may have not had as much action, but when it did, it was so immersive and left a huge lasting impact, easily beating the several episode long fights featured in many anime, including Brotherhood. Each and every action caused by a character always came with a consequence in the end and tied up neatly, further proving how horrible the world really is. Each time there was an action scene, the characters were using their minds to think things through within the situation rather than just only their powers. The protagonists also often would lose against the antagonists, which made the show seem more realistic and believable. The show proved how much it didn't need conventional villains or fights being flashy/explosive or the characters being more bad-ass in order to be a good show.The show also didn't constantly hammer every piece of information into your head in terms of character dialogue like you're a preteen; neither did the show overused those annoying chi-bi comedy faces during any of the serious moments because the directors and writers knew those things only work in manga format, so therefore they wouldn't translate well into screen because they wanted you to be heavily immersed into what's going on with the characters and their surroundings. It was very subtle and trusted you to get it on your own. It only needed to tell the most important information and that's it. It never over-clarified what you needed to know just so you don't forget. It's only a matter of paying clear attention so that you can get what you need to know while processing through the show. When you are watching the show, do not expect it to be a roller-coaster ride from start to finish. This show will always keep you at the edge of your seat, just to see what will happen next and hell, even by the end, it will leave you with wanting more. The first 34 episodes of this show are based more-or-less on the first seven volumes of the original manga, but numerous differences and foreshadowing clearly indicted that the directors and writers knew they were gonna overtake the manga as the show went on. So yes, the anime did caught up with the manga which led them to two choices: either jump to filler or make up their own original story, the latter was chosen. Anyway, I just wanted to tell the directors and writers of this anime that I give them a big thank you for producing this masterpiece. I don't even see anything majorly wrong with it at all, contrary to the popular belief. The show's second half seems perfectly fine...to me at least. Once again, thank you to the show's writers and directors for the wonderful story, characters, villains, and oh...can I just mention one last thing how awesome the somber background music in this show really is?! It really fits the show very well.


                
