I might as well just come right out and say it to start with--I have never been a fan of Anime. In general, I watch it if it happens to be on, but more as background noise than for the actual plot content. But this series changed my mind about all that.The first few episodes I watched were on Adult Swim. I liked the idea of magic being explained in a (somewhat) scientific fashion, so I found recordings of the aired episodes online (with subtitles) with the intention of watching them whenever I was bored.I say without shame that I, who have not watched more than a half hour of anime in a single sitting, watched all fifty-one episodes in a single sitting. And it had me sitting on the edge of my seat every time. When a few of the episodes were corrupted, I even edited the videos manually with a hex editor to get them to play properly.I was really turned off to Anime originally because of the way the Japanese animators use frame rates. You only really need one or two frames per second to show movement--and this contrasts with the relatively constant frame rate in American cartoons. It can look rather ugly if you're not used to it. For action scenes, though, they bring out the full 30fps, and the sudden contrast between 2fps, with the character standing there, and 30fps, where the character is executing these stunning martial arts moves, is an incredible sight to see.But I would like to say that this series is a complete series. The last episode does, in fact, contain the conclusion--no premature terminations here. Most anime contains a "Lead-out" which gives the viewer something to think about. It makes it seem more like the characters are still doing something, still living, even after the series is over. I must say that makes the end of the series even harder to bear, because believe it or not, it's like saying goodbye to a close friend.This series has definitely had a major impact on me. It is worth the time (or money) to acquire it. I wouldn't recommend watching all fifty-one episodes together like I did. The intrigue of the plot is intended to hit the viewers like a hammer, and it keeps them coming back week after week. If you watch them all together, it begins and ends so quickly you feel like you've been hit by a truck when it finally DOES end.Full Metal Alchemist is a prime example of excellent story writing. It'll make you laugh and maybe even make a few of you cry, but one thing it won't do is leave you disappointed.


                
I was sick last year (2005 this is '06) for three days straight. So as a result I ended up 'channel surfing' all day and all night. I didn't get ANY sleep.Eventually I turned the channel onto Adult Swim. Mostly because I had seen the title Full Metal Alchemist and was drawn in. I remembered the myths about alchemy although vaguely mostly from random books I had read.The episode I ended up watching was the exam episode which should've been the actual beginning to the series but is actually around the third or fourth episode.And was hooked. I had thought that anime was a useless Japanese art form. Man was I wrong! Intriguing storyline AND amazing animation. This was an aspiring animators dream world.I ended up spending the rest of the year watching all the episodes on Adult Swim...I'd even wake up in the morning and think Full Metal Alchemist's on tonight! And plan my day accordingly. I also ended up buying the Manga which if you have cash to burn and love the series you should do so.The story itself is pretty straightforward at first and seems almost like Inu Yasha where there's the same premise behind every episode but that's only for a little while until you know the characters and than it starts adding to the background situations starts to show whats really going on and whats really behind their quest.The animation in itself just adds to the story with the rich backgrounds and the amazing fights.Overall this would be a good anime to start with if your looking for one. There's only 51 episodes, a movie -Full Metal Alchemist and the Conqueror of Shamballa- and a couple of games so it won't burn too big of a hole in your pocket.


                
If I were to pick one word to describe FullMetal Alchemist, Hagane no renkinjutsushi, it would amazing, or ohmygod, or simply just a drop of the jaw and "wow." But that wouldn't do something this great justice. For those of you have heard this series can't compare with Naruto and Bleach, no, it can't, it's 100x better. This series will make you laugh, feel a very deep compassion for the characters, want to make you scream in rage, make you want to scream with happiness, and yes, even cry. Yeah. I cried a couple times. And the plot, oh yes, the plot. It's one of the best I've ever seen. Some might say it's too dark, I disagree, it's just honest. It explains that what's gone is gone, and we can't bring it back, people die for a reason, people die for no reason, life isn't fair, you only get what you give, all good things come to an end and we can only make the best of what we're given. Now the Characters, from Edward to Envy, Winry to Hughes, Scar to Rose, Riza to Roy, all characters have something special about them, and it will make you feel a deep compassion for them, weather it's Edward or Roy. Each character is developed and deep to it's full extent. The music is great, the Japanese voice actors are amazing, and the English Dub is one of the best I've seen. In short: If your an anime fan, or just dipping your toes, FullMetal Alchemist is a showcase of wonderful characters and plot, action, drama, tears and laughs.


                
This anime is about two gifted brothers who are intelligent, kind and ambitious. They live in a world where Alchemy, and subsequently Alchemist, is the law of the world (vs. science in ours). With alchemy, one can do wonders... repair broken items....change physical properties of a matter...etc. However, alchemy is bound to one rule....one cant take (or make) a thing without giving something in return. With this simple rule, the two brothers go in a maze of exciting adventures, meeting wonderful characters and even sometimes, respectable enemies. The anime is 51 episodes long, which might seem a little too long initially, yet fortunately...each and every episode will tie you to your seat and make you crave for more. Story line is good, a mix of brotherhood, friendship, love, humanity and (like any other anime) the effect of war on people, not to forget the hilarious moments this anime is mined with. Character development is excellent. Drawing is top notch and music is entertaining. Unfortunately, this anime is not concluded after 51 episodes. The movie, and hopefully the conclusion, is to be release 23rd July 2005. This anime is worth every second....a must see.


                
When I had heard that Fullmetal Alchemst, one of the most popular cartoons in Japan was coming to America, I must admit, I was a bit excited.I had heard about it many times form several of my friends who were die-hard fans of anime of any kind. I myself am not a particularly big fan of anime - I enjoy one every so often, but this absolutely blew me away.The tragic story is of the two Elric brothers, Edward and Alphonse ("Al" for short). In a tragic accident, their mother is killed. Devastated, the boys decide to use the ancient art of Alchemy to bring her back to life - but there's one complication: The main rule of Alchemy. This rule of "Equivalent exchange" states that "Nothing can be gained without first losing something of equal value." The boys succeed in resurrecting their mother, but at a horrible cost - Edward's left leg is taken, as is Al's body. Desperate to restore his brother's life, Edward uses his own blood to inscribe an Alchemic circle in a suit of armor, binding Alphonse's soul to the metal. In doing so, he makes yet another sacrifice - his right arm is lost to the demons of the abyss.To recap - Ed loses his right arm and right leg, and Alphonse's body is taken. Now, you'd think that would be an equivalent enough exchange - two body parts and a whole body for their mother's life. But then you'd be wrong, of course. The thing they bring back is not their mother, but an inhuman creature composed of hastily put-together body parts - something that is human and yet not human. An abomination that cannot move or think on its own. From that point on, Ed and Al set out to learn the secret of "Human Transmutation," the one Alchemic skill that would have any hope of bringing back their mother. But at a cost that they may be unwilling to accept...Overall, the series is gripping. Well-written dialogue, intense plot, and the best voice acting I've heard in a television series in a long time. Vic Mignogna, the actor who plays Ed in the American cast is absolutely brilliant - the voice he provides is believable and emotionally charged, a task most voice actors tend to fail miserably at. Aaron Dismuke, the voice of the 14-year-old Alphonse is excellent as well - not only does the irony of an adolescent voice coming from a six-foot-tall suit of armor succeed in getting a few chuckles, but the voice represents the character well. The voice acting brings the characters to life in a way that no other anime ever has before.Overall, it's an incredible series. I'd recommend this to anime fans, and fans of fantasy or sci-fi of any kind (unless you just can't stand Japanese cartoons). FullMetal Alchemist is definitely one of the best television series out there.


                
Whilst most anime is an acquired taste, falling into the fighting (think Dragonball or Bleach) magical girl (Sailor Moon) or romantic (Chobits) genres, Fullmetal Alchemist rises above all this. As the story gradually unfolds, you are drawn ever deeper into a believable alternative world where magic replaces science and its practitioners (Alchemists) are held in high esteem. Yet, few are what they seem and you cannot trust anybody. The good are, in fact, capable of deeds of great evil, and the bad are often doing what they do for good reasons. And just when you think you're getting a handle on it, something comes along that shocks you in such a way you are left thinking about it for days to come. Whilst there are obviously anime elements (the look, fighting segments) the story and, above all, the willingness to shock the audience by hurting and killing characters we have come to know and admire, make Fullmetal Alchemist well worth your time. Of course, you will have to invest a lot of time - 51 half hour episodes and a movie means 26 hours or so of viewing. But it is time well worth spending.


                
This series has one of the most amazing endings I've ever seen...ANYWHERE. Out the half dozen other people I know who've seen the entire series, not one of us was able to even come close to guessing the ending. FMA reminds me a bit of Harry Potter just in that, in both series, you have 1) child prodigies, 2) engrossing character growth and plot development, and 3) a story that individuals of all ages can appreciate and enjoy. One thing I appreciated and enjoyed very much about the series is that it's like one long fable--there's moral after moral after moral. As a side-note, it's one of the only animes that I've seen which spans several years, allowing for a lot more character growth and focus on the players in the story than is typically seen in most animes. Probably the single best anime that I've ever seen, and certainly in my Top 10 favorite stories of all time. Like Harry Potter though, it may at first appear to be a kids' story, but toward the end it's oriented more toward adults. Highly recommended.


                
It has been 2 weeks since I have finished this series and the ending is still lingering with me. I heard that this was an excellent series from a friend so I decided to check it out myself. Well, all I can say is that FMA has exceeded all my expectations and have become my favorite anime in recent years. It has actually surpassed my other favorites including Neon Genesis, Cowboy Bebop, Berserk, Escaflowne, GTO, and even Gungrave which is second on my list. The writer and director of this series has such a wonderful imagination. I just don't know how they come up w/ these ideas. The voice acting (Japanese), writing, animation, music, and action is awesome. I just can't praise FMA enough. This is definitely a journey worth taking for all those looking for a good anime.


                
A friend raved about this anime, so I took a cursory scroll through it and found nothing worth noting. It just seemed so homogenized. The art didn't stand out. The characters seemed to be cookie-cutter determined types out to save the world. Even the name "Fullmetal Alchemist" seems completely avoidable with magic being the status quo in much of anime. I borrowed a disc anyways and watched it. I begged for the other discs in advance.Fullmetal Alchemist has superb flow. 24 is the only thing in recent memory that has a comparable flow and that's only because that show supposedly happens in real time. In FMA, you have multiple reasons to continue each episode but the focus is not lost. It's always centered (unless if very appropriately not centered) on the two Alric Brothers who share perhaps the strongest bond in all of anime. This bond may be broken at any time, mainly because FMA takes place in a very dynamic world. A war may possibly re-surge. Fellow soldiers we meet rise in ranks and there are casualties. But amidst all this is a very pervasive mystery to which no one is safe. We are as blind to this mystery as the brothers and it's unnerving to stop watching, knowing that unseen forces may encounter our heroes at any time. Prepare to marathon. It's a continuous narrative, unlike that Cowboy Bebop crap.Above all, FMA is a parable. We're told about the principle of equivalent trade, which is yin yang in other words, but we get much more than this taoist tidbit. We learn to deal with death. People do grow old and die. People do die for a reason. People do die for no reason. Some people may call FMA needlessly dark for a children's anime, but rather it's brutally honest. It's likely you will feel real pain. It's unlikely you'll forget the pain. Anyone we meet to whom a great misery befalls is so uniquely focused and blindly determined that the mechanics of his/her devastation become very clear. They seem proverbial, as though the Brothers Grimm were revived to create some of these characters. The series has enough fluff to get us through grim reality, but most of the time, it's really an opportunity to show how much heart many of the characters possess. It may seem odd for an anime centered around some teenage boys to have no sexual connotations whatsoever, but that'd just get in the way of the very strong emotions expressed in this anime. Friendship is the greatest form of love, and the one between the Alric Brothers is perhaps the greatest friendship in all of anime.Concerning the Technical aspects once more, the animation is great where it counts (where there's action). Being a musician, I find it odd that I don't remember any of the music. It's definitely there and fitting, just not memorable. Doesn't matter. This anime could look and sound like crap and still be worth watching.


                
Full Metal Alchemist, about 2 loving brothers who get thrown into a world a war and war craft just to receive a certain something, which therefore leads them into a completely different world, and opinion of their objective.I have been a fan of anime for a while now, ever since I was very small watching Sailor Moon and Pokémon. But ever since then I was blinded from the world of anime and wasn't into it anymore.Well, until I contacted my long lost ex-girlfriend after about 6 months on MSN, I can seriously say I was hooked, for the first time in my life.So I downloaded all of the episodes and watched about 10 a day, my eyes couldn't move off the screen as they were fixed on only one thing, the show. Which then later got me into reading the Manga, well only the first 5 since I cannot find the rest.The story and it's characters go through so much. From Ed and Al longing for the philosopher's stone to revive their dear mother, to despising it on learning how to create it, then to learning on what the Homculus group is really doing to Ed and Al.I would definitely prefer watching this amazing Anime, then read the manga, believe me, it's worth the time.


                
When I heard of "Full Metal Alchemist" i didn't know what to expect! But only after watching the first episode I knew this series was special! From the start it drew me in and took me on a journey in to incredible adventures! It is the story that is truly amazing! At first the story is quite simple,but after a couple of episodes you will get some twists and turns you won't see coming! They managed to dazzle and surprise you almost every episode! Once you start watching "Full Metal Alchemist" you will not stop! The anime successfully mixed different genres (sciencefiction,drama,action,horror and comedy)! Also FMA throws in some serious subjects for us to think about and be entertained at the same time! But what really makes this anime works are the characters! A lot of attention is paid to them! The good guys,the villains all have their good qualities and bad qualities! Evil characters don't have to be pure evil! And the good characters also make mistakes! In that sense most of the characters are very similar to us humans and therefore are very appealing! This anime sure will make an impact on you on different levels! A MUST SEE!


                
At times the story for Edward and Alphanse is melancholy. The boys lose there mother. They lose their bodies. They lose people who care for them, who befriended them, and who they thought they could trust.It could be stated the story is that of loss at the beginning. However, the story's main theme is the Principal of Equivalent Exchange, the postulate that states that nothing can be gained without loss. In the real world, this is a true statement, except it does not apply to the magic and alchemy which is part of the story of Full Metal Alchemist. Children are born into the world only to lose their parents in the future. Peace can be achieved between two nations while war begins with another set of nations. A new day begins while the day ends on the other end of the world. This is the story of Full Metal Alchemist. A story that nothing can be gained without losing something else. Conversely, nothing can be lost without gaining something in return.
I don't think I've ever seen such an inconsistent show, I don't mean in it's plot I simply mean it's quality. My rating per episode fluctuated to crazy degrees and the average is a very underwhelming just above average overallFull Metal Alchemist is one of the premier anime series, hugely popular and I've heard no real criticism of. Sadly, I have plenty.It tells the story of the Elric brothers, two young boys who tragically lose their mother and attempt to use the art of alchemy to bring her back but with unfortunate consequences.It's scored well, the animation is great, the voice acting is flawless and it's full of genuinely interesting engaging characters who over the course of the 51 episode single series I came to care for.So why such a low rating?For start I hate the overexaggerated reactions, I don't mean how anime characters insist on shouting all the time I mean when they constantly break from serious animation to show a silly overdrawn facial expressions complete with symbols around their head. I really hate that nonsense!Next the plot as it develops begins to get a bit far fetched, yes I know we're talking about a world of alchemy but I mean the character additions, character behaviour and generally how an interesting plot gets convoluted to an extent it simply didn't need to.I like Full Metal Alchemist, I'm certainly glad I watched it. It has some fantastic qualities but it as a package deal is badly flawed and leads to a finale that left me scratching my head. Not because I didn't understand it, more that I couldn't believe 51 episodes has led to that and how ultimately it was a combination of moronic and mind numbingly stupid.Regardless I would recommend FMA, I just hope the sequel feature movie fills in the blanks that by all rights the show should have. And after that onto Brotherhood which I'm told is superior.The Good:Incredible voice actingSome very good ideasSeveral powerful momentsThe Bad:Silly expressionsLack of consistencyDumb finaleThings I Learnt From This Show:Edward might possibly be self concious about his heightAt no point did Edward during their long walks think it a good idea to get into Al (Then again when you put it like that...)I spent the entire show trying to work out if Envy was male or femaleAnyone who wants you to call them "Führer" is probably up to no good


                
When I first started viewing anime, I was at the age where anything action-packed was likely to impress. I regarded the classic DBZ and Gundam Wing to be the best anime ever made and quite frankly I did not agree with the later charts which placed Fullmetal Alchemist above all others. The name said nothing to me but the fact it constantly received comments of high regard persuaded me to watch it...It did not take more than the first episode to bring the realization that this was something of higher class. A superbly polished and well-built story which takes the viewer away from traditional level-up characters and fillers, combined with some of the best characters ever drawn make Fullmetak Alchemist a totem of originality. Whoever said anime are for kids has not been exposed yet to the sheer genius of this series. At the end of the viewing, the only regret for anyone will have been that only 51 episodes were committed to the story (and there is not one which can be called disposable). Fullmetal Alchemist sets a standard of anime which will probably stay unsurpassed for years to come.


                
I know you tend to hear that, a lot. This anime or that anime is the epitome of brilliance and beauty. But "Hagane no Renkinjutsushi"(translated as Fullmetal Alchemist) is one that really deserves the praise.Slight spoilers may appear in the following paragraphs. The story, which easily becomes engaging and addictive, revolves around the young brothers, Edward and Alphonse Elric. They both study the powerful and complicated science of alchemy, which allows the user to create one object out of another, such as turning lead to gold, or water to wine. There are some natural laws and taboos of the world of alchemy, though. You must give something of equal mass in order to gain something. Turning lead to gold is not allowed. But, most importantly, transmutation of humans (Human, or Bio Alchemy) is forbidden.When Al and Ed break the most dangerous rule of all, they pay the ultimate price. In a failed transmutation, Alphonse loses his entire body, and Edward loses an arm and a leg. They now search for the Philosopher's Stone, which which hopefully be able to restore their bodies. On their journey, they must deal with corruption in the military, a vengeful man who preys on alchemists, soulless gollems called "homonculi," alongside personal pain and haunting memories.Fullmetal Alchemist has some of the most wonderful imagery I've ever seen in an anime. Gorgeous, flowing animation, unique character designs, and some disturbing sequences that will stick with you for days. There is a brilliant underlying darkness in all the scenes, even when sometimes it falls into a little silliness. There are some very surprising twists, heart wrenching deaths, and some great observations on religion, science and government, all thrown in. Major praise also is deserving for the women that play the two brothers- Kugimiya Rie and Paku Romi. They handle the emotions of seriousness, fear, loathing and horror with such skill.I'm very surprised that no one else has posted a review for this show yet. In the fan community, it's one of the biggest things since Naruto. Hugely popular- and worthy of the popularity. This is definitely one you'll want to watch, and then add to your collection. Check it out when it comes to Cartoon Network on November 13th at 11:30. You may just be surprised.
I finished watching this two weeks ago and I have been recommending it to other people even before I finished the series."Full Metal Alchemist" is a world populated with people who use technology and alchemy to achieve roughly the same powers as those found in North American comic books. Instead of their powers being based on a mutant gene or exposure to radiation or a refugee from another planet, alchemists get their abilities by altering the molecular structure of matter.If you liked "Ninja Scroll" because of its story, unique characters and action; than you will be blown you away with the depth and constantly changing plots and subplots of Full Metal Alchemist.I also have to mention I watched this from poorly subbed DVDs; it was so bad that in the last DVD one of the main characters had a different name in English subtitles but it was still the same in the Japanese audio. There are 51 episodes, I initially watched one or two episodes per day but in the end I watched the remaining 20 episodes in two days. From what little I could understand from the subtitles I still thought the Full Metal Alchemist is amazing and I look forward to watching it again with proper English dubbing.It is very important to watch this series in a row.This is not an anime for kids.BTW: The 52nd episode in the series is the movie. Full Metal Alchemist the Movie: Conqueror of Shamballa. The story is still open even after the movie ends.+++++Spoilers Below+++++ If you are willing to give Full Metal Alchemist a chance than do not read the following. ++++++Spoilers Below+++++The series is about love, loss/death, revenge, abandonment, loyalty and the mistakes people commit when trying to do the right things. With that in mind, the main bad guys are named after the Seven Deadly sins (Pride, greed, lust, envy, gluttony, wrath, sloth).There are also "good" people, I am not sure if they are supposed to represent the Seven Virtues but some do have those qualities.The main plot starts off with the two brothers needing to find the Philosophers stone so they can undo a mistake they made. So it starts off like any other story with the great never ending search but with Full Metal Alchemist they do find what they are looking for early on in the series. However there are shocking revelations surrounding the stone.
It tells about the Elrics and the world of alchemy. Hoping to gain their mother back, they turn out gain things that beyond their imagination. Later, it leads them to the world of alchemy that they have never known before, that alchemy is not some simple Principal of Equivalent trade. And they have to chose the path that they will walk on. All the characters are strong and impressive. The script is great. The one I love the most is the ending. Maybe you'll wish for a happily ever after ending. Well, don't forget, it's not Disney. It's Japan animation. The ending makes me feel sad and happy at the same time. But, definitely, it's a beautiful and perfect ending.
Fullmetal Alchemist (Or to the purists Hagaren no Renkinjutsushi (Not sure I spelt it right)) Has become one of the most popular animes in both America and Japan. The story revolves around Edward and Alphonse Elric who attempted to bring their mother back from death by attempting human transmutation. But they paid a hefty price. Edward lost his left leg and Alphonse lost his entire body. Edward then sacrificed his right arm to seal Alphonse's soul into a suit of armor. The Elric brothers now seek the legendary Philosopher's Stone (Not the Harry Potter one, lol) to restore their bodies. However there are others out to get the stone for their own purposes. In my opinion this may actually be the best anime around. Sadly it's only 51 episodes :(. But it's worth every second to watch this show.Really excellent show 10/10
I have just finished watching this amazing anime, Fullmetal Alchemist(Japanese version)is a series that anyone should watch, the series demonstrates the full and best potential a anime series has ever demonstrated, this show is a series that i just can't even explain in words...its amazing...the story is really touching and powerful...It tells you so much about the truth of reality. The series is not long and it really can expand your view of everything around you and about everything you do.I recommend this series to everyone, either you like anime or not...this series is a must see.p.s if you decide to watch Fullmetal alchemist, watch the Japanese version with subtitles because the English version on cartoon network pretty much stinksp.s If your an anime watcher and you haven't watched this...you haven't seen nothing yet


                
This anime first came out in English when I was a freshman in high school. I was a real anime geek and would watch whatever would come on Adult swim, but there are certain shows, books, or movies that can change a person's life because of the characters. That's what Full Metal Alchemist was to me. The characters were so well written, each with a past that was unique. This show had me on my seat routing for the two characters Edward and Alphonse. They made the personalities of the characters into someone that people could relate to. They even made the "Bad guys" the homunculus into people that you, in the end, felt kind of sorry for (with the exception of Envy, he can burn for all I care) Also, may I just say that normally I don't like English dubbed anime, but the dubbers of this anime did such a fantastic job and put all the right emotions in to all the right places and they did an extraordinary job with each of the characters. Especially Vic Mignogia with Ed, my hats off to that man, he is an awesome actor! This anime actually, as cheesy and lame as it sounds, helped me a lot with my own personal life. There's one phrase that Edward says, that stands out to me, and that's "You've got a good strong pair of legs on you, it's time to get up and use them" It made me think a lot about how people just sit on their butt and dream, but if you don't take action, then those dreams and things that you want will never become attainable.
It is about many things, amongst them brotherly love, honour (you can't miss that in a Japanese film :) ), respect for life, etc... up to the meaning of life and death itself. But what I thought it started bringing into this world is what the Harry Potter books lacked: responsibility for your actions. You can't just do anything and not give something in return.However, along with good ideas, nice animation, beautiful scenery and appropriate music, there were some elements that I hated more than anything. The women in this film needed a good spanking, each and every one of them. Things that were important for the characters were completely ignored because these women had a vision about good and bad and a lot of feelings to be resolved. Also the silliness was above the comfort level. I mean, can you really feel a movie if people keep making faces at each other and getting annoyed by insignificant things while wars and death and magic surrounds them?OK, I understand that movies about responsibility are mostly directed towards children, but this could have been a more intense and with a wider success if the makers would have heightened the audience level a little.Overall, though, it is a great show. I can best relate it to Inuyasha, less about romance, more about brotherly love, and set in a parallel 1920s.Addendum: the series has a full length movie that really completes the whole show. I didn't feel it was part of the series, though, with a lot of characters out of... well, character, and some silly connection with Hitler and this side of the "Gate". Warning: seeing the movies without watching the series is pointless, you won't understand anything.


                
Full Metal Alchemist is an awesome anime series. When I was first brought into the anime scene, I adored it. Then, after a while, it began to lose its luster as series after series began to adopt whiny, angsty young men as their main characters. There was little magic to it.Then I stumbled across Full Metal Alchemist. In the first two episodes, I was drawn into it, fully entranced by the vastness of this world, and how well it was executed and shown in just the two introductory episodes.Is the series perfect, though? Not really. I understood exactly what had happened in Ed and Al's past in those first two episodes. So why did the series decide to do a few flashback episodes after that? Why, after introducing the series' main nemesis, the Homonculus, did it decide to attempt to distract me with filler after the initial plot bang? I can understand that more background needed to be shown. I can understand the need for filler at times. One of my favourite episodes in the entire series was a series of three filler segments, involving Roy Mustang and company. However, sometimes the filler just proved to be too much, or that some of the quests to obtain the alchemical myth, the Philosopher's Stone, were just too much, and detracted from the experience.However, this isn't to say FMA was a horrible series either. It has a wonderful cast of characters. Edward and Alphonse Elric are two very worthy protagonists. Roy Mustang embodies everything that's both right *and* wrong with the military. Scar in his crusade for vengeance has a presence few villains in anime can pull off. And then there's Maes Hughes. For those of you who've seen the series, you know what I'm talking about. For those of you who haven't, you'll see when the time comes. He's just brilliant.Another interesting point of FMA is its art. Yes, it can be silly and chibi at times. Yes, I have seen some better (not often, though). But one main thing stands out about the animation in FMA. If you took away the hair styles of the characters, you'd still be able to tell each character apart, something extremely rare in all forms of anime/manga.I highly recommend this series to anime goers everywhere. I'd even recommend it as a way to "get into" anime for those who've always wanted to see what anime's all about.


                
this is the best series i have seen in my life,but how they continuously kill people is beyond me.the show is nothing like the manga,because in the manga,Scar is made out to be a evil dude,but in the anime,he kind of helps them instead of being this random dude who blows people up.to me,this series is also kind of sad because some of the nicest people die or get mortally wounded.it's also sentimental because of the relationship between Ed and Al,and i think it's awfully sweet.one of the best characters in the series would probably be Mustang or Bradley. they kept the show a-running',with Ed and Al of course.


                
I never did actually like anime until watching this particular show. However, i now rush home nightly and quite promptly to make sure i don't miss it as well as notifying all relatives of my desire to receive the box set of all of the episodes for Christmas. At times, this show can be sappy and sentimental and then turn around and be totally profound. This isn't just a show to be taken at face value, but one that needs to be watched several times and analyzed. Some of the topics touched in this show are some of the things people think about but never really discuss with friends and the like. Things such as what happens beyond this life to a small degree due to the fact that people try and bring others back to life. Also, though, there's stuff in there about doing good and the like. All in all, a good show.


                
All I can say is "Wow". This is an excellently done Anime. Kudos Bones. Most Anime fans will love FMA. It is very well done with great dubbing and fluid fight scenes. The story line twists and turns keeping you on the edge of your seat and constantly saying "this is getting intense" FMA is never predictable and always leaves you guessing. The relationship between Ed and Al is truly something to be admired and your really begin to feel for the two as if they were your own brothers. FMA takes you through an emotional roller-coaster with strong character development that keeps you engaged in the series. If the measure of a good show is its ability to leave you wanting more, then this anime really makes the grade. Now that I got the praise out of the way, let's talk about the reason this anime didn't get a 10 from me. If anyone has read my reviews in the past they will note that my biggest pet-peeve when it comes to movies is a poorly thought out "cop-out" ending. Low and behold this anime, unfortunately, doesn't fail in that. The build up in FMA is so intense that nothing short of a great ending would suffice. It seemed as if the ending to this series was forced out in the last two episodes because they ran out of funds or something. For those of you who have not seen FMA, I recommend you do so, and then read this as it will spoil the series for you. Everyone else, feel free to read on as you already know the basic story and I don't have to explain the entire thing. So Ed and Al get the philosopher's stone. So they should be able to just make everything right in the world. But I guess not, they find out they have to fight Dante who has the ability to send them through the gate. Rose sends Ed and his dad through the gate. The other side of the gate is our world, London in WW2. This is just stupid. All this build up for that! All I can say is this was a big let down. So Ed makes his way back and gets killed by Envy, who is his step brother. Al uses the stone and revives him, but is taken to the gate and is floating between worlds with his body; witch again is stupid because he shouldn't have had to this happen to him as he was the philosopher's stone. Then Ed transmutes to the gate and destroys the city that all the bad stuff happened in. Al appears in Risunbule with no memory of the events and is in his 10 year old body. We don't know where Ed is. It then turns out Ed is trapped in our world with his father. Now Ed and Al have to be separated until they find a way back to each other. I thought this was such a horrible ending, that didn't explain anything and made all the events of the series completely pointless. Here are some key points of needed explanations:1. Why did Wrath have such a strong connection to Ed and Al's mother? 2. Why did Ed and Al's step brother turn into a dragon while going through the gate? 3. What was the gate and why was it there? 4. Why do Humunculi float in between worlds? 4. Who was Rose's baby and how did she get it? 5. Were homunculi partial human transmutations that just needed the soul to be reattached? 6. Was the philosopher's stone really what it claimed to be? If so, why couldn't Al get his and Ed's bodies back no problem?So as you can see this series completely bombed in the end, but it was fun while it lasted. And call me cliché, but when people go through so much, give them a happy ending! Sometimes I like to feel all warm and fuzzy inside and cheer when the heroes achieve what they went through so much to get.
