This anime is about two gifted brothers who are intelligent, kind and ambitious. They live in a world where Alchemy, and subsequently Alchemist, is the law of the world (vs. science in ours). With alchemy, one can do wonders... repair broken items....change physical properties of a matter...etc. However, alchemy is bound to one rule....one cant take (or make) a thing without giving something in return. With this simple rule, the two brothers go in a maze of exciting adventures, meeting wonderful characters and even sometimes, respectable enemies. The anime is 51 episodes long, which might seem a little too long initially, yet fortunately...each and every episode will tie you to your seat and make you crave for more. Story line is good, a mix of brotherhood, friendship, love, humanity and (like any other anime) the effect of war on people, not to forget the hilarious moments this anime is mined with. Character development is excellent. Drawing is top notch and music is entertaining. Unfortunately, this anime is not concluded after 51 episodes. The movie, and hopefully the conclusion, is to be release 23rd July 2005. This anime is worth every second....a must see.


                
Whilst most anime is an acquired taste, falling into the fighting (think Dragonball or Bleach) magical girl (Sailor Moon) or romantic (Chobits) genres, Fullmetal Alchemist rises above all this. As the story gradually unfolds, you are drawn ever deeper into a believable alternative world where magic replaces science and its practitioners (Alchemists) are held in high esteem. Yet, few are what they seem and you cannot trust anybody. The good are, in fact, capable of deeds of great evil, and the bad are often doing what they do for good reasons. And just when you think you're getting a handle on it, something comes along that shocks you in such a way you are left thinking about it for days to come. Whilst there are obviously anime elements (the look, fighting segments) the story and, above all, the willingness to shock the audience by hurting and killing characters we have come to know and admire, make Fullmetal Alchemist well worth your time. Of course, you will have to invest a lot of time - 51 half hour episodes and a movie means 26 hours or so of viewing. But it is time well worth spending.


                
Full Metal Alchemist, about 2 loving brothers who get thrown into a world a war and war craft just to receive a certain something, which therefore leads them into a completely different world, and opinion of their objective.I have been a fan of anime for a while now, ever since I was very small watching Sailor Moon and Pokémon. But ever since then I was blinded from the world of anime and wasn't into it anymore.Well, until I contacted my long lost ex-girlfriend after about 6 months on MSN, I can seriously say I was hooked, for the first time in my life.So I downloaded all of the episodes and watched about 10 a day, my eyes couldn't move off the screen as they were fixed on only one thing, the show. Which then later got me into reading the Manga, well only the first 5 since I cannot find the rest.The story and it's characters go through so much. From Ed and Al longing for the philosopher's stone to revive their dear mother, to despising it on learning how to create it, then to learning on what the Homculus group is really doing to Ed and Al.I would definitely prefer watching this amazing Anime, then read the manga, believe me, it's worth the time.


                
Full Metal Alchemist follows the two brothers Edward and Alphonsoe Elric during their search for the philosopher's stone in order to get their bodies back to normal, after an alchemy experiment went horribly wrong. That's the summary of the show more or less, but what I really make me like the series was that its main focus was what people are willing to do in order to get someone they loved back or honor their legacy no matter the cost.And here is were Alchemy fits perfectly for the main principal of that SCIENCE is "For anything of value to be create something of equal value must be sacrificed, that is the law of equivalent exchange". So in the series we meet any characters who either throw this rule of the widow to get what they want, use it as an excuse to do horrible things or on the bright side use it as a motivation to do some good in the world. In general alchemy is portrait as a science which makes the user seem all powerful and god like, but break those rules and something terrible is going to happen ,much like with the science of our world, dismissed it, make fun of it and in the end the rules, who spare neither good nor evil, nor rich nor poor, will come and beat you in the ass.But to elaborate to the subject of grief and in general on the human relationships in the show. Even character that look at first goofy and immature, when you past some time with them you see that their clever, responsible where is absolutely necessary and loyal to the core, in simple words persons that in a case of life and death are the best for the job, OK anyone who saw the series is going to thing Alex Louis Armstrong and Maes Hughes ,amn what a character! Also the villains are also motivated by a desire to either avenge lost friends and family ,or to get power, wealth, respect or the deepest of all a sense of goal in life. In short we see every kid of motivation from the shallower to the the most though provoking and meaningful.Overall I recommended the series as a gate-anime for anyone who wants, as I, to start watching anime series and movies and doesn't know from where to begin, here is a way.
This show is my favorite as far the sensation this anime is unique different from its Manga and Reboot(Brotherhood). You really feel the pain of the Brothers Edward and Alphonse in his journey to fix their sins, feeling that something when you what to bad things stop happening it became worst, putting then more than one bad situation and asking how much can you sacrifice for the persons you love and how far can you go for it.Relationship better the Brothers is special but take care of each other. Edward fight for fix their sins and even sold his childhood and innocence in order to find its goal. And Alphonse beening more Inocense Younger and suffering from inside and don't want hurt no one but always be with his brother the only family it has. Maybe Brotherhood is Better and more Action Pack but the feeling in this one is unique. I prefer this one, the Final is kind of disappointing for someones but you will love the experience.


                
Most of the anime series currently in release, let's be honest, are basically toy commercials. The characters are just kids playing with toys, showing the viewers how the games work, showing how much fun the game is, and whipping in repetitious plugs for game expansion packs. This magical adventure is a rare exception and a rare gem. The complex fictional frame has no other purpose than to provide a background for a brilliant and moving tale that combines the fantastic with dark human tragedy and indomitable brotherly love. Two teenage brothers, prodigies in the 'science' of alchemy, travel in the name of the state, looking for the philosopher's stone. The stone can amplify an alchemist's power, making it the object of both evil and noble ambitions. The brothers themselves want the stone to restore their bodies, one damaged, the other lost - his soul now inhabits an empty suit of armor - in an ill- advised effort to employ alchemy to raise their dead mother. Along the way, they meet an assortment of practitioners who use and more often abuse their power. This first instalment in the series was so interesting, so emotionally involving and so just plain different from so much current anime that I could not wait to get to the next disc. Highly recommended.


                
I recently stumbled upon this anime and have fell in love with it. It has everything action, emotion and comedy. The relationship between the brother edward and alphonse is both touching and real. ed's search for the stone that will bring back the body of his little brother is amazing. I caught the anime late but from what i read he along with his brother were trying to used a form of alchemy to bring their mother back from the dead and they suffered a horrible fate ed lost his arm and leg and Al lost his entire body. I am anxious to find out how this anime ends i read some where that only 50 episodes were made. On cartoon network we are up to the episode where ed finds the lab where different experiments where being done and Al starts questioning weather his memories or even his identity is real or just the alchemy at work. If someone like me that is not a kid or even a teenager i'm 28 can get into this anime anyone can. Other great animes are Bleach, Inuyasha and Naruto.


                
I wasn't a big anime fan but after watching this it totally changed my mind this is the best anime ever, excellent story writing although most of my friends told me to start brotherhood instead but am so happy I took the right decision. I Totally recommend it, soon gonna watch the movie. Brotherhood review coming in May as my exams will start soon and will end by may till then need to stop binging FMA.


                
Story & plot Ed and Al try to bring back their mom but it fails Al's body is gone and Ed's leg is also gone he ends up giving arm to save Al.They try to find a way to get their body's back.Characters Ed Eldwick, Alphons Eldwick, Winre, Roy Mustang, Scar, Lust, Envy, GlutinyAnimation and sound the animation itself is well great and the music fits the tone of the show, but some of the openings or endings suck.Honestly their is only one problem that I have with this show it would be the fact of the ending to my opinion it sucked because Al and ed are in different world's one with science and the other with magic. Overall my favorite seen was when Rose told Ed that she loved him. Overall the rest was amazing took only 3 days to watch it all. I loved the story.
I was often confused about what people liked about the Anime's. They looked and sounded childish, and the action they showed was crazy. But then, I watched the Fullmetal Alchemist and this anime changed my mind. The first episode was not that great and i stopped watching it for some days, and then when i started watching then continually and got the know the back story of the Elric brothers, I was hooked to the series. The Story sometimes gets out of control and you get the see some cliché's, but hear me out, give this a try and I guarantee you won't complain about it. The big brother Edward is intelligent and strong, but you will love the character of younger brother Al. He always makes sense out of crazy situations and is the kind heart'd one. Of course you will love Winry, the childhood friend/neighbor and mechanic who fixes the Elric brothers. The ending will leave you questioning the end result. But I am sure, that's how some good stories are made!
I was not expecting anything special from this and I've got one of the deepest, darkest trips to human fallibility ever.The series is based in a country that has been in a constant war for many years and this depression accompanies the whole series. It's deep and it really is not happy, capable of giving a true impression of how it would feel there.There are two massive surprises close to the end; one which shocks and twists things around and one which makes you realize how the seven deadly sins can lead to endless circles of suffering.This one has important messages to tell, about us, about ourselves and about the world.


                
This title is only one among the four titles that I have ever given 10 on 10s. The story is so powerful that it is tough to not shed a tear once in a while. At the same time, it gets so hilarious when it comes to jokes about Ed's height! This mixed bag of emotions is the first thing that drew me towards FMA.The story is beautifully told and the characters are wonderfully developed, especially the older brother. The principle of equivalent trade in alchemy is used to explain everything in life, including life and death. Each character brings a different mood to the scene. When you see the Colonel, you are sure to feel the Military-environment. Armstrong means, jokes about his ancestors! Winry means, Ed and Al's past. And the Elric brothers' means, their long journey.The best part of the series has to be its soundtrack. The Russian folk song, "Brother", fits the FMA brothers' story perfectly. I don't have a sibling, maybe that's why their love for each other seems so powerful.I don't know about the English dubbing, though many say that FMA is the best anime dubbing ever made. Anyway, I enjoyed the subtitled version, even though Al's voice was very girlish. It does depart from the manga, yet preserves the basic sentiment in the story.Overall: 10/10, without doubt!


                
