I have given this 10 stars, not just for this series, but for the whole saga, starting with the film This is England. Shane Meadows is without doubt one of the most gifted writers and directors around today; his style quite unique and his ability to get totally deep and realistic performances out of his young cast quite mesmeric. Particular mention goes to Vicky McClure as Lol who gives powerhouse performances throughout the whole saga, and Stephen Graham as the deeply troubled, intermittently terrifying (but reformed?) Combo. All cast deserve great credit indeed.Without a doubt, one of the very best things I have ever seen on British TV.


                
I have been a fan from the start. This is England shows the ups and downs of each character while they grown up over the course of each instalment. I love every individual. I feel like we have all been in a journey with them, through the good times and the bad. This is England 90 - has to be my favourite so far. The gang are all growing up with lol and woody raising there family and malky being a part of the family... It works. They all seem happy. The other group of friends and going through a happy Monday's drug taking party stage and are full of silliness but still there's a dark undercurrent as you see kelly hiding her sadness and getting deeper into drugs and drink. To say this series is real, raw, gripping and emotional is an understatement. No words can do the writing or the acting any justice. Shane meadows writing and cast are pure genius. This is by far the best show on TV. If you have not seen the others. Watch them all. You will be hooked and can watch there lives pan out in a real, and truly gripping way. I love it.
One thing that has always striked me about This is England is how real to life the characters are. You become so emotionally invested in each of the character's lives. As a show that does not focus on just a single protagonist This is England 90' pulls this off very well.Shaun (the lost pre-teen from This is England, '86 and '88 has grown up and Thomas Turgoose manages to keep the very essence of the character alive- he delivers this performance brilliantly. In many subtle ways it shows even though he is growing up, that he is still that lost boy trying to find his purpose and way in the world. It follows Shaun's journey from experiencing rejection; from college and in love, to accomplishment; from finally achieving getting into college and finding a new girlfriend; and this is very gratifying as the show really makes you feel connected to Shaun. As this is a Multi-Stranded narrative; we also follow Lol's and Kelly's revisit to a deeply saddening- yet well portrayed past trauma. (This show effectively shows the long term effects on trauma and it's effect on family and relationships.) It also deals with Lol's and Woody's relationship and portrays its ups and downs. It further deals with the healing and growth of an individual ( We take from the recoverance from broken relationships, traumas and in Combo's case hurt & criminality.) Keep in mind that This is England 90' portrays all this in just 4 episodes! and I'd say that is the only downside, that there isn't more! This shows deals with very deep themes of trauma and change. It uses real archive footage to depict the struggles of time. It brilliantly depicts life in England was in the 90's. It goes on to show the emergence of rave culture and accompanied with it such as the the increase in drug usage and the effect it has on lives.The ending will make you smile and have you in tears! Lol's and Woody's wedding will melt you heart! The characters love and friendship with one another will have you in awe. It is very real and such a brilliant show with a really talented cast and I hope they will make more in the future.
I own all of Shane Meadows work,massive fan,I don't normally leave reviews but to me the sound was a let down,I know there are fans of linear stuff but I much prefer full on HD surround,with such good music why not? 2.0 stereo on blu ray! Anyone know why? It would have been nice to have the deleted scenes replaced for the release-except the sniff banging stuff- The missing prison scenes from combo would have given me a little more sympathy, and I thought the appearance of Paddy Considine was wonderfully sinister,just love him! but I suppose that Is out of his-Meadows- hands ,Any way, loved it, laughed, cried and winced! I will miss these characters. Was this review helpful?


                
I'm American and also do not own the DVD set, and so I'm sure there's somethings I've missed. I caught the whole series off Youtube which probably had some stuff cut out. From running times not adding up to scenes people mention that I don't recall, and I'm someone who's replayed everything several times. But whatever.For what I did see, it was (I don't have a thesaurus on me) marvelous.I first discovered the series through a "mate" of mine, an Irish "lad" from nowhere in England. I needed some muse for my own little project about a modern, multicultural and urban England. And I had seen This Is England (2006) in like 2010, somehow. I think it's because I like Jack O'Connell and saw he was in it, but of course the plot called to me as an added incentive.Well the series to be honest, was a great watch but in all my fandom I had to silence parts inside of me saying, "so...what's the point?" Well to be honest the message approaches the last 5 minutes of This Is England 90, in my eyes. Everything you sat through, led to that moment. It was so f'ing beautiful (I had to censor it, but I still want to emphasise).I believe with any film no matter the length every element has to be there. The music throughout if any (sometimes no music at all is good too), the cinematography (the pacing, the scenery, the imagery, the angle), the chemistry, the colour, the clothes, the script, the plot cohesion, the themes, the purpose, the message, the opening credits and the wrap up and ending credits (the font, their format and how they appear on the screen, the chosen music), the casting, everything. It just has to be there. With Shane Meadows it always seems to be, and based on other things I've seen him do (he seems to like the actors who played Shaun, Milky and Lol). I sensed improv though. The instrumental playing at the end is what really got me. And how all the madness they've been through, they come together. I don't know why people are sadists and want to see them remain fallen apart. You know after the party ends, there will be more mess to clean up. They have to sort out Combo's death, Kelly needs to get clean, Lol still has demons and issues, and life will surely hit them from all sorts of directions just because. Like the song playing in This Is England 88 that says, "After laughter comes tears," by Wendy Rene. I think that, coupled with the music and just being happy seeing people happy (for once they are happy), is what got to me. Also feeling bad for Milk. He was involuntarily put in the position years ago to have to eventually make a choice, though he had moved on, whether he'd risk his relationships or get the closure he felt he needed to get and do what he did to Combo. During that scene where he tearfully (his tears seemed real as hell by the way) sends Combo to his fate...I was cheering madly, like yes, don't let him walk off skippity doo da after he did what he did?! And I still vaguely feel this way. However the ending, the very ending of the very last episode, made me feel...well...retaliation is never the answer. You really do have to forgive. That doesn't mean forget or act sweet. It means don't be bitter. That means free yourself of hatred, don't become what you hate. I don't feel bad for Combo at freaking all but I feel bad for Milk. Like you have to regret being angry for being beaten up?! It's horrible. But it's realistic I think, that people will move on no matter who you are to them. Because everyone's got their own issues. It's a stunning reality. Only thing I didn't like is that the film and series show that. Woody's need to forgive Milk is nothing compared to Milk's need to forgive Combo. Some stuff throughout the series dragged on but it's all memorable, I feel it all led up to something. As an aspiring writer I get you will be suddenly inspired over the years by several images and sounds, and develop ideas, and you'll add all those tidbits into one project; so maybe some people didn't value those little elements and props I sense Meadows threw in for the sake of imagery; like the two dudes Flip and Higgy I think. I'm like what's the point of them? Are they going to do something horrible that kicks off the climax and leads to the ending? No, they were just complementary characters who I enjoyed seeing at the last wedding scene. I cried tears of joy and just relief that this pain for that moment was over. I felt bad for Kelly, being all scared to go see her own family, I'm getting emotional now. Having her big sister there for her, that's nice. Seeing all the characters laugh for like the first time. I replayed the last scene once Kelly walks in like 100 times not lying, it's playing now as I type. I definitely tear up seeing Shaun hug his "mum," that's always nice to see, plus the actor playing Shaun lost his mother during filming, so. I don't know, never been in a group of friends and family like theirs, some people could be jealous, I'm just up all night thinking about it, replaying it in my head, that's how I know I love it! SO SO glad I watched everything start to end last week and finally finished last night!
