This quote is one of the most shocking and yet truthful quotes I have ever heard. It is one of many shocking and intense quotes in the movie. Furthermore Judgment at Nuremburg is one of the most absorbing movies I have seen. Even though most if not all of it is dialog it is very much a haunting film. This film is loosely based on the trials in Nuremburg in 1948. Right from the start the movie captures your mind and never lets it go. The acting was collectively amazing. One of the best casts ever assembled which included Spencer Tracy, Montgomery Clift, Judy Garland, Richard Widmark, Burt Lancaster as well as international stars Maximilian Schell and Marlene Dietrich. It is not just the fact that this is a star studded cast that made it so great, it was the way everyone appeared to blend in together. Maximilian Schell gave the performance of his life in this film playing the defense lawyer for Burt Lancaster who give two superb narratives that will certainly stay in your mind forever. Schell's character use of logic is that of something which will mesmerize use you whether or not you agree or disagree with what he says. Richard Widmark playing the prosecutor gave the type of supporting performance that was necessary for Schell to shine. The way both actors fed off each other was a joy to watch. Then of course the tiny appearances of Garland and Clift were excellent and worth every second they spent on camera. I usually find myself frustrated with cameos and actors receiving recognition for them but this film used cameos the best way I have ever seen. Then of course Spencer Tracy and Marlene Dietrich provided such great presence were perfect for the lead.The direction of Stanley Kramer was spectacular as the film intensified more and more as it wore on. It was always engrossing and never let up. The writing of Abby Mann was great, filled up with great material and narratives allowing every actor in the cast to give a superb performance. There were many memorable quotes as well. The writing carried the film forward and allowed all the potential and talent to push this film to another level.Judgement at Nuremburg is not just another movie. It is a very thought provoking movie. More than that though it is haunting. Just thinking about the course of the events being talked about in the movie became subtly haunting in a way I really didn't expect. What was the most compelling though was the way we need to separate what we feel with what has to be truly done, with what is truly right.


                
Judgement At Nurmeberg is a 1961 film about four Nazi Judges are in trial for crimes against humanity. Well let me just start out by saying that this is a very sad, powerful film. I was expecting it to be very boring and I guess I underestimated it. The film is also very well written, so well written that actually it makes you really think. I'm happy that it won an Oscar for writing. The best quality about the film HAS to be the acting. Judy Garland, I think should of won a Supporting Actress. This is her finest performance ever, and I'm sad she didn't win one. Maximilian Schell gives the performance of a lifetime in his role as the defense attorney for the judges. He truly deserved his Oscar because he was very powerful. Spencer Tracy also gave a quite exceptional performance as he always had. (He isn't a Two-Time Oscar Winner for nothing. As for Montgomery Clift he deserved his Oscar Nomination. I am kind of ticked off that Marlene didn't get an Oscar Nomination for Best Supporting Actress. I always feel she is underrated.As for Stanley Kramer (The Director) he had real talent and this film shows it. The 9-Time Oscar nominated Director should've of won an Oscar for Best Director for Judgement at Nuremberg. I hope his talent though will be remembered for many years to come.My Overall Consensus is that the movie definitely succeeds due to the Extraordinary Performances and the Quite Exceptional Writing.You Should see this Film. 10/10


                
If this is not considered as one of THE great films of all time, then all of us film fans should pack up bags and go home I cannot fault anyone, any scene, anything in this film. The dialogue races along in its smooth yet supremely captivating style. You grab a film like this, see a whole host of famous actors, and wonder if such a mix could ever work. It does, believe me, it really, really does.Tracy. He was given the most powerful of dialogues, he presents it to us in a way that does not shout at you, yet holds you in a vice like grip every time he comes on screen. With his characteristic method of looking down whilst talking, hands in pocket, that small sly look up that he does, vintage Spencer, just how you would imagine a judge to be, or should be.The supporting cast, again, never lets the film down. Some have the opportunity to step up a notch, Snell, Widmark, and others play their roles in a more subtle manner, Garland and Dietrich. And others just wipe away the floor with their presence, Clift and Lancaster for example.And the story by Abby Mann - incredible.Shot in black and white, it makes you think, it makes you smile, it will make you sad, and in the end you will be all the better for having seen one of the greatest films ever made, you will be richer for the experience, and you will be wiser.You will also be able to say that you saw what Hollywood can do, you saw what great actors can do when put amongst their peers and are not 'stars' of a movie but are part of a larger ensemble.And you will also see why this particular group were, genuinely, the very best Hollywood had to offer, period.


                
This is a fine film by a fine director, but I can only hope that Stanley Kramer, in committing to full length film a television story, knew at heart the message his movie was trying to say. Because this is truly a message movie, for all mankind, but if the reviews I've read on this site are any indication, the message has been lost to some degree.I've entitled my review "Revelation of Horror", but the horror revealed was not the Holocaust. That had already been revealed, although Kramer's film certainly lent its emotional impact. The revelation was a deep, true insight into how it happened, and the horror is that it happened in a civilized country. Few on this earth can imagine the true horror of Nazi Germany--I've read criticism of Widmark's Colonel Lawson as too preachy, but the character and the acting conveyed the mission of one who actually saw the horrors, beyond any scope we can identify with.Kramer's achievement is that everything in this movie reminds us that the Nazi's used every facet of civilization, no matter how minute, to foster their extermination of their enemies, to inculcate it as an ordinary part of life. That was why judges were chosen to portray the issue of "obeying orders" versus "human decency." Herr Rolf is "forced" to defend the worst criminals imaginable, and yet his very defense and the principles behind it are abused in the process, used as a weapon against the very law they represent. Thus did the Nazis prevail with the willing acquiescence of the German people, and the abominable disregard of the rest of the world.The other horror revealed in this film is the incessant excusing of it. Beyond the obvious pleas of the guilty ("We didn't know", or as one judge says to another, "Was it possible to kill like that?") are the multiplicity of subtle excuses: the reminder of centuries' old German culture, Rolf's plaintive cry of "unfairness" at the showing of the death camp films because of their inflammatory nature, the invocation of "Lili Marlene" throughout the film, to name just a few. While the song evokes sadness, a guilty German society meant for it to invoke sadness. Long before Germany had its country destroyed by bombs, it had its soul destroyed by Hitler.Because this is a courtroom drama, respecting the sacred role of the Rule of Law in safeguarding humanity, almost every scene, every line is a statement that Nazi Germany perverted the Rule of Law, as did the very defense of the war criminals. But what is principle on a small scale of a single man being judged by society becomes outrage when used to defend the indefensible on an impossibly massive scale. Tracy's character at the film's end has a realization that this is so, as well as an awareness that what happened in Germany during the Third Reich was an Aristotelian tragedy for anyone touched by it, even remotely, so that any personal considerations (such as Mrs. Berthold) are made utterly impossible.Rolf's speech about the guilty responsibility of the rest of the world was valid--but he was indicting the world to save one man. Where have we heard that in our own time? This quality about "Judgment at Nuremburg" makes its message forever fresh--and its warnings.


                
I have always been fond of Stanley Kramer's work , but this movie proved to be quite extraordinary and exceptional .The movie has every thing you can desire and human sentiments are at there level best. The plot is written by Abby Mann who won best screenplay Oscar from that and quite deserving one. The story based on Nuremberg trials held after fall of Nazi's in Germany but this movie is nice blend of history with fiction as the major characters were fictional but the evidences and indictments presented in the trial ever authentic and truly depicts the conditions of Nazi occupied Germany. The most intriguing thing of the movie was the true representation of aftermaths of Nazi's occupation in Germany and the feeling of German toward the trial and immaculate direction of Kramer made possible to convey these types of sentiment on cinema for the very first time. The cast was also fascinating with big names like Tracy and surely he did justice with his role as he was very compelling and humble as Judge Haywood. Maximilian Schell was at his best as a compassionate enthusiastic zealous and patriotic attorney to defend the dignity of Nation. He won best actor Oscar for his role. Montgomery Clift was also the one who made this movie special as he played a role of feeble minded sterile man who was nominated for best actor in supporting role though he only played for 9 min in the movie. Burt Lancaster gave one of the most extraordinary cinematic performances as Ernst Janning. This is one of those movies which provokes our mentality and also our morality and is a treat to watch.


                
They say that time heals all heartache. In the case of the Third Reich, I'm not sure that the old saying is true. Out of respect for the Holocaust victims, and as an important history lesson, there's something to be said for not forgetting the evils of Hitler. Fortunately, we have this great film to help us not forget."Judgment At Nuremberg" is a dramatization of one of the many real life post WWII Nuremberg trials of high ranking Nazis. Most of the film focuses on the 1948 courtroom trial of four judges who helped to carry out Hitler's decrees. As part of the prosecution's case against the judges, real life, graphic film footage showing the horrors of the death camps engenders a gut level impression that is both powerful and persuasive. The film thus educates viewers in ways that a dry textbook of facts and figures never could.But there's more to the film than the trial. In other parts of Nuremberg we see ordinary Germans trying to get on with their lives as best they can, three years after the war's end, in a bombed out and bleak city. One of these persons is Madame Bertholt (Marlene Dietrich), the wife of a dead German soldier. In contrast to the harsh and contentious trial, Madame Bertholt's kindness toward the tribunal's lead judge, Dan Haywood (Spencer Tracy), provides an example of the innocence and decency of ordinary Germans, and thus adds a softer, more contemplative perspective to the ordeal. In these non-courtroom scenes, the melancholy background music and the soft production lighting create a mood of depression and sadness.I find very little to criticize in this three hour film. Perhaps the plot could have been clearer in identifying the legal counsel of three of the four defendants. And maybe in those scenes wherein the four defendants conversed among themselves, the dialogue should have been in German, not English. But these are trivial points. Overall, this is a film that is well written and directed, a film with credible actors giving stellar performances, and most of all, a film that assures preservation of that era's historic significance, with a political and social message that has enduring value.


                
"Judgment at Nuremberg" is one of the great films of all time. This can be attributed to the excellent script written by Abby Mann, its skillful direction by Stanley Kramer and possibly one of the greatest casts ever assembled for a motion picture.The subject trial takes place in 1948 long after the trials of the major German military generals when most people had lost interest in such proceedings. Writer Mann chose to write about the trial of German judges, the people who above all, should have seen the evil of Hitler and his followers coming.Assigned to the trial as Chief Judge is Dan Haywood (Spencer Tracy) a low profile justice who by his own admission was not the original or subsequent choice. The prosecutor is Col. Tad Lansing (Richard Widmark) an "army man" who vows to convict the four ex-German Judges. Defending the accused is Hans Rolfe (Maximillian Schell) who must convince the court that the defendants were acting only for the love of their country.Among the defendants are respected Judge Ernst Janning (Burt Lancaster) who has written several books on law accepted the world over. Lawson accuses the defendants of signing orders for the sterilization of innocent men and the execution of those who opposed to the Reich and the extermination of the jews. He puts Rudolph Peterson (Montgomery Clift) on the stand as a victim of sterilization. Rolfe manages to expose the pitiful Peterson as mentally challenged. Later Irene Hoffman (Judy Garland) is put on the stand to explain her alleged affair at the age of 16 with an elderly jew. As his coup de grace, Lawson shows a film depicting the horrors of German concentration camps.In between the sessions, Judge Haywood strikes up a friendship with Madame Bertholt (Marlene Dietrich) the widow of a former German general, in whose former home the judge is staying. In spite of their differences they begin to grow fond of each other.The army pressures Lawson to ease up and suggests that acquittal or light sentences would best serve American interests since this was the time that the blockade of Berlin was beginning. Judge Haywood is also pressured to go easy on the sentencing.Maximillian Schell deservedly won an Oscar for his outstanding performance as Rolfe. Any one of the other principals could have easily won as well. Clift and Garland are simply outstanding as are Widmark and Lancaster. And Tracy, did he ever give a bad performance? The still beautiful Dietrich was also excellent. Others in the cast are a very young William Shatner as Capt. Byers, a court officer, Werner Kemperer as Emil Hahn the most militant of the defendants and Ray Teal as Judge Ives. Teal had long been a fixture in westerns and is probably best remembered for playing Sheriff Coffey on TV's Bonanza.The DVD release contains an excellent conversation between Abby Mann and Maximillian Schell plus an interview with Kramer's widow, the still beautiful former actress Karen Sharpe.A true cinematic masterpiece.
Abby Mann re-documents his stunning 1959 "Playhouse 90" teleplay for director Stanley Kramer, with Maximilian Schell towering over a magnificent ensemble cast. The focus isn't on Nazi atrocities (though they are here, in horrific images). But, this being a trial drama, "Judgment at Nuremberg" attempts to answer questions about humanity, beginning with HOW? "How could this have happened?" And, while only four mid-level Nazis receive justice, the film makes you wonder<U+0085> Where does punishment for the Holocaust end? And, if you do not stop, don't you become the enemy? That wanders, of course, into subjective interpretation; and, there are certainly others. This only makes an already strong piece of work more relevant. Criticisms about it being fictionalized and too long are curiously incongruent. Fewer people would sit through the real trials. The actors seem to employ demons (two, nakedly) to give electrifying, all-time greatest performances. The film is repellent and manipulative, but necessarily so. It exposes guilt, innocence and timeless evil.********** Judgment at Nuremberg (12/14/61) Stanley Kramer ~ Maximilian Schell, Spencer Tracy, Montgomery Clift, Judy Garland


                
I am actually humbled by this film, and I am unusually grateful to have seen it, finally, 45 years after its making.There are some superficial aspects of *Judgement at Nuremberg* that are dated: some of Stanley Kramer's camera-work is unnecessarily showy or gimmicky. Some of the sets are noticeably fake, and some of the dialog is stilted, especially in early scenes outside the courtroom. The music goes momentarily over the top in the climactic confrontation between the key defendant, played by Burt Lancaster, and the chief judge (Spencer Tracy) after the trial.Much more striking, however, are the film's strengths, and how unusually well it holds up. I usually think of Kramer as an overstated liberal autodidact, but here the acting is, for the most part, admirably restrained and authentic. Even *William Shatner*--no kidding--is subtle here. After an unpromisingly sensational opening salvo by Richard Widmark as the chief prosecutor, this movie settles into a gravity, balance and rigorous honesty (both intellectual and emotional) that are utterly necessary for a serious treatment of a subject as overwhelmingly important as the origin and expression of Nazi evil.Balance is a key to this film's greatness. It is not insignificant that it was Maximillian Schell, who played the Nazi judges' defense attorney not as a slimy shyster but as a powerfully rigorous advocate determined to hold the *world's* feet to the fire rather than let his clients become patsies for a vast breakdown of moral responsibility with astonishingly widespread implications. By looking courageously into the teeth of the reality of German society and politics leading up to and during the Second World War and the reality of American, European and Communist moral failings, Abby Mann's great screenplay creates an extraordinarily persuasive context for the extraordinarily powerful thematic statements against Nazi atrocities with which it concludes.Two scenes near the movie's conclusion struck me most powerfully. First, I have never been more sickened, enraged and humbled by visual evidence of the Holocaust than I was when it was presented in the context of the trial at this film's center. Second, I was chilled--frightened in a very contemporary and immediate way--by the great speech of judgment given at the trial's end by Spencer Tracy's Chief Judge Dan Hayward. I urge anyone that is concerned about the erosion of civil liberties in America today to watch this film to better understand how insidiously evil may overtake a modern nation in crisis. More important, I urge anyone that believes that America is today in a crisis that requires extraordinary measures to watch this movie, listen with an open mind to this speech, and consider its implications for the direction of our own country today.Stepping down now from my soap box, let me say more clearly: Do yourself a favor and watch this movie. Never mind how old it is or how long it is or how dreary the subject may seem. If you care about the fate of humanity, you too will be grateful.


                
As I see again the old movies of the 40s, 50s and early 60s, I am impressed by the quality of material and acting in those movies. Judgment at Nuremberg is an excellent example. Although Montgomery Cliff had a very brief part, he was, as usual, outstanding. He always was. Clearly the acting and direction were flawless. Can't beat it for a view of the period just after WWII, and its effect on both Europe and the USA. Highly recommend the film -- especially on DVD as a brief scene was omitted in going from Tape 1 to Tape 2 on VHS (running time 3 hours and 7 minutes).


                
As I watched Judgement at Nuremburg, I could not help but feel that the film's message is as timely today as it was when the movie was made at the height of the Cold War. Spencer Tracy's monologue at the end of the film is as viable a commentary on the United States of today as it was on the situation of guilt in World War II.The ideology of the current American leadership is strikingly similar to that of the Germans who claimed they knew nothing of the atrocities that were occurring. The idea that when threatened, a nation may do whatever is expedient or felt necessary to protect itself sounds a hollow echo of words I have heard from Cheney and Rumsfeld.And the sad thing is that these men, like the Burt Lancaster character in the film, these men are intelligent, patriotic men who love their country. Yet like the four characters on trial in the film, how misguided they are.


                
SPOILER: This is perhaps one of the best movies regarding WWII because of the point that Spencer Tracy's character makes towards the end of the movie in his summation. He points out that the defendants were people of ability and intelligence- some were even remarkable.  If all of the people that helped this terrible thing along were depraved criminals and monsters, then these events would have no more moral significance than an earthquake or a flood. That good, even remarkable people in a time of crisis can delude themselves into heinous crimes against humanity is something to remember, to be guarded against. Personal morality is more important than the good of the state or going along with someone else's idea of right. The movie is a bit long, it actually takes the time to go into depth with the characters. It is definitely a powerful statement about personal responsibility. In one of the closing lines, Burt Lancaster's character (a defendant) tells Spencer Tracy's character (a judge) that he never knew it would come to that- all those people, he never knew. Tracy's character tells him that is came to that the minute he sentenced a man to death that he knew to be innocent.


                
What more can be said then the underlying principle being demonstrated in this film that great injustices to the masses start with an injustice to one person.Further illustrated is that it is not the maniacal or crazed that creates and expands a culture of injustice but the willing, self-preserving actions of cultured, intelligent people who knew better and looked the other way.The character of Madame Bertolt showed how charming and beautiful one can be, and yet compromised by such weakness... even more so than Lancaster's portrayal of Janning.What worth is it to save a country by a means that makes the country not worth saving? Max Schelling's role as the defender was astoundingly good, even as his character sought out accessories to the crimes against humanity including Stalin, Churchill and American Industrialists to excuse his client's actions. As the judge played by Tracy stated, the only one complaining at the bar is humanity itself.


                
As my late father was a WWII vet, I've tried to read and see as many films about the war as possible, to get some idea of his experience.  This was the second (to "The Best Years of Our Lives") that seemed to me to capture realistically the time and emotions of the war era.  In this movie, the issue is the leadership of the country and its accountability for the war, and how that accountability will be handled.  No one escapes criticism as the protagonists try to assign blame.  Stunning performances all around (even from William Shatner!) and cinematography that proves why b/w films were art.  In the end, though, it all comes down to the moral decisions we each make as individuals and our willingness to live with our choices. Brilliant and intelligent, without the contrivances and sentimentality of "Saving Private Ryan."


                
The first reflection is a musical one, as I suddenly realize how Stanley Kramer liked to use hauntingly beautiful songs to enhance scenes. "Lili Marleen" is already itself a languid, melancholic song and the effect it has in "Nuremberg" is plain to see. Really ingenious however is the transformation of "Waltzing Matilda" into a dreamy a cappella background song that takes the dancing scene in "On the beach" (between Gregory Peck and Eva Gardner) to an emotional height.On a more serious plane, it's uncanny how this movie, 45 years later, is still right on its mark about American occupation of foreign soil, as of today. Defense attorney Hans Rolfe's (Maximilian Schell) biggest challenge is not in convincing the tribunal that his client Ernst Janning (Burt Lancaster) is innocent, but in convincing the client himself. The arguments he put before the court were the best he could marshal under the circumstances: (a) his client was obligated to carry out the law existing in his country at the time, no matter how evil these laws were; (b) if his client, and also the German people, were guilty of condoning Hitler's rise to power, the rest of the world must also be guilty; (c) his client was not aware of the atrocities going on under the Nazi regime, so chillingly depicted by prosecuting attorney Col. Tad Lawson (Richard Widmark). None of these was very compelling but he did the best he could, as even Judge Dan Haywood (Spencer Tracy) admitted.Rolfe's biggest challenge was to convince Janning that it's up to them both to be the last defense of the dignity of the German people. Without that dignity, Germany could never be rebuilt. But it was Janning, after all, who had better insight and foresight, to be able to see that to uphold the dignity of the German people, he must honestly admit his guilt rather than deny it. Janning was of course right. It's the German leaders who have the courage to admit the Nazi crimes (even when they were not part of it) that enable the country to be raise its head high again, cleansed of atrocities committed by a minority of extremists.The 4 key roles were superbly acted. I realize that it's quite meaningless but if I have to rank them, I would have to put Tracy first, followed by Widmark, Schell (even when he won the Oscar) and Lancaster. Not to be forgotten are the 3 marvelous actors in the supporting roles, played with no less excellence than the key roles <U+0096> Marlene Dietrich, Montgomery Cliff and Judy Garland (not in any particular order).


                
Following a trail first started by Marty, Judgment at Nuremberg is one of the first films to be taken from television. Abby Mann wrote this script for a live drama on Playhouse 90. Only Maximilian Schell and Werner Klemperer repeated their roles from the 1959 production. Others in that cast were Claude Rains as Judge Haywood and Paul Lukas as the defendant Ernest Janning.Stanley Kramer assembled a cast of some big movie names for his film and directed this film reverently as it has an eternal message. To get the film out of the Nuremberg Tribunal courtroom, the role of the widow of the German general played by Marlene Dietrich was created and the other German citizens were also created show that Kramer could get some dialog in about how the ordinary German felt. In the original play their only advocate is defense lawyer Maximilian Schell.Schell is some good advocate indeed. While not lessening the guilt of any of the four German judges in the dock, he does raise some disturbing questions about other societies and how very easily the slide into totalitarian brutality can happen. He also shows some of the worst aspects in German character in his cross examination of Judy Garland and Montgomery Clift.The Nuremberg Tribunal has been going on four two years now. The big Nazi fish have been dealt with and we're now trying four German judges who apparently forgot all about due process in their efforts to ingratiate themselves with the new Nazi regime. Clift and Garland are two examples of German everypeople who got caught up in it and their performances well merited Oscar nominations in the Supporting player categories.Richard Widmark is the lead prosecutor and this is probably one of the least complex roles Widmark ever played. He's identified as a New Deal liberal, a protégé of the late President Roosevelt. He was in at the liberation of concentration camps and it effected him. It made him the good advocate for civilization itself.In an original cast album of the film, the monologues with Burt Lancaster confessing his guilt and Spencer Tracy rendering the verdicts were included. Lancaster in a smaller way plays the part of Albert Speer who probably escaped the hangman by just throwing himself on the mercy of the court. He's the only one who shows contrition. His confession though is a textbook example of how a demagogue can come to power in a nation left without pride.Spencer Tracy and Maximilian Schell got Academy Award nominations for Best Actor with Schell winning. But Tracy's summation of the trial is devastatingly correct. The real complainant at the bar is civilization itself as he so eloquently states. No player before or since has ever done so many lengthy speeches in his films and done them so well. This is the best of them, a creed for civilization that we as humans should all live by.In some of the smaller roles take note of some good performances by Virginia Christine as Tracy's housekeeper, Werner Klemperer as the unrepentant Nazi judge, and Howard Caine as Judy Garland's husband who does not want her victimized all over again on the witness stand. A real cross section of the German public circa 1948.Judgment at Nuremberg should be seen back to back with Schindler's List as a portrayal of the brutality itself and how civilization tried to deal with the consequences. Judgement at Nuremberg is a film whose message will never not be timely.


                
Every now and again you see a film that you think needs to be seen by everybody. This is such a film. You really are depriving yourself of a life-enhancing experience if you miss it.It is essentially a courtroom drama, exposing the true horrors of the Nazi regime. While many of the leading Nazis were indeed tried at Nuremberg for war crimes in the late 1940s, the co-accused in this case are fictional characters, which allows the actors and writer the luxury of concentrating on emotions and themes rather than impersonations.Spencer Tracy excels as the world-weary American Judge brought in to preside over the case. He is a man on a journey, trying desperately to discover a rational basis for what has happened to a once great people. His quiet style contrasts with the fiery passion displayed by both the Defence Counsel Maximilian Schell, a proud, intelligent young German determined to establish that not all his countrymen are to blame for the brutality of the Nazi regime, and lead Prosecutor Richard Widmark, a bitter military man who is set only on vengeance and retribution.Schell's character deserves some explanation. This is no Nazi. His love for his country is based not on the Germany of Hitler but of Bismarck and before. Impressive and eloquent, he battles doggedly against the odds because he genuinely believes that the interests of Germany and the wider world will be better served by forgiveness and absolution, rather than Widmark's brutal, indiscriminate revenge. Schnell rightly won the Best Supporting Actor Oscar for conveying all this. The only wonder, for me, is that none of the other players joined him on the Academy's lists.The most impressive of the four defendants is the noble law professor played by Burt Lancaster. But for me, one of the best performances in this film of great acting all round is that by Werner Klemperer, as the only truly unrepentant Nazi, exuding menace and resentment from every pore. The female interest is provided by Marlene Dietrich, the aristocratic widow of a leading Nazi official, whose house has been confiscated and given to Tracy's character for the duration of the trial. The two strike up an unlikely friendship, the tenderness of which contrasts starkly with the harsh reality exposed in the courtroom. One of the best scenes in the film is Dietrich's sad translation of the words of 'Lili Marlene' as it is sung by sombre passers-by as she is walked home by Tracy. It turns out to be an even more tragic song than we had imagined, and as such stands as a poignant symbol of the case as a whole.I like courtroom dramas. They provide claustrophobic settings which seem to breed great performances and tense, dramatic conflicts. There is no love lost between the two young lawyers in this film, and their exchanges are explosive. Nor is there any camaraderie between the four defendants, lurking in the dock in their varying degrees of denial and repentance. An array of tragic witnesses proceeds through the trial - the most notable being played by a troubled Judy Garland - and Tracey's quest for understanding puts him at odds with his fellow Judges on the case. It is a film therefore of individuals. Apart from the faltering liaison between Tracy and Dietrich, few partnerships are formed. Its bleak structure in this sense mirrors the tightly drawn courtroom setting and the ruined, desolate streets created by Kramer to evoke the post-war reality of German misery and shame.We share the shock and horror of the court as the full extent of the atrocities are revealed for the first time. And just as we think the film can't get any better, Tracy makes his final summing up speech: an 11-minute masterpiece, eloquently written and perfectly presented (allegedly in a single take). It stands up even today as a flawless exposition of uncompromising humanity. It is not the final scene of the film however. That comes a little later, between Tracy and Lancaster, and the closing line is - quite simply - devastating.You must see this film. It is the kind of cinematic experience that truly changes lives.


                
I've never been a big fan of Burt Lancaster, but his acting was powerful as Dr. Ernst Janning. Spencer Tracy is always good, but this may have been his best performance (along with "Bad Day at Black Rock"). I am not going to write a synopsis of this movie, but will suggest that anyone who enjoys REAL ACTING, well watch this movie. I was 10 years old when this movie came out, but never watched it until I was 66 and am awfully glad I did.


                
Stanley Kramer's "Judgment at Nuremberg" is one of the most intense courtroom movies ever. Focusing on the Nazi trials after WWII, it shows how the prosecution sought to remind people that complicity extended to every segment of the population. Indeed, there were people in the courtroom who thought that Germany should forget about what happened and just move on, but the prosecution reminded everyone that forgetting about what happened could lead to a repeat of the atrocities.There is also a scene that is of particular interest to me. The defense attorney (Maximilian Schell in an Academy Award-winning role) notes that it was not only Germany that was responsible for the Nazis' crimes against humanity. There was the Vatican's Reichskonkordat, the Soviet Union's treaty with Germany setting the stage for the latter's invasion of Poland, and there were a number of US corporations supporting Hitler. In other words, many different countries abetted the Nazis actions as much as the German citizens did.This is probably one of the most important movies ever made. It reminds us that justice might not move quickly, but must eventually come. Aside from Spencer Tracy, Burt Lancaster and Richard Widmark in the top roles, we also have Marlene Dietrich, Judy Garland and Montgomery Clift in supporting roles, as well as early appearances of William Shatner and Werner Klemperer.Everyone should see it.


                
Lacking the big names of what people normally think of as the "Nuremberg Trials" - the trial of Nazi leaders such as Goering, Hess and Speer - this movie focuses on the lesser known people who were tried for war crimes: the German judges whose responsibility it was to dispense "justice" in Hitler's Germany. Although the big names are missing, the movie is powerful and masterfully deals with the troubling questions around Nazism: how could normally good, decent people (represented in this movie by Ernst Janning, played by Burt Lancaster, on trial with three others) have allowed themselves to be sucked into the evil that was Hitler and National Socialism? How could the German people have turned a blind eye to what was going on and simply denied all responsibility? And the movie also considers a troubling question about the United States: if Nazism was evil enough to have warranted a war and then all the effort of the Nuremberg trials, why were the Americans suddenly so willing to "forgive and forget" with the onset of the Cold War and the threat of communism?The implication here is that the Americans never really took the secondary trials seriously. A second-rate judge (Dan Haywood, available only because he had been defeated in an election, and played magnificently by Spencer Tracy) was appointed to head the trial, the Army was putting pressure on the prosecution to go lightly. It's an amazing fact of history that within three years of the end of World War II, the feeling was so clearly against pursuing those who had played roles in the Nazi nightmare (and, of course, it's a question that still haunts us today as Nazi war criminals from time to time turn up and the response of the public is often, "he's an old man. Why bother?")Focussing largely on the trial itself, the movie is consistently gripping throughout, and even the diversions outside the courtroom (such as the relationship between Judge Haywood and Mrs. Bertholt -Marlene Dietrich) don't detract from the suspense, as they continue to push the question: "how can you just sit there and deny knowing anything?" Anyone with an interest in the puzzle of Nazi Germany should watch this. In the end, it raises a lot of questions and offers few answers, but that may be the legacy of Nazism. But the movie makes its point. As Judge Janning talks to Judge Haywood at the end of the movie he says almost pleadingly, "we never knew it would go so far." Haywood simply responds, "Herr Janning, it went that far the first time you convicted a man you knew was innocent." Powerful stuff.10/10


                
Wow ... I almost forgot the significance of this great movie. In fact it seems so much more significant today than it did in 1961. In light of the current political philosophy of fear mongering and removing rights via laws like the Patriot Act. Maybe every American should watch this movie again to prevent the United States from moving in the wrong direction.What is so wonderful about this movie is not only a wonderful script but of course the excellent acting by screen greats Spencer Tracy, Burt Lancaster, Richard Widmark, Maxmillian Schell, Judy Garland, Montgomery Clift, Werner Klemperer and even a young Bill Shatner. This cast along with the script and Stanley Kramer's direction is as good as it gets.The philosophical questions asked by this classic is timeless and must be addressed at times of great need such as now. And I doubt there is a better vehicle to ask these questions. Even though this movie a fictional drama about actual history it tells a great story while asking the most important question we can ask of society. This is truly a must see drama. It's significance is simply timeless. If you are lucky you will catch it on TCM.


                
I just saw this movie again last week-end , it still mesmerized me . A superb reflection on a unique moment in history, on how decent and even righteous people,even high-ranking ones , can be swayed on compromising their values, principles, moral codes or professionnal oaths. I am sure every viewer wonder how he would have acted under that regime, that sort of peer-pressure and threat. Also a good reminder that not only nazis or germans were to blame, so many were seduced by Hitler at some point, some for a moment, some for good. As for the acting, it is simply outstanding, doesnt even look like acting, seems like real life , but then what else is to be expected from such a cast. This one certainly has stood the test of time and will surely endure.


                
This film contains one of the best screen performances I have ever seen. Montgomery Clift plays a Man who was a victim of the Nazis need to sterilize those who were viewed as mentally incompetent. His performance is full of pathos and pain and it shows how Human Beings are capable of destroying other lives with deadly and insensitive ease. Clift starts out friendly and nervous on the witness stand, yet later on has a complete breakdown on the witness stand. One can see the pain and torment in Clift's eyes and even though he is only in the film for 10 minutes it's his performance that stands out. Clift was nominated for this film, yet did not win. Clift never won an Oscar and that fact alone should be proof enough of what a sham the academy awards really are.
A superb film in every aspect is the 1961 version of Judgment at Nuremberg. If only the motion picture academy would have 2 categories for musicals and dramas, this brilliant film would have certainly won in the latter category.An all-star cast is shown in the story of the trials that occurred following World War 11.We have Spencer Tracy, the head of the tribunal, playing the part with tremendous foresight. Max Schell, in an Oscar winning performance, is the defense attorney for the miserable judges who allowed their bigotry and loyalty to the Third Reich to get in the way of everything that is decent.Who can forget Burt Lancaster as one of the repenting judges? Richard Widmark plays the prosecuting attorney as if he were a holocaust victim. He was superb.Phenomenal in Oscar nominated supporting roles are Montgomery Clift and Judy Garland, Christian victims of the Nazi regime. Their testimony during the trial is chilling and shows what hate caught up in a society gone insane could produce.Marlene Dietrich, a real life refugee from Nazi Germany, is perfect as the wife of the executed Nazi army official. Knowing the wrongs that have occurred, she is nevertheless dismayed by the pictures of holocaust victims shown by the Widmark character at the trial.Stanley Kramer did a masterful job in directing a film that should be shown to students of the Holocaust and to all.


                
