A stimulating portrayal of the Nuremberg trials in which members of the German judiciary were brought to response their crimes in the immediate post-war period.The movie initiates with scenes of Nuremberg, Germany, 1948. The destruction of the war is clear everywhere. Judge Haywood(Spencer Tracy) is driven through the rotten buildings. Judge Hayward along with two other judges (Ray Teal, Kednneth Mackenna), to preside over the trial of Ministry of Justice, judges and Nazi prosecutors for their complicity in Third Reich. Hayward is helped by his assistant Harrison (William Shatner). In its opening declaration , the prosecution (an excellent prosecutor played by Richard Widmark) calls these defendants to account not for violation of due process or other constitutional violations but for killings, tortures, and cruelties committed during WWII. The accuser statements that the accused cannot claim ignorance that they should have known better for their high position and knowledges.Defender Hans Rolfe (Maximilian Schell) counsel's opening statement he declares that the aim of this judgment is the reestablishment of the code of justice with honor and innocence, because of judges don't make the laws . He argues the disobedience to the Fuehrer would have been choice between patriotism and treason for the justices with the subsequent firing squad. Finally the defending explains that not only are the judges on trial, so are the German people.One of the more dramatic portions of the film centers around Judge Janning's (Burt Lancaster) performance during the Feldenstein case (in real life, the Katzenberger case). Fedlenstein was charged with race mixing, of having relations with an Aryan, Irene Hoffman (Judy Garland). The trial was to be used as a showcase for National Socialism. Emil Hahn (Werner Kemplerer) had been the accuser and he was determined to find Feldenstein guilty despite evidence that he had merely been a family friend to Irene Hoffman. Hahn had told Irene that it was no use to deny having relations. That if she protected Feldenstein she would be arrested for perjury. She said she couldn't lie and was arrested. She said that Emil Hahn mocked Feldenstein, ridiculed him. Janning had been the presiding judge and he took no action to prevent the injustice. He had been the only hope for the defense since he had a reputation for being fair. Feldenstein was found guilty and executed.Prosecutor Lawson (Richard Widmark) submitted documents by which the judges and prosecutors had sent thousands to their deaths. A film was shown , a short-documentary is based on real events by means of photographs and stock-footage. As appears work camps are transformed into extermination centers to implement the policy of genocide thought at the Wannsee Conference . At the concentration camps was some minor industrial activity linked to the war effort but the main work was the execution of inmates.Millions of prisoners died in the concentration camps through mistreatment, disease, starvation, and overwork, or were executed as unfit for labor. More than six million Jews died in them, usually in gas chambers, although many were killed in mass shootings and by other means . As the documentary showed a gas chamber at Dachau , but it is a mistake because of it was never used, prisoners died from mistreatment or from execution by means other than gas. The archival footage shows tattooed skin , but Buchenwald prisoners with unusual tattoos were killed , then their skin was preserved for the tattoo collection of convicted war criminal Ilse Koch. Defense counsel speaks to the content of the films shown the previous day. He states that there is no justification for what happened, but, that it was wrong and unfair to show such films in court against these defendants. He claims that the extremists are responsible, not the defendants. He says that very few Germans knew what was going on. He claimed that the defendants stayed in their positions to keep things from getting worse. The defending then calls Irene Hoffman. In this unseemly portion of the defense, the defense counsel tries to portray Irene Hoffman as a law breaker and Judge Janning as merely doing his duty. The hypocrisy is evident and seems to bother even defense counsel Rolfe. Yet he continues to badger Irene, trying to break her down, to show that she did in fact have an affair with Feldenstein. Janning interrupts him and stops him from continuing.The next day Janning testifies about the Feldenstien case. He tells that there was fear in the country. That Hitler told the people to lift their heads. That once the gypsies, Jewish, and others were destroyed all would be well.Janning was content to sit by during his trial until he realized the same arguments were being used in this trial in his defense that had been used in the Feldenstien trial. Janning denies that Germans were unaware of the exterminations. He says that all were aware of what was going on, maybe not the details, but only because they did not want to know the details.Judge Hayward affirms the value of a single human life, and the responsibility of the justices, and by implication the German people, for their actions and inaction. This graphic account of the Nuremberg trials were immediately brought to book and subsequently adapted by Stanley Kramer in ¨Playhouse ¨ style. Judge Haywood is perfectly played by Spencer Tracy, he gives us the uneasy feeling that the German people never really came to terms with their innocence or guilty. This film takes the point of view that Germany, at the time of the picture was realized, was moving beyond the war a little too fast, and was doing so with the help of the US and other allies because of the Cold War. For his passionated acting of the defending advocate Maximilian Schell won an Oscar as the years's best player and special mention Montgomery Clif, also uncredited as screenwriter. Rating : Excellent, better than average.


                
I'd been meaning to see this movie since I can remember but never made it happen until it was on PBS last night. What makes this movie a classic is the message it conveys as well as the way it conveys it. The screenplay has many layers and makes it's points very subtlety-As a first generation American of parents who were both concentration camp survivors, the message had particular meaning for me. It's a message especially poignant as Americans today better understand the pitfalls of confusing constructive political criticism/dissent with not being Patriotic -and putting political party before country."The only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing", is a quote attributed to Edmund Burke- and is entirely what "Judgement at Nuremberg" is all about. What happened in Nazi Germany is not confined to the German people, it could happen in almost any country of the world, given the right circumstances. The defense "I was just following orders" is without merit.... -that is, if we are serious about wanting to live in a society we can be proud of.Spencer Tracy is so good in this movie it's difficult to put into words. His role is a very delicate one and he pulls it off like few actors in history could ever hope to. Tracy's role is all the more impressive in the company of scores of Hollywood stars that grace this film.There are weaknesses in the movie. I was surprised that, even given the subject matter, I found "Judgement at Nuremberg" too often melodramatic- the pacing and dialog often so slow that it bordered on comical. In this regard Director Stanley Kramer overdoes it IMHO.Spoiler: The full weight of the story is brought to bear at the end when the guilty verdicts are given. Spencer Tracy, as the lead judge, pronounces the sentences on the Nazi government officials. Many of the accused officials are unrepentant and antagonistic to the idea of being judged by the American court, but Burt Lancaster plays the role of a German official who takes shame in his actions during the war.Lancaster was a Nazi court Judge who allowed himself to take orders from party officials. His testimony shows that he did things against his better judgment and we see him as a relatively good man who got caught up in the political momentum and Nazi system.When Tracy pronounces life sentences to the hard core Nazi's, he does so in a voice that betrays little emotion or anger. When he gets to Lancaster's character you're expecting Tracy to be more lenient on him, but instead he raises his voice in great anger and emotion as he also sentences him to life imprisonment. Tracy was angrier with him because he expected more from Lancaster -because he knew better yet didn't act.In the last scene Lancaster is a broken man seeking some form of forgiveness from the man who sentenced him, and asks to see Tracy in his cell-room. Tracy obliges and takes his time to listen. Lancaster expresses his sorrow and pleads for the judge to understand that no one could have predicted the incredible evil that resulted from the Nazi regime... as the times were so chaotic it was impossible to not get caught up in it all. "I couldn't know".As Lancaster is broken and repentant, one is tempted to forgive him for his actions. The camera goes to Spencer Tracy- he pauses and, with a soft voice, respectfully states... "you should have known as soon as you sentenced men to die who you knew were innocent". Understanding the point is inescapably true- Lancaster's face falls, Tracy leaves and the movie ends.It's powerful stuff and a poignant lesson for all of us who like to think of ourselves as "good people".
The big shots have already been hanged or have committed suicide when Chief Judge Dan Haywood (Spencer Tracy) a political hanger-on who just lost an election back home is sent as a political reward for party loyalty to occupied Germany to help mop up some of the remaining cogs in the Nazi system, more particularly, Dr. Ernst Janning, a former German judge now defendant in the War Crimes Tribunals for Crimes Against humanity. There is considerable doubt about Janning's guilt; many of Janning's decisions as a judge were no different than those made by similar authorities in the US.Judge Haywood approaches Janning with a degree of fascination. Janning was no avid Nazi but a man of intellect and distinction.What is the responsibility of a man of integrity in a world gone mad?In occupied Germany, the Germans still bristle with hatred and resentment to their American conquerors, but the hatred is not quite so white hot as once was. The new Germany or at least West Germany would like to join the Western powers. Certainly a political figure like Judge Haywood is not immune to the pull to render a decision motivated by a spirit of reconciliation but one which integrity cannot sustain.The movie is a classic for having presented this inner conflict through multiple levels of ironies and without preaching.


                
The movie actually is so rich with contents that tackle mainly the human nature and how we all tend to judge each others while we have crimes of our own that are no less inhumane than of those whom we are judging.I like most the scene when the lawyer (Maximilian Shell) says that Americans were not less brutal and merciless than the Nazi's when they bombed atomically Hiroshima and Nagasaki during the world war II in 1945. In the movie, there was a focus on the issue of applying such cruel measures against humanity under the excuse of "it was our duty and we had no other choice". This is exactly what Margaret Thatcher said in her book "The Path to Power". She said: "We don't regret bombing Japan and if we go back again in time we would do the same thing all over again". Just look at the wars of today, so many crimes in the name of duty are being committed but there is no judgment anymore! Anyway, another scene which I liked so much in the movie is when Maximillian Shell the lawyer is talking to the witness Judy Garland and he shouts to her face in a psychological way and forces her to crack down, cry and confess something which was not true! Psychologically speaking, this is very true and needs certain skills to be done.The movie is just amazing and there is no single second in the movie that gets you to be bored. It's long but too entertaining with so many great actors Tracy the judge, Lancaster the lead character among the Nazis being judged, Marline Dietrich, Richard Widmark, and Montgomery Clift.


                
It is so easy to dismiss this as a story of other people in another time in another land. Unfortunately, what was done then, is being done by the leaders of our country in the name of protection from terrorists, and we, the people, sit silently by and let it happen just as the German people did seven decades ago.We need to watch films like this over and over to remind us of what is important and what we, as civilized humans, can be reduced to out of fear.This is another great film by the fantastic Abby Mann, who died last month. He won an Oscar for his screenplay, and it was well deserved.Maximilian Schell was simply fantastic, as was Spencer Tracy, Montgomery Clift, and Judy Garland. Director Stanley Kramer brought out the best in these actors, and others like Burt Lancaster, Richard Widmark, Marlene Dietrich, William Shatner, and Werner Klemperer.Don't look upon it as three hours of cinema, but as a class in humanity as only Abby Mann could write.


                
JUDGMENT AT NUREMBERG was adapted from Abby Mann's TV play and turned into a masterful piece of work by director Stanley Kramer. His sterling cast included SPENCER TRACY and RICHARD WIDMARK (American judge and prosecutor, respectively), German defense attorney MAXIMILIAN SCHELL in his award-winning Best Actor role, and such impressive defendants as MARLENE DIETRICH, JUDY GARLAND and MONTGOMERY CLIFT, all giving deeply felt performances.As every student of history knows, there were trials after World War II held in Nuremberg, Germany for Nazis who committed crimes against humanity during the war. This story concerns some fictional German defendants who were more like second tier when it came to atrocities committed since the primary leaders had already been judged. Nevertheless, their part in the war crimes is investigated as the trial proceeds to occupy most of the film, giving the whole story a claustrophobic feeling, the kind one always gets from a real-life courtroom setting.Tracy has some marvelous speeches to make--and Maximilian Schell has his moments where the viewpoint of an intelligent German defense attorney is seen as opposed to the violently opposite statements of RICHARD WIDMARK as the American prosecutor. The audience is forced to view both viewpoints and, having heard all the evidence presented, make up its own mind as to the outcome.It's an important film historically and one can certainly understand why so many of the actors were honored with Academy Award nominations or winners of Golden Globes. They all play an important part in keeping the film grounded in reality and not given to melodramatic outbursts.Summing up: Honest and thought-provoking, it serves as a valuable history lesson as well as a solid piece of entertainment.


                
This is a very interesting, well-crafted, and thought-provoking look at a difficult subject from a difficult period in world history. It recreates the complex feelings and issues of the era with care, and it goes out of its way to be fair to all of the characters and what they stand for.Between the difficult decisions involved in determining responsibility for the outrages that took place under the Nazi regime, and the diplomatic worries of the era, there is a lot of emotionally charged material, and yet "Judgment at Nuremberg" uses an excellent cast and well-conceived characters to create a movie that is both worthwhile for its themes and interesting to watch.The characters are well-chosen so as to allow the opportunity for each major perspective to have a hearing, and the cast members do quite well in bringing their characters to life. Spencer Tracy gives one of his finest performances as the judge in the center of it all. Very few other actors could have been so believable in portraying the character as he carefully weighs so many different viewpoints, knowing that he must come to a decision.Burt Lancaster is very effective as the most interesting of the defendants, and the one whose case is the hardest to evaluate. His character is contrasted effectively with the other defendants, and Lancaster makes the character interesting and his case significant. Maximilian Schell also succeeds in a challenging role. Marlene Dietrich works well in her role, which represents yet another aspect of the general situation. The other characters likewise all have a purpose, and are all portrayed believably, with Montgomery Clift and Judy Garland in particular standing out as two traumatized witnesses.Even within the lengthy running time, it would not be possible to cover every significant point involved in the discussion. But this dramatization is one of the best depictions available of the dilemmas and challenges that had to be faced in the aftermath of the Second World War.


                
While I seem to never tire of the Holocaust as a subject...it's both grotesque and fascinating for me to read accounts (especially first hand) of the way in which humans treated other humans during this war...I am tired of Holocaust movies. Most of them are terribly slanted to make the enemy evil and the victims righteous. I take exception to films that make all Germans look bad. I have German relatives and friends from both sides of the war and their story is so much more complex than a single movie or book could ever portray. Like most middle class Americans, genocide is a difficult phenomenon for me to comprehend. It terrifies and upsets me but at the same time I am overwhelmingly compelled to find out why and how it actually happened(s.) I grew up in New York and have friends who's parents are camp survivors. Most of these people do not talk about the war. Nor do my relatives and friends who fought on the American side or my husband's relatives who were imprisoned or almost starved to death surviving against the grain of Hitler's regime. Also, I know from first hand experience most Germans do not talk about this war either. I think because it is so unbelievable painful that it's easier just to try to forget it. But of course, forgetting it is the very thing people should never do! I really hate the recent Holocaust denial sub-text going on around the world. It frightens me to think that people actually believe the extermination of millions of people never happened! And film is the perfect media to insure that genocide...be it Jews and Gypsies, Cambodian and Laotians, Tutsis in Rwanda, Serbs in Kosovo, and history's indigenous peoples every where...is never forgotten or tolerated. Therefore, I am recommending this movie with aplomb, as I think it was well made and has been sorely overlooked for too long.Born in 1952 , I was not alive when these events took place and it is my guess that this particular rendition of The Justice or "Nazi Judges" Trial Case No. 3 is only partially based on fact. Still, 'Judgment at Nuremberg' is really worthy of our attention. Like 'Schindler's List,' another good holocaust movie, it is filmed in black and white. This falsely gave me the impression it was made right after the war, when in fact, it was filmed in 1961. It is 3 hours long and maybe should have been edited but I am glad it was not. Although, it did drag... I liked the sequences in which an older Spencer Tracy (Chief Judge Dan Haywood) walks around the city (scene of the crime as it were) trying to 'assimilate' the era in an attempt to understand culpability. I also felt the documentary footage of actual camp and street violence while painfully inevitable...was highly educational. Especially for those of us who were not around when it all happened.There are so many note worthy actors in this movie! Made back in the days when studios tried to get as many big names in a movie as possible...you will be amazed at the talent. Oscar winning Maximillian Schell creates a magnificent achievement as the defense attorney for Dr. Ernst Janning played very subtly by Burt Landcaster. There are numerous other well know actors involved in this court room drama...Judy Garland and Montgomery Clift give somewhat deflated performances as witnesses for the prosecution...which is kind of ironic because both of their careers were also pretty flat by the time this movie was made. Judy looks drugged, which she probably was and Montgomery Clift actually got an Oscar nod for playing a crazed bug eyed idiot...which IMHO is not really acting on his part. Also, there is an incredible role with a straight Marlene Dietrich portraying a once prominent member of German nobility and a war widow,who tries to enlighten Spencer Tracy's character to the fact that not all Germans were monsters. I loved just having another chance to see her on screen. There's even a small but funny...in a hind sight kind of way...bit part in which a much younger and less arrogant William Shatner plays Judge Haywood's Aide. Like I said...what a cast!In the end of the movie as in the end of the war...it all comes down to culpability! Some of the worst Nazi offenders were never put on trial(The Fuhrer, Heinrich Himmler, Bormann, and Joseph Goebbels) which is felonious given the tremendous human suffering they instigated. But this movie is not about the big gun offenders...it's about the every day complacency of folks just doing their jobs...which was then and now the culprit for many a crime against humanity...not to mention full scale genocide.


                
I was very impressed with Judgment at Nuremberg, seeing it 42 years after it was released.  Because it's basically a filmed play, it tends to be overly dramatic, as though the actors were playing to a live audience.  However, there are powerful performances from Spencer Tracy, Burt Lancaster, and Maximilian Schell (among others).  It's a little long, but definitely worth seeing.  8/10.


                
JUDGMENT AT NUREMBERG is a tense and provocative courtroom drama, which on a powerful and realistic way shows the nature of a war crimes trial.Four German judges and prosecutors stand accused of crimes against humanity for their involvement in atrocities committed under the Nazi regime. A military court convened in Nuremberg. A prominent lawyer and scientist has condemned so many people to death. Residents of Germany have, at the moment become blind and deaf to the crimes of the Nazi regime. However, each individual has a different view of the war and killings in the war. Each of the warring forces carries a certain part of the blame...Simple questions give quite confusing answers. Moral and responsibility of important people are faced with interests of their state. Civil servants have to respect inhuman and immoral laws!? Then and now. Nothing's changed. However, some people still have to answer for war crimes.This movie is full of strange contrasts. The main judge is generally a very curious. German defense counsel is an emotional person, who is concerned about the fate of his own people. The prosecutor is a very sharp and theatrical. Witnesses (ordinary people) are scared of both sides. Two words have emerged between curiosity, accusation, defense and emotions - an interest and compromise. There is no room for justice and right in these words. That's the point in this movie.Mr. Kramer has mostly focused on a legal access and political philosophy. Characterization is very good. The horror on the faces of the protagonists is a very disturbing and compelling.Spencer Tracy as Chief Judge Dan Haywood is a curious old judge, who wants to reveal the truth. However, he has realized something else - political logic. Maximilian Schell is a quite convincing as defense counsel Hans Rolfe, but his intentions and his attacks on witnesses are somewhat destructive. Richard Widmark is unscrupulous and decisive as prosecutor Col. Tad Lawson. Policy has cut off his wings at the end.Marlene Dietrich as Frau Bertholt is a sad and sensitive woman. Her character is an interesting view of the German aristocracy after World War II. However, she was closely related to the war and her perspective is truly amazing.Montgomery Clift (Rudolph Peterson) and Judy Garland (Irene Hoffmann-Wallner) are real tragic characters in a malicious court game. They are victims in the true sense of the word.Burt Lancaster (Dr. Ernst Janning) is an unusual serious defendant. His face reflects sympathy with the victims of the war. He is the voice of reason that nobody wants to hear.All actors have offered, more or less, impressive performances.This story is sketchy. Wars are, unfortunately, part of our everyday life. Innocent people are dying trapped between interests and compromises. A trashy trial will not open our eyes.


                
This dour and lengthy (3 hours) courtroom drama deals with the tail end of the Nuremberg trials of 1946-48, when many of the Nazi leaders were tried for their part in the totalitarian nightmare which engulfed Germany between 1933 and 1945. By 1948 the chief villains had been dealt with and the Tribunal had moved on to the supporting players, in this case four of the judges who had worked for the Nazi state. The particular trial, based on an earlier TV film also written by Abby Mann, is fictional, but founded on fact. A very high quality cast keeps the viewer engaged. How was it that many high officials, let alone ordinary Germans, did not admit to knowing the true horror of the "final solution"? How was it possible that eminent lawyers would co-operate with the Nazi regime despite their distaste for it? How could their conduct be defended, let alone be excused?As Hans Rolfe, the youthful defence counsel for the most prominent judge, Ernst Janning (a noble-looking but rather wooden Burt Lancaster), Maximilian Schell gives the Tribunal of three American judges plenty of histrionics. It is evident that Germany, and not just the judges is on trial. But the scriptwriter does not allow the defendants off the hook. One, played by Werner Klemperer, is unrepentant, another is befuddled. Only Ernst Janning puts up any kind of defence, to the effect that he thought he could ameliorate things by playing along with the Nazis. This did not stop him from ordering sterilization of mental defectives and the execution of an old Jewish man for allegedly having sex with a 16 year old non-Jewish girl. The problem, of course is a very large number of Germans approved of repressive policies towards Jews. The Nazis were overtly anti-semitic from the start and it needs to be remembered that in the election in January 1933 which brought Hitler to power the Nazi party got the largest proportion of votes cast, 43%. Hitler brooked no opposition, and anyone who got in the way was disposed of summarily. Only the aristocratic army officer corps offered any real resistance, and then only late in the piece because they saw Hitler as ruining Germany. For someone like Janning exile was not an option <U+0096> it was either play along or go to a concentration camp for opposing the regime. He admits his mistake, but of course it's cold comfort to the victims.Spencer Tracey could make just about any character likable, and our sympathies are soon captured by the affable and apparently fair-minded Judge Hayward. But he proves incapable of getting to the bottom of the matter. Justice of a sort is done, and the defendants have their day (actually several months) in court, but the whole proceeding has some of the elements of a show trial. Ironically, both the prosecutor (a relentless Richard Widmark) and the Tribunal members are for political reasons pressured by people in the military who should have known better to go easy on the defendants. Currently we have kangaroo court style US military tribunals set up by the late unlamented Bush regime to deal with people picked up in the invasion of Iraq and elsewhere. Fortunately it looks like the regular courts will wind up disposing of these cases. However, the Nuremburg Tribunal, victor's justice it may have been, can be defended on the grounds there was nothing else. In retrospect it was an imperfect exercise. This film remains a worthy attempt to give an account of it.


                
I am not a Historian so I really can't comment on the historical content of this film in terms of accuracy or details, but I can say that it is a terrifically involving courtroom drama, and easily watchable despite it's 3 hour running time.Spencer Tracy plays the small-town American judge assigned to the trial of several important German judges and lawmen in Nuremberg a few years after the Allied victory in World War II. It's a perfectly judged performance of a man of great experience and wisdom, who is genuinely open to all arguments and only wants the truth. The other performances are a little more mannered with both Maximillian Schnell and Montgomery Clift slipping to melodrama occasionally.For the most part, both sides of the coin are very fairly represented as the defence and prosecution attorneys argue their cases. The atrocities and horrors of Hitler's regime are shown in newsreel footage, but the voice of the everyday German people is also represented in the various characters Judge Hayward encounters outside of the courtroom. The film allows for much intelligent discussions investigating the conflict between social conditions and pressures, and the personal morality of the Judges who signed orders on the execution of innocent Jews and the sterilisation of unwanted members of society.Unfortunately I found the film to be let down by a nagging sense of great self-importance. The big speeches are all delivered as if they were the last words ever to be uttered, which I found became tiresome. Although largely the film presents both sides of the argument strongly, I found the final important moment of the film a let down, as Judge Haywood has the last, critical word against Dr Janning. Understandably given it's makers, the film does ultimately bias itself firmly with the American view on proceedings and the aforementioned self-important tone goes a bit far in this respect. Technically the film alternates between some fine deep-focus cinematography by Ernest Laszlo and some effective, if dated and slightly clumsy, crash zooms and editing techniques at particularly dramatic moments.Despite these few misgivings which don't quite allow me to rate the film at quite the level it seems to aspire to, it's still an engrossing, perfectly paced courtroom film with great performances and some highly intelligent discussions on war, government, leaders and society that still resonate in today's climate.


                
"Justice at Nuremberg" took on the matter of the post WWII military trials that took place in Germany with many of Hitler's associates as the defendants. In this film, those jurists that administered justice in the name of the 3rd Reich are brought to answer for their roles in the legalizing of Nazi atrocities. It is a difficult subject, to be sure, because they were acting, in the statement of the defense attorney, for the benefit of their country, right or wrong. Patriotism, an American virtue, is to be practiced by German patriots who felt that Germany was correct in its quest to rid the world of certain undesirable groups. In the end, the viewer has to discern all the questions and thoughts that arise, which can make this movie a bit tough. However, it is a film to be viewed with an honest, clear-thinking mind that makes one think and recall those times of sheer horror and torment.The cast is top-notch; Spencer Tracy plays the American judge who ultimately has to deliver the verdict to four former judges, and he plays it with quiet dignity and integrity. Burt Lancaster plays one of the four defendants with silence and intensity, which erupts when his attorney, played by Oscar-winner Maximillan Schell, tries to make the actions of the judges both acceptable and correct, for the times of occurrence. Lancaster delivers a very moving soliloquy in his time to finally testify which rivets the viewer to heed all that is said. Richard Widmark plays the prosecuting attorney with a fierce determination to see justice done, no matter what, and Judy Garland,along with Montgomery Clift, contribute moving scenes during their time as witnesses to recall horrors inflicted upon them during the control of the 3rd Reich.All said and done, this film needs to be recognized as one of Stanley Kramer's directorial masterpieces, but viewers need to realize that these events did occur, and hopefully, are now prevented from ever occurring again.


                
An American judge hears the cases of German judges who collaborated with Hitler. The cases are pretty simple except for one of Janning's. Janning is known for his love for justice and has written books on the same topic which is read as text books by the lawyers in Europe. Janning became a part of Hitler mafia unwillingly because he thought that things will get over soon but as things grew thicker he found himself more engaged and guilty. Rest of the cases are simple and doesn't need great imagination to be termed as Hitler's accomplices. A judge, a convict, a prosecuting lawyer and a defendant lawyer are the main characters of the film. Judgement at Nuxemberg talks about a lot of things other than of course patting America's back for bringing Hitler to his knees.Lots of arguments are extremely relevant and interesting. What's more interesting than a courtrooms drama? JAN is almost as good as 'Inherit the Wind' except for last five minutes. It would have a fantastic film if Janning was not shown begging for sympathy from all white American judge Dan Haywood. It just killed my admiration for the film. Rest of the film is just remarkable. It was nice to see Hans Rolfe talking about Hiroshima and Nagasaki with Janning trying to convince him that America has no right whatsoever to give anyone a guilt trip. That was I think the most powerful and relevant scene. I think I gave 8 for that particular dialog otherwise rest of the film is more-less a propaganda. JAN got 2 very well deserving Oscars. Maximillian Schell was just mind blowing one of the few performances like Vincent D'Onofrio in Full Metal Jacket, JAmes Stewart in 'Mr Smith goes to Washington' etc. Rest of the cast is just as good as it gets. I think its a fine film provided you know about Americans spirit (saying something else and doing something else) and you can laugh it off when they seriously try to fool rest of the world. 8/10.
I thought this film was quite powerful with an excellent cast. Judy Garland, in a non singing dramatic turn, with a German accent proved to be quite the standout. She was nominated for the Academy award best supporting actress that year, but lost out to a dubbed Rita Moreno from West Side Story. Rita was terrific in the film. However, giving it to a dubbed performer, does that make a lot of sense?Montgomery Clift also turned in a haunting performance as a man who had been the victim of Nazi medical experimentation.It's one of those films you see and are impressed with the stellar quality of the old Hollywood stars like Spencer Tracy, Marlene Dietrich, and the others.


                
It took more than a decade for Hollywood to handle the most painful aspect of World War II, the most difficult to watch from a cinematic perspective: the Holocaust. George Stevens made "The Diary of Anne Frank" and Otto Preminger made "Exodus". Stanley Kramer adopts a different angle converging with the streak of courtroom dramas that started in the late 50's: "12 Angry Men", "Witness for the Prosecution", "Anatomy of a Muder" or "Inherit the Wind", actually you have a dozen of classics made between 1957 and 1962, and "Judgment at a Nuremberg" is one of the high points, dealing with the German perspective, it can be subtitled: "Anatomy of a Holocaust".The film asks fundamental questions about the responsibility of German judges and prosecutors who sentenced to jail or sterilization, many civilians, out of obedience to the Third Reich regime. Set at the end of the Nuremberg trials in 1948, the film is a powerful documentary-like drama questioning the roles played by men who were not Nazi officers, who never pulled any trigger or activated any gas chamber, yet there's no doubt that their law-abiding attitude cautioned an evil ideology. And the real challenge is to ask ourselves a similar question: what would have we done, today, if we were to be ruled by a shamefully evil law, or at least, unethical.A look at the context: by the time these trials were conducted, all the Nazi top-management was wiped out but while Germany was turning the page of World War II, some people still had to answer for their crimes. Stanley Kramer deals with the trauma of the war without adopting an inquisitive tone and that's worthy of appreciation, the performance of Maximilian Schell as the lawyer of the four judges is pivotal, because this is a man whose competence is undeniable and inspires tacit admiration and obvious concerns from the prosecutor played by Richard Widmarck. Spencer Tracy as Judge Haywood observes the trial with impassible eyes, and from his rugged Yankee look, you can tell this is a man who's really asking question and wants to be convinced.The film is never as powerful as when you stop watching it from a collective aspect and see it from one individual perspective, one that makes things less black-and-white and more complex than they seem. Modern audiences are a few steps ahead of "Judgment at Nuremberg" but we can appreciate it as a serious drama full of passionately riveting exchanges especially between Schell and Widmarck who, in their own right, manage to have a point even if they stand for diverging opinions. And within a run-time of three-hour, a few other scenes emerge from the judicial routine. Montgomery Clift's awkwardness culminating with his broken voice confronting the impassible Haywood and asking if his mother was feeble-minded, Schell with the passiveness of a cold-blooded bully putting the final nail on his coffin by telling him that all he got is his word and facts can't speak for him.Schell can be rather destructive and finally loses his temper with frail and plump Judy Garland portraying a former Jew's mistress, but the scene works less than Clift's because it is to melodramatic proportions. It is interesting though that Kramer picked Clift and Garland to play worn-out characters, at a time where their career was already declining, and they were broken souls to some degree, there are many artistic licenses taken by Kramer, his loose handling of 'languages' issue, some flashy zooming, all create a rather bizarre self-conscious aspect. Even Burt Lancaster, as accused judge Emil Janning, chooses a pose that gives him a strange solemnity and makes his character uncomfortably sympathetic, oddly enough, the opposite happens with Marlene Dietrich's character that seemed to exist to give Haywood some German insights from a civilian perspective.It comes down to some banal scenes being brilliant, one in jail where a former Nazi camp worker explains it in the most casual way how gas chambers work. I love the fact that he's talking while he's still chewing as if the subject wasn't serious enough to speak with gravity. His casual tone made the point. And in the shot, you have the face of Werner Klemperer (known for Colonel Klink in "Hogan's Heroes"), he plays a despicable Nazi judge but his face is devastated, either this is the Nazi realizing the extent of the horror, but you can also see the man who survived Nazism and stopped acting in character. In both cases, it was a brilliant moment."Judgment at Nuremberg" is a dense movie that questions the extents of responsibility, by confronting the Americans to similar issues, how can they condemn German people while avoiding diplomatic complication at the dawn of Cold War? Schell is also the voice that allows pointing a finger on the complicity of the Allies, the application of eugenic laws, the bombing of Hiroshima and many items of discussion suggesting that Germany doesn't have the monopoly of horror. Still, the film manages to find the powerful ending by mentioning that it's not a matter of logic but of fairness. Schell might be 'right' in the absolute, but there comes a time where you've got to think with your heart. Which takes me back to the opening point about the evilness of law.I remember an interesting quote from "A Man for All Seasons": "This country is planted thick with laws, from coast to coast, Man's laws, not God's! And if you cut them down, do you really think you could stand upright in the winds that would blow then? Yes, I'd give the Devil benefit of law, for my own safety's sake!" The accused judges would have used this line as a defense; they did what they did for their own interest, because as legal scholars, they believed in law.But if in the name of Law, you give the Devil the benefit of the law, what if the Devil is the law?


                
Stanley Kramer's 3-hours historical courtroom drama about the trial of four distinguished German judges after WWII in Nuremberg by an American court which is presided by Judge Dan Haywood (Tracy), the defendants are not direct participants of neither the combats nor the Holocaust, but do they hold the responsibility of condoning Hitler and the Third Reich's atrocity without interfering with their own divine and authoritative power to forestall all the ensuing heinous horror during the WWII, or before, when Nazi's racial persecution was striking the minority population within Germany under the patronage of law? Are they responsible for the killing of those millions of innocents during the most horrifying genocide in the human history? Based on Abby Mann's meticulous script and a powerhouse cast. Some of the defendants are avid advocates of such wanton injustice, but the sagest among them is Judge Ernst Janning (Lancaster), a prestigious law-maker, whose confession in the third act comes as the most powerful introspection with remorse and grievance of a patriotic German's viewpoint of Hitler and his empire, deluded by Hitler's saviour image, German people are desperate to believe he can save the troubled nation and blindly follows him, even conforms to his radical policies a passing phase for a victorious future. Lancaster is taciturn almost entirely up to his big action here, it is a greatly harrowing confession. Judge Haywood is from a provincial background, rarely gets out of his own country, he is an amiable and easy of approach, Spencer stands out in bringing out a lifelike personage of his character with gravitas and charisma, culminating in the scenes where he pronounces the judgements, understated but each line is so puissant and mind-blowing. Obviously the whole task is a hot potato for him, during the time, political influence is also in the game to sway his verdict, when the impending Cold War is looming large. While getting to know the truth, he befriends a German widow Ms. Bertolt (Dietrich), whose husband is a general and has been executed in a trial and Dan lives in their house which is confiscated after the war. Ms. Bertolt cunningly indoctrinates her innocent identity and persuades him that the most important thing is to look upon the future, as life must go on no matter what. Dietrich is in her early sixties, but radiant in her passive manipulation under the surface of kindness and aplomb. She represents another type of the post-war German mentality, they cannot face the truth, and deceive themselves with oblivion, but the torture is persistent plaguing, her final scene where she is sitting in the shadow when the telephone is ringing, she knows it is Dan to say goodbye, yet her dispassionate silhouette tells everything, her scheme founders, and all the dignified facade is removed, to her Dan is just a chess she fails to manoeuvre, no heartfelt farewell needed, may alcohol can save her soul. The prosecutor is Tad Lawson (Widmark), a US colonel who witnesses firsthand the utterly inhuman savagery in the concentration camps, he is vehement to condemn the defendants and obviously is carried away by implicating the whole nation as the sinner, the perpetrator, his indignation can be vicariously felt by viewers, but for once we can not all stand by his side, which denotes a different irrational extremity. Perhaps, the most formidable performance comes from the then unknown Maximilian Schell, who plays Hans Rolfe, the German defence attorney, and he wins an Oscar for it. Rolfe is very good at his job and over-confident in his professional acuteness of logic to serve his own assumptions. His aggressive but impassioned eloquence can tactfully penetrate the loopholes in key witnesses' testimonies and elicit compassion in the most unlikely scenario, he is a patriot too, he has a clear vision of what Nazi has done, but for him, the only redemption is to save the last remnant of dignity for his homeland, no matter how improper and difficult it will be. Schell invests a great deal of passion, resolution and wisdom in his superb line-delivery of his star-making role. Apart from Dietrich, the film also marks two other Golden Age mega-star's twilight career, it is Dietrich's penultimate screen presence, but for Clift and Garland, their more troubled personal downward spirals are woefully apposite for their characters as two key witnesses here, Clift is Rudolph Petersen, a slow-witted victim of Nazi's sterility operation and Garland is Irene Hoffman, a German woman who is involved with a Jewish man and claims he is only a father figure to her. They galvanize consummately in their very rare foil roles, both are enormously compelling and drastically stirring to watch, especially when audience can detect the traces of their own traumas which can be vividly reflected on screen, alas, both would die prematurely, Clift in 1966 at the age of 45 and Garland, three years later in 1969 at the age of 47. Apart from Schell's win, Tracy, Clift and Garland are also Oscar-nominated, but that year the Academy was adamant to acknowledge new blood, Tracy is trounced by Schell, Clift and Garland and the film itself lost to WEST SIDE STORY (1961), only Mann's writing added a second Oscar to this significantly illuminating lesson one can learn from the most horrifying man-made catastrophe and a telling evidence that law system must not be compromised by political agenda under any circumstances. Although Kramer's directorial endeavour could be comparatively overlooked as the story mostly takes place in the courtroom, and it is the battle of tongue that captivates its audience, his innovation of 360- degree interior shots still can alert one's attention of the mastery behind. In one word, the film is a vociferous diatribe towards all the warmongers among the human race, the scum of the earth!


                
An all-star cast delivers top notch performances in Stanley Kramer's excellent courtroom drama, "Judgement At Nuremburg". Maximilian Schell is a revelation in his Oscar-winning turn as the defense counsel for four German judges being tried for war crimes during the Third Reich's reign in Germany.The judges are charged with handing out morally wrong convictions handed down to citizens who opposed the state, or were politically affiliated with parties who opposed the Nazis, and then passing cruel sentences to those citizens, which included women and children. Heinous punishments which included sentences to concentration camps, sterilization of citizens and mass executions are discussed at great length. Kramer gets superb performances out of Montgomery Cliff and the great Judy Garland, as broken victims of these verdicts. It includes messages of how the military establishment will continue to repeat mistakes of the past, as well as the message to the whole world that we should never forget the sins of war, whether it affects millions, or one human life. A powerful film, whose 3 hour length flies by as the drama grips you.


                
"Judgment at Nuremberg" is a history movie in which we watch as the title says the judgment which did in Nuremberg. There an American court in occupied Germany judges four Nazi for war crimes. This trial takes place is Germany and at a time that Cold War is heating up and no one wants any more trials. Tribunal has a difficult task ahead and has to be very careful with this because it reminds a lot to people and is a very delicate topic.I really liked this movie because of the plot which I found just brilliant and because the direction which made by Stanley Kramer was also very good. I have to admit that I liked a lot the interpretation of Maximilian Schell who played as Hans Rolfe and he was simply outstanding (won the Oscar for the Best Actor in a Leading Role). Another good interpretations made by Spencer Tracy who played as Chief Judge Dan Haywood and Burt Lancaster who played as Dr. Ernst Janning.Finally I have to say that "Judgment at Nuremberg" is a must see movie in which we learn some very interesting facts about the World War II which are presented very well. I also believe that because this movie is based on some real facts that had happened in the past, that is something that makes this movie even more special and unique. I strongly recommend it to everyone.


                
Stanley Kramer directed this powerful courtroom drama based on fact, and set in post-WWII Europe, as respected American Judge Dan Haywood(played by Spencer Tracy) is chosen to preside over the trial of four German judges(led by Ernst Janning, played by Burt Lancaster) accused of legalizing Nazi atrocities like sterilization and murder. Still, there is much pressure put on Haywood to show leniency, which is difficult to do when the witnesses(played by Judy Garland & Montgomery Clift, among others) are so sympathetic, and the defense attorney(played by Maximilian Schell in an Academy Award winning performance) is so harsh. Richard Widmark & William Shatner costar as the local American military officers. Compelling and thoughtful(if a bit long) drama with superb performances and direction making this a must-see.


                
