Beyond its compelling subject matter "Judgement At Neuremberg" revolutionizes the court room drama genre. The camera swings and swerves and dives between the lines of this exemplary Abby Mann script. Stanley Kramer conducts his orchestra of iconic stars with the precision of a Swiss watchmaker. The language barriers and the confinement of the action masterfully resolved. Spencer Tracy is simply magnificent and, as per usual, we believe every word that comes out of his mouth. His judge is an American monument of unsentimental humanity. Twentynine year old Maimilian Schell won the Oscar as best actor and his performance survived the test of time with the vigor of his conviction. Montgomery Cliff makes his short minutes on the screen, one of those memorable moments that nobody that has ever seen it will be able to forget. The man and the character merging into one chilling, shattering truth. "I am half the man I've ever been" Marlene Dietrich gives to her German aristocrat a legendary star quality. And Judy Garland, overweight and almost unrecognizable breaks your heart and gets her last Oscar nomination. My only troubles came with the stoic Burt Lancaster because I could never forget it was Burt Lancaster and with Richard Widmark's strident prosecutor. I have seen "Judgement At Neuremberg" more than a dozen times and it never ceases to amaze me that no matter the darkness of the subject it always manages to entertain and inspire.


                
I watched "Judgment at Nuremburg" on PBS the other night. I had never seen it before. I expected an empty-headed, Hollywood-style, quasi-melodrama, but I was pleasantly surprised. Even Spencer Tracy, that universally beloved actor whose appeal has always escaped me, gave an honest and heartfelt portrayal of a "simple man" who was also a deeply conflicted judge.What I liked most about this movie was that it didn't pull any punches, in the manner of other "controversial" films of its time. The defense attorney, superbly played by Maximilian Schell, weaves a simple, but undeniable web of logic: Sterilization of "undesirables," one of the charges against the Nazi war criminals, was at one time condoned by the U.S. courts, and encouraged by none other than Oliver Wendell Holmes. - Numerous leading industrialists in the U.S. contributed to the development of the Nazi war machine. - Encouragement was given to Hitler's expansionism by both Russia and England. - Churchill is quoted as having admired Hitler. - The Vatican actively collaborated with the Nazis.Correct me if I'm wrong, but it must have taken major cojones to present that kind of message to American filmgoers in 1961. Would a film of that candor have a chance of being made today?I tend to doubt it. One further note. The film describes how the Nazis went about stripping the German judiciary of judges who were known for their objectivity, and replacing them with judges who were appointed based solely on their party loyalties.The mind boggles at the implications and yes, the prescience of this well-written, well-played masterpiece.


                
Outstanding film. Star-studded with several fantastic performances. Highly emotional given the subject matter, but presented in a very intelligent, balanced way. I was struck at once by that, and by how well director Stanley Kramer gives us both sides of the argument – and avoids simply paying lip service to the defense of the German judges on trial. Maximilian Schell is brilliant as the defense attorney, well worthy of his Oscar, and is forceful and compelling in his arguments. There are also so many brilliant scenes. Spencer Tracy walking in the empty arena where the Nazi rallies were held, with Kramer focusing on the dais from which Hitler spoke. The testimony of Montgomery Clift and Judy Garland, both of whom are outstanding and should have gotten Oscars. Burt Lancaster in the role of one of the German judges, the one tortured by his complicity, knowing he and others are guilty. The devastating real film clips from the concentration camps, which are still spine tingling despite all we 'know' or have been exposed to. Marlene Dietrich as the German general's wife, haunted but expressing the German viewpoint, one time while people are singing over drinks. Her night stroll with Tracy, as she explains the words to one song, is touching. It just seemed like there was just one powerhouse scene after another, and the film did not seem long at all at three hours. Heck, you've even got Werner Klemperer and William Shatner before they would become Colonel Klink and Captain Kirk! In this film, the acting, the script, and the direction are all brilliant, and in harmony with one another.As for the trial itself, the defense argument was along these lines: they were judges (and therefore interpreters), not makers of law. They didn't know about the atrocities in the concentration camps. At least one of them saved or helped many by staying in their roles and doing the best they could under the heavy hand of the Third Reich. They were patriots, saw improvement in the country when Hitler took power, but did not know how far he would go. If you were going to convict these judges, you would have to convict many more Germans (and where would it stop?). The Americans themselves practiced Eugenics and killed thousands and thousands of innocents at Hiroshima and Nagasaki. The one small weakness I found was that the defense never makes the simple argument that these judges were forced to do what they did, just as countless others in Germany were, and would have been imprisoned or killed themselves had they not complied. Anyone who's lived under a totalitarian regime may understand, or at least empathize.I'm not saying I bought into these arguments or that one should be an apologist to Nazis, but the fact that the film presented such a strong defense was thought provoking. How fantastic is it that Spencer Tracy plays his character the way he does – simply pursuing the facts, and in a quiet, thoughtful way. It's the best of humanity. How heartbreaking is Burt Lancaster's character, admitting they knew, admitting their guilt, knowing that what happened was horrible and that they were wrong, and yet seeking Tracy's understanding in that scene in the jail cell at the end – intellectual to intellectual - and being rebuked. Even a single life taken unjustly was wrong. Had the Axis won the war, I don't know which Americans would have been on trial for war crimes for the fire bombings of Dresden and Tokyo, or for dropping the atomic bombs, but the film makes one think, even for a war when things were seemingly as black and white as they could ever be. The particulars of this trial were fictionalized, but it's representative of what really occurred, and it transports you into events 70 years ago which seem so unreal today – and yet are so vitally important to understand, and remember.


                
There are many people in the world today who suffered the tattooed numbers, visible scars, tortured memory and indelible atrocities of the Concentration Camps. It's strange for a history teacher to hear that many want to forget the past, the pain and agonizing suffering inflicted on the innocent. For those who were actually there, or had friends, family or loved ones murdered by the Nazis, there can be no erasing the past. Occasionally a courageous film arises which endeavors to bring to light the black memories which so many wish would go away. In this black and white film called " Judgement at Nuremberg " the audience is offered a dramatic depiction of the War Crimes trial of the German Judges who themselves sent so many to die to appease their Nazi leaders. The star power of this movie is what makes it a monumental triumph and a fitting tribune to the victims of the Germanic court. In this story, based on the courtroom dockets of the Nuremberg trials, we have Spencer Tracy playing Chief Judge Dan Haywood, an American judge who makes an obvious observation and says, 'I've been here for some time now and as far as I can tell, No one, knew what was going on.' Burt Lancaster is Dr. Ernst Janning, the most senior judge on trial, who tried to explain the fervor of the times, the 'passing phase', saying, "I never meant for things to go that far." Richard Widmark plays Col. Tad Lawson, who's despite his serious and sober evidence, is asked to show leniency. Maximilian Schell is brilliant as Hans Rolfe, the defense attorney. Werner Klemperer is Emil Hahn and William Shatner as Capt. Harrison Byers. True there are other stars of great distinction, but you must see the movie, to see how each contributed to make this incredible movie into a film Classic. ****


                
I've seen this film many times, and it still can affect me powerfully,with small, previously unnoticed details of performances and direction. Spencer Tracy has the job of carrying most of the movie, aided by strong performances from the other actors. Most of the story line is seen through his eyes, with frequent opportunities for ordinary Germans to try to explain that, as Marlene Dietrich's widow tells the judge, " we are not all monsters." Judge Haywood studies the writings of defendant Jannings in a serious effort to understand the man on trial, who seems apart from his unrepentant colleagues.Maximilian Schell, as the German advocate for Jannings, gets equal time with the impassioned, righteously angry prosecutor Richard Widmark. It would have been easy to let this character become a one dimensional villain, but Schell achieves the difficult task of showing Herr Rolfe not as a Nazi apologist, but a patriotic German trying to clear his country's name, and doing the best he can in a very difficult position.All of the cast are excellent, with particularly fine performances from Montgomery Clift, Dietrich and Judy Garland. The writing is taut and disturbingly effective, in showing the ruins of a once civilized nation trying to rebuild itself ,while haunted by war guilt and the shame of defeat. The only weakness is an occasional tendency to get a little too preachy, or some scenes perhaps being a little too neatly dramatic, with the result that the movie is a little stagy at times. But its strengths far outweigh any minor faults.Perhaps one sequence might best sum up the historical reality, in a small but brilliant scene. Judge Haywood is shown attempting to maintain order, apply justice fairly, and combat his own prejudices, as well as those of many other Americans. He has befriended the widow of a German general, and they are having a quiet drink in a tavern, when the crowd of revelers breaks into a cheerful old folk song, sung with great gusto by all present. Haywood looks around the room at the merry making Germans and his face tightens into an appraising frown.He clearly is thinking that the people are a little too eager to put the war and its memories behind them. It is an extremely powerful moment in a very dramatic film.Highly recommended as both history and a compelling courtroom drama, with some unforgettable performances by a great cast.
(First of all: My English isn't that good - I hope I can express what I intend to say. Maybe I've invented a few new words?)Just two weeks ago I saw the "Reichsparteitagsgelände" at Nuremberg, where the Nazis celebrated their Military Parades. Spencer Tracy also walked there in the film, and so I watched the film once again the day I came back home. It impresses me every time I see it. The actors are brilliant, and the characters seem very realistic to me. There are no only-good-men or only-bad-men. Even the accused ones seem in a way like ordinary people, and I think this is the big unbelievable thing about WWII: That people went to their working place, decided about life or death of innocent men and women and went home in the evening to take their meal and play with the children.I like the film, because it also shows the difference between the german people, if you compare the Burt Lancaster character with the still fanatic accused man and the servants at Spencer Tracy's household. The Marlene Dietrich character is also very interesting if you know that a lot of germans regarded her as a traitor, when she left Germany to support the USA fighting against Hitler. I don't like Maximilian Schell's acting as much as other commentators of this site do, but maybe it's because I only know the German version of the film, and maybe Schell isn't very talented in synchronizing his own voice: He always shouts as if he sells something on a market.I have two problems with the movie: The first one is when Lancaster stands up in court like a hero because Schell is talking to Garland in the way the Nazis always did. In my opinion ths scene is to dramatic. The second problem I often think about is about the witness Montgomery Clift (who plays incredibly good): His character is so touching, and everyone in court thinks that his sterilisation was an act of cruelness - unless Schell proofs that Clift came from a weak-minded family and was weak-minded himself. And suddenly the opinion about his case seems to change. And this is something I can't understand. For me it doesn't matter if a person is very clever or  a real fool - sterilisation is against the human rights.But once again: It's one of my favourite films! And at last one tip for those who like "judgement...": Stanley Kramer's "Ship Of Fools". Watch it and think about which of those fools on the ship you are...?


                
Judgment at Nuremberg is a standard court-case drama that focuses on the trial of four Nazi judges in Nuremberg following World War II. The importance of the trials from the Allied viewpoint remains contested throughout the film; most people are indicated to have little interest in it since the political and military figures have already been tried, while the actual people involved in this case strongly believe that justice must be achieved. On the other hand, the German people see this as the last chance to retain some dignity. As might be anticipated, Judgment at Nuremberg delves deep into the moral questions regarding the German citizens under the Third Reich.The acting is one of the most powerful aspects of the film. Spencer Tracy makes a sympathetic aged Chief Judge Haywood, who pursues the morally correct verdict by closely considering both sides. Richard Widmark is an admirable but shortsighted American colonel who carries out the prosecution. Burt Lancaster is Dr. Ernst Janning, an enigmatic Nazi judge on trial, who appears to be the only one that realizes the extent of the crimes. Judy Garland also deserves some praise in her role as a witness to the central case. The role that impressed me the most was Maximilian Schell as Hans Rolfe, a formidable and proud German defense attorney. He has such a commanding voice and vivid personality that makes him perfect for the role. A small role that pleasantly surprised me (being a Star Trek fan) was a young William Shatner as Capain Harrison Byers, Haywood's aide. You must admit, he fits right in!The plot is very interesting. There are several moments that will sway your opinion of what is right and wrong. The real message seems to be that we cannot know for certain what the proper verdict is, although the film hints that in the future we will be able to look back and decide. The ending was perfectly executed, and the last scene was somewhat of a surprise. The historical text at the end indicates the irony of the matter.The only significant flaws of the film were that it was a little overlong (even if I hate using that as a criticism) and didn't seem to have much to offer in terms of a second viewing (although I might be wrong). Occasionally it repeated ideas, but never to the point where it got repetitive.Overall, Judgment at Nuremberg appears to be one of the best American court-case dramas, right up there with 12 Angry Men. The themes it deals with are still relevant today. The point of the film is basic, even if it has some complicated consequences, but oftentimes people tend forget these things. If you are looking for some trial action or a loose historical film, then this should be near the top of your list.


                
The movie has both liberal and conservative commentaries. That should give those who see the movie much room to think. Plus, the movie goes far to accuse those who knew and did nothing. It reminded me of the excellent book Hitler's "Willing Executioners". That book proved that many knew, few acted, and most did nothing. Who is to blame, maybe everyone maybe no one, you decide. Historically, the movie is accurate in that the prisoner's actions and attitudes were similar to the defenses used by many of the accused. The movie also tries to show the historical place within which the later trials were held. This should be an excellent movie to open up discussions of post-war Germany. The movie is a good example of the lost art of word play and powerful understatement. The movie has very good acting.


                
Justifiably described as a "great movie" -- very well written, well acted, and well directed. One of the most interesting things about it is that it doesn't concern itself with trials of the 'big boys' -- it instead concerns itself with what might be thought of as 'small fry' -- legal functionaries, carrying out the will of (nazi) government. These men might not be thought of as war criminals, and therein lies the brilliance -- this movie isn't about Nazis, it's about how easy it is to just 'go along', hide one's conscience, and cause massive evil. Its about how easily the machinery of civilization (specifically, its legal system) can turn from protecting to destroying parts of the citizenry, merely with some bits of paper to hide behind.Great performances by pretty much everybody (anybody could be great with words like these to say, but they're well acted anyhow) -- Mongomery Clift positively shines as a less- than-brilliant man who reminds us all that dignity isn't just for the best and the brightest. Max Schell does too as a man trying pretty much anything to avoid a guilty verdict he knows is all but inevitable. Widmark is relentless as the legal eagle prosecuting the case, and of course Spencer Tracy as the conscience is the gravitas of the whole thing.A long movie, certainly, but worth your time.And oh by the way, reviewers who try to fit this movie into their tiny-minded political of- the-day worldview should just leave off. 'nuff said.


                
An exploding swastika over Nuremberg's Palace of Justice heralds the start of this blistering true-life courtroom drama, adapted from a television play and filmed in the Bavarian city itself - as uncomfortably evidenced by the ruins beyond the court steps.By 1948, Hitler and his chief cronies were history - by their own hands or those of the Allies. No less important a trial than those that condemned Goering et al in 1946, this one concerned America's "judging of the judges" - four facilitators of Nazi rule - to ask: were these bureaucrats any more or any less accountable? Or were they, in that clapped out-excuse, "only following orders"? It's clear Chief Judge Dan Haywood (Tracy) has an awesome task on his hands.A former provincial district attorney, we learn Hayward has been "retired forcibly by the electorate" and, in accepting his unenviable role, been handed something of a poisoned chalice. "Now we're down to the business of judging the doctors, businessmen and judges" he tells his aide (a youthful William Shatner). "Some people think they shouldn't be judged at all." Tracy imbues Hayward with great integrity and searching intellect behind his Southern hick, self-effacing persona, along with a weary demeanour, as if he carries the entire weight of history on his back. Confidants are found in unlikely places - Madame Bertholt (a poignant Dietrich), the proud widow of an executed Nazi general, whose house he has borrowed for the trial's duration, lends him unlikely succour."I wish you understood German" she says at one point, translating Lili Marlene for him. "The words are very beautiful. Very sad. Much sadder than the English ones. The German soldier knows he's going to lose his girl and his life. 'The lantern burns every night, it knows your steps and the way you walk. It burns every night, but I've been long forgotten. Should harm come to me, who will stand with you? Under the lantern, with you, Lili Marlene?" She also insists all the while that the German public knew nothing about the Final Solution. "As far as I can make out, no one in this country knows," Haywood counters, with barely-concealed disgust.Foremost among the wretched judges on trial is Dr Ernst Janning (Lancaster), whose face, at first an impassive blank, becomes a tragic mask as his self-justification finally crumbles away. Richard Widmark plays presiding zealot Colonel Tad Lawson, the Prosecuting Attorney obsessed with extinguishing every last ember of the Third Reich, but whose finest scenes are actually those outside the courtroom. He certainly makes a convincing drunk. "There are no Nazis in Germany" he rails at one point. "The Eskimos invaded Germany and took over, that's how all these terrible things happened. It wasn't the fault of the Germans - it was those damned Eskimos!" A pair of real-life Hollywood casualties, Judy Garland and Montgomery Clift respectively, also turn in memorable cameos as prosecution witnesses, despite being ravaged by drink and drugs by the time of filming (Clift ruined take after take by forgetting his lines). Despite his chronic alcoholism, Clift hits the right notes here, with his pitiful portrayal of a mentally-subnormal Communist sympathiser, sterilised by the Nazis as part of their eugenics policy.But it's Schell as Leading Defence Attorney Hans Rolfe, who produces the greatest performance here, and one for which he deservedly won his Best Actor Oscar over fellow nominees Tracy and Clift. Loathed by Janning yet desperate to protect his clients at all costs - and Germany even more so - Rolfe's hypnotic and blistering rhetoric neatly articulates the world's complicity in Hitler's ascendancy.


                
One rarely finds a movie that works on as many levels as Kramer's famous JUDGEMENT AT NUREMBERG. The film concerns an American judge (Spenser Tracy) sent to Germany to preside over a war-crimes trial at a point when American politicians are less concerned about justice than about securing German support re the Cold War. As such, the film concerns not only the Nazi atrocities on trial, but the American government's willingness to become accomplices after the fact if such will buttress America's own military interests. The film repeatedly raises questions concerning the price of such deliberate, feigned public ignorance--both as it was manifest in Nazi Germany before and during the war and as it is now becoming manifest in America and its allies after the war.The action of the film divides between the courtroom and the judge's personal experiences in Nuremberg. The courtroom scenes are quite powerful, with Maximillian Schell as the attorney for the defense who argues that his clients knew nothing of the holocaust and Richard Widmark who argues that one could not live in Nazi Germany without being aware of the holocaust. At the same time the judge finds the same battle in his social life when he meets Marlene Dietrich, widow of a Nazi officer, who insists that the German people (herself among them) were completely ignorant of Nazi atrocities and who clearly feels judgment of the German people should be quietly set aside now that the war is over. Ultimately, of course, Tracy must pass judgment both in the court and in his personal relationships on the degree to which claims of ignorance can be accepted as truth--and must accept responsibility for the result.Tracy and Dietrich's remarkable performances are equaled by Widmark and Schell. Indeed, the entire cast--which includes Burt Lancaster, Judy Garland, and Montgomery Cliff--is particularly fine. The script is remarkable for its directness, the cinematography is quite basic, and the score is both discreet and atmospheric. The film's conclusion, which includes a confrontation between judge Tracy and accused Lancaster, is extremely memorable. Although some may find the film a bit long or a bit too intellectual, most will be impressed with virtually every aspect of JUDGEMENT AT NUREMBERG--and most particularly with the casual restraint with which it tells it story and makes it powerful point. Required viewing. Highly recommended.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer


                
Note that Judgment at Nuremburg is a film in which the choice to resist an corrupt "state", or branch of the state, (the executive branch in this case i.e. Hitler having gone out of control) is the choice the 4 Nazi judge defendants failed. Thus, the Allies chose to try them.People remember "Nuremburg" as holding up the holocaust to view---with actual concentration camp footage shown during the trial, and the prosecuting attorney testifying (here as a witness---as his zeal was fueled by what he saw when liberating the death camps) BUT Judgment at Nuremburg shows us about other Nazi war crimes we have forgotten about... there were victims even amongst the so called "aryans"; the so called master race, as the Nazis had a burning passion to "purify their race by sterilizing those who were retarded or even "slow learners" or who possibly had some other kind of genetic based defect. Montgomery Clift is great as the tragic mildly retarded man forcibly sterilized by the Nazis, tho the prosecuting attorney quotes US sources (even the venerable Oliver Wendell Holmes) to show that the US in the early 20th century favored forced sterilization to "protect" the race. And the Nazis sometimes executed non "aryans" for sleeping with "aryans". Judy Garland is also great as the woman accused of sleeping with a Jewish man, defined then as a crime with jail time for her and death for him because of "race defilement". This is based on a real life incident.Tho the film only mentions in passing the murder of others, maybe Nuremberg will entice people to research the so called science of racial "purification" i.e. of eugenics that the Nazis practiced. Search under the word "eugenics" or "eugenics watch" and be amazed... As the German defense attorney correctly says, the Nazis did not invent these practices...but copied them, especially from the US!.We today are making more and more decisions concerning who is disabled, and who should live or die. For instance today the Netherlands are boldly practicing euthanasia, partly like the Nazis practiced...only the Nazis were more discreet.In memory of Terri Schiavo, and the adult stem cell versus embryonic stem cell battle...and the battle over abortion on demand (a crime in the actual Nuremburg trials) I say this film is extremely timely.


                
Just about everybody agrees on how important and how moving this film is in exploring the problem of how to assign responsibility for the terrible things that happened during the Nazi era. But, watching it today, I wondered if it overreached itself. The final words of the judge to the convicted Nazi judge are, roughly, "You became responsible for the millions of victims the first time you sentenced a man to death whom you knew to be innocent." It's a fine sentiment, and one we hope we would try to live up to today. But how realistic is it? Is it anything more than poetry, high-sounding phrases? If it is truly meaningful, then I don't think the lessons have been learned, because similar things are still happening. While they are not comparable to the atrocities of Nazi Germany, the same kind of corruption is still with us. When America feels threatened by terrorists, its justice department finds legal justifications for torture. In Texas a governor refuses to save a man from execution even when DNA evidence proves his innocence, for political reasons, as the public, frightened by crime, cries out for blood and a scapegoat. The Nazi era came to an end, thank goodness, but its venality, corruption, even traces of its brutality, are still among us today. And, sad to say, they probably always will be.
"Judgment at Nuremberg" is an important film about an important topic. By that I don't just mean the topic of the activities in Germany during World War 2, although obviously that's important too. I mean specifically the moral question of what you do with people who participated in a bad system when everything is all finished.Great acting all around here, which is no surprise given the cast list. Maximilian Schell won an Oscar for his performance and deserved it. Also fun to see a young William Shatner - who did a very credible job, actually. He didn't do his trademark William Shatner... dramatic pauses... thing at all.The only quibbles I have are minor. First, it's over 3 hours, and didn't really need to be. Second, Kramer's camera work is pretty hammy at certain points, zooming in melodramatically when someone is having moment of contemplation or surprise. Third, Kramer knew he was making an Important Film with a capital I and capital F, and occasionally - *occassionally* - the movie felt a bit creaky under the weight of its own self conscious importance.But really those are just quibbles. It's a great film, worth of repeat viewing and a real conversation starter.


                
I did not think much of Kramer's previous courtroom drama, "Inherit the Wind" which also starred Spencer Tracy. But the mere premise and ensemble starcast of "Judgment at Nuremberg" was reason enough to rent this film and give it a shot.Inspired by true events, this fictionalized account of the trials stars Spencer Tracy as Judge Dan Haywood who is supposed to give judgement in the trial of four Nazi judges who have been charged with crimes against humanity. They have been accused of twisting the law during the Nazi regime and helping the government to put away some socially undesirable individuals and also advocating and permitting the forceful sexual sterilization of some others. One of these judges is Ernst Janning, played by a sad-faced and silent Burt Lancaster, who has once been a much respected figure in the ministry of justice. Books published by him, still being used in some universities, Judge Haywood is baffled about how a man who values justice so much, can be responsible for such heinous acts of brutality.What follows is a gripping courtroom battle of wits between the prosecuting attorney, Col. Lawson (Richard Widmark) and Hans Rolfe (Maximilian Schell). Amidst all this courtroom chaos, Judge Haywood himself has some experiences of his own, when he is not sitting on the judge's chair, getting acquainted with German people who have lived to see the ghastly past of the Nazi regime, yet seem to be completely oblivious to most of the details, including the holocaust.Stanley Kramer does a great job of directing this film written by Abby Mann. Ernst Gold's original music nicely complements some other German traditional music used in this film, particularly the group singing in bars.The performances: Great..all of them. Special mention, though, about: Spencer Tracy: Excellent as Judge Haywood who is clearly taken aback on how some of the "good" Germans he has come to be acquainted with in his short stay can claim to not have any knowledge about the war crimes and holocaust in the Nazi regime.Burt Lancaster: Wonderful portrayal of the sad-eyed Dr. Ernst Janning full of regret for the acts he has been accused of committing.Marlene Dietrich: Great as the widow of a German soldier who was executed.Maximilian Schell: The most scene-stealing performance of them all. He gets some of the most powerful scenes to chew on and pulls it off brilliantly! Last but not the least, the "single-scene stealers" as I call them, these actors took my breath away in their very brief appearances: Judy Garland as Irene Hoffman and Montgomery Clift as Rudolf Petersen. Splendid performances, both of them! Academy Award nominations, well-deserved.This film runs more than three hours long, and may require some patience on part of the viewer for all the verbose courtroom proceedings. But once the "Exit music" starts playing, you know that you have just had the pleasure of viewing one of the most powerful courtroom films out there. This is also one of those films that will ensure that you have as much the same dilemma, about who to root for, as faced by some principal characters in this film! Recommended!


                
Just finished watching "Judgement at Nuremberg" on television. Magnificent.So now I find myself longing for 1960's America. Or more specifically, for a time when "survival" and the privileges of class seemed not mankind's highest aspirations.But maybe I'm just deluding myself about actual reality then. After all, I was every bit of 8 years old at the end of that decade. But having watched Nuremberg I say unabashedly that the art of film has not risen since.OK. By today's standards, if not those of 1961, Nuremberg's morality was too obvious. Its acting too good. Its actors too fragile (Montgomery Clift and Judy Garland, both past their careers and very near the end of their lives... embarrassingly tragic.) But then that's really the point isn't it? At least for me it is. I mean, as human beings, what is it that we survive for? To what true purpose? To what great end? I was taught: for the advancement of our species -- for its highest principals and noblest aspirations.So how does torturing human beings, simply because, given the opportunity, they would torture and behead us, fit this model of Western idealism? Are national pride and "animal spirits" really worth dying -- and killing -- for? Nuremberg said NO. But IMO U.S. involvement in Iraq says YES.Biology is our curse. Art our last, best hope. And for today at least, Spencer Tracy is my hero.


                
The significance of movies such as "Judgement at Nuremberg" goes far beyond its cinematographic values. It's a masterpiece, no doubt about it, and Stanley Kramer built quite a serious and emotional movie... But what's most important about a movie like this is that deals with universal questions, it's a wise and lucid reflection about the World War II, about the motives that lead the Germans to do what they did.And what could I say about the cast? Tracy, Lancaster, Monty Clift... the kings of acting.Superb picture.*My rate: 9/10


                
In spite of the outstanding cast, their captivating performances, and the expert direction of Stanley Kramer, this film is very disturbing for many different reasons. I sat down and listed at least a few of the reasons. 1. It reveals the indisputable fact that so many high level officials in the Third Reich eventually were allowed to enjoy the carefree lives of retirement from which their millions of victims were deprived by the most cruel and inhumane means imaginable. In fact, how many of these high level Third Reich officials were even tried in the first place? We should not expect any true sense of justice in our world, which is very unsettling by itself.2. Defense Attorney Hans Rolfe, played forcefully by Maximillian Schell in an Oscar winning role, is correct. The guilt for the genocide that occurred in Europe during World War II extends far beyond Germany alone. The human race itself is guilty not only for directly committing unspeakable acts of cruelty against itself but for allowing others to exercise such brutality when it was clearly known by so many all over the world at the time. The situation exists today while hundreds of thousands of people, including many innocent civilians, are dying in the Syrian civil war, for example, while certain so-called "leaders" of the world not only refuse to stop it but consciously support and promote its barbarity. We're not talking about the distant past in this case. It's happening today.3. As the established laws of the Third Reich were in themselves cruel and inhumane, how much should we expect from the average person in any official position when the prevailing law of the land is intrinsically evil as well as enormously powerful? When I look around me today, how many respectable Americans in the place of Ernst Janning, played brilliantly by Burt Lancaster as a renown legal scholar of his time, would actively resist such a formidable system of malevolence? Who among us would be strong enough to fight such an overwhelming, sinister establishment without fear of dire and deadly consequences? Ernst Janning surely did not resist the Third Reich as he willingly and knowingly carried out its despicable laws.4. In spite of the huge sacrifices of so many Americans on and off the battlefield of World War II, many Americans also believed, as Judge Curtiss Ives (Ray Teal) did, that these high German officials, in this case very influential judges, were "merely" applying the prevailing laws of their government as they were supposed to do, regardless of how nefarious those laws were, and therefore should not be punished at all. Chief Judge Dan Haywood, the no-nonsense and often very blunt Mainer, played very sagaciously by Spencer Tracy, reminded Ives that mere logic and the professional duty to enforce evil laws did not overrule the need to do what is right before an even higher authority or to one's own conscience. Unfortunately Ives, who obviously resented the inconvenience of his appointment to the tribunal from the very start, totally rejected Haywood's prudent observations. Was he even listening to Haywood? If Teal, the actor, was supposed to annoy me to such an extreme, he certainly succeeded.5. The war caused immense physical and psychological suffering, not only to the brutalized victims of the Third Reich but to the German people themselves. If they had starved and deteriorated as a society to such an extent following the first world war, wasn't there another path to their recovery than the one that they had consciously chosen as a nation?The fact that Nuremberg was the site of huge, enthusiastic rallies led by Adolph Hitler never escaped the mind of the director, Stanley Kramer, and he very effectively reminded the viewer of this irony. Kramer also emphasized that Schell's and Lancaster's speeches were the most important in the courtroom by dramatically zooming in and out of them. Under the circumstances, I wonder if this technique was even necessary.Aside from the first-rate performances of Schell, Lancaster, and Tracy, I was especially impressed by Marlene Dietrich's portrayal of Mrs. Bertholt, the refined widow of an executed German officer. To me, Mrs. Bertholt, of noble stock, effectively symbolized a shattered, post-World War II Germany in more ways than one. As she sat in the frozen silence of the last scene, what could have been passing through her embittered mind as the phone continued to ring unanswered? Although Mrs. Berthold felt an unbearable, personal sense of injustice as a result of the war, did she even begin to understand her own responsibility as an upstanding German citizen while atrocities on a mass scale were being committed in her name and from every direction around her? Did she not know or did she choose not to know about them? For Ms. Dietrich, who actively opposed the politics of the Third Reich but never abandoned a deep love for her native country and culture, this was a very important and emotional moment in her career. I could feel her quiet intensity, veiled in social correctness, throughout her performance.Not all great movies have happy endings with clear resolutions. This movie, truly a great one, may not have had even one genuinely happy moment within it, but it must be seen by all who seek to understand the circumstances behind one of the most traumatic periods in human history. If there are no clear answers, we still need to ask the many, necessary questions. If we don't ask them, we risk repeating the mistakes and the horrors of the past.
Directed by Stanley Kramer, this movie is the story of a great courtroom drama involving judges of Nazi Germany. The judges, including a great jurist who became the Minister of Justice, administered laws aimed at imposing racial purity and mandatory sterilization. Human beings were treated as pawns in the hands of these men in the name of the Nazi state. The presiding judge, played superbly by Spencer Tracey, is a model of integrity. In the role of the former minister of justice is Burt Lancaster, a cut above the other small-minded tyrants who had no conscience in carrying out their cruel sentences to produce the master race. Despite his character and his great legal mind, he too was complicit in the tragedy. In fact, his sharp sense of revulsion about these crimes, made him even more repellant as he went against his own conscience and training. The other cast members include Maximilian Schell as the defence attorney, Richard Widmark as the prosecuting attorney, Judy Garland and Montgomery Clift as key witnesses as well as victims, and Marlene Dietrich as the widow of wartime criminal already executed. All the cast are outstanding. While the story is overly long, we get a strong sense of the characters and how Tracey as a judge lived and mingled with the people of Nuremberg during his time in the occupied post-war country. The director, Stanley Kramer, made movies that showed people of conscience in conflict with the established order. He made use of great acting talents like Burt Lancaster and Spencer Tracey to issue strong statements of principle. This movie is a prime example of his great legacy as a director.


                
I was completely engrossed in this movie from the very first scene. What surprised me the most was that a movie that was made so soon after the war and the trials could give an unbiased and thought provoking perspective about German's and their middle tier of leadership. There is struggle shown about how one should stand up against their leaders and still remain patriotic. How can one report or stop mass murder, wide scale racism and human rights violations when it is being committed by the authorities. Should all citizens be blamed for the crimes of their fellow countrymen?The acting is very strong by all but I must make a special mention of Montgomery Clift. In the short cameo that he makes, he expresses anger, shame and despair in way that is very believable and heart wrenching.This should be must watch for everyone because it asks difficult questions about the relationship between nationalism, patriotism and humanity.


                
Stanley Kramer was a good, if often over-emphatic director of "message"movies. this, is,undoubtedly, his finest effort.The title, Judgement At Nuremberg, might lead a naive viewer to think that it was about the Nuremburg trial of the major Nazi war criminals. Instead, he focuses on a lesser known, but historically-and philosophically even more interesting trial, the trial of the Nazi JUDGES.How was it that German judges-some of whom were, cultured, liberal, sensitive men, like the Burt Lancaster character-became collaborators with the Nazi regime? this film features fantastic performances by Tracy, Lancaster, Schell, Dietrich, Widmark, Clift, and even Judy Garland. This is an interesting film, because it is a film about Moral and political dilemmas. Each of the major characters faces a moral choice. Lancaster was a liberal Wiemar intellectual/Judge, who thought he could "work with' the Nazis, and became corrupted by them. Dietrich plays the widow of a German general, who claims to have been a "good" German. Tracy plays an American judge, who is under political pressure to go easy on the Judges, and who is also fascinated by the Dietrich character. Widmark is the American prosecutor, a military officer who is under pressure from his superiors to "let up" in prosecuting the Germans( the cold war is getting underway,and the American high command does not want to antagonize a potential ally.).The most complex-and fascinating-character is played by Maximilian Schell,as Lancaster's brilliant, sometimes frighteningly. convincing, defense attorney. Clift and Garland play two victims of the Nazi "legal system". Underlying the whole narrative are two profound philosophical questions. 1.Is the law merely a set of commands by the sovereign, or should it reflect moral imperatives? 2. Why do liberal societies-like Weimar Germany-succumb to totalitarianism? In short, a very powerful, interesting film. I should add one comment in response to a previous reviewer.Let me say that even though I am a conservative-and a reluctant Bush voter-I am highly critical of many aspects of the current administrations policies.Still, to draw some sort of facile parallel between The Bush administration and the Hitler regime is more than an exercise in poor taste, it is absurd. Bush has many, many faults but he is no Nazi. The People who constantly make facile comparisons between modern America and the third Reich are utterly irresponsible.


                
Top acting by Spencer Tracy, Maximilian Schell, Marlene Dietrich, Judy Garland and Montgomery Clift. And what a great way of dealing with such a delicate subject. Much, much better in painting the picture of this horrifying war than f.i. ´Schindler´s List´.


                
Are you responsible for heinous acts sanctioned by you even when you were "just following orders"? How true is the mantra "My country, right or wrong"? The movie delves deeply into this issues, while touching on topics of justice, race, eugenics, feeble-mindedness (WTF?), forced sterilizations, and other horrors of Nazi Germany. Also, a particularly poignant moment in the movie was the infamous Feldenstein Case, where a German woman was to testify. Just imagine the wrath of neighbors and fellow countrymen that person has to tolerate to contemplate doing this. This is just one nugget, the movie is chock full with these. Performances of Spencer Tracy (Chief Judge Dan Haywood) and Maximilian Schell (Hans Rolfe) were particularly good, the latter netting an Oscar for his stellar work.A classic movie with highly relevant lessons for today on so many issues. Can't recommend it enough.
The great television dramas of the 1950's and 1960's lead to full-length movie versions, and one of the best was Abby Mann's "Judgment at Nuremberg", a re-creation of the infamous Nuremberg trials where Nazi war criminals were forced to re-live their great evils and face the judgment of the world. It is the late 1940's, and Germany is in chaos. Remainders of great arenas where Hitler once spoke to the masses to refrains of "Seek Heil!" echoing in his ears were now piles of rubble, destroyed by Ally bombers. American judge Spencer Tracy arrives in Nuremberg to lead the proceedings at the trials, and as the echoes of Alex North's brilliant score fills the viewers ears, he sees the sites of many of these gatherings which lead to Hitler's children becoming excited of following every evil order he planned with the help of the S.S. and other evil Nazi organizations.Defending the war criminals on trial is emotional attorney Maximillian Schell, giving the performance of his career for which he deservedly received an Academy Award. He had played this part on television and added even more detail in his characterization. What makes his performance so riveting is the fact that you don't hate him for the job he is doing, even if you hate the people he is trying to defend. One of them is a slightly over the top Burt Lancaster, complete with German accent, as a Nazi doctor accused of some heinous crimes. More subtle is Marlene Dietrich as a deceased German general's wife whom Tracy befriends, showing the human side of people involved on what was obviously the wrong side of the war.Supporting Oscar nominations went to Judy Garland and Montgomery Clift who both play victims of the Nazi atrocities. While some Hollywood press representatives considered these parts cameos, both actors really put some depth into making their characterizations stand out. Garland, plump and blowsy, shows that she really had what it took to move from musical diva to character performer, and her accent is totally believable. Clift, still emotionally wrecked after his scarring car accident, uses the sadness within himself to convey the inhumane treatment he went through under Nazi tortures.For a subject so glum and a film of extreme length, "Judgment at Nuremberg" never drags, and becomes more fascinating as the plot is developed. Perhaps it is because the subject matter still touches us to this day and we feel for each of the characters as they try to go on with their lives even after the horrendous experiences they went through. It is also a reminder to the world that we've been through this before, made the villains pay, and future villains will pay as well.
This film is of course remarkable for its sheer number of stars.Tracy plays the American judge who has to find how guilty hisGerman colleagues were who played along the Nazi rules duringthe Third Reich. I am not the biggest Tracy fan but here he is perfect. As are allother actors with one exception. Richard Widmark the prosecutoris absolutely believable in his crusade. Marlene Dietrich, finallyshowing some signs of age, represents the proud, art-loving"good` and noble German. In one of the most beautiful subtleromances on screen she and Tracy are strangely attracted to eachother. She is trying to convince Tracy that not all Germans were evil, thatnot all Germans even knew what was going on. She is very goodin it, probably believing herself even so far as to think that her latehusband,  who was a General (put to death by Widmark) wascompletely innocent. Tracy seems moved but in the end isunconvinced. Great the beer-drinking-song scene where the uglyGermans in the background seem to contradict Marlene's words.In an exceptionally great scene when Tracy is about to leave thecountry he calls her. The telephone rings again and again then thecamera moves and you see Marlene sitting just in front of it - justbeautifully filmed. Montgomery Clift is amazing. As a witness of the practice ofsterilization he easily wins our sympathies, especially by admittingthat he was not interested in knowing the birthday of Hitler. Butthings are not quite as simple. He is slow-witted and MaximilianSchell must cruelly demonstrate this. Schell won the Oscar for this role, and as the saying goes, welldeservedly so. He is arguing forcefully and yet humanely. Verynice, the way he puts his forefinger in front of his lips, seeming tosay I have thought about this thoroughly - trust me.  In one scenehe reads a passage from a law book that argues in favour ofsterilization with the conclusion `Three generations of imbecilesare enough'. It sounds like cruel Nazi jargon but was actuallywritten by Oliver Wendell Holmes and was the basis for law inVirginia. (Here is a bizarre coincidence: when I went to bed afterwatching the movie I took up the book I am reading right nowwhich is `The Flamingo Smile' by Stephen Jay Gould. The verynext chapter I was starting to read was about sterilization practiceand exactly the same passage by Holmes was quoted! Gouldinvestigated in the case of the woman who was sterilized by thislaw because she was imbecile and the daughter of an imbecileand mother of an imbecile, thus three generations. He found outthat her daughter - diagnosed to be imbecile at age 8 months(!)turned out to be an at least average pupil at school.)Now, the exception I was talking about, was Burt Lancaster. He allbut ruins the film. It is not entirely his fault since the role was verybad. All he has to do is sitting there stone-faced watching the trial.He is supposed to be the tragic character who is the noble goodguy who by accident became a Nazi judge. Then at one point ashis lawyer `goes to far' he makes his statement, saying that hewas indeed guilty. Unbearably bad lines badly performed. The film has been criticized as being preachy, and it is true tosome extent. But I have no idea how it could have been avoided.Lancaster's part is absolutely crucial. (I just could not stand it). Atleast in the final scene, when Lancaster expected to morallypardoned by his judge, Tracy tells him that the number ofinjustices or murders are not the point but that one knowinglyspoken unjust judgment for whatever reasons is enough to sellyour soul. And that is the point. As he himself has demonstratedwith his judgment. Under political pressure (because of Cold War)he still puts the judges to jail for life. It is all about integrity. Eventhough all were released within a couple of years, his judgmentstays. &#0;


                
