Many people compare "Once Upon a Time in America" with "The Godfather". In my opinion these two movies can't be compared. Both are masterpieces in their own way, but each of them has a different style. You don't compare a Picasso to Michelangelo's Sixteen Chapel either, do you?What is it that makes this movie a masterpiece? Well, first of all there is the director. Sergio Leone is a real master when it comes to creating a special atmosphere, full of mystery, surprises and drama... He's one of the few directors who understands the art of cutting a movie in such a way that you stay focused until the end. The way the movie was cut is also the reason why a lot of Americans don't think this movie is very special. There are three versions, but only the European version is how the director imagined it to be. He didn't want his movie to be shown in chronological order (1910's - 1930's - 1960's), but wanted to mix these three periods of time. The studio cut the movie in chronological order, loosing a lot of its originality and therefor getting a lot of bad critics. If you want to see this film the way Sergio Leone saw it, you have to make sure you get the director's cut. The second reason why this movie is so great is the music. Ennio Morricone, who is seen as the greatest writer of film music ever, did an excellent job. Together with the images, the music speaks for itself in this movie. From time to time there isn't said a word, but the music and the images on their own tell the story. He understood perfectly what Sergio Leone wanted and composed most of the music even before the movie was shot.Last but not least there is also the acting and the script. The actors all did an excellent job. But what else can you expect from actors like Robert De Niro, Joe Pesci... They helped making this movie as great as it is by putting there best effort in it. The script helped them with it. It took twelve years to complete, but it hasn't left any detail untouched. The writers really thought of everything when creating it.I can really recommend this movie to everyone, but especially to people who like the gangster genre. When you want to see the movie, you better be sure that you will have the time for it. This isn't a movie that is finished after 90 minutes. You'll have to be able to stay focused during 3 hours and 47 minutes, which will certainly not be easy during the first 20 to 30 minutes. Some scenes at the beginning only make sense when you have seen the end of the movie. But when you are able to stay focused, you'll find this one of the best movies you've ever seen. I certainly did and I rewarded it with a well deserved 10/10.


                
... Directors of all time. Let's start with a story. Many years ago, when your grandfather was still a boy, a failed, beaten-down actor named Clint Eastwood packed up his horse and saddle (speaking metaphorically here), left Hollywood forever (or so he thought) and headed out to Europe to pick up cash wherever he could. He ended up doing a film in Italy for an almost-unknown director named Sergio Leone and an almost-unknown sound guy named Ennio Morricone. The film was (as history would later record) an "Italian Western," that is, as the iconic western drama was all but disappearing in the US, it was being "re-imagined" by Italian writers and directors, and then filmed in Italy, using mainly Italian actors. On the set, Eastwood spoke in English and everyone else spoke in Italian. (Dubbing later fixed all that). Filming now over, Eastwood took his cash and left. Weeks later, in a bar in another part of Europe, he overheard mention that a certain film was the leading box office attraction on the continent. The name sounded familiar but, frankly, during production, a final name for the film he'd just done had not even been selected. He investigated. Yes, this was the film he had just completed, now titled A FISTFUL OF DOLLARS. The rest is history. Sort of. Two sequels were done with Eastwood playing the same character. Monster hits. By this point the critics began to acknowledge not only Clint, but also the man behind the camera, Leone, who was one of the most promising directors of the era. HE DID THINGS WITH THE CAMERA THAT NO ONE HAS DONE BEFORE OR SINCE, especially his use of closeups, especially his ability to match powerful emotional orchestrals to key scenes. The fourth film in the series, done by Leone but by this time lacking Eastwood, was ONCE UPON A TIME IN THE WEST. (Eastwood meanwhile had returned to America as a major celebrity, formed his own production company, Malpaso, and over time became a director as well as the #1 box office star. Over the course of his career, Eastwood subtly voiced his distaste for Leone's work by scrupulously avoiding all Leone's trademark camera angles, even in his westerns!) Back to Leone. While he lent his name to a handful of oddball productions, the last passionate work he left behind as his legacy was this film. OMG. What a film. Showcasing not only Leone's talent behind the camera, but also his musical magic as well as his ability to tell a complex tale like no one before him. It was by and large produced in obscure locations in NA, and the performances of the players, especially James Woods, and also de Niro, could possibly rank even today as the best they have ever given. (Also a performance from a young and charismatic Jennifer Connolly that by itself is worth the price of the ticket) The film is magical. But here is the catch. Very few people have ever seen it. Even people who "think" they have seen it, really have not. The studio behind the film went berserk when they saw the length and, fearful of losing dollars when they could be changing reels and selling more tickets, they brought in a butcher to shorten it. Now maybe the new editor was not a butcher by trade, but he was sure one by disposition. The late Roger Ebert said that, in his career, this was the most abusive re-edit he had ever seen. The actual film, the one that Leone left, was not seen until years later when the director's version surfaced. It is astounding. It is magical. It is one of the best films ever made. It is a must see.


                
This movie was a masterpiece. It ranks as one of the very best in film history, if not the best. At Cannes people yelled and screamed, couldn't believe just how good it was. The profound atrocity was a combination of two completely brainless acts, the first being Zack Stienberg's hatchet job for US release, supposedly requested by either Warner Bros or The Ladd Company (one blames the other now) and the second was the lack of anyone (and everyone)to post anything in this great film for Academy Award consideration, of which probably as many as 14 nominations and 4 sure- fire Oscars went down the toilet. These atrocities were perpretrated, I believe, with two reasons in mind, the first to preserve the dim hope of "The Killing Fields" (Daly & Semel's baby) of garnering any awards... and second, to try to boost up the non- foreign chances. Warner Bros knew just how good it was, that goes without saying. The problem was... they already had their share of cash cows and they wanted a real star- studded showpiece to point at. The small minds already had their showpiece but, alas, it was an "eye- tallyan" flick with a producer/director who didn't communicate well. The hatchet job was carefully planned, I believe... the so- called "sneak preview" was done in Canada and not well received, probably due to the fact that the sound system was over- amped and the film 'broke' 3 or 4 times during the showing, what a farce! The awards snub started with the GGs and carried right thru. What a myriad of stupid and utterly pointless decisions! Must have literally tore Leone's heart out when he learned what they had done. Morricone's score was a sure- thing Oscar, no question about it. DeNiro and maybe even Woods would have fought it out for best actor, Tuesday Weld as supporting actress, any one of 4 or 5 other supporting actors & actresses, most notably William Forsythe, cinematography, film editing, the list goes on & on... (best picture...Amadeus???? give me a break!!) Just what in the hell were they thinking? Saw it in a theater 20 years ago and then again on TV about 1998 and finally in its correct format(on DVD) about two years ago and again last week at a friend's house. Stirred up all those angry thoughts all over again... sorry about that, getting' old & crotchety.


                
This film is a profound expression of truth regarding friendship and betrayal.  Noodles, played by Robert De Niro and Scott Tiler (during childhood), is a simple man and a thug with one credo: you can battle the entire world but you never betray a friend.  During the course of this film we experience various pieces of Noodles's life, from childhood, through young adulthood and old age. We learn what happens to his friends, his foes and the love of his life, Deborah.  The time span considered is long, including Noodles's childhood shortly after the turn of the century, through the prohibition era, and finally the 1960's.The film is about relationships; the many years Noodles spends away from his friends receive only a cursory mention. The film, like life and memories, unfolds slowly and reflectively. Sergio Leone's cuts are long and each scene is beautifully amplified my Ennio Morricone's haunting score.  The story is not told chronologically. Instead, the chapters of the story are slowly revealed like pieces of a great jigsaw puzzle. Each delicious piece might make us laugh, or cry, or smile, or feel shock.  But, as each piece falls into place, a mystery unfolds. When the final piece is revealed, the true essence of the story becomes clear and a sad and beautiful tapestry comes into view.This film is a true masterpiece, expressing a profound statement about friendship and betrayal, with fantastic acting, writing, directing and music.  There is a shortened, two-and-a-half-hour version of the film released that is a disaster.  It is like trying to understand a jigsaw puzzle with half of the pieces missing. The original four-hour film can be viewed and enjoyed several times and each time the viewer will see something new.


                
"Once Upon a Time in America" is a film set free of time; it spans many different years and, like "Citizen Kane," never tells the audience where it is. As many times as I watch it, I can never guess what is going to happen next.And watching "Once Upon a Time in America" on the new extended DVD is like revisiting an old friend, finally seeing a masterpiece in its entirety. Many people complained of the choppiness in the three-hour-version of the film originally released in 1984 - and the new four hour version puts all the pieces together and is truly marvelous to behold.This is the dirty, gritty version of "The Godfather." It has an incredible amount of violence, especially for a film made almost twenty years ago. I'm not sure how much violence, sexual content and so on was in the original cut, but this extended version is pretty close to an NC-17 rating.The film stars Robert De Niro in one of his most memorable yet forgotten roles. He plays Noodles, a gangster operating sometime during the 1930s. Noodles grew up during the early 1900s, and on the streets he and four other kids started their own crime operation. After a local crime lord named Bugsy gets jealous and murders the youngest member of Noodles' operation, Noodles returns the favor and kills Bugsy. Apprehended by police, Noodles is sent to jail for years.Sometime, years later, Noodles is released into the free world. He isn't a changed man, either. His old crime buddy Max (James Woods) picks him up and introduces him to the old gang members. Soon they are back in business, working for Frankie (Joe Pesci). This is the truest definition of an epic. "Once Upon a Time in America" is one of the most forgotten gangster films, and yet it is ironically one of the best. It took director Sergio Leone almost ten years to get this motion picture to the screen. Sergio's original script treatment - the outline for the story - was 200 pages long. Just the outline. Soon he employed numerous writers to redo the script, and they bounced it up to 400 pages. There is a saying that for every page in a film script, there is one minute of screen-time. You do the math. After the long scriptwriting process, they then had to get permission to film the movie, from the author of the novel this film is based upon. Then, after that struggle, there came the film itself. How to turn such a bold narrative into a compelling film? What techniques should be used? Where to start?The beginning of the film opens up during the 1930s or sometime around then, fast-forwards to the 1960s, then flashbacks to the early 1900s. It skips around a lot. This makes the viewer active, trying to figure out where and when they are. It is an element that gives a film rewatchability. Roger Ebert pointed out that "Citizen Kane" is set free of chronology, and the same goes for "Once Upon a Time in America." Sergio Leone is the master of extreme close-ups and wide frame shots, seen in "Fistful of Dollars" and here with wide shots of busy streets. In one scene a young girl (pre-stardom Jennifer Connelly) walks along a street, and Leone pulls the camera up, up, up and back, back, back, revealing the entire street. Soon she is lost in the crowd. The same thing is done with De Niro's character as a child, and we lose image of him in the crowd, but then Sergio uses an almost invisible dissolve and we come back upon him.The acting by De Niro is superb. His character, Noodles, is probably the character in this film who is most in-touch with his feelings. We often feel for him, but numerous times in the film he does things disturbing and sickening and we are repulsed. One scene extended in the DVD is the controversial rape scene between De Niro and Elizabeth McGovern. After it is all over, Noodles climbs out of the back seat of the car and walks to the side of the road, standing there, looking into the distance. Many people say this is guilt because he knows what he has done and is ashamed. I don't think so. During the film he rapes numerous women and doesn't seem to mind at all. I think the point Leone was trying to make is that De Niro's character has no idea how to treat or respect women. His entire life he grew up around women who were treated as objects (such as the young prostitute who lived in his apartment complex). So when Noodles stands by the side of the road, this is not from the guilt of what he has done - it is from the guilt of not knowing how to treat a woman, not knowing what to say, not knowing what to do. Not knowing how to respect her. His entire life he was taught that women were just there for pleasure, but when he stands by the road this is a sign that Noodles is starting to think this may all be wrong. It is the guilt of naivety, not self-awareness."Once Upon a Time" is the master of gangster flicks. Two other tremendous gangster flicks, "The Godfather" and "Goodfellas," have gotten the respect they rightfully deserve over the years - but "Once Upon a Time in America" has been seemingly ignored - up until know. I hope that this DVD sparks a newfound interest in the film, because no one should go a lifetime without seeing this moving motion picture.
It's been said that when one watches a "spaghetti" western (one of the "Man with no name" films with Clint Eastwood) filmmaker Sergio Leone's trademark cinema style and flair for clear storytelling is instantly recognizable. This is no truer than in his most ambitious effort, Once Upon a Time in America, in which his usage of close-ups, concise camera movement, sound transitions and syncs, and the sudden change in some scenes from tenderness to violence. And, he pulls it off without making the viewer feel dis-interested. Of course, it's hard to feel that way when watching the cast he has put together; even the child actors (one of which a young Jennifer Connelly as the young Deborah) are believable. Robert De Niro projects his subtitles like a pro, with his occasional outburst in the right place; James Woods gives one of his first great performances as Max; Elizabeth McGovern is the heart of the film; and Joe Pesci should've had more than just a one scene appearance, thought it's still good. It's a story of life-long friends, in the tradition of the Godfather movies with obvious differences, and the story cuts back and forth to Noodles (De Niro) in his old age returning from exile, looking back on his childhood in Brooklyn, his rise to power with his partners, and the twists come quite unexpectedly. The pace is slow, but not detrimental, and it gives the viewer time to let the emotions sink in. The story is also non-linear, and yet doesn't give away facts to the viewer- this is something that more than likely influenced Tarantino (and many others) in style. By the end, every detail that has mounted up makes the whole experience rather fulfilling, if not perfect. Finally, I'd like to point out the exceptional musical score. Ennio Morricone, as it says on this site, has scored over four hundred films in forty years, including Leone's movies. This would have to be, arguably, one of his ten best works- his score is equally lively, saddened, intense, and perhaps majestic for a gangster epic. Overall, it's filled with the same spirit Leone had in directing the picture, and it corresponds beautifully- there are some scenes in this film that would simply not work without the strings. Grade: A


                
Simply the best movie ever made. Dot.Life. Love. Friendship. Nostalgia. Souvenirs. Childhood. Adulthood. Betrayal. Children's dreams. Psychology. Sex. Manhood. Womanhood. Romance. Illusions. Acting. Ambition. Glory. Fate. Masochism. Sadism. History. Death...Some even say it's a movie on Italian Mafia...This movie is to cinema what "A day in the life" is to modern music : an evocation of what life is, in a global approach, with its darker sides and its epic moments, and in the end everything is vain and you die. Magnified as always by the superb work of Ennio Morricone, and the perfect acting of De Niro and Woods, it was for Sergio Leone THE movie of his life, his long time cherished plan, his masterpiece to end with. Additionally, it has become THE movie of the 20th century.


                
Leone's beautiful vision met with an epic story to create one of the most beautiful movies of all time. Four hours long but time melts away as you are transported into New York. In a movie where the importance of time is stressed, and how it should not be wasted, it is pleasing that this considerably long movie does not waste, rather enhance your time. Instead of regretting lost time we are instead left exhilarated and wondering. Performances all-round are fantastic right from the child performances, 'Noodles, I slipped' to the aged De Niro with a look in his eye that he has seen it all before. His weariness is astonishingly realistic and applause should be directed at De Niro and his method. A true masterpiece.


                
Once Upon a Time in America, which bookends Once Upon a Time in the West as director Sergio Leone's best work, is a powerhouse of a movie. A gangster epic told in a very different style than the standard of the genre, The Godfather, it is in some ways (at least to this viewer) even more emotionally compelling. Although the movie was sabotaged upon release by an edited studio version eliminating about 40% of its original length, the version now available for rental is thankfully the nearly 4 hour version intended by Leone.  The story is at essence a basic one about friendship among thieves, telling the story of a group of Jewish kids in New York near the turn of the century who grow up to become powerful and ruthless mobsters, while maintaining (or trying to) their bond with one another.  As was most famously done in the taxi scene between Rod Steiger and Marlon Brando in On The Waterfront, the movie again makes the point that bad people can have good aspects to them, such as loyalty, devotion, and even love. I think this movie includes one of Deniro's best roles, and far and away James Woods best film work. The score, by arguably the greatest movie composer of all time, Ennio Morricone, is incredibly haunting in its beauty and sadness (with no fewer than three separate themes that are breathtakingly beautiful).  The non-chronological manner in which the story is told results in a wonderfully effective narrative device:  the movie begins and ends with the same scene.  The first time you see the scene, it is a frantic jumble, without meaning or context, and you do not know why it is so important.  When the scene recurs at the end of the film, everything has become clear, and the scene has an incredible poignancy and sadness to it:  although it occurs in the middle of events chronologically, you realize that, in a real sense, life stopped at this point for one of the film's main characters.  There is no other event that matters anymore to him. This is not a simple movie, and it merits repeated viewings.  Indeed, in my view one cannot fully appreciate the greatness of the film until the second viewing, when the full story is known, and the  events of the film resonate with knowledge of where they ultimately, and tragically, lead.


                
I decided, on Christmas Eve, to reacquaint myself with an old friend- Sergio Leone's heavyweight gangster epic, which I had previously watched in two sittings, 10 years previously, at Uni.I was rewarded with a movie of tremendous vision and creative style as well as emotional integrity. When you take an idiosyncratic, brilliant, stylish director like Leone, his composer counterpart, Morricone, and a cast including two of the foremost actors of their generation (de Niro and Woods) then you have an idea of the kind of quality this film has. In fact, the only gangster movie(s) I've seen that match it are the first two Godfathers (in fact Leone almost directed those too... now that would have been interesting).In contrast to earlier Leone Westerns, the characters are more fully developed- although the detachment of the characters in these movies made for a more rollercoaster, loose style of cinema, no one was ever going to win an award appearing in one, although they were all great movies.Although I could tell I was in a Leone movie almost from the beginning, what was different was the inner lives of the characters dictated the way the plot flowed in a pleasing way. I also think that the performance de Niro put in was the best of any film I've seen him in, and that includes any Scorcese picture. To make the audience actually care about a character who does such evil (including raping the woman he loves) is a towering achievement. The apparent effortlessness with which he achieves this is a mark of true greatness. Leone's style of filmmaking, with its long silences and pauses and (in this case) slow pace suit de Niro's style of acting perfectly. It's a real pity that they never had the chance to work together again.I think this a great film, and, at 3 3/4 hours, it kept me at least interested and often gripped all the way through. Why are Hollywood studios scared of movies like this? Some people out there love them.


                
The late Sergio Leone's final motion picture is a long, slow paced 226 minute (that's three hours and forty six minutes), movie that takes its time to set mood, character identity and establish the ground work of a story that is fundamentally about the trials of aquiring the "american dream".  The film keeps a very slow pace throughout, and as a result becomes entrancing and before to long you really start to hope you never leave the movie. You wish it wouldn't stop.  The world the characters exist in is one of non-existence. Coupled with the vivid imagery Leone brings onto the screen along with Ennio Morricone's numbing score, the film is like a surreal vision of what life could be, until the very end when it is found what the real world is like. Full of people you thought were friends, but would step over you to get a better shot at life. The  moral: don't waste time trying to get what you can't have.  Live with what you got. In both the opening and closing sequences of the film Robert De Niro is seen in an Opium Den. In the beginning he is haunted by the ring of a telephone, and no amount of opium can help him hide from the ringing of the call he made and thinks lead to the death of his "friend".In the final sequence he realizes the truth, smokes his opium,lays back, and waits for the ringing to start. It doesn't. He then faces the camera (in a definative Leone style) and smiles. His guilt is gone.
This Movie is absolutely amazing (only the long Version). I can't believe what I see, this Masterpiece of Sergio Leone is more than underrated (the most underrated Movie I have ever seen).What are the Important Things in a Movie ? Let me tell you, because I think this Movie has it all.An Amazing Camera work, the Music from Morricone is Godlike, the Story shows highly claim, the Actors Performance is Perfect, the Dialogues are brilliant.I watched the Godfather and rated 9/10 but Once upon a Time in America is much better. I would give this Movie 100/10.Enjoy this Masterpiece and you never forget what you see in almost 4 hours. The Pictures, the Dialogues and the Music of this Movie will solid burns in your Brain and reminds you from Time to Time at this Epic Movie.THIS IS THE MOVIE OF MY LIFE.


                
In order to cater to their everlasting lust for making money, the movie production studios have always endorsed the motto of quid pro quo – "A favor in return of another". Every movie-maker capable enough to be called an auteur—by the virtue of his knack for eccentricity and novelty—has had to borne the brunt of this naked opportunism: be it D.W. Griffith, Charles Chaplin, Orson Welles or Stanley Kubrick. Sergio Leone too had to pay collaterally by having to make five Westerns in order to get funding for his dream project, Once Upon a time in America (OUTA). OUTA is a masterpiece of epic proportions and is consummate on almost every level. The uniqueness of the movie is such that it can be looked upon from various angles with each perspective adding immensely to movie's substance and profundity. The movie not only transcends genres by making simultaneous forays into the realms of Crime, Drama, Mystery, Suspense and Fantasy, but also crosses on several occasions the fine line that separates Dream from Reality. At the beginning of his career, Leone got widely proclaimed as a master of technique and style as he added new dimensions to cinematography and screenplay. Leone's directorial debut was 'A Fistful of dollars'. Movie's success was marred when Akira Kurosawa sued the production house for plagiarizing Yojimbo. Leone bounced back with 'For a Few More Dollars'. He single-handedly reinvented the Western genre by providing a completely different perspective to the Old West, which was hitherto portrayed as the battle ground for the epic battle of virtue versus vice in the backdrop of chivalry and machismo. With 'The Good, the Bad and the Ugly', Leone perpetuated what would become his trademark: Spaghetti Western. Leone's distinctive style included juxtapositions, super close- ups, long continuous shots, and the rotating camera shots. Leone's collaboration with master-composer Ennio Morricone gave cinema some of its most mellifluous compositions. Once Upon a Time in the West elevated Leone from the position of a showman to a serious movie-maker—an auteur capable of much profound works. Leone refused a multitude of projects, including the opportunity to direct 'The Godfather', in a bid to realize his dream project.OUTA is an epic crime saga based on the lives of Jewish gangsters from their humble childhood in the ghettos of New York to their rise in world of organized crime. 'Noodles', 'Patsy', 'Cockeye', and little Dominic struggle as street kids in the East Side of Manhattan in the early 1920s. They work for 'Bugsy', a local gangster, until they meet 'Max' and decide to start an independent operation, triggering a series of incidents which changes their lives for ever. Robert De Niro as 'Noodles' gives one of the most subtle performances of his career. James Woods is chillingly menacing as 'Max'. Young 13-year-old Jennifer Connelly as 'Deborah' serves as a pulchritudinous delight for the sour eyes, and I say this as a testament to her ethereal, nymphean charm that was evident even at such a tender age. The rest of the cast gives a great support to the actors in lead with special mention of Elizabeth McGovern, James Hayden and Joe Pesci. The music is composed by Leone's long-time collaborator Ennio Morricone, who once again works his magic by creating music that is so plaintively divine that even Mozart would be proud of it. The film poignantly explores the themes of love, lust, friendship, greed, betrayal and loss of innocence in the backdrop of the 20th century America. For the European release, Leone cut down his original version to 229 minutes to appease the distributors. However, for the US release, OUTA was ignominiously edited down to 139 minutes by the muddle-headed studio personnel against the director's wishes. In this short version, the flashback narrative was omitted as the scenes were put back in the chronological order. Many of the movie's most beautiful shots are not present in the shorter version, including the nigh magical sequence in which time-switching is indicated by the conjuration of a Frisbee. Movie's abysmal show in the US is attributed to this sabotage. Leone was reportedly heartbroken by the American cut, and never made another film again.The dreamlike screenplay of OUTA gives it a lyrical, almost hypnotic feel. OUTA is a tapestry of highly complex mesh work: the story depicts the lives of same individuals across three different timelines. The time-switching techniques used in the movie are so effective that the switching seems absolutely seem-less. The mystical ringing tone that the viewer gets to hear in the beginning of the movie provides a great subterfuge in unison with the dream-like finale, and adds surrealistic elements to the movie by raising doubts that the events depicted in the movie could well have been a part of a drug-induced dream that Noodles would have been experiencing under the hypnotic effect of opium. The movie has a multitude of unforgettable moments, which can be cherished again and again with the same levels of indulgence. The sequence in which little Dominic—caught between the want to satiate his newly attained puberty and the fundamental urges—buys a pastry to charm a neighborhood girl, but succumbs to the universal temptation and ends up eating it himself is pure gold. The scene which depicts Robert De Niro molesting his childhood love represents cinema at its most macabre. The make-up, set designing and costume designing are all top- notch. The make-up artists have gone about their business with such meticulousness that the actors seem to genuinely represent their character's age in each era. Overall, OUTA is a testament to Sergio Leone's dedication to the free spirit of Art. It succeeds at multiple levels and makes the viewer go through an entire gamut of emotions, keeping him engaged throughout. It is sanguinary and is surfeited with blood-cuddling violence that makes it unsuitable for the weak-hearted. OUTA, however, is as a must for the enthusiasts of the genre and the cineastes worldwide. 10/10http://www.apotpourriofvestiges.com/


                
This is one of the greatest stories ever told. Every time I see this wonderful movie I enjoy its special blend of melancholic romanticism and bitter, ruthless violence.Once upon a Time in America is neither fast-paced nor impeccably plotted, and it doesn't make you feel good, right then and there. The hero wins nothing, only grows old. This movie isn't easy to love. You see it once and you start asking yourself why Noodles doesn't make it back to New York before the late Sixties. How come he doesn't care about his money enough to track down his enemies. If it's really possible never to hear about Deborah becoming a famous actress and a star. These are the plot's shortcomings, the creases that should be ironed out. On the other hand, some character contradictions can be explained. You know Noodles dug a deep hole and buried himself in it for 35 years, because he tells you and you also get it from the tone of his voice and the way he moves. Then you see him young again, rejected by the only woman he's passionately loved. His woman, as Max still calls her in their final conversation. You see Noodles lose the friends who shaped his entire world and his very existence, and bear that responsibility upon his shoulders. He's alone and weary. He feels he can't shake off his ghosts with a gun in his hand, having had his fill of killing.Max always surprises Noodles. He soon learns what makes him tick and is secretly in competition with his partner in crime. Max's feelings haven't been straightforward since the day the two met. He terribly needs to put his life as a gangster behind him, to find success in the legitimate world. On the contrary, Noodles couldn't care less about all that. Our romantic hero is reasonably happy with what he's got or, better yet, he doesn't think there's a lot more out there for him to take. He's only aware that he can't have Deborah, the girl who never ages in his loving eyes. Nothing would ease that pain. Then he's cheated out of the money by Max, the sad, sad traitor. When the two guys meet for the last time, it's hard to say which one is the loser. Max has suffered more. He's horribly missed his old friend and now needs to show him his guilt and accept his penance. At that point, though, Noodles cannot be forced to rewrite his life history. He doesn't believe another version of the truth will help him. "We're old men, Senator Bailey, all we have is our memories. If we lose that, we'll have nothing left."We just learned a hard lesson. As our past poisons our present, truth doesn't have roots on firm ground. We'll live with sorrow and there's not a lot we can do about it. Are we ready to accept it?


                
Now, I am by no means a Sergio Leone fan, but he deserved the Oscar for Direction for this film. I firmly believe that this film stands up there with "The Godfather, Part II", "Casablanca", and "Citizen Kane" as one of the greatest films ever released (maybe the best). Sergio Leone's violent, visual, masterpiece of turn of the century Jewish boys from New York growing into a life of crime has a different effect on all those who have viewed it in its various forms. I, personally have never seen the shortened version so I can not comment on it. There isn't anything in this film that isn't worth the four hour running time. Brilliant, poetic visuals, great photography and fantastic performances across the board.Leone touches on issues of violence (the scenes are gory and sometimes explicit), sexual depravity (its no coincidence that all sexual encounters are in unconventional places and only in Noodles' rape of Deborah does he exhibit any kind of emotion toward any of his partners, gently caressing and kissing her as he violates her in a pathetic attempt to show his love), and simply growing old (brought about by the reminisces of Noodles' childhood with a beautiful good 'ol days type feeling despite the criminal nature of his childhood) and leaves us clamoring for more after the four hours are through.Robert DeNiro is fantastic as always as Noodles. But it is James Woods, in my opinion that steals the show as Max. William Forsythe, Treat Williams, Danny Aiello, Burt Young, Joe Pesci, Jennifer Connely and Tuesday Weld add to this film just as actors of their quality are expected to. Their performances, as well as the two leads at the very least deserved, but didn't receive any, Academy Award nominations. (In fact, the Oscars were the only ceremony to snub this film). Ennio Morricone's score was as beautiful and evocative as one would expect from the master of the Italian score.Worth seeing. Sit back, take the phone off the hook and prepare for a cinematic experience.
I love this film. It is one of the films that truly made me fall in love with cinema as an art form. "Once Upon A Time In America" is one of the rarest of films where all cinematic elements such as writing,directing,acting, cinematography and score simply fit together and compliment each other so perfectly.The story concerns the rise and fall of Jewish gangsters in New York during the Prohibition period. However, there is much,much more to this film than that. In a post-Tarantino cinematic landscape, just about every crime or gangster film has a post-ironic, knowing sense of its own 'coolness' and posturing. Most of the time, this comes off as pretentious and lazy filmaking."Once Upon A Time In America" is truly a film without irony. There is this very powerful sense of melancholy and regret that infuses just about every frame of the film where the characters are adults. In the early flashbacks to the characters as children, this is absent until the scene of Bugsy's murder and the subsequent arrest of Noodles.There is an unforgettable and key scene with Noodles in the back of the police wagon waving goodbye to his friends as he's taken away to jail. The sense of regret and sheer emotional pain that Noodles will feel as the story and his life progresses is first evident in that extraordinary sequence.This is an incredibly ambiguous film that is very much open to one's own interpretation. A viewer could watch the film believing that everything on screen takes place. However, another way of looking at the story is that nothing progressed past 1933 and that the 1968 sequences were in fact an opium-induced dream that Noodles was having while in the opium den. I can see both sides and try not to make a decision either way. I love how this film can be viewed and interpreted in so many ways.The acting in this film is an absolute joy to behold. This is one of the best De Niro performances.While an unlikeable character, Noodles is a very interesting study of a broken life. He is matched every step of the way by an exceptional James Woods as Max. Woods has said that this is his favourite performance of his. The younger cast members, including a 10 year-old Jennifer Connelly, are especially effective during the flashback sequences.I cannot recommend this film highly enough. Admittedly, it is a very demanding film upon its viewer. However, concentrate and the rewards will be immense. I still find myself going back to it every so often. This film and David Lynch's "Blue Velvet" are the two films that taught me a great deal about subtext and how to truly 'watch' and appreciate cinema when I was discovering a love for this art form.For that, I'll always have a soft spot for this film. This is undoubtedly my pick as Leone's best film.
Master of the Western Sergio Leone swapped Clint Eastwood for Robert DeNiro, Cowboys for Gangsters and the Wild West for an even wilder New York, with this seminal masterpiece. It was Leone's last film before his tragically early death at just 60, and although he was working on a big budget World War II film at the time of his demise, in a way that is tragically fitting as no film could have topped this one. Of course, whilst Leone naturally made his name in the sixties with the infamous Spaghetti western, the sheer sprawling grandeur of OUATIA is an unforgettable experience that attacks the senses. From the opening image of Robert DeNiro's opium filled body to the final scene some 229 minutes later, the sensation carries on throughout and hits home more powerfully than any cheroot-chewing Clint or twanging Morricone soundtrack ever did. DeNiro plays 'Noodles', a young man who grew up with his compatriots in Prohibition America, who then returns to his old haunts three decades later to reflect on his life as a hard-bitten gangster. Every scene is pitch perfect, and whilst there are some caps doffed to the likes of The Godfather, Leone doesn't hold back with scenes of rape, murder and brutality that give the film an edge sharper than a month's worth of Eastwood stubble. It's amazing in that Leone was returning to the helm of a movie for the first time in over a decade - there is no let up in the brilliance and certainly no signs of rustiness. And legendary collaborator Morricone is also back in tandem. Morricone delivers one of his most mesmerising scores and it was reported that DeNiro demanded some music be pre-written for scenes and then played back whilst they were being shot just so he could pitch the mood of his character. It's hard to say that this is Morricone's best work because his career is generously decorated with brilliant soundtracks, but it's also the case that 'Deborah's Theme', for example, is even played at funerals these days, such is the power of the music. Even Lennon and McCartney's 'Yesterday' gets an airing. James Woods and Elizabeth McGovern provide faultless support from the cast, but this is a movie of colossal brilliance and will rightfully live on for many decades to come.
'Never trust the artist.  Trust the tale' urged DH Lawrence of American literature, and it is a maxim we would do well to heed in watching any film by Sergio Leone, but in particular this, ostensibly his most realistic and straightforward.  None of his films have packed the given period with so much signifying detail - the gorgeous sepia-toned 1921 sequence, with its Jewish shops and inhabitants, horses and carts, cakes, clothes, the pervading brown, the corrupt cops, the sexual fumblings; the Prohibition years, the sharp suits, the mixture of bonhomie and surgical violence, the disused harbours and warehouses with fading signs, the speakeasies and opium dens, the vast art-deco restaurants.  Only the 60s sequence feels undersketched, a handful of stray signs - muzak Beatles, acoustic-strumming hippies, corruption-exposing TV - pointing to the era.  This, I think, is very deliberate.1968 was a crucial year in American history from the assassination of RFK to the heated civil rights and anti-Vietnam protests.  It was as if all the bogus American myths had been exploded, rising to the surface the nasty, sour-tasting truth.  It was also the year Leone made 'Once Upon A Time In The West', the film that for all time defined the impulse behind American history - 'make believe it didn't happen'.  This self-referentiality is appropriate to a film about cinema, full of people looking through screen-like apertures, never acting, letting history wash over them; this is a milieu where shops and stations are named after the likes of Altman and Pabst, where the hero loves an actress, where his best friend spends 35 years playing someone else.Allied to this careful, material realism, is a straightforward narrative, a mystery story: why did Noodles betray his friends?  As in a conventional Hollywood film, this central enigma is suspended, and background information is sketched in, to raise the stakes of solution.  Everything initially inexplicable is explained, we answer the telephone call from the past, we find out what Rosebud is.  But as Borges said of 'Citizen Kane', 'Once Upon A Time In America' is a labyrinth without a centre - we must tread warily.Like 'The Godfather 2' and 'Reds', 'America' is an epic panorama of 20th century American history.  We see how gangsterism is less a metaphor for American capitalism, but its very essence.  We see how unions, the law, politics, even religious communities are infected by it, poisoned, learn to accomodate and live with it.  As Conway says to Max, the gangsters achieve more dealing with the bosses in one night than he would have in two years negotiation.Leone shows how the American dream (oh yes), the very idea of capitalism, is inimical to democracy.  He shows this through the central story of Max and Noodles, the great betrayal.  And the revelation is numbingly shocking.  In a film full of ironic godlike long shots, at one stage the lads, after the hospital babyswitch farce, declare themselves deities, with the power to dispense lifelong happiness or misery.  But it is Max who pulls off the God trick in reality.  He is a Platonic kind of God, who creates a world of illusions, of lies; who dispenses power and paralytic guilt for his own ends, who can actually change the destiny of people's lives, not just in the usual sense of killing them, but in destroying their soul, making them live in a hall of mirrors, a world of empty memories reflecting back on each other, nothing reflecting nothing.  Watching De Niro in the 60s section is one of the most dispiriting things in cinema - it's like watching the walking dead.Unlike the Dollars trilogy, which are full of disruptions, Brechtian jerks and jokey intrusions, Leone's last film seems very smooth and unified.  But underneath this surface, the tensions wrench.  There are some remarkable shifts in tone, from the extraordinary opening section, virtually silent, a fluid requiem; to the joyous rites-of-passage sequence; to the middle gangster segment, which contains some excellent comic bits, filmed with a disarming flippancy that seems to have intruded from another film altogether; to the somnambulations of the 60s.Leone films much of 'America' like one of his Westerns, with an emphasis on extended rituals, extreme close-ups, and a contraction of time.  The very 70s use of zooms seems jarring in an 80s film.  The opening sequence, in its framing, its use of pace, decor and lighting, and in its editing, in its story of a helpless woman being shot by three killers, is pure spaghetti Leone.  This infiltration of the Western, with its expansiveness and codes, plays havoc with the gangster film, such a claustrophobic, urban genre. The chase and murder in the feather factory is jaw-droppingly beautiful.The music plays a crucial part in the formal disjunctions - the manipulation of emotions it achieves is disturbing, so that you wonder why music that has signalled melancholy emotional crescendo is swelling at a boy eating a cake; of why the most gorgeous, heartbreaking melodies are made evoke the tragedy of a rapist, informer, murderer.  If we follow these cues too closely - and it is almost impossible not to; never has sentimentality been so ruthlessly deployed - we fall into the same trap as Noodles.But does he?  Is the story of a man who has been hoodwinked, who never knows what's going on, who's always left out, or in the dark; a man who walks like a ghost through his own life, whose inability to act petrifies him, turns him into Lot's wife, actually an illusion as audacious as Max's?.  For many, the enigma of the film is the fate of Max, the mystery of the refuse truck,. Obviously he was planning a final self-saving scam, a way out of another mess, getting Noodles to think he's shot him, and then having his friend's mangled body, not for the first time, passed off as his own.  The body (and soul) snatching would be complete.  Does he in the end finally mangle himself; is this phantom, this resurrection from the dead, finally laid to rest?  The scene seems to crystallise Noodles' life - victim, dupe, onlooker, not knowing what's going on, shuffling in the dark outside the sites of great events?But there is something very Gothic about this scene - the nocturnal setting; the mansion with secret passages; the wealthy, successful, melancholy man willing death; the idea of the doppelganger; the candle-lined avenue. Noodles begins and ends 'America' in an opium den, and the final image is of a big smile, like he's pulled off the biggest scam in history, fooling us, shrouded like Jill in 'West'.  The film actually begins in 1933, so that the 1968 scenes are flashforwards, rather than the central narrative, which is where the film begins and ends.  Like all Leone's films, there is a strong homoerotic charge, and Max has a clear longing for Noodles; the one consensual sex act in the film is in a hearse (heterosexual love=death) - the rest are violent rapes.  Is the film a working out of homosexual tensions, the narrative the ultimate solipsistic gesture?
The 'revelation' doesn't explain anything: it opens new enigmas.  The film is full of inexplicable loose ends - what happens to Joe Pesci after he spots Noodles and Max coming out of a lift before they go to Florida?  Is he the drunk in 1921 the boys rob?  These repetitions, the longs shots of silent, tiny figures against huge backdrops, the rigid Kabuki gestures, the sparse oneiric 60s sequence, all seem to suggest a kind of dream; Noodles' passivity as he slopes through time seems that of a dreamer.  How reliable are the points of view, the assertions, the flashforwards of a film whose main character has been left in the dark for 35 years?
One of my favourite films of all time! This is one of those films that changes the way you view movies. The characters are profound, both in youth and in adulthood, and so well developed, the storyline so complex, and yet simple; this is the kind of film you can come back to, time and time again -- and you really will see something different, something new, each time you view it. (The fact that there is more than one version of this incredible film, adds to its complexity. There are different scenes in the short version, that are not in the long version, so it is beneficial to see both.) IMDb lists two running times, but I believe I've seen at least three versions: one a 5 hour version in French in the middle of the night! After viewing the long version, presumably the Director's Cut, I was particularly confused. I re-viewed another version, a shorter one, some time later, and finally understood the ending. While I love Mr. Leone's version (with his work I tend to feel the longer, the better) I found I didn't 'get' the ending until I saw the 'chopped version'. Needless to say, I've seen the movie many times through the 80s and 90s, first in the theatre, thank goodness, and later on television.I don't want to imply that the understanding of this film is a cumbersome task. I cherish films that make me think of them long after the final credits have rolled. The director weaves a tapestry, where we see some of his intentions easily. Others times, we move in closer, or view the piece from a different perspective. His talent allows us to believe we're seeing something 'new'. That's partly because we ourselves change over the years, and see things differently as we grow in our own experiences, but credit is also due the film-maker, who pulls us out of our reality and totally immerses us in his story. I have only to hear the score of this film, and my mind carries me back to New York at the turn of the LAST century ... I see the texture of the bricks, I recall the stunning beauty of both actresses who played the character Deborah Gelly, I see again the cream cake that was even better than the hope of sex, for one of the adolescent boys ... a scene that tells us there is still a child, a hungry child, in this young thug apprenticing to be a man and a gangster. I don't want to imply that it's a difficult movie to understand; just that there are so many levels, so many interpretations, each compelling and intriguing. Most movies of this length would deter many from seeing it, I'm sure. But never once did I feel that this film was 'too long'; I was never even aware of time passing. I would happily sit through four-hour films if they were as well made as Mr. Leone's. (Sadly, there are few of his calibre.) Beyond the script, the directing, the acting, "ONCE" is a visually stunning work of art. The music mesmerizes. The colours, textures and light in harmony with the score, are stamped in my memory, as clearly as my own recollections. This is great cinematography! The acting offered some of the best performances of many of the actors' careers. The timing is often impeccable (you'll know what I'm referring to when you view it), and a risk few directors would have dared to take. The writing is nothing less than brilliant, because of course, without a exceptional script, there is no film.Once Upon a Time in America belongs in the 'greats' list of film-making. The most shocking detail, in this film's history, is that it never received the recognition it deserved (in awards), and that it is less known that many inferior films. I feel privileged to have seen it on 'the big screen' a few times, back in the 80s. Some films translate well to DVD, but films of great cinematographic stature are always best appreciated on the silver screen. You can't consider yourself a film-fan, a movie-buff, if you haven't seen this one (or two or three) in each of its versions, several times. I defy you not to love it (them?), too! (Canadian spelling in this review)


                
As with all of Leone's films, America displays a fastidious concern with detail in its sets, costumes, and props. Leone's concern, however, is not with strict historical realism, but rather with creating a sort of heightened reality. Though his movie is a gangster story that takes place in small-scale or squalid places like opium dens, tenement buildings, and crowded delicatessens, production designer Carlo Simi gives everything a touch of opulence, a larger than life quality. And I mean "larger than life" quite literally- as has often been said about Leone's work, America's sets, while often evocative and convincing in their individual details, as a whole are grandiosely overscaled, so that the interior of a kosher delicatessen on the Lower East Side appears as large as a train station, and an opium den supposedly hidden in the back room of a Chinese puppet theater (with, according to Leone biographer Christopher Frayling, Indonesian puppets performing an Indian epic) has people on cots stretching up the ceiling. The epic quality of Leone's The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly and Once Upon a Time in the West lay more in their style and physical scale than in the movies' actual stories, which are rather slight. Leone placed his characters against the background of vast historical movements and events, but he didn't focus on the powerful people causing or at least marshaling these events. On the contrary, much of the larger than life quality of his heroes and villains came from how they seemed to exist outside of society and normal human concerns, like, as writer Danny Peary pointed out, a more-than-human race of warriors doomed by the advent of civilization. Gangsters, of course, don't stand outside of society so much as they infiltrate it and corrupt it, and Leone adopts to this difference with a comparatively restrained style, particularly for his actors. Still, little remnants of his spaghetti westerns remain in his interpretation of mobsters. One important difference from The Godfather is that Leone's gangsters are not bosses- they do their own dirty work, whether it be smuggling, union racketeering, or murder. They're still outlaws more than figures of authority, and the main source of contention between Noodles and Max is the latter's decision to hire the gang out to "the Syndicate," as represented by Joe Pesci's mob powerbroker. In interviews on the film Leone spoke of the Prohibition era as the second great era of frontier lawlessness in America, which makes no sense from a historical point of view but works beautifully from a pop culture perspective, which of course is the point. Leone puts an almost touching faith here in the viability of genre as a means through which to filter his epic vision of twentieth century America. The childhood scenes are like a wicked, R-rated version of Our Gang, with the pint-sized crooks exhibiting a strange innocence, displayed most memorably in the famous cream pie scene. But already this innocence has begun to curdle into amorality, into an unthinking amorality and disregard for others. Leone sympathetically and amusedly dwells on their battles with the buffoonish, corrupt neighborhood cop, known as "Fart-face." These scenes have a particularly Our Gang-like quality to them, depicting clever and precocious outwitting stupid and cruel adults. The first of the gang's exploits that we see, however, consists of them burning down them the news-stand of a man who has refused to pay protection money to the local boss. The kids watch excitedly through a grille as flames devour a man's livelihood before his eyes as if they were watching a show put on for their own amusement. All throughout the film, we see people watching other people at a remove, particularly men watching women. Noodle is the ultimate spectator, often silent, constantly watching others, desiring women he can't have, observing events he can't control, seemingly vanishing for extended periods of time (first for eight years, then for thirty-five,) to reappear in an America that has gone on without him, among people who have gone on without him. At least 2/3 of the film, and possibly the whole film, occur in his head, in flashbacks to his past, so Noodles can watch his own life unfolding like strips of film in a projector. Early on, we see patrons watching an Indonesian shadow-play in the theater that fronts for the opium den where Noodles hides from the world. The silent audience outside and the stoned customers within taken together are like a Janus-faced portrait of a movie watcher, subsuming their daily lives in the play of shadow and light on a screen in a state close to dreaming, or drug-induced hallucination, or even death.
Once upon a time in America is the best movie I have ever seen. It's a mix of amazing directing, great acting, a great story and beautiful music. Robert de Niro is always great, but I was surprised to see that how fantastic James Woods act in the movie. He's just great. All of the other actors are good, I also like Treat Williams, I think he's a very underrated actor. Sergio Leone's gangster masterpiece is an example of perfect direction. When you can tell a four hour story without boring the audience, you're good. But in the end, he shows us that the whole movie was just a dream, dreamed by the Robert de Niro character Noodles. That's so cool. The first time I watched the movie I coulden't believe what I just saw. How can you end such a long and beautiful movie like that. It's great, it's amazing, it's beautiful. And with the music of the greatest composer of all time playing in the background, then there's nothing left to say. Once upon a time, Sergio Leone directed Once upon a time in America, and it turned out to the best movie ever.
I'll not go on and on about the minute details that everyone else seems to do, here. I'll not make believe that I am some kind of Expert Movie Critic. I'll just say That... Most of the people I know, when asked, will say that 'The Godfather' or 'Goodfellas' is the best 'Mafioso'/Organized Crime movie that they have ever seen.... Hogwash !!! This movie is simply the Best... None Better... Cast, Story etc... My only regret is that I can't find it on DVD... probably not available.. I dont know! That's It... THE BEST


                
Where to begin? This hasn't always been on my list of favorite movies. I first encountered it when I was 9 or 10 and my parents let me watch the first videotape (first half) before deciding it wasn't appropriate for me. I didn't see it complete until five years later. Since then, I have seen it about half a dozen more times including once in a theater (crappy print, but still). I wrote an essay about it for my entrance paper to get into the graduate program at NYU and since I got in, OUATIA will always have a particularly special place in my heart. I now throw it out as my favorite film when people ask and the reasons that I love it are perhaps best encapsulated by Leone himself in the biography Something to Do with Death that came out last year:"I make fairy tales for grown-ups. I pay scrupulous attention to detail and making the setting realistic so I can focus on making the story mythic."In a nutshell, that's all his films, but in particular the one that took fifteen years to get off the ground and ate up three full years of his life. OUATIA is above all else, for film lovers, with its spiderweb plot drifting through the decades and back and its deliberate, dreamy pace. It is also the finest gangster film ever, precisely because it focuses on the lowest rung of criminals and succeeds in never making the gangster life look glamorous. The friendship between Noodles and Max surprises with its refusal to paint one as the "grounded" half and the other as the "loose cannon." They're both given to violent outbursts and both capable of (increasingly diminishing) moments of tenderness and compassion. This makes Noodles'(DeNiro) betrayal of Max (Woods) all the more haunting, and since Noodles's guilt is what drives the entire film, it's crucial for that to come across.Much has been said about whether the film is a simple story, told out of sequence, a flashback, a flashforward, or an opium dream/ nightmare. I opt for the latter interpretation and without spoiling any of the film's surprises, consider this: Move the last shot of the film to the very beginning and everything else falls into place. The beauty of the closing shot (and it is one of the greatest closing shots in cinema) is the way it reveals nothing and everything.There isn't even time to go into everything else that moves the spirit (Morricone's mythic score, Tonino Delli Colli's cinematography that finds the right tone for each of the three decades portrayed, the art design, particularly in the 1923 sequence with the children). I am not automatically a fan of long films but Leone creates a world that is worth falling into for 227 minutes)A note about the running time: the bio reveals that the film runs 229 minutes outside the US, the extra two minutes being from the rape of Deborah. No longer version exists. Leone had wanted the film to run for 250 to 265 minutes but the footage that exists to make it longer was never dubbed to do so.


                
Its inconceivable to me, how anyone viewing this great film in its 4 hour version could not be moved, excited & ultimately overwhelmed by it. From the opening with that Goddamn ringing phone, to the last shot of a smiling stoned out DeNiro this film is a true work of art. Complicated & personal, Leone weaves an epic tale about a bunch of Jewish gangster-friends from their criminal childhood on New York's lower eastside in the 1900's to the 1960's. And like many films of the genre,Once Upon touches on the themes of friendship, loyalty & betrayal but does so in what some find an unsettling structure. The film constantly weaves from past to present and back again & I think that this form of filmmaking makes some American moviegoers uneasy. They like their films with beginnings, middles & hopefully happy endings. Now this is a film that is all over the place, with characters that come & go impolitely & age without aging. Leone the artist takes a sacred genre and does marvelous tricks & turns to it. Its also a very violent & sexy film, a little too "European" for a mainstream American film, so the film is butched down to a 2 hour version that gets bombed by critics, and hated by audiences who came expecting another Godfather sequel, because hey after all DeNiro is in it. Also in the film is James Woods & the always great Tuesday Weld. The music is by Ennio Morricone & the beautiful cinematography is by Tonino Delli Colli. I'm delighted to see how many positive and interesting comments this film has gotten here, and I too can't wait for it to be on DVD. There is also a longer version than the 4 hour one, in which Louise Flecher has a part, I've seen the stills.


                
The combination of Sergio Leone and Ennio Morricone is epic and the mix of actors are outstanding....
Can be seen again and again...
How we miss Sergio Leone - may he rest in peace...


                
