I'm familiar with most of the great gangster movies that have come out, but I've never heard of this title until recently. Well, I found why I've never heard of it -- the film is long, boring and disappointing. Somewhere in there is an interesting story, but "Once Upon a Time in America" does not tell that story.Basically, with flashbacks occurring here and there, the movie follows a group of kids in their journey from young hoods to adult hoods. However, "Once Upon a Time in America" is too long, too disjointed, the story is not compelling, and the acting in the early parts of the film is atrocious (especially the child actors). A large part of the problem with the movie is Sergio Leone's directing style. Leone loves long stares and glances and wide panoramic shots, and unlike in his westerns, this style simply does not work here. In Leone's westerns these long sequences effectively built up tension while here they are just boring cinematic filler.It seems that Leone lost objectivity in editing because a lot of scenes drag on unnecessarily, making the nearly 4 hour running time seem twice as long. In the first hour alone there's more than 5 minutes devoted to a scene of a 12-13 year old girl dancing ballet while a young Noodles (the main character) secretly watches. Did this really need to be 5 minutes? The point is made in the first minute -- she's a beautiful young girl and Noodles is in love with here. Why stretch it out for another 4 minutes? There's no point to it unless you like watching young girls ballet dance.Soon afterward we're treated to a another 4-5 minute scene of a little kid eating pastry while melodramatic music gushes in like its some sort of pivotal scene. It boggles the mind why stuff like this was not edited down -- it doesn't move the story, its not cinematic and its not even acting, its 4-5 minutes of a kid eating cake.Lastly, whereas a movie like "The Godfather" comes across as realistic and believable, "Once Upon a Time in America" while ostensibly gritty and realistic is anything but. Certain events in the story are completely unbelievable and hard to view as anything but fiction, which is not an asset when you are making a hard, gritty gangster movie.If you like long 4 hour movies I guess this is for you, but to anyone else I would say that there's a good reason this movie has largely been forgotten, so proceed at your own risk.


                
Oh my gosh. This makes all the IMDb ratings irrelevant. Scene after scene is boring, predictable and statistically obvious. Just another boring mafia movie with the exact scenery and set design that you expect with the forced Jewish presence that Hollywood drives anywhere and everywhere it can added as a (opposite of) bonus. I mean, just like Driving Miss Daisy or Blues Brothers or what have you Hollywood must add a Jewish dimension to green light a movie. Watching this three hour long film made me realize Star Wars is a more realistic story than this film which would never happen in America or anywhere else.Sorry but I have to be frank here.


                
Warning: SPOILERS.Viewing the special feature for this film, it's evident that the slashing of this otherwise very long film on its first theatrical release was responsible for the poor initial reception and attendant reviews. Now that the full 3 hour and 50 minute version is available on two DVD discs, I see absolutely no cause for celebration. The slow pacing (the phone ringing sequence especially egregious), witless dialog and most importantly, the wholly unsympathetic characterizations themselves, make me wish I had committed myself to doing anything else at all.DeNiro as "Noodles" and Woods as "Max" are the main figures of a close knit Jewish gang of four, their religious background evident solely when they occasionally use a Yiddishism, e.g., "mazel". Otherwise, they kill, rape (apparently Noodles' preferred form of sexual advance whether it be with a woman betraying her husband in a large jewelry caper - Tuesday Weld's otherwise nymphomaniacal Carol - or with a woman he supposedly loves (Elizabeth McGovern's wholesome Jewish "Deborah") or for no apparent psychological reason get high in a Chinese opium den. We have no idea in this film that encapsulates several time periods what Noodles has been doing for 35 years in Buffalo and when we find out the reason he has been summoned back home, it's just simply ludicrous and not credible for words. As for the soundtrack that's been lauded elsewhere, I don't know how many times anyone else can listen to the syrupy "Amapola" tune, but I had my fill pretty quickly. But read your Ebert (four stars no less!) and see what you think.


                
I'll just add to what other people said. One. I didn't like the use of Yesterday by the Beatles but sung by someone else because unlike Scorsese, the producers were to cheap to pay to use the actual song. In a movie like this, original music would have been better. Number two, the James Woods' character fakes his death and reinvents himself as a politician and none of his old friends from the neighborhood recognized him as his original person. Also, as great as DeNiro is, he portrayed a Jewish gangster better in Casino but will always look like who he is which is Italian. I can go on and on but I'll happily re-watch the film and add to how not to make an epic movie or you can just watch the Godfather or Goodfellas.
First of all: It would take a lot of excitement and quality to justify four hours of runtime. This is simply not given. The scenes drag for no apparent reason. A long intermission between sentences can have a strong impact on occasion, but not if it's in almost every scene. An ugly rape scene has zero consequence - when the involved characters meet again, it is like nothing has happened.Usually the involvement of Ennio Morricone upgrades a movie immediately, but in this case the soundtrack is badly chosen and badly edited, same thing goes for sound effects.If you like slow-paced, long movies, there are a few good ones out there (Ben Hur, Lawrence of Arabia). But "Once Upon A Time In America" is just forgettable. After reading a few positive reviews I get the impression that the biggest argument for this movie is that it's pretty to look at. At times it is, which is why it gets two stars from me instead of just one.


                
Average drama that truly drags and suffers from bad script/screenplay.Too bad because the period sets used here was spectacular,illustrating New York City streets in the eary 1920's,early 1930's and late 1960's.The cast here was also very good and these actors did a great job.The directing was inconsistent due to the director getting too old and the lighting was bad.Over rated by many fans of New York gangster movies so beware and expect a slow moving movie that is loooooong and artsy.Only for fans of this style of flow for gangster movies and for big fans of the lead actors.....


                
That is the best part. It is the only entertaining part. Otherwise, it is four hours of lame pastiche.


                
This is probaly the most overrated movie I ever saw, and also one of the most pain-enduring, depressing, viewing experience of my life... This is truly the downfall of Sergio Leone. It has bad casting (except for De Niro, of course, the main actors are just not enough interesting to play that kind of characters-James Wood as the lead/villain? ughh!) a pace that feels like a corpse getting carried through a never ending parking, terribly unsignificant plot twists that goes nowhere, and above all, me and my friends had to ENDURE this catastrophe for something like 3 hours or more... and still at the end it felt like we've spent a whole day watching this load of crap.This film a plain incoherent mishmash of a story that goes everwhere and nowhere at the same time. It was still worth seeing it, only to witness how can sometimes a major film project made with the best intentions can turn into a total nightmare.


                
Look I sat through four hours of this just because I started it and frankly did not have anything else to watch, but this film surely proves that the reviewers on this website are dolts.One can appreciate the corrupt pig, the sexy girl and the doggy sex, but beyond that there is so little to watch. I don't know if a subplot of Jews was added so the director can get funding in Hollywood, but the characters were so boring and the film so slow moving it really made me wonder.A mafioso grows up and out of New York and then reappears having lived n the area in hiding.


                
This seems to be a praised film, but why? The same boring and pompous story type has been done many types and much better than this here film. Watch The godfather films if you must.Otherwise this drab and boring film contains slow moving non-action about a gang of boys no one cares about and a bunch of tough Jewish kids, which is as implausible as saying fast moving turtles. Everyone knows Jewish people are weak and non-athletic.So what do you have left? The sex at the restaurant with a young Jennifer Connelly and the good old in and out by the cop. not only it depicts the abusive cops correctly but also sex is natural and fun.That is it? Yes, this film is four hours too long.
There are some excellent scenes in this movie, chilling, moving, brilliant. But it is far too long and the jusxtaposition of events in random chronolobical order doesn't work. The strongest scenes are invariably followed by long, dull, slow moving, darkly lit, introverted characterization, as De Nero tries to pull off something. What that something is remains unclear. The movie fails at penetrating the surface of its intent - see movie description. We really don't come to understand much except that De Nero can smile after 30 years of being lost and betrayed. His final smile borders on ludicrous. The lighting and perhaps the worst musical score imagineable make a shambles of the movie's pace and continuity. It's too long, too poorly edited, and fails to develop the more than a few remarkable scenes and bring us something, anything, beyond random snap shots or old hand held 8mm home movies about some time and some place in the early part of the 20th century. The characters and their stories loose their vitality and are finally unrecognizable.


                
I admit I haven't been able to watch all of "Once...) because it is so horrendously false. Not one scene has people saying what they would really say or doing what they would really do in a given situation. Clearly it was written as a child's morality play with a soporific score, and the director/editor loved it so much he stretched a 90 ,minute movie to 3 intolerable hours. It has the emotional depth one would expect of a high school sophomore. Just garbage.


                
Too long, and not much of a story.  There is scenes in this film, that one ask what does this have to do with the story.  Good acting will go only so far, and with out a story the film dies.  Do not even rent this one. 2/10


                
Sergio Leone's films are all miserably, awkward attempts by a sick, childlike individual. This film is no exception. Unlike true classics like The Godfather I and II, Goodfellas, and Scarface; Once Upon a Time in America is incredibly inept. Like the director (what's his name?) who was responsible for The Deer Hunter and Heaven's Gate, Leone is terribly inept, and it shows. Scenes such as the woman who begs to be raped, the switching of babies in the maternity ward, and the pulling out of penises so a woman can identify the rapist are sick. The scene where the extremely fat prostitute kisses Noodles is sick. The scene where Noodle deliberately drives off a pier is inexplicably stupid. The scene where they shoot up a car when the mobsters inside are obviously already dead is very strange. Stupid and sick. That sums up Sergio Leone. Implausible garbage.
For some, I can see why this is a classic, however for me, not only did I find it painfully slow for the first forty minutes, but a little disgusting at times as well. It's more than definitely a guy movie, and would never even dare to be called a 'chick flick'.Robert De Niro was fine, however I think he tends to play the same role for every movie he's ever been in. Jennifer Connely was great, playing the young love interest of DeNiro's character, however again, is it really necessary to subject young children of that age to nudity? There were some sex scenes that could have been done without, and although they have been needed for the film, they still could have presented them a little more tactfully.I found it strange, to be honest, and I don't normally say that about dramas like these. I wouldn't recommend it. It's not worth your time.


                
Misogynistic themes including raping and torture of women. Sickening and brutal.


                
I don't know whether this film was 4 or even 5 hours long, but it was too much. It's very complex and hard to understand, which although makes it a real crime epic, with such a length of time, made Sergio Leone put in elements that were basically unnecessary to the plot of the film and shocking to the female audience. Two rape scenes that were not included in the book appear in the film. With that and many other elements of hatred and violence towards women suggest a very strong misogynist content. There is also the description of women in inappropriate manners (prostitution). The main character Noodles (played by De Niro) rapes a girl in a hold up, rapes his long time love of his life Deborah (Jennifer Connolly plays her younger self) after she rejects him and then betrays his long-time friends and goes in exile for several decades before he decides to return. All in all it does not make him a very likable character. The ending also, is left unexplained. A wide grin across Noodles's face in the last shot shows a few possibilities about how the entire film is built out to be. It is not badly portrayed as unfortunately some films are when it comes to adaptations on screen, either from a book or a true story. The fact that the contempt for the female race in this film even reaches out to infant children does not appeal to me. This film may have had a standing ovation when it was premiered, but when you're standing in a room with a television for three or four hours, you have to wonder, where exactly did those three hours go?
A sleeping pill! A cure for insomnia!! A muscle relaxant!! A noise suppresser! The ultimate in making even spending time watching the fifteenth Marvel sequel fron Disney just this year look good!!
It.is.magical.


                
Really thought this was going to be a classic gangster movie. What garbage. Plot was all over the place and the acting, even Deniro was really bad.


                
This film is terribly boring and overrated. When they say boring they are talking about this. It is so bad I rather watch the reboot of Ghostbusters again over this (OK kidding between these two films I rather pluck my eyes out). It has a small interlude with a pig banging a teenage slut and some teen action elsewhere but that is not enough to redeem this super too long borefest.
