My only merits for this film are for the principles of camera work, general acting and basic cinematics, besides that, this is almost 4 hours of my life I won't get back, this film drags on so much that by the first hour I felt like I'd spent a full day watching it and on top of that I still had very little connection to the characters and their story hadn't even started. Second hour hit, still nothing, I was almost asleep. Third hour, I might as well have been asleep, the story was still stagnant. As a cinematic story, yes, this is amazing. But as a film, it's like watching paint dry, it just doesn't get going. If you have the time to spare and have nothing better to do or watch then by all means, watch this film, but if you have something better do with your time then please, avoid this film. The length of the film doesn't justify the lack of story or the cinematic prowess, this could very easily have been an hour and a half film.


                
The high rating and accolades being thrown around here are so out of touch with reality I cant believe it.  Of the Top 250 I have seen about half the movies and this one was the most overrated (on this website) movie on the list.  How can you take a movie seriously that has Robert Deniro playing a guy named Noodles!  Please.  The plot is thin and boring to say the least. It tries to say alot but fails even though Leone gave himself 4 hours to do it.  The score for this film was horrible.  And James Woods.  What was up with his character going 'crazy'?  Too many holes in this one and unless Leone wanted to go into the soap opera business he shouldnt have bothered with this one.  It wasnt all bad but as a complete work this movie rates below par.  It gets a 4/10 for effort.


                
One day the renowned maker of spaghetti westerns must have decided that he had to show it to them Americans that he can make a gangster picture at least as good as what they were cerebrated for. A little more brutality, a little more perversity, a little rape, coated with cheap melodramatic effects <U+0096> et voila! As much as I admire the cinematographic craftsmanship, the result is pretty sickening. I once heard that the viewers must like the main characters of a movie, or at least a few traits in them. They must identify with them. Who, I wonder, can identify with those guys? Who is capable of liking them? There are a few memorable moments though, mainly because they are ludicrous. The heroes in this picture seem to be strangely attracted to toilets. It is definitely the place where the really important stuff in life happens! It is the appropriate place for experiencing sensuality and for introspection. So basically, this picture is an epic s**thouse saga. Its central motto: just step on your toilet seat <U+0096> and everything will come back.


                
A sprawling, unlikeable movie with unmotivated, unlikeable characters. Most unbelievable is that, even after 4 hours of the movie, there are countless loose ends left over. While there are a few good moments, those alone are countered by the dreadfully exploitative sex scenes, while the baffling plot and sappy score will drain away any further interest. I love the other five Sergio Leone movies I've seen, and this was actually a bad movie.If you want to rent an incredibly long film, rent "Gone with the Wind." If you want to see something where characters have no motivations, rent "Othello." If you want to see Robert DeNiro at his most gross and repulsive, rent "Raging Bull." This movie is best left unseen.


                
I have not come across many negative reviews of this film. In fact, nearly every reviewer I have read has given it the highest rating. After watching the film (the 226 min) I have no idea what people are talking about. I agree with the criticisms raised by another reviewer on this site. This film rambled and meandered all over the place, and I don't know what the point of it all was. Often when I am being let down watching a respected film the end salvages the rest, to an extent; not here. The story isn't very interesting, and the form of the film - the cuts back and forth - they confuse things, and, really, what's the point of the cuts? It's like a Godfather II rip off. Ultimately, I rate this film even lower than I would have because of the length. If it were two hours it would be more tolerable, but at nearly four hours, I expect something for my investment of time.


                
Sergio Leone's 1984 crime drama "Once Upon a Time in America" has been made out to be the next great crime epic in the tradition of "The Godfather". Only instead of following an Italian crime family like we did in "The Godfather" movies, we follow a Jewish mafia for three decades. Given the praise critics and audiences have been bestowing upon this picture, I expected to be blown away by this. But sadly, I thought this film in the end was a huge, huge disappointment. This is yet another ripoff of "The Godfather" that does nothing except demonstrate everything that is dull and lifeless about the crime film genre. I have no idea how to sum up the story for this picture aside from saying that it's about five guys (Robert DeNiro, James Woods, James Hayden, William Forsythe, Larry Rapp) in the Jewish mafia and the events they undergo from the 1920's to the 1930's during the Prohibition era. The first problem I have with "Once Upon a Time in America" is the film's story being told in non-chronological order. I don't have a problem with films that use different storytelling methods as long as I'm able to have a basic idea of what's happening in the plot. If I can't understand the film's plot which is the case with this film, then how am I expected to get into the plot and care about the characters involved in it? While I realize that this part of the picture is intended to show us how the characters came together, I thought the first hour or so of this nearly four hour picture really sucked mainly because I didn't care for the acting from the kids and teens playing the main characters. I just felt that the acting was too painful to sit through and the lines they were given were absolutely terrible. Furthermore, I thought the film's sound editing and Ennio Morricone's soundtrack were incredibly annoying. During the first flashback Robert DeNiro's character has in this flick, the phone is ringing and it doesn't stop ringing for at least 10 MINUTES! Not only that, but the phone's also ringing IN THE FLASHBACK!! While I realize that it's doing something that hasn't been done before, it's still unbelievably obnoxious to listen to. Along with the soundtrack being extremely repetitive, there are also similar sound editing pet peeves that kept adding up to the point where I couldn't stand listening to this film. The only positive aspects I could come up with in describing the quality of this film is that the acting by DeNiro and Woods are pretty good and that the production design of this film is authentic to the eras that the plot was set in. Aside from that, there isn't much else to say about this film except that it's a boring letdown. Along with the overly confusing and long story, the annoying soundtrack, and the lousy first quarter of the picture, I also found the ending to be similarly awful in that it closes on a very creepy and unnecessary freeze frame/close-up of DeNiro's face. I realize that this film is considered to be one of Leone's finest films, I recognize that many critics and audiences highly endorse this flick, and I know it's considered one of the best of the crime genre. In the end, "Once Upon a Time in America" was personally an annoying experience.


                
Sergio Leone is one of my favorite directors. So, it pains me to say it, but I hate the movie. It has a few memorable scenes (Jennifer Conelly's dance, the murder of the cop), but I can't vouch for this movie as a whole. I hate all of the characters not because they are bad people doing bad things, but because they are so goddamn uninteresting. DeNiro is wasted. Only James Woods is given a chance to shine. The story is rambling and the movie is long; which I wouldn't mind if I had characters I was invested in to follow on the journey, but I don't. Leone is a brilliant visual storyteller and he stages many scenes and sequences with his trademark flair, but the story as a whole is no good. It is bloated and indulgent. Leone focuses much time on mundane aspects of these kids' lives to give us a view of their world and invest ourselves with them and their journey, but really, who wants to watch a kid eat a cupcake for five minutes?It's a funny thing, because I'm gonna give this movie a four star rating. I hated it yet I'm still giving it four stars because I feel there is something about this movie that is special. It is a master filmmaker doing a bad movie as only a true genius can. If some hack had made the movie I wouldn't have even written this review.
All those Italian made movies like Novecento, Malena and this one have such a wrought up vision of sexual behavior in former days! It's one big projection; like everybody anytime was so degenerated as we are nowadays. I really find this a very annoying falsification, and people massively swallow it like truth. Don't you get that this is pumping the hundredth lie in your simple-minded heads? This whole masquerade is only intent to suggest that there has always been the violence and lust we're used to, and thus lull us asleep: you needn't worry, all this isn't abnormal because people always were like that. Well, they were not. It's absolutely untrue and you're fooled when you believe that nonsense. The degeneration on this scale springs mainly from the seventies and has developed to a mode of complicity among film directors. Do not believe it; our parents and (great-)grandparents still had the decency the majority of us lack today. Church membership was common, and people wouldn't think of all that filth we display and welter in at present. We don't even recognize anymore how divergent it is and think it's the standard way of living. Anyway, I utterly dislike that kind of movies and have skipped the rest of this one just when I'd seen a quarter of it. It's a waste of my time, and I by far prefer to see really uplifting productions instead.


                
An attempt by director Sergio Leone at making the a gangster epic falls flat on its face. The movie has a lot of things going for it. The sets, cinematography, costumes, music and acting are top notch. James Wood as Max is excellent, whereas Robert De Niro is his usual excellent self and Elizabeth McGovern looks ravishing. The script is excellent too.The problems are few but they are glaring. First of all, the movie is stretched out and awfully long at 3 hours and 47 minutes. I won't compare this film with Godfather, but the director sure took some inspiration from it. Just like godfather it has scenes where nothing is being said and only the music is playing but unlike Godfather absolutely no action is taking place on the screen, whereas in Godfather more action takes place when nothing is being said. This makes the movie awfully boring at stretch and not even its beautiful music can save it from being yawned at. Secondly, some of the scenes are awfully juvenile and could have been handled with more maturity. Specially when they get the Insurance agent's wife to check them and see if she can feel the person she was with during the diamond heist (I don't want to write as to what was going on in the movie).Only if they could cut out at least a good hour from the movie, it would be a masterful gangster drama.


                
Once Upon a Time in the West is one of my favorite movies, so I was looking very much forward to see this one. De Niro's acting is impeccable in this prohibition time film and there are some really beautiful pictures, especially in the episodes showing the youth of the gang. As usual, Leone moves forward slowly, concentrating on details. The movie, by jumping back and forth between past and present, develops a complicated story you wonder how it is going to end and tension is slowly building up. But then the riddle is solved, and you sit back, wondering how the director could ever have tolerated such an ending. It is incoherent, incredulous, even absurd. I was completely disappointed when the movie ended.


                
Reviewing this film is somewhat difficult because it's neither like the usual crime epics nor like any of the films that director Sergio Leone has made before, including his classic westerns. Running at nearly 4-hours of excessive runtime, Once Upon a Time in America failed terribly in living up to my expectations and turned out to be a major disappointment. The story begins brilliantly but then goes on for over 3 hours covering themes of friendship, greed, betrayal, love & loss in a painfully slow manner that was far less absorbing & more frustrating only to wrap itself up in the end with an ambiguous but fruitless conclusion.While the slow pace did give a huge amount of extra time for character development, there came many moments in the story when I just wanted it to end. There wasn't a single character worth liking in the film, the performances by Robert De Niro & others were good but there was nothing great about them, visually the film is beautiful in parts & music by Ennio Morricone has seen much better days, to be honest. Maybe a revisit sometime in the future might change my opinion about it but as of now, Once Upon a Time in America feels like a punishment for the crime I didn't commit & isn't even close to Sergio Leone's other classics.


                
Leone was a director of genius. The music was excellent. However for the four hours that I invested not do much. I do not see what the hoopla is all about. Yes some great actors grew from this but so did some not do great. What was the Beatles song yesterday doing in it?


                
Firstly I must point out I have seen plenty of long films even sat through the 5 hour 21 minute "gangs of wassypur" but this fillm Dodd this need to be this long. Not enough happened to warrant it. An average film that could have been made better by concentrating on 2 and a half hours of solid material


                
