Of course it's very hard to make up the minds of someone else. That's why there are always some rough discussions being held about the rating of a movie. Everyone has a personal opinion, and you have to respect that. Besides that it IS possible to rate a movie on technical aspects. You may not like a film, but in a good movie there are always things you do like.Once upon a time in America is a fantastic movie. At least that's my opinion. The story is fantastic, because you're following three different threads, which in a way has much to do with each other. The Godfather Part II, another favorite of mine, tried to amuse the audience with two threads, and it succeeded very well. The huge difference of the Godfather II is it's speed, it's rhythm. I know a couple of people that don't like it, and that's because it's too slow. But not by far as slow as Once upon a time in America. That's probably one of the main reasons it's not being loved as much as other great films. You have to like Leone's style, but his Westerns are admired, although they're very slow too. But in a way I think people didn't expect it in a Mafia film, and did in a Western. Leone plays with switching to another storyline in this movie, and he does a fantastic job. The way some remarkable objects (the missing brick, the wall at the station) are used to remark a flashback is extraordinary.Another good aspect of Leone is that his scores are composed by Ennio Morricone since A Fistful of Dollars. Good music is the thing that gives a movie more weight, and makes you remember it. And again in Once upon a time in America Morricone succeeded compose one of the best scores ever made for a movie. Unfortunately this movie was way too long for theaters, so they made the biggest mistake possible. Instead of dividing it in two pieces, they deleted an amazing amount of scenes, what raped this movie. The latest DVD release will hopefully give some of it's beauty back, because this movie is a masterpiece. The only movie I've seen that could compare with this is The Godfather Part II, in style and supremacy. If you don't like slow movies, it's a pity, because a movie like this will not be made anymore. And perhaps that's good, as almost every succeeded movie has an equivalent or remake. Once upon a time in America still is a unique performance.


                
Not many realize that Sergio Leone was offered the chance to direct Puzo's "The Godfather" but opted to make "Once upon a time in America." They say he regretted this decision later in life--but it would be pertinent why someone like Leone would have made such a decision. Any Leone fan would know the importance the director gives to music, structure of the story, the importance of money and how it corrupts many values. All these elements are underlined in this gangster film. In Coppola's work, the story afforded more importance to social details, character details and fabulous camera-work. Both works are monumental--but I preferred Leone's work, truncated to less than 4 hours than his original cut of 6 hours.The music. Leone's favorite Ennio Morricone provided one of the finest film music for this film and he won awards for this film as he had won praise for Leone's "The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly" and a host of other spaghetti westerns by Leone. But the real contributor of music was a Romanian flute player called Georghe Zamfir who plays the brilliant "Pan's song" just as Zamfir played the same tune equally effectively in Australian Peter Weir's "Picnic at Hanging Rock" made 9 years before Leone's film. Weir and Leone both know their music and both need to be complimented for picking up this obscure Romanian to enhance their films. Leone's cinema does not limit to brilliance of music--he uses sound to give effects that surpass the camera eye. The ringing telephone--a telephone ring that persists before the number dial moves on the instrument--provided a stamp of Leone that no viewer will easily forget--and no director had accomplished so effectively. Of course, the telephone call was so central to the film's plot. If the telephone was not enough, the sound of the lift moving up (without a passenger) plays another aural reminder of Leone's cleverness behind the camera.The structure. Leone's screenplay of switching from the present to the past and vice versa increases the entertainment value. Coppola's work was linear and less demanding of the viewer. In many ways Leone's work comes very close to the Coppola's third "Godfather" film--his least appreciated Godfather film, which mixes pathos, irony and closure to intrigues. Leone's film is many ways quite philosophical as was Coppola's "Godfather III"--far removed from the brutal and power-hungry Godfathers I and II. Leone was able to add a dash of comedy--scenes with antics of the Artful Dodger in Carol Reed's "Oliver!" are copied in the sequences of the early years. Leone's comedy can span from a simple act of hungry boy eating a cream pastry that he had bought to impress his love interest to a young girl taunting her boy lover that "his mother is calling" when his male friend whistles. Coppola's cinema rarely dealt with comedy, unless it was a precursor to tragedy. Several sequences where Leone switches time--the eyes of the protagonist changing from the old to the young man, the appearance of the protagonist in the railway station, and the Frisbee hitting the protagonist as he walks the lonely cold street--makes the film more exciting and colorful. The long film is suddenly less boring as it entertains you while unfolding the saga. The switching of the female child with the male, the corruption among the law enforcers, and the obvious dwarfing of the female characters against the male parts for Leone appears more pronounced than in Coppola, because the intent is to underline the weakness of male folly at the height of their power. The film is Leone's essay on American's interest in getting rich and powerful at the cost of simple values of honor and friendship. At the end the director emphasizes the importance of honor and friendship even among gangsters and even women who often ultimately seek the rich guy to live with rather than the true lover. The effect of De Niro's final laugh at the camera can be interpreted in several ways. Who is he laughing at? The camera? The audience? The irony of his life? Is the chase for money worth it? It reminds me of Richard Burton's character, a vicious bank robber in the final shot of the British film "Villain" (1971) turns around at the camera and shouts "Who do you think you are looking at?"Leone could not have made "Godfather I or II", but he could have dealt with "Godfather III". And Coppola could never have made "Once upon a time in America". Leone's decision to change the name of the film from the novel's name "The Hoods" gives an indication of where the director is leading the audience.The more you see the film you realize the film is a robust one that will stand the test of time because Leone did not want to merely present an interesting saga on screen but entertain intelligently.


                
The first time I have seen Once upon a Time in America was on TV - the 3hrs 47 minutes (european) long version. Somehow I subconsciously had an association with that other Sergio Leone's epic: Once Upon a time in the west, but only because of the similar use of the title - Once upon a time in......I had only heard of the movie before, and had read the plot as described in the TV-guide, so i was aware this was a gangster's movie and not a western. After that first time I had not the idea this was one of the best movies i had ever seen (the slow pace of the plot is often discussed and I guess it did annoy me a little bit the first time). But being a film adapt I watched the movie the next weekend again and I already got really intrigued by the plot and the director's choice to cut the film in non-chronological style. That's why this is a typical movie you have to see at least three times. Now I believe the movie deserves to be rated 'a masterpiece'.As it comes to the plot i also compared the film with the Deer Hunter -In both films you can see how a very close relation/friendship between a group of people can be very harshly torn apart due to either the evil things of war(in the deer hunter) or different ambitions between two characters (Max's ambition to be part of the rich elite and Noodles that wants to stay in the stink of the gutter....) Another similar detail between the two movies that - until so far - in no comment was noted is the score at the end of both movies: As well as in the Deer Hunter as in OUATIA, you hear 'God bless America', in the Deer Hunter, Meryl Streep starts to sing because they seek comfort with each other, and in OUATIA you hear the original version.Finally, Robert de Niro's performance is again impeccable - probably one of his best besides Taxi Driver (1976). James Woods also shows his best performance like all other actors in a supporting role. I do not agree with the critic-asters that underrate the movie because of its length and slow pace of plot. In my opinion the slow pace is a strength of the movie which you can indeed only value after you have seen the movie several times. The slow pace contributes to the built-up tension (Noodles nerve-breaking slowly stirring his coffee when he returns from holiday and max deviates the pay-off)perfectly shot by Leone. Due to the slow pace the eventual impact of some of the scenes (and especially the last scene at the 1968 reunion at Secretary's Baily's room) makes you left behind appalled. I rate this movie as one of my all-time favorite top 3.
A fantastic film , that holds the attention, we are transported back and forwards in time, to a world were loyalty appears to be everything but personal ambition destroys the friendship.This film is visually stunning being brutal and beautiful at the same time, there are two rape scenes which are still shocking, the second after one of the most romantic scenes ever in movies.The violence is often bloody for these are violent men let down by the system they live in their own world and make their own rules.The film is slow and patience is required to Vi it, the length of the film is such that it needs an effort to find the time to watch but each time you watch it, your looking forward to viewing it again.The direction is excellent Sergios lasting legacy, the acting is out of this world DeNiro has never been better and James Wood is fantastic.The DVD has some interesting extras though i would have liked more, i believe there was 9 hours on film of this movie, Sergio was a genius I wished he had lived long enough for another two movies.
Possible spoilers to follow...I love this movie.  DeNiro's final opium-induced smile was the most heartbreaking moment I've ever seen in a film.  If you look at the entire 1960's story-line as an opium-induced dream in which the younger Noodles is trying to make himself feel better by imagining a future in which Max hasn't died, but in fact has exacted his revenge on him by stealing Noodle's life from him, then that smile is an awesome and beautiful expression of guilt, and coping with the loss of a loved one. Never, ever watch the watered-down 2-hour version.  You will be sorely disappointed.  On a par with The Godfather.  10/10.
This is an unforgettable roller-coaster ride, a mammoth 217 minutes (UK TV runtime) of love, hate, friendship and memories (Leone's words). And routine bestiality. Leone brought to the American gangster movie all he had given to the American Western movie in the preceding two decades, leaving this stuck out somewhere between The Good Bad And The Ugly and The Godfathers. I've only ever seen the full European cut (still well edited down from Leone's original), I assume the original cut US cut is the one that draws the bad reviews.Disjointed story set in 1968, 1923 and 1933 has handsome chap Noodles played by DeNiro being called back from self-imposed exile to his old stomping ground by someone after decades of hiding, he wants to find out by who and why. Although he turns out to have been a vicious murdering rapist gangster when young we have to root for him as he's really the best of a bad lot. We're treated to lengthy arty flashbacks and many heavy poignant moments, softly tender scenes giving way to scenes of brutal sadism <U+0096> all in the name of so-called Realism. This, remember, is via persistence of vision viewed on a two-dimensional screen, with a fictional plot contrived to fit logically into a timeslot complemented by a stirring orchestral soundtrack you'd never get in Real Life. Leone himself said he never tried to make realist films, so why pile on the violence and smut? And to crown it all, within is a woman who apparently "age cannot wither". Morricone excelled himself with his score for this <U+0096> like Cinema Paradiso, the film could simply not stand on its own without it, the repetitive and relentlessly moving and melancholic main themes, especially Deborah's Theme can leave you in tears and yet sometimes you don't know why. And they "forgot" to enter it into the Oscars nominations <U+0096> Doh! Also the lush orchestral version of Amapola in the dinner for 2 sequence can give you a lump in your throat, though make the most of it because the dreamlike spell is ruthlessly broken in the back of the car come the dawn. DeNiro was perfect for the role of Noodles, his highly visible semi-intelligent thought processes struggling along but almost creating a few longueurs at times. The climax seemed a bit fast with all that had gone before <U+0096> you might even call it a rubbish ending (hem) <U+0096> but it still fitted in well. Even the static 6 minute end credits with Morricone's music is worth watching!A helluva lot happens in these 4 hours, good and bad and happy and sad <U+0096> overall brooding melancholia spurred by memories of mistakes made. I love it with all its faults, and even though at times it makes me wince it's definitely a masterpiece.


                
Once Upon a Time in America was originally released in 1984.It starred Robert Deniro, James Woods, Joe Pesci and Jennifer Connelly. Directed by Sergio Leone, the film featured an alumnus of Leone's crew who had worked on all of his films. This included Enno Morricone's musicality as well as Carlo Simi's production design and Tonino Delli Kelli's masterful and creative cinematography. Once Upon a Time in America is a complex tale about New York City Pals who grow into gangsters and live their friendship throughout prohibition. Near the end of prohibition, a bank heist gone wrong becomes the focal point of the story. A subsequent reunion of the surviving friends 30 years later primarily involves Noodles (Deniro) revisiting his past. The movie itself is almost four hours long and its 1.85:1 ratio shows off Leone's unique visual style. For instance, at one point we may see a crane drop down from the top of the frame like some sort of giraffe to catch Noodles entering an old pub or we may watch in awe as the Brooklyn Bridge is reconstructed right before our eyes. These are just two amongst many commodities that really do reinstate this as Leone's pinnacle masterpiece. It would also be his final film. Deniro delivers the goods as usual. His method style of acting that we are so used to seems to be replaced by a more complacent and tranquil demeanor in this film. James Woods's character has a hint of ambiguity; at the end of the film I both admired and hated his character. Joe Pesci has a minimalistic role as a small-time hustler. Another mentionable fact of OUATIA would be the quality child acting portrayed throughout the film. A young Jennifer Connelly nails her role as Noodles lost childhood sweetheart in the early scenes of the picture. Throughout OUATIA we are treated to Morricone's breathtaking compositions. Perhaps it is the orchestrated version of The Beatles' 'Yesterday', or any other of his musical motifs. Not since, 'The Good, the Bad and the Ugly' has Morricone been so luminous. Overall this film is pure cinematic art. From time to time there isn't a word said but the music and pictures on screen carry the story forward. OUATIA was released in three different edited versions - apparently the full version created a quandary for Warner Brother's executives and it was butchered down two hours. This broke Leone's heart and he would never live to see the full version be released many years later on DVD. I would recommend Once Upon a Time in America to anyone who has a deep passion for movies. It contains gratuitous use of much Leoneism and will be talked about for many decades to come. However, it does take an average of two viewings before the plot begins to make complete sense, but when it does prepare to be engulfed in Leone's most enduring creation since the sixties. A gem of a film indeed!10 out 10!


                
I was a little hesitant to check this film out. Being a huge fan of Leone's westerns, I naively thought that his talents were restricted to that genre. But after reviewing the cast, which includes Robert DeNiro, James Woods, Joe Pesci, Treat Williams, and Jennifer Connelly in her first film role, I just had to check it out. I am very glad that I did. I was missing out on one of the most ambitious, engaging, and epic of all crime drama/gangster films. This was Leone's final film before his death in 1989, but what a film to end an illustrious film career with. Maybe not as well known as other Leone classics such as "A Fist Full of Dollars", "The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly" or "Once Upon A Time in the West" but none the less a film that deserves to be put on the same level as those others, and also enjoy a small niche in the Leone library all it's own.The film stars DeNiro as Noodles (David Aaronson) a Jewish gangster and thug who has returned home after being run out 30 years earlier. He has come back at the request of an unknown person, a person who seems to know all about his past. Very few of his friends from the old days are still around, so with his curiosity peaked Noodles cautiously returns home. In the 30 years that Noodles has been gone, he has been haunted by the old days, by the choices he made, and by that one phone call he made that changed everything. He can still hear the ringing in his head. He feels guilty that he made that call that cost him so much, but as he finds out later, it was not his choice. He was being manipulated by someone very close and it was him that forced Noodles hand. He will also find out that his life ended up the way it did, because his dreams were forcibly taken from him, without his knowledge, by someone who perpetrated the ultimate betrayal.Once Upon A Time in America is an epic film that is thoroughly engaging from start to end. We Follow Noodles from his beginnings as a small time hood, to a big time prohibition era gangster, to a tired and hurt old man. This film is sort of like a journey, you just have to let go and allow yourself to go where Leone takes you. The sets and costumes give the film a truly authentic feel. The non-linear way the story is told works, and is very effective for telling this sort of complicated story. The music is excellent, another great score from frequent Leone collaborator Ennio Morricone. However the decision to use the Beatles tune "Yesterday" is understandable considering it's placement in the film, however hearing a pop song in a Leone movie was a little unsettling. But totally forgiven, being that is one of the very few flaws in an otherwise great film.Highly recommended to all fans of crime dramas, gangster films, westerns, or of just good movies in general.
Director Sergio Leone is best known for his classic spaghetti westerns, but for my money, his final movie, gangster epic Once Upon A Time In America, is his most accomplished work. With a running time of 229 minutes (more if you're watching the Extended Director's Cut), it's longer than either Once Upon A Time in the West or The Good The Bad and The Ugly, and it's pacing is just as measured (some might say 'slow'), but the time passes far less painfully, so engaging are the characters and the drama that unfolds.Spanning decades, the story is truly monumental: it opens in the late 1960s with ageing gangster Noodles (Robert De Niro) returning to the Lower East Side of Manhattan after thirty-five years in hiding, and then proceeds to cut back and forth between the present and the past to show his life as a young boy in an impoverished Jewish ghetto, as a tough gangster during the Prohibition period, and as an old man reacquainting himself with old friends. This skillful technique helps to keep the viewer engrossed long after their bum has gone numb, but fine performances from a stellar cast (which includes James Woods, Joe Pesci, Danny Aiello, and a young Jennifer Connelly), excellent cinematography, and some brilliantly executed scenes of brutal violence, all accompanied by a wonderfully haunting pan flute score by the brilliant Ennio Morricone, help to ensure that nodding off is unlikely.


                
Injustice. This film deals with it, this film suffered it. Leone and his team never saw a single Oscar for what is, undoubtedly, one of the GREAT movies of film history. Supposedly the reason was that HIS version was far too long, and 'unapetizing' for the American public. Years later, this seems ridiculous. American cinema has topped the record for gore and 'unhealthy' material. And DVD finally gave us O.U.a T. in A. in its glorious entirety. And complexity. Yes, because this script is so perfect, so stimulating and so bewitching, that although I have seen the movie 3 times in the last 30 years, it still surprises me...adds nuances and revelations to it's original story. truly admirable! The facade of good ole, healthy America is severely battered by this story of unhealthy ambition, betrayal, revenge and power. 'Noodles' De Niro (the nick-name of our 'positive' protagonist reminds us that Leone was the king of 'spaghetti' westerns), returns, twice, to the site of past crimes... risking his life and ideals in the process. The savagely bitter finale remind us that he does so, simply because he is 'curious'. Because he NEEDS the truth. And this need, although painful, is necessary. Guilt, it is implied, is a powerful corrosive agent, however icy James Woods' character may be. There is , whatsmore, a sub-text which Sergio Leone works on here, and it is the role of DRUGS in society. In order to bear the injustice and treason, the violence and solitude that life has dealt out, Noodles resorts to Opium, as a source of relief; of contemplation. Could it be that the director is reminding us that Heroin's reign in Italy and in the U.S. during the 70ies and 80ies may closely reflect 'modern' Society's degradation? As always, Leone blends his political criticism of the American way with a strong misogynist vein. His women are few and far between in the westerns, but in the two 'Once upon a time..." movies they are increasingly present, and increasingly foxy. The are either prostitutes or cock-teasers with a strong masochist element. And it seems he prefers the 'honest whore'. This film could be reviewed by a psychoanalyst, a priest, a gangster or a politician , and all, I'm sure, would offer a different reading, as in Kurosawa's 'Rashomon'. But Leone is NOT a subtle film-maker. And maybe this reputation of his as something of a gangster in the, very selective Italian league of the 60 ies and 70ies, cheated him out of the credit he receives only now. Somewhat like Ken Russell in the British panorama, Leone's stylish but brutal approach to the realities of life, hurt the shyly hypocritical sensitivities of public and censors alike... let alone the distributors' in Hollywood. Technically the movie is breathtaking, especially Pescucci's wardrobe, Rochetti's make-up (the aging jobs are almost all superlative, and fundamental in helping us deal with such a complex game of 'flash-backs'), the Greg Tolland-style photography and shots by Tonino Delli Colli, the sets, editing and...of course, dulcis-in-fundo, Ennio Morricone's timeless score which, once again, is part and parcel of the film, an emotional bomb which Leone knowingly 'drops' in all the right moments. Deborah's theme is crushing. And the brilliant use of music and silence in Noodles' visit to his friend's mausoleum... comic and audacious. So, it's 9 out of 10, given that the perfect film may not exist (Jean Vigo's 'L'Atalante' ?), and the nearest thing to reading a GREAT novel, but with the whole 'caboodle' of the art of our time. Il Grande Cinema.p.s. It is absolutely extraordinary that an Italian,a ROMAN, with a VERY limited grasp of the English language, should endeavour, and pull off, such an ambitious American fresco. His great talent, and that of Mr. Brian Freilino (who helped him coach and survey the realism of nuances in both languages), and of the dialogue writers, greatly surpass the occasional hiccups that we encounter, especially in the childhood scenes. and by the way, ALL praise to the young actors who unjustly precede De Niro and Woods, but only chronologically.


                
The legendary filmmaker Sergio Leone has pulled off quite a feat in the making of 'Once Upon a Time in America', taking a story about brutal gangsters and weaving it together in such an artistic way, paradoxical as that may seem.'Once Upon a Time in America' is an almost 4 hour long experience about the lives of four Jewish friends who grew up in the lower east side of New York in the 1920s. It focuses primarily on the life of David Aranson, better known as 'Noodles'. A spunky kid, with an awkward yet flamboyant personality, Noodles begins an unlikely friendship with Max Bercovitz, which leads him into a life of crime.It's fair to say that this film is much more character-driven than it is action-driven. Each of the characters come alive as the story progresses from the 1920s to the 1930s and eventually to the late 1960s where the culmination of this lifelong drama occurs.There are a number of very clear distinctions between this gangster movie and others of its genre. For one, it's not a very talkative film, relying rather on slow well-shot scenes and facial expressions to tell its story. The entire movie has a surreal dream-like quality to it, and is replete with symbolism and allegory. The soundtrack is great addition to the film, and the playing of John Lennon's "Yesterday" intermingled with the childhood flashbacks brought tears to my eyes.Just to give an example of the great symbolism in this film, there's a scene which seems rather insignificant, but upon further contemplation one realizes its allegorical meaning. When young 'Patsy' brings the cream pie in return for a sexual favor from Peggy. As Patsy waits for Peggy to exit her apartment, he can't resist the temptation of the delicious cake, and begins picking at its sides, figuring she won't notice. Then eventually he eats the cherry, then goes on to greedily devour the entire delicacy, leaving him with nothing to offer Peggy. This symbolizes the lives of these men, who with a little patience and forbearing could have lived much more meaningful lives, but they could never withstand the temptation of instant gratification and pleasure, which ultimately was their downfall.If I would have to use one word to describe this film though, it would be 'ambiguous'. Many scenes and lines can be interpreted in a myriad of ways. In fact, the meaning of many of its scenes have been widely debated over the years. Not the least of which being the opening and closing scenes of the movie in which Noodles is seen smoking in an opium den, prompting many to speculate that the entire movie, or all that happens from that point on, is an 'opium dream'.Nothing is more ambiguous and ambivalent than the central character of 'Noodles', played masterfully by Robert DeNiro. He is awkward and clumsy, yet he is cool and quick-witted. He is calm and collected, yet extraordinarily passionate. He is cruel, yet compassionate. Tough, yet very tender.One thing is for certain, to be able to watch this film and appreciate it properly one needs a lot of patience. Sergio Leone is notorious for his slow-paced movies, and this one tops it all. In fact, originally Leone wanted to release a 6 hour version, but was persuaded to cut it down to a 'mere' 3 hours and 47 minutes.
Sergio Leone's last film is a belter (and, for my money, his best since "The Good, the Bad and the Ugly").Famously butchered into chronological order for it's original US release, this flawed masterpiece has an extraordinary flashback structure that spans half a century.Beginning in 1920's New York, the film depicts four boyhood friends and their journey from petty street crime to gangsterism. The the dramatic centre of the film is the relationship between Noodles (played as an adult by Robert De Niro) and his relationship with his friend and rival Max, and the beautiful but out-of-his-league Deborah.The childhood scenes in turn-of-the-century New York and poignant and beautiful. Leone takes the time to explore the milieu in which the boys live. They live in poverty, with crime and corruption an everyday part of live, and they use their wits to earn a living. They are also sexually precocious, and there is a bizarrely moving scene where one of the boys devours the cream cake he was going to use to secure a sexual favour. The way in which he hesitantly steals a dollop of cream and reties the parcel, before abandoning hope and scoffing the lot, is strangely touching.This sexual undercurrent pervades the film, and soon mingles with the violence in some harrowing scenes of rape. The defining moment in Noodles' relationship with Deborah is when, as an adult, she snubs his romantic advances and says she is moving to Hollywood. He rapes her in a prolonged and disturbing scene, but it is clear from the aftermath that this is not a "victory" for him but an abject failure - he has demonstrated at last why he has never been worthy of her. In the next scene, where he races to the train station to catch her before she leaves town, she pulls the shutters down on him and this is when his life falls apart.Equally key is the relationship with Max. In their first encounter they are rivals, then they develop a strong but uneasy friendship. Noodles is the ostensible leader of the gang, but Max slowly assumes control and it becomes clear by the end that Max has been pulling the strings all along.The plot is propelled by both the rise of the gang (told through flashback), and also the unfolding mystery (told in the 1960s) of what happened to each of the character's and their haul of money. But the relationship between Noodles, Max and Deborah is the emotional heart of the film.Robert De Niro is amazing as Noodles. There is a scene in which he does nothing other than stir his coffee for over a minute, and the menace he generates is absolutely palpable.With a superb supporting cast (Tuesday Weld, Joe Pesci, Danny Aiello), wonderful cinematography and one of Ennio Morricone's best scores, this is a classy production from start to finish.The film does lose its way towards the end, and there is an under-explored (and apparently heavily cut) subplot with Treat Williams as a trade unionist which serves mainly to confuse. The ending is notoriously obscure and open to interpretation.As a gangster film, it is equalled only by "The Godfather" (parts I and II) and "Goodfellas". Poignant, funny, moving, and at times horrifically violent, "Once Upon a Time in America" is a film with enormous dramatic range.
Although I have been a huge fan of Sergio Leone's work for sometime, I have only just got around to watching Once Upon a Time in America. Probably largely because I've never been too much of a fan of the gangster genre. I'm so glad I did, as it is another Leone masterpiece.Morricone scores always seem to add so much to a movie, and the same is clearly the case here. The story itself is based in three different times - Noodles as a child, as a young man, and 30 years later. The film plays the flashbacks intermittently, and not in chronological order order - to great effect - with the story gradually making more and more sense as it evolves. It explores the relationship between Noodles and Max, from childhood riffraff to big-time gangsters.At times it is painful to watch - with the rape of Debra being particularly uncomfortable viewing. But the film is very challenging, has a good twist and leaves you with many unanswered questions. A great film for those of us that want more than action action action and explosions.If you have a fair few hours to spend (it is a long movie) I would definitely recommend that you watch this.


                
The other review was so off I had to say something. First off this is a gangsta film of epic proportion. It is rich with drama, dialogue and the most beautiful score ever written. Although the length of the film is intimidating I strongly encourage those who enjoyed it to watch it again. There is just so much happening here you wont pick everything up upon the first viewing. The main character Noodles (De Niro) is everything you could want. He is a hero and a dispicable person at times. I use the word hero because of my fascination with the crime genre. You must respect the drive of a man who rises from poverty to success no matter how it's done. Similar to Michael Corleone in the Godfather you cant help but to love the blurred line of Good Guy/Bad Guy in the complex character that is Noodles. You will swear you are in the 1920's or 30's Leone is a genius director and this is not only his finest achievment but one of the greatest motion pictures ever made. Ive seen Once Upon a Time in America over 20 times and it never gets old orloses its effect.Also ask yourself one question after the movie... Why is Noodles smiling at the very end?...keep watching and thinking, you'll figure it out. - Ben


                
Its a bit dated with some of its treatment of issues including how to treat women properly (!) But it as a nice slow pace and a great story. Incredible production values and amazing street-sets and scenes ensure that the restored full version is involving and an epic movie. Theres something very special about watching this movie and seeing some great actors in their prime.


                
Sergio Leone is best known for his westerns, and with good reason. His 'dollars' trilogy made Clint Eastwood an international celebrity and pointed the way to newer, grittier westerns. And My name is Nobody was both a fitting tribute to and subtle mockery of the genre. But for his final work he moved into another traditional American medium, the gangster film. It was largely overlooked, both because of its original three hour and forty minute runtime, and a pathetic theatrical version that cut it almost in half. This is a real shame, because Once Upon a Time in America is one of the best gangster movies I've seen, almost on par with the Godfather.The film follows Noodles (Robert De Niro) a former Jewish mobster who's returned to New York after thirty-five years on the lam. He's been drawn by a cryptic message suggesting that someone knows who he is, and what he's done. While he seeks answers and catches up with old friends in the present, flashbacks take us back to the twenties, when Noodles, his buddy Max, and a couple of friends not even out of grammar school banded together to make some money, stick it to the man, and earn a name for themselves in the underworld. The flashbacks then proceed to the thirties, as the boys established themselves as some of the bigger movers and shakers in the Lower East Side, even as Max and Noodles drifted apart, leading to the tragedy that would leave one of them dead, and another on the run.Once Upon a Time in America is by turns comic, nostalgic, and poignant. It's about how a bunch of kids with lousy home lives and no real idea what they were doing rose to the top through luck, friendship, and determination. It's about a face of New York that was gone long before this movie was made, for better and for worse. It's about the price of success and how money comes between friends. And it's about guilt and regrets for past misdeeds, and trying to make amends.For someone born and raised in Italy, Leone has done a superb job of recreating prohibition era Manhattan. The hustle and bustle of peddlers' carts and throngs of people, the children scurrying across rooftops and down alleys, and the cops blowing their whistles and waving their batons are all captured so perfectly that it's as if the director were working from his own memories. And even though Noodles and his friends are up to their ears in shady dealings, and even though the streets are dirty and the neighborhood cop in on the take, it somehow seems simpler, almost wholesome as the boys plot, make promises, and chase girls. Part of me wishes I could have been there.But of course there's nothing wholesome about what they're doing, or what it's doing to them. Within a few years these boys have grown up to become hardened killers. There are murders, beatings, two rapes, and a scene where they nearly set a man on fire before finding out that their organization has switched sides and now he's their friend. Plus there's a death so gruesome it can only be hinted at. And most of this is before the betrayals start and everything comes crashing down.In the present, most of the scenes have a melancholy air, as Noodles walks through a changed city, one that has just enough resemblance to the one he knew to bring back painful memories of choices he made, and opportunities he lost. And when the answers to his questions arrive, it only brings more heartache as we discover that the lies and betrayals ran deeper and in more directions than he knew.The script is phenomenal, the production values sterling, and the acting truly exceptional. De Niro does some of the best work of his long career, bringing Noodles to life both as a young, ruthless gangster, and a tired, regretful old man. The make-up artists also deserve great accolades for their abilities to age the main characters more than thirty years. In the later scenes, De Niro looks almost exactly as he does today. And I would be remiss if I didn't praise the work of the child actors, particularly Jennifer Connelly as Deborah, Noodles's childhood sweetheart.Once Upon a Time in America is a film that should be seen by any fan of the genre, or the director. It's grand, complex, and deals with the full range of human desires and emotions. It's a real shame that it isn't more widely known.


                
Do not bother to watch the shorter version. Cut and mangled for American Theaters by some 90 Minutes, it is still out there and should be avoided. The intended 227 Minute Movie is readily available on Disc and that is the Director's intent. Anything else is blasphemous.That being said, it is the almost Four Hour Film that will have some, less patient, viewers wriggling in their seats and demanding a more friendly version. It is a lengthy, at times lethargic, sprawl that can be an attractive display of Period and Time hopping.This was not a common Film Style at the time, much more so now, and it feels like a Dream sometimes, and there are some Nightmarish Scenes to be sure. With a Movie so long and Artistically involved there is a lot to take in. Most of it is richly rewarding, but it can be overly complex. It is a Film that takes investment and waiting for the payoff may be tiresome, but ultimately satisfying.For those willing to become involved for the long haul it can be a Baroque, Powerful Experience. The haunting Score and the beautiful, soft, hazy visuals combined with some clever Cinema tricks and excruciating sense of detail, to make this a fine Film for those with an eye for demanding and delightful, disturbing and dense, fictionalized and fancied, Gangster Americana.


                
OK this film was a workout to sit through but boy was it worth it. Sergio Leone's final movie, Once Upon a Time in Amereica, is an epic and arguably his best film. After seeing this, I recognize the great tragedy of the film's editing in its original theatrical run in 1984. Years later we've finally learned what this film is. A dying will of one of the most influential directors of all time.The film is about the lives of four Jewish gangsters as they grew up in Prohibition era and the haunting consequences of one of their decisions. its the story of a lifetime of childhood friends, from boys growing up on the streets in the Jewish district of Manhattan getting involved with the mob, to becoming the biggest bootleggers in New York. This film is just a wonderful trip through. The story line is well planned out and the pacing is done well to where events flow seamlessly throughout those nearly 4 hours. Each frame is painstakingly shot and shows the artesian craft of Leone. Performances of Robert DE Niro, who is good like his usually is, and James Woods, who is especially standout in his role, give human depth to the film that so many other epics/gangster films lack. the film's score adds even more to it with beautiful string melodies to pan flute solos(go figure in a movie like this). Overall if you have the time to devote to watch to this, the do it. This can stand alongside The Godfather or Goodfellas in its genre. This is something to watch it if you can appreciate the art and journey of the story throughout. Sergio Leone's farewell is an amazing film. 9.5/10


                
"this review contains spoilers"I wanted to write down a review here long time ago,unfortunately never got round to it,but last night after viewing the newly extended version of once upon a time in America with 26 minutes of additional scenes,the time has now arrived to share my thoughts and feelings on what i describe a marvelous and unforgettable experience!It has to be said..watching it at the cinema is totally different than watching it on DVD.i do own the movie,admired it on numerous occasions,but boy o boy i didn't capture me as much as last night;a good explanation perhaps is sitting in a dark movie theater isolated from everyone and everything,you feel part of that world that is been portrayed on screen.Like never before you manage to taste the profound feeling of friendship,betrayal,love and greed all of which are masterfully told by the maestro Sergio Leone,and most of all you can feel the heart and soul on which the film is founded and constructed on. Its an epic tale of ; Jewish gangsters that make their way through the prohibition era,narrates the rise and fall of David"Noodles" Aaronson,Max,Patsy and Cockeye!A period of time that goes from the early 1900's to the late 1960's which includes many flashbacks and flashfowards about their childhood and adulthood...the characters are loyal and respect each other but towards the end enter a fase that will finish not only in tragedy but also in mystery.this new version includes six to seven new added scenes,bringing it to a running time of 269 minutes,the version that Leone originally intended to establish,but got reduced to 229 minutes(European version).1)When Noodlees goes and visits his friends grave there is a scene while talking with the owner of the cemetery, a car(with covered windows)appears in the background and drives around the block to spy on him.noodles suspects something strange about the car so he writes down the plate number.2)the information about the car leads him to senator Bailey's house,while standing outside the gate that same car he saw at the cemetery is coming out of the mansion and eventually explodes..then this leads to the part when noodles is sitting in fat moe's watching firefighters in TV clearing the fire on a car...3)while noodles is waiting in the street to take Deborah on a date,he has a chat with the driver.4)After getting rid of Joe and his gang noodles drives the car with his friends on board in the water,an added scene shows max patsy and cockeye laughing it off in the water,and max tries to find noodles who disappears.5)Deborah is playing Cleopatra during a play at the theater and noodles is there as a spectator.6)before noodles and max meet in the end,max has a conversation in his studio with the famous politician that gets shot in the leg earlier in the film. other few scenes show how noodles meets Eve. Do these extra scenes add something more to the film??well certainly they help understand the movie even more,they cover up plot holes that were existent in the previous version, maybe a few sequences were not necessary,but it doesn't really matter. these sequences though do not improve the Frank monaldi character,he still remains in complete mystery.this film is a masterpiece no doubt;if Sergio Leone would still be alive,he would be proud of his children,Andrea and Raffaella,who played a big part to finally bring to life the version that their late father had envisioned.A film that left him heartbroken by the lousy editing of the U.S version that flopped big time and that received extremely negative reviews.Flashbacks were all chopped off and the film's events were narrated in chronological order. Its safe to say that justice has been made.Works of art should just be left alone. This film definitely ranks up there as one of greatest gangster movies ever made and it surely worth the watch!!Robert De Niro is exceptional,Woods is fantastic and the rest of the cast delivers on a high note.Noodles turns towards the camera,smiles,credits start to appear and the music starts to play......EPICIT JUST LEAVES YOU IN TEARS!!
Some reviewers of this movie have complained about its length (almost 4 hours). So? Watch it on two successive nights in two hour installments, and count your self lucky. For years, the sole version of this movie that was available on video was severely cut down, shorter by 90 minutes, and the result was nothing less than butchery. It was like somebody deciding Picasso's Guernica was too huge, so let's take these scissors and make it smaller... Actions taken by the adult characters often made no sense, since those actions were supposed to resonate with actions taken when the characters were young, and those earlier actions were cut out. Spend the time, watch the movie and think about what you are seeing. This is, simply put, one of the five best movies of 1984 and in the long version you get to see it in all of its broad sweeping and elaborate narrative structure and all of its interesting little details. Marvel at the cast of young actors (including a then 13-year-old Jennifer Connelly) who dream of something better than the immigrant ghetto poverty they grew up in, and watch as their dreams and schemes and casual morality sow the seeds of the adults they will become. Live in their America, in the moment and across the decades - an America of limitless opportunity, but also of infinite potential for corruption and exploitation. Success in this America meant always having something on the go and it usually meant trying to keep one step ahead of the cops, whether you were a street punk or a 'legitimate businessman'. Note: other Zippers have made much of DeNiro's gangster's attempted rape of his former childhood friend in the film, but this scene was by no means gratuitous or exploitative. It was, in fact, a demonstration of how far the worlds of the two had grown apart, and this is just one example of how deeply and symbolically EVERYTHING in this movie resonates. A movie this ambitious or good can't ever be 'too long'.


                
This movie was the culmination of a sixteen-year obsession by director Sergio Leone. Ever since he first read "The Hoods" in 1967, he wanted to make this movie. But, the studios saw him as a Western director (given the Clint Eastwood "Man With No Name" trilogy's success, not really surprising), and he was forced to make "Once Upon A Time In The West", a masterpiece, and "A Fistful of Dynamite", an interesting but uneven political Western. After a decade of producing various films, Leone was finally able to get this film off the ground, with a major studio backing - and then, when it was finally released in 1984, Warner Bros. criminally hacked the movie down to just over two hours from a final cut near four, ruining the scope and feel of the movie and causing it to flop. Now, the movie is available in a not-quite-complete (the director's cut is somewhere around 270 minutes) form at 227 minutes, but still complete enough that the scope of the film and Leone's intentions can be appreciated. Obviously, the film - long, violent, and somewhat hard to follow - is not for everyone; classifying this film as a "gangster" or "crime" movie simply does not do it justice. But for those willing to check it out, OUATIA is a rewarding, bittersweet experience.The plot of the movie is told mostly in flashback, and is so labyrinthine and complicated that it's difficult, at least for someone as long-winded as myself, to adequately summarize. Basically, it's about Noodles (Robert De Niro), a former gangster who in 1968 returns to his old stomping grounds of New York City and recalls in flashback his early childhood days with his gang, their years as important figures in the Prohibition era in the '30s, his unrequited love for local girl Deborah (Elizabeth McGovern), and the tragedy when his three friends are killed by the Feds. However, the film also shows why it is DeNiro has returned, and - well, I won't spoil it for you.On a technical level, this is arguably Leone's best. The childhood sequences in particular give a stunning depiction of the mean streets of New York's Jewish ghettos, circa 1922, with Tonino Delli Colli (R.I.P.) providing his usual flawless, and beautiful cinematography. Ennio Morricone provides one of his two or three best scores, particularly the haunting "Cockeye's Theme" (played on pan flute by Gheorghie Zhamphir) and the melancholy and heartbreaking "Deborah's Theme".The movie is a dark character study before it is a gangster movie. Noodles, in 1968, is basically reviewing his life, and his complicity in losing his friends, dream lover, and basically everything about his life. De Niro gives his usual fantastic performance: it isn't quite in the league of, say, "Taxi Driver", but it's still impressive in its own right - particularly in his 1968 sequences, when he discovers that, no matter how hard he tries, there is no running from the past.The supporting cast for the most part is under-used, though the more prominent members do a great job, particularly James Woods, who would never again have a role which even approached this complexity and depth. Woods does a truly marvelous job as Max, Noodles' friend who eventually takes over the gang and drives it to destruction, and manages to steal pretty much every scene he's in (which, when dealing with De Niro and Co., is quite an achievement). Elizabeth McGovern, despite many negative comments by others, does a great job as Deborah, showing her vulnerability and personality, and managing to make her a very sympathetic character. Tuesday Weld is also a standout as Carol, Max's nymphomaniac girlfriend. William Forsythe and James Hayden do a nice job as Cockeye and Patsy, the two other members of the gang, while other veteran character actors - Joe Pesci ("Goodfellas"), Burt Young ("Rocky"), Danny Aiello ("Leon: The Professional"), James Russo ("Bevery Hills Cop"), Treat Williams ("Hair"), Clem Caserta ("A Bronx Tale"), and Richard Bright (Al Neri of the "Godfather" films) - do a nice job with fairly limited material. The acting by the child actors, particularly Scott Tiler as young Noodles and Jennifer Conneley (in her film debut) as Deborah, is surprisingly effective; it's almost a shame that except Conneley none of these kids really made it to the big time. (Particularly touching are the sequences where Conneley reads the "Song of Songs" to Noodles.) The movie is filled with memorable images throughout, some funny and heartwarming, others dark, some almost horrifying. The relentless ringing of the telephone in Noodles' head as he contemplates the deaths of his friends; the young Patsy preferring a delicious cake over sex with the local slut Peggy; the death at the hands of local hood Bugsy (Russo) of Dominic, the gang's youngest member, and the brutal aftermath (for my money the best scene of the movie); Burt Young getting shot in the eye through a looking glass; Deborah cutting ties with Noodles by pulling down the blinds of the rail car; "Max" in 1968 stepping into the back of a garbage truck; and, of course, De Niro's (1933) final, drug-induced smile at the end.The violence in the movie is graphic and brutal, but not in any way glamorized. The rape scenes are very hard to sit through, but neither (in my opinion at least) are gratuitous; they show that in the world of small-time hoods, women are an afterthought. It may come across to sexist as some, but blame the characters, not Leone.The movie has a poetic feel to it that is hard to describe. It isn't perfect; some bits of the movie go on for too long, particularly in the later 1968 scenes, and there are a few plot holes that can be debated or hopefully overlooked. But overall, "Once Upon A Time In The America" deserves its status as more than a gangster movie, but rather a dark piece of cinematic mythology. 9.5/10
I was in my teens,about sixteen or seventeen,when I first saw this film and,incidentally,I was at an age when the twenties imagery fascinated me-well it still does... Highly artistic was the opening scene,when the annoying phone calls are associated with a lavish party scene-a symbol for life's vanity and the revenge of a guilty conscience for all the pleasures(similarly in Shakespearean theater the obsessive repetition of nagging noises is actually stands for the guilt complexes from the past reemerging). It's,like previously other viewers noticed,the story of a few poor immigrant boys trying to conquer the new promised land-even if they end up building an empire of crime(let's face it,they did't have any other chance to evolve from rags to riches considering their social background)they are somewhat American pioneers,these solitary,strong-minded and ambitious heroes who turned the U.S. into what it is today. By the way,American capitalism and political life,even if apparently honest and fair-play are not necessarily based on legal methods... Eventually their twisted friendship will(like in a passionate,irrationally intense love-story)destroy everything it touched-and in between an epic spanning between 1915 and 1968,a visual treat of elegant vintage cars,stylish clothing and sophisticated champagne bottles-all the luxury and fascination of the legendary prohibition age. The scene where Prohibition is "buried"-somewhat resembling the "Death of Glitter" concert from "Velvet Goldmine",actually a coffin-shaped chocolate-cake is surrounded by four candles stuck into Cordon Rouge bottles,is one of the most influential in film history,probably known and loved even by the ones who aren't much into this genre,did not watch/enjoy this film. In my opinion this scene is capturing all the beauty and vanity of life,youth,ambition and pleasure-it is almost possible to feel,to sense an utterly voluptuous universe fading away,becoming impossible to hold back... I don't think that the characters were homosexual,in spite of their very strong friendly love,I guess this film is rather a hymn in the honor of a myth as old as mankind:friendship;even admitting that this film involves a certain homo erotic subtext,it is that high-minded, poetic,strictly Platonic homo eroticism to be found in the strong bonds that existed among e.g. ancient warriors wanting to be buried together and have their ashes mixed for eternity-this ritual(though altered) actually happens this way in this film too. I also don,t buy the preconception that Max was a traitor-notice that even his more balanced friends are actually brutes occasionally violently bursting out like wild animals-he's just a better survivor and fighter that the rest.Of course he might be more megalomaniac,self-indulgent and egocentric than the others,but he's acting according to the rules of gangland and of his Jewish background-the Jewish origin of most of the characters partly explain their talent for money-making,their compellingly manipulative personalities,their practical intelligence. While Noodles turns out,in my opinion,as a winner in the end.Even if poor and forgotten,even if he gets high in order to forget life's misery,he seems balanced and appeased in the end.After going trough pretty much of what his century had to offer,after undergoing so many experiences and changes,he takes refuge in a world(even if artificially created by drugs)where,in an almost godlike way,only the beauty,the legendary side of the violent age of gangsters exists.He therefore rescued,almost like Proust,trough the power of memory,his glamorous and adventurous youth from extinction. Another fascinating (among many others) scene is the one when a posh partying crowd is throwing with Cordon Rouge bottles out of an old timer swiftly and almost invisibly driving by-this scene somewhat exhales the ghastly,nostalgic roaring twenties beauty,like in a novel by Fitzgerald or a visually disturbingly compelling&lush period piece by Ken Russel. Irespective of the dark,violent and bleak message of this film,I'll always remember it as one of the most accomplished visual poems dedicated to youth and the unlimited ambitions it is often linked with. Therefore a lush and highly fulfilling treat due to its immense and very credible evocative power,depicting credible and actual scenes without ever being common or boring.


                
That's the word that keeps popping up in the users' reviews of this film, and not without reason.  I don't know if I'm prepared to draw that judgment myself (I'd really have to see it again), but I'm among those who, at the least, take seriously such claims.  I think there are few films in American cinema history that clearly meet this level of quality: the _Godfather_ saga, _Schindler's List_, _Apocalypse Now_, a great number of Kubrick films, some of Hitchcock's films, some Welles films, David Lean's epics, and maybe some others that don't come to mind right off.  In the "maybe" class I'd put this one, perhaps Leone's other epics (though, again, I'd have to see *those* again), _Chinatown_, and perhaps several others.  In any event, the list of such films (masterpiece-level or very near it) is not very long, and this one belongs on it.In the pantheon of great gangster films, this has to be right up near the top, below the _Godfather_ films and above _Goodfellas_ (and _On the Waterfront_, should one so classify it).  In the relatively barren landscape of 1980s American film, this one towers above just about all of them.  It's a truly special film and, aside from its decent placement in the top 250 on this website, has been unjustly neglected/overlooked for the past couple decades, as evidenced by the fact that it's yet to be released on DVD (the arrival of which I'm among those ever-so-patiently awaiting).This one is among the two dozen or so films that I'd rate a 9/10 or higher.


                
This is one of those films that is probably hard to sum up in one viewing as there is so much to take in throughout the film. This is not a criticism as I thoroughly enjoyed Once Upon a Time in America and thought that it was an emotional and beautiful film.The film begins 35 years in the past with the mob searching for Noodles (another great De Niro performance - his younger self was portrayed by Scott Schutzman Tiler). Noodles ends up going on the run from the mob and returns 35 years later and goes to see his childhood friend Moe (Larry Rapp) about a letter he has received. It is a warning telling him (from an anonymous source) that they know where he has been hiding and to get ready, but Noodles doesn't know who it is from and must look back into his past and try and find out who is out to get him. The film begins with Noodles as a young boy and shows his early friendship with 'Cockeye' 'Patsy' 'Max' and 'Dominic'. The story is told in a similar way to Goodfellas (also starring Robert De Niro) in which we see the rise of a criminal organisation in their early years. The boys start off by merely trying to steal from drunk people until they set their sights on bigger and better projects. Things start coming good for the gang when they set a police officer up and blackmail him by telling him that if he turns a blind eye to the crimes they commit that they won't rat on him. This gives the gang a free reign to do what they want and enrages mobster Bugsy (James Russo) and his crew as they now have a rival crew who are also 'above the law' and a feud develops between the 2 gangs. Their true rise to power comes when they sell their idea of using bags of salt to initially weigh down illegal shipments to conceal from the coastguard and once the salt dissolves the shipments rise to the surface (with the aid of a ball). This earns Noodles and the gang a substantial amount of money from corrupt business men.Noodles also has a love interest in the form of Moe's sister Deborah (played by a very young Jennifer Connelly). The relationship is always awkward between Noodles and Deborah, but I think this is partly to do with Noodles insecurities - he is not very good at forming relationships with women and this is highlighted by a couple of other scenes in the film. He tends to just view women as 'tools for his pleasure' and as such never really forms a 'proper relationship' with any of the women he comes across in life.One thing that is fantastic in this film is 'the score'. The music in this film was fantastic and truth be told I could have sat there and just listened to the music and that would have made me pleased, but coupled with an excellent film it's just wonderful. Joe Pesci and Burt Young also star as Frankie Manoldi (a mob boss who gets Noodles and his crew to pull off a job for him in Detroit) and Joe (his assistant). Although they are credited as being near the top of the cast list they are both only featured in very small roles which is a shame as they are both excellent actors - Pesci in particular.The film covers so many other aspects such as 'Greed' and 'Betrayal' but I don't want to say anymore as I don't want to spoil the film, but one thing I will say to viewers is not to be put off by the length of the film. Although it is nearly 4 hours long, the film never drags and every single scene was relevant. This film also benefits from a few comedic moments to help provide a bit of light relief in between dramatic scenes which I always feel helps to raise a film's score in my mind. OUATIA is definitely a film I would recommend and I will definitely watch it again as I think it is one of those films that you will get more from it following a second viewing.


                
Sergio Leone is truly a magnificent director; I hadn't realized the magnitude of his talent and abilities until I saw this great film. The film deals with a group of friends, who meet each other and start a partnership as children. They start out as criminals, and end up as criminals. The story is excellent, and the way it is told is great, and almost unique. The non-linear time-line in the film has been copied since this film was made, by other, mostly lesser talented, film-makers, such as Quentin Tarantino. I liked the way the first 30 minutes moved along, between present and immediate past, and then went all the way back to the very beginning of the story. The plot is excellent. The way it unfolds is truly spectacular, and while some might say that it is cheapened by the fact that we know pretty much how it'll end from the beginning, I really think it added to the greatness of the film and story. The plot also moves along at a great pace, it's never boring, despite the fact that the film is over three hours long, and it's not really an action film. I would say that it has it's share of action and suspense, though. There were sequences that rival action films that are considered as some of the best in newer times. There was at least three sequences were the suspense was nerve-wrecking, and the tension so thick you could cut it with a knife. The special effects were amazingly well-done, much better than most of the same time period. I'd have to say that effects-wise, it's probably the best movie of the 80's. The acting is spectacular. Even the child actors were amazing; it was interesting to see Jennifer Connely, who's since become a star herself, play a role at such a young age, and playing it so well. The performances of the child actors are some of the best that I've ever seen in any movie, children or adults. All of the main characters, as well as most of the supporting characters were well-acted. The characters are well-written, credible, and rarely ever seemed out-of-character. The way gangster methods is portrayed is realistic and authentic, as is some of the plot. I would have to say that this film actually almost rivals The Godfather Part I as the best gangster film ever made. The only thing that bothered me was the plot twist at the end; it really seemed wrong and unlikely to me, as well as my father, who's reading a lot about the mafia. We both agreed that it seemed weird and out of character. That one thing marred the ending for me, and brought this film down from a perfect score. Apart from the ending, the final plot twist, this film is great. I recommend this to fans of Sergio Leone, gangster films, and just great films in general. Fans of any of the actors might also find it interesting. Don't be thrown off by the long runtime; it's worth every minute, up to the end(the last 15 minutes bothered me, but nothing else). 9/10


                
