An excellent courtroom drama with a unique twist. Instead of following the trial itself, the viewer has a unique chance to observe the events behind the closed doors of a jury room. The film begins with the end of the trial. The jurors retire to deliberate the case. A preliminary vote is taken and the result is 11:1 in favour of the guilty verdict. Eleven jurors have raised their hands to convict a young man of killing his father. Only Juror #8 has doubts. At first even he does not truly believe the young man to be innocent but notes (rightfully) that the case for the defence might have been presented in a more convincing manner and that the boy might be given the benefit of a doubt. Since the boy is to be executed if found guilty his life is now in the hands of the jury and juror #8 reasons that the least they could do is talk about the case a bit. As time goes on some of the jurors change their minds and find that there is perhaps enough reasonable doubt not to convict the young man after all. But not everyone is easy to convince.Although the plot of the film is excellent and it is fascinating to see what little things can influence which way a verdict goes, where this film really succeeds is in presenting the characters of the 12 jurors. The character of each of the jurors emerges through a wonderful mix of perfect casting, excellent dialogue and near-flawless acting.Juror #1 - a simple man who clearly does not understand the full complexity of the task that lies before him but is trying to do everything not to let anyone else find this out. He appears at ease only once during the film - when he talks about football. He has the misfortune to be selected foreman of the jury - a task he clearly does not relish.Juror #2 - a small, quite man, clearly unaccustomed to giving his own opinion much less to expecting his views to be of any importance. Apparently he finds solace in his job - he is an accountant.Juror #3 - probably the most complex personality in the film. Starts off like a pleasant self-made successful businessman, he analyses the case impartially, explains his arguments well and is reasonably self assured. As time goes on he becomes more and more passionate and seems to be somehow personally involved with the case.  He also starts to show some signs of slight mental instability. Wonderfully played by Lee J. Cobb - this is the character you remember after the film is over.Juror #4 - self assured, slightly arrogant stockbroker. Obviously considers himself more intelligent than anyone else in the room, he approaches the case with cool heartless logic but (as one of the jurors says - "this is not an exact science") he does not take into account the feelings, the passions, the characters of the people involved in the case. He is conspicuous by the fact that he is the only juror that does not take his jacket off (it is a very hot day).Juror #5 - here is a man under great emotional stress. He comes from the same social background as the accused boy - with who he almost unwillingly seems to identify with. Paradoxically this appears one of the main reasons for him voting guilty - he does not want compassion to influence him - so ironically it does.Juror #6 - a simple man, quite readily admitting that everyone in the room is better qualified than he is to make decisions and offer explanations. But he really wants to see justice done and it worries him that he might make a mistake.Juror #7 - the only one that really has no opinion on this case. Literally throughout the film his thoughts are never on the case - he talks of baseball, of the heat, of fixing the fan but the only reason he has for voting this way or that is to speed things up a bit so he might be out of the jury room as soon as possible. Not an evil man he just has no sense of morality whatsoever - he can tell right from wrong but does not seem to think it's worth the bother.Juror #8- a caring man, has put more thought into the case than any of the other jurors. He tries to do his best even in the face of seemingly impossible odds.Juror #9 - a wise old man with his great life experience has quite a unique way of looking at the case.Juror #10 - the most horrifying character in the film. Votes guilty and does not even try to hide the fact that he does so only because of the boy's social background. The tragedy comes from the fact that his own social position is only a cut above the boy's - which makes him all the more eager to accentuate the difference.Juror #11 - an immigrant watchmaker, careful methodical man, well mannered and soft spoken. respects the right of people to have different opinion to his - and is willing to look at both sides of the problem. Loses his temper only once - horrified by the complete indifference of juror #7.Juror #12 - a young business type - perhaps he has his own opinions - but is careful to hide them. What he has learnt out of life seems to be that intelligence is equal with agreeing with what the majority of people think.The film succeeds in doing something very rare today - developing an intelligent plot while also developing 12 believable, memorable and distinct characters.
This film is superb, in fact as Shakespeare once said "Its the bees' knees". The film captivates the audience from the beginning.  Each of the twelve jurors are introduced to us as they are introduced to themselves. The characters are well draw out and individual, each with his own personality.The tension of the characters draws the audience in from the start.  We imagine that the case is open and shut, 11 me saying guilty and 1 not.  We feel the discomfort of Henry Fonda as the other characters belittle and mock how he can see any reasonable doubt in the case.  But we also share his victories and the enthusiasm as he proceeds to refute or add doubt to the arguments for guilty and are captivated and draw in as other jurors begin to see doubt in the proceedings.The audience can also see the arguments for guilty and wonder if Fonda's character is correct in saying that he doubts. Yet they also feel the shame of the characters as he disproves that a previously sound theory is iron tight, joining his side as members of the jury do.On top of this they are wonderfully woven in human elements such as the misconceptions that influence people and the growing tension between different characters.  This is brought to life even more by the amazing performances, Fonda, Lee J Cobb and Joseph Sweeney are of particular note.I started watching this film on a bored relaxed laying about day but by the end i was on the edge of the seat with my hands on my knees feeling more tense than a politician on results day.How a film should be made.  Modern directors take note(thats ur telling off for the day) 10/10


                
I watched this film for the first time, when it was shown at about 1 o'clock in the morning. I made an effort to see it as it is rated as one of the best movies ever made, however I must admit that I watched it with a sense of reluctance as I'm not a great one for old "classics". This film blew me away however; how ignorant can I be about old films? How many other pre-1960s gems are there out there that I haven't seen? What strikes me most about this film is how progressive it is for its day. Indeed the issues this film makes about American society of the 1950s, still ring true for western society today. This film concerns twelve jurors debating the sentence of an 18 year old Puerto Rican boy who on the face of it, has no real alibi. However one man, played brilliantly by Henry Fonda, is ill-at ease putting a young boy to death without even debating his case, much to the despair of the other jurors. What follows is a brilliant piece of film making, slowly revealing many of the juror's complex characters to the audience as they react to Fonda's concerns with their own mix of metal scars, prejudices and insecurities. What especially struck me about this film is how ordinary most of the characters are, none of the jurors are shown to be especially bad men, indeed most are portrayed as honest everyman type people. The use of ordinary characters is the films master-stroke because as one by one they begin to question their initial instincts, the flaws of society that have let this Puerto Rican boy down are presented to the audience. Tragically it appears that many of the issues that were beginning to be discussed in the 1950s have only got worse. For me there is one immortal comment in this film: one of the jurors, a man in his 50s says that the youths of today have no respect and have changed so much for the worse since his day. How ironic is it that some grumpy old men of today who may not even of have been born when this films was made, still say exactly the same thing? Finally a quick look at the cast shows that Fonda aside many of the cast were only moderately successful after this film. I think that's a shame as everyone of these actors is excellent and plays their part in making it one of the best films of all time. However within the cast there are a couple of treats; look out for Jack Klugman (Quincy) and John Fieldler who is the voice of many of Disney's characters such as Piglet. I urge you all, if you have not yet seen this film, please do so now.


                
........Films rarely get this uplifting and brilliant. I cannot think of the last time I was so intrigued by the flawless plot, dialogue and acting since 12 Angry Men. For such a simplistic story set in one jury room, it is surprising that Sidney Lumet can drain you of all your emotions and leave you on the edge of your seat with suspense, mystery, and some of the best acting your bound to ever see grace the silver screen!When a boy is on last day of trial for killing his father in the heat of domestic arguments, 12 jury men are forced to present a verdict in which if guilty, is the one way ticket to the electric chair for the boy. When the jury men decide to quickly end the discussion and raise their hands to find out who thinks the boy is guilty, only one jury man (Henry Fonda) doesn't put his hand up. Trial and Character revelations, doubts, and possibilities follow.So masterfully crafted is this film, that every time I watch it, only gets better. It includes some of the best character development I've ever seen. Sidney Lumet is an expert in this field and this is by far his greatest contribution to Hollywood history - one of the most important contributions to world cinema. However it was Henry Fonda and Lee J. Cobb who really made this film legendary, with their incredibly realistic performances. Casting was genius. And the dialogue was astoundingly riveting up until the brilliant finale. What really impressed me personally also was the camera angles and movements that made the film so suspenseful. Black and White made the film all the more powerful. And the music was minimal, which gave the film a more atmospheric experience, like you were their in the jury room with them - and you just feel that tension really built up as the movie proceeds.This inexpensive film, with such a simple setting had the world talking, the academy awards nominations rolling and Henry Fonda at his complete best form. I have rarely been so hypnotized by a film - 'Lawrence Of Arabia' and 'It's A Wonderful Life' are other ones that come to mind. This is a definitive viewing for anyone who loves film. It sums up everything I love about film. Everything from a technical point of view to superb acting and a simple yet complex character driven story, it's platinum and is most definitely one of the greatest cinematic achievements of all time - bar none! A statue should be erected in Sydney Lumet's honor......"Is it possible?" - Juror #8/Henry Fonda


                
Gosh, I don't know how many times I studied this play and performed it in high school, not to mention how many television shows had an episode that was inspired by 12 Angry Men. It was always a great drama because of the raw human emotions that were so true and remain timeless, this play will never be dated. I couldn't wait to see this movie when I saw it at the video store and it was the first movie I slipped into the DVD player. First off, I was incredibly impressed with the credits, we not only had Henry Fonda, we had Lee J. Cobb in the cast! This movie was so well performed and such a treasure, god, I couldn't ever say any words to justify it. I've done this a million times, but here is another summary of what 12 Angry Men is all about.12 jurors are about to make a decision about a murder case, over all it seems like an open and shut case with tons of evidence that would make any good man look guilty, an 18 year old boy is about to be put to death if convicted. 11 of the men vote guilty, only one vote holds them back and they have to discuss the trial once again due to one vote being not guilty. Jurour #8 refuses to just jump to conclusions and brings up incredible possibilities that can always make a man think of "reasonable doubts", one by one the jurors begin to see the points he is making, except for one stubborn #3 who would rather just pull the switch to the chair himself.12 Angry Men is a timeless tale that could either be told very badly, i.e. 7th Heaven, or incredibly well and bring out terrific performances like Henry and Lee did. Actually, the whole cast was terrific, there wasn't a performance that was off key, movies like this are so needed in Hollywood today, it was so simple, but added so much for a 30 minute play. Please, if you have any taste, you will truly enjoy 12 Angry Men and have a great appreciation for it! 10/10


                
NOTE: Apparently, some fan of "Lord of the Rings" reported my review to the IMDb Admin because I said "12 Angry Men" is (and I quote) "...better than LotR." And for some reason, IMDb actually deleted my review - even though it had over 20 helpful reviews (out of about 26).So, to please that angry little insecure fan, I've decided to remove all LotR references in this review from here onwards. Enjoy, scumball.--"My Review of 12 Angry Men" or "WHY THIS MOVIE IS 10x BETTER THAN THE LORD OF THE RINGS.""12 Angry Men" is pure, unadulterated American courtroom classic that has been shown in schools across America for decades. I'm not Sidney Lumet's biggest fan ("Serpico" is overrated), but he is masterful behind the camera here.It's classic, to say the least. But it's also a wonderful motion picture.It saddens me that this is number twenty-one on the Internet Movie Database's top 250, yet the three "Lord of the Rings" movies are somewhere in the top ten. Disgraceful, how far culture has sloped downwards over the year. A UK list of the best musicals of all time was recently completed. Guess what was ahead of "Singin' in the Rain" and "My Fair Lady"? "Buffy the Vampire Slayer: The Musical." Mmm-hmm...I'm sure.I recommend this to anyone who thinks classic cinema is boring.Here's a classic, and here's one of many films that is put to disgrace by these newer-age lists of "best movies." I believe many of the people voting otherwise should take into account the fact that they might enjoy "X2" very much (as I did!) but that doesn't necessarily mean it is the 120th best film of all time!


                
It's tough sometimes to translate a stage production- which 12 Angry Men essentially is- into a feature film, with in this case one cramped room and a dozen characters with totally varied ideals. In a way this is like the textbook example, however, of how to do a film like this. You see how the situation unfolds into something more, about the act of telling a story and finding all the pieces. That it has such a powerhouse of an ensemble doesn't hurt it at all, and the little surprises in how the casts acts and reacts works great on repeat viewings. The basic premise only needs brief mention, as the 12 men (totally angry may be disputed by some, though I'm sure not one is left without raising their voice), all white, are judging the case of a Hispanic charged with killing his father. The deliberation room becomes a kind of boiler room where Henry Fonda's juror #11, the only un-sure one, sets the stage for a something more to be revealed- human nature when on a judgment day, with all its intelligence, ignorance, hate, and seeking objectivism.Sidney Lumet, on his very first feature-film, does a really professional (in a good way) job of directing the picture, by which a) letting the actors, who among the great lot include Lee J Cobb, John Fiedler, E.G. Marhall, Martin Balsam, Jack Klugman, Ed Begley, and in maybe the most under-rated role of the 'old man', Joseph Sweeney, just do their work and try to just make sure no one over-steps their ability in their strengths; b) using the atmosphere to high effect. Like he would later do with Network, Lumet uses the camera to add some level of subjectivity to the storytelling, being careful with choosing close-ups but using them very wisely (i.e. a surprise close-up on Sweeney), and here and there making it feel like the walls are just closing in a little more. But, at the same time, Lumet's making a studio picture, with the all-around good-guy Henry Fonda (in one of his best roles), and dealing with a story that's, when it comes down to it, just the details of a crime examined over. But the real strength of the film comes in a quality that it shares with Rashomon (different in structure to be sure), that the idea of looking for the truth is just a guise in a way to examine the people who are looking at what the truth is. It's a nifty movie that has deservedly stayed firm through the decades, not showing its age bad at all.


                
Some movies are not for certain period of time but are eternal because of there perpetual topic. Murder is one of the oldest crimes in this world but murder of your own father is something astonishing. The movie is about a teenager accused of murdering his own father in an open case where all the indictments and witnesses are against him. The jury is called for verdict, and all of them are unanimously agreed on conviction. But one of the juror thinks to contemplate a bit on witnesses before giving a verdict as a life of teenager is on line, and from there the true brilliance of this movie begins as the way juror # 8 (Henry Fonda) unfolds all the witnesses are based on assumptions and anticipations . The way he demonstrates the happening of incident based on accusation is one of the true essence of this movie and in the end all jurors are convinced that "No guilty" is right verdict to be passed. The way story moves is marvelous ostentation of director Sidney Lumet's true brilliance. The movie is nicely written by Reginald Rose and is beautifully portrayed by all the actors especially Henry Fonda and Lee J Cobbs. This movie is truly a masterpiece and its impression will not be easy to diminish.
A pure, simple, undeniable classic. This movie is a thoughtful, well shot, amazingly scripted, fantastically acted masterpiece. Even though the word masterpiece is often over-used (like genius) it certainly, and without dispute applies in this case. Sidney Lumet's directing is top-notch, and Henry Fonda is the still turning point of this small, microcosmic little world - his role has to be one of the most finely acted ever committed to film.Set in an actual New York jury room, it's a claustrophobic, tightly confined set, where 12 very different men deliberate over the guilt of a young boy. Their prejudices, morals and personalities are thrown together and, sometimes violently, clash. Along with a great parallel commentary from the weather (at the beginning of the film, it's a stuffy, oppressive sweatbox, which becomes sidelined by a dark, stormy maelstrom outside the jury room) this is a fantastic film. You'd never think there were so many angles you could get from one single, uncomfortably confining room. Sidney Lumet's directing is amazing, as Fonda's chain-smkoing, softly spoken moralistic character could have been played so much darker; he manages to turn everyone around, slowly but surely, almost effortlessly converting even the most staunchly opposed and stoic juror - but he's not manipulative, sly or underhanded about it. He simply presents what is - he's the pure voice of reason, and he has some cracking lines. The other jurors are great, too. I'm sure we all know someone who fidgets through something important because they've got a football game starting in ten minutes - they all highlight broad generalisations of very human characters. I defy anyone not to find a character that illustrates someone they know in this motley crue. Except maybe Fonda - I don't know anyone cooler than this guy.


                
I defy anyone to watch this movie and not be completely absorbed in the group dynamics on display. I could take points off for the overly tidy and convenient script with its TV-movie ending or some of the less subtle methods through which director Sidney Lumet drives home his points. But with a cast as uniformly excellent as this, why quibble? Henry Fonda is just the person to play the liberal everyman, an extension of his Tom Joad character from "The Grapes of Wrath." E.G. Marshall is excellent as Fonda's most formidable opponent; cool-headed and logical, he's the only holdout who bases his verdict on facts instead of emotions. Lee J. Cobb's performance wears thin, and his character is the most poorly written. Ed Begley is almost too good in his role, so revolting is his character. Jack Klugman and Jack Warden register in smaller roles as well.This movie conveys the sweaty, tension-filled atmosphere of a stifling jury room but never feels oppressive, thanks to Lumet's fluid direction. My favorite moment comes when Fonda begins counting off paces around the jury table (a key piece of evidence hinges on this), and the camera drops to floor level and follows his feet as he does so. Choices like this prevent Lumet's film from ever being static or stagy.An important film and a great one. If you haven't already seen it, put it at the top of your list.Grade: A+


                
I saw this movie 3 or 4 times, and each time, I remain speechless in front of such a masterpiece. An unforgettable acting game with poignant twists. Awesome!


                
Having seen the film before, we decided to take another look recently when it showed up on a cable channel. This Sidney Lumet 1957 film still packs a lot of power, even though times have changed in the way our justice system works. The screen play by Reginald Rose shows his brilliant insight into human beings that are called to sit as jurors in a murder case.If you haven't seen the film, perhaps you don't want to read any further.It's 1957 when this case goes to court. We watch the accused man staring toward the panel in whose hands his fate rests. The jury is all male. We get to know that a public defendant was appointed to defend the accused man. We realize he hasn't done a great job, as most of the men in the jury room are convinced this boy is guilty before he has been proved innocent.We watch as the men are settling into their chairs around the deliberating table, and how a juror is standing by the window looking toward the streets below, lost in thought. It's stifling in the room. Those were the days of not having air conditioned all over, so these men are sweating in the uncomfortable room during one of the worst days of the summer.As the men proceed to have a preliminary vote, juror number eight casts a 'not guilty' vote that shocks the room. How dare he go against the majority? Who is he to stand in the way of what seems to be an open and shut case? This guy is guilty! Thus begins the deliberations in which all these men bring their own prejudices and biases to determine if the boy will go to the electric chair, which by all appearances, seems to be the case here. It's because of one decent man that doesn't mind facing the rest that we get to know why the accused couldn't have done the murder the authorities say he committed. In the process the jurors will get to understand the meaning of justice.This drama owes Henry Fonda a debt of gratitude. We can't think of any other actor playing this juror. Mr. Fonda exudes kindness and he is the only person in the room that is not convinced beyond a reasonable doubt the boy has killed his own father. Not only did he make a contribution as an actor, but also helped produced the movie.Lee J. Cobb, one of the great American actors of the last century, is seen as a juror that sees in the accused young man his own estranged son, who he hasn't seen in a couple of years, having left home because of the conflict with the old man. Mr. Cobb is just the opposite of Mr. Fonda, and he gives an intense performance to show us this man in turmoil. The rest of the cast is wonderful. Each one has his own moment to shine.There is not a single moment that rings false in the movie. In reading a couple of comments about "12 Angry Men", some people marvel there were no women in the jury, or that the accused man's case hasn't been presented by the defense attorney in a more effective way. We have to remember first of all, the times in which the action takes place, and the fact that being a poor man, the accused man has been given an attorney who was obviously not interested in his defense. The young man being from a minority migrant group didn't elicit sympathy from these jurors, at all, which might have been the prosecution's goal in going along with the selection.This is a movie that should be seen by anyone serving in a jury in a court of justice. Mr. Lumet and Mr. Rose have created a timeless film that will be the standard in which everything else is judged.
And that what I did, I friend of mine has been annoying me about seeing this film and since the film is not a long one (about 90 minutes) I said why not, and then after just 30 minutes I decided to put this film on the very top of my all time favorite film list.The fact that the film has been shot in one room blew my mind away, seems very easy to direct huh? But with a superb script and acting Sidney Lumet created one of the greatest films ever made if not the greatest.The dialogue is realistic and so sharp with a brilliant acting from Henry Fonda and Lee J.Cobb, I feel this film is still underrated even in IMDb rankings.And that line "well, so long" stayed with me ever since I saw the film as on of the greatest lines ever.This film is a symbol of simple but great film-making that suggests a man should always return to his senses every time and every where.10/10


                
Juror #1, the foreman (Martin Balsam, football coach): "Well, I won't be too technical, or make a long speech <U+0085> it's just that it's a one-set film, so it's new and risky, because you know, dialogs are not enough, we need <U+0085>uh <U+0085> the thrills <U+0085> and it goes slowly in the beginning but progressively, it's like the jury room becomes smaller, and the faces bigger. I really felt the tense and suffocating atmosphere ... And what an explosive climax, I could hardly breathe <U+0085> I know it's strange, but the direction, well, the movie is one hell of a thriller <U+0085> I, well, my verdict is clear: GREAT MOVIE" Juror #2 (John Fiedler, bank clerk): "I don't know. It's an excellent film, served by great performances. Every character was convincing, so were their interactions. I can't find any flaw, for me, there's nothing to add, and nothing to remove. It is a GREAT MOVIE" Juror #3 (Lee J. Cobb, businessman): "I told you why this movie is great, it's just <U+0085> thought provoking, everything and I mean everything looked like it would have been this kind of preachy film with a good-hearted hero and simple-minded antagonists who just want to be vindictive. But this is an intelligent film which, even at the end, makes you question if the kid is guilty or not. Because it has nothing to do with punishment, it's about justice ... without any prejudice, and that deserves respect, yes sir! No doubt for me <U+0085> GREAT MOVIE"Juror #4 (E.G. Marshall, stockbroker): "First of all, it's an excellent examination of all the subtle nuances that enrich a male adult demography, played with such believability every one could identify with one of the jurors. Secondly, the writing was intellectually gripping and emotionally engaging and I would add: respectful of the viewer's intelligence. The direction was excellent and created a feeling of growing claustrophobia guided by a very clever use of focal lenses, a credit to Sidney Lumet. Last but not least, it's about the noble concept of justice and presumption of innocence: "12 Angry Men" delivers a brilliant, intelligent, and universally inspiring message. To conclude, I can say I had the privilege to watch a GREAT MOVIE"Juror #5 (Jack Klugman, the man from the slum): "What else to say? I second the idea that it's a powerful drama demonstrating how prejudices poison the heart of our civilization, and I believe this is one of the few films that should be screened everywhere in the world as a powerful lesson for tolerance. My verdict is: GREAT MOVIE"Juror #6 (Edward Binns, painter): "A movie that younger and future generations should watch and respect. These are movies with no special effects, no big-star cast, no big explosions, no flashy cars and no sexy girls. You have a honest, simple movie featuring ordinary men, but the result is so impacting it should be appreciated by any movie lover, regardless of his or her age. Anyway, GREAT MOVIE"Juror #7 (Jack Warden, salesman): "Come on, everyone is using big words and noble concepts, but for me, this movie is just damn entertaining. Hey admit it, the dialogs, the way opposite characters interact, create a lot of anxiety but is also very fun to watch, sometimes, well <U+0085> I think you can say anything, but without entertainment, a film is worthless, and the movie could've been a bore, just all talk and no walk, but it wasn't, it worked for me ... GREAT MOVIE"Juror #8 (Henry Fonda, architect): "This movie invites us to explore our convictions and question the way they influence our judgments. Justice is done by men, blindly and implacably, this is why punishment must be beyond any doubt, and when you have what appears to be an open-and-shut case that progressively reveals some flaws as we go deeper in the subject, well, this says a lot about the negative impact of subjectivity when it comes to justice, and how we should be careful about the consequences of our thoughts, our words, our acts. "12 Angry Men" is a humanistic inspiration for those who have faith in justice. GREAT MOVIE"Juror #9 (Joseph Sweeney, retired): "This is a fantastic character study illustrating how convincingness is often driven by the personality. It's an incredible illustration of the way a few people can monopolize the talk and how a silent majority is eager to follow the ones who aggressively express their thoughts, and the courage it takes to be the lone dissenter and how using a constructive, polite and logical answer can destroy something taken for granted. While watching "12 Angry Men" I understood that a consensus, when rapidly built, means that the truth must be elsewhere. And one truth for sure, this is a GREAT MOVIE"Juror #10 (Ed Begley, garage owner): "I hate the patronizing way some left-wing good-hearted people adore this film, this has nothing to do with politics, truth or justice, it's about manipulation of your thoughts by pushing the right emotional button <U+0085> you missed the point, and that's the beauty of the film, you're all easily fooled. Not for the reasons you think, but it's a GREAT MOVIE"Juror #11 (Joseph Voskovek, watchmaker): "No need to be American to appreciate the beauty of this film, it's about our deepest convictions. It's about the humanistic concept of reasonable doubt which can save even a guilty soul ... because life is valuable and justice is not vengeance. GREAT MOVIE"Juror #12 (Robert Webber, advertising executive): "Wow, what I can say, it's not an exact science you know <U+0085> you can find a reason A to appreciate it, a reason B or C <U+0085> let's just say that the 'sigma' of these reasons, explains why it's an incredible film and as my fellow jurors said, why "12 Angry Men" is a GREAT MOVIE"


                
What a bloody stupid idea for a cinema film ! Adapt a teleplay set entirely in one studio bound location , written in real time with absolutely no cinema appeal whatsoever ! Me ? I wouldn`t have touched this script with a barge pole if I was a producer which just goes to show why - Only very very occasionally - some people deserve to be film producers while - Only very very occasionally - people like myself don`t . 12 ANGRY MEN is a masterpiece , maybe not in the way APOCALYPSE NOW or FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING are cinematic masterpieces , but it`s still a masterpiece of high drama
Despite being based on a play Lumet does bring some outstanding directorial flourishes to the film . Look at he scene where the camera cuts from one raised hand to another to an empty space that has a raised hand gingerly creeping into the frame , or the scene where the characters become more and more disgusted with Ed " Know what I mean " Begley`s reactionary diatribe . Please forgive Reginald Rose`s ever so slightly bleeding heart liberal subtext or a couple of unlikely occurances like the scene with the knife , or the fact that jury discussions are nothing like this in real life because even more thought went into this script as went into MEMENTO . This is a classic film and one of the few ones I`ve awarded 10 points to 
One last point: If you have never seen 12 ANGRY MEN how on earth can you describe yourself as a film fan ?


                
This is one of the greatest films ever made...period. Much of this can be attributed to the exceptional writing and much of this can be attributed to the amazing performances in one of the best ensemble casts in film history. In fact, anyone who considers themselves a film buff or a serious student of film cannot say so unless they have seen this film. I also wish all young directors and writers were forced to watch the film as it demonstrates the power of excellent writing and acting. Imagine...a film that is great that does NOT have special effects, was filmed in black and white, and 99% of which takes place in one small room.Aside from Henry Fonda, all the other actors are a virtual "who's who" of supporting character actors from the 1950s--and all were at the top of their game in this film. Unfortunately, the film has been parodied and copied so many times that the film's originality has been blunted. Oddly, one of the parodies of this plot came from the TV show "The Odd Couple"--which starred Jack Klugman who was ALSO in 12 ANGRY MEN! See this film. And, if it turns out you don't like it, then I suggest you see a psychiatrist!!!


                
(January,2006) I'll start by saying that if there's anyone who rates this film as "hated it",they obviously don't know hard hitting / good drama when they see it. These 12 actors performances are so alive, vital and powerful, it's amazing to think this film didn't win Best Picture that year. Henry Fonda gives a simplistic yet very deep performance in the way his character says "not guilty" but wisely does not say,"I know he's not". that would've undermined the whole of his performance.Lee J. Cobb is fantastic as not just prejudiced like the other older male juror but just angry inside at everything. Especially when Fonda calls him a "sadist". John Fielder always great as the meek yet outspoken kind. Jack Warden as a guy who'd rather be at the ballgame than having his life interrupted for something he could care less about.E.G. Marshall gives a quiet yet strong performance as well. A man who is so "sure and certain" about everything. Only to be proved wrong later. The rest are fantastic in their own ways as well.Since most of us here are familiar with the story, I wont go into it but I will say I really love how Henry Fonda finally breaks the last two hold-outs into voting "not guilty" for the right reasons.10 stars because it is justifiably so. Anything less would be a crime.


                
Shot in real time, this story of a jury trying to decide whether a young man is innocent or guilty never lets the viewer's attention go. Henry Fonda plays Juror #8, who is convinced the entire time that the defendant is innocent, while everyone else has already called him guilty. Throughout the movie, we not only get to hear everyone's opinions on the matter, but also every possibility of the verdict. With "12 Angry Men", Sidney Lumet brought to the screen the same kind of "closing in" feeling that he brought to movies like "Network". In the end, the issue is not whether the defendant is innocent or guilty; the important point is the process by which the jurors reached their decision. This may be THE perfect movie.


                
I have watched this movie many times. I finally bought the DVD the other day and watched it again! The level of acting and the intensity of all the performances have, without exception, always taken my breath away. It is a movie that I love and never tire of watching.You forget, as you watch the movie, that pretty much the entire movie takes place in one room. Movies today, actors today, would not be able to maintain the level of suspense that this movie created and hold your attention for the entire hour and 36 minutes. It starts off slowly, and you become part of the jury stuck in that "jury room", frustrated as one man holds out because "he is not sure". Henry Fonda gives an amazing performance as the one-man holdout but all the actors give tour de force performances, and you sit mesmerized as one by one they are all converted. But it is Fonda and Lee J Cobbs, as they fight for the hearts and minds of the other jurors that keeps the tension going. The movie was a good social commentary of the times, regarding the racial intolerance, prejudices and biases that governed people in that era. And watching it again today, I would say not much has really changed!


                
In my opinion, 12 Angry Men is the greatest film that has ever been created. A perfect example of less is more, the simplicity of the plot, the setting of the one room, and the acting talent of the 12 main cast members is enough to conquer the dramatic genre, and ensure that it remains a timeless classic.Whether you are a fan of the older generation of filmmaking or not, I implore you to experience this acting masterclass for yourself. More current movies such as Resevoir Dogs, which is superb in itself, have borrowed elements from 12 Angry Men, but trust me when I say there is nothing quite like this beautifully crafted drama. Watch it.


                
12 Angry Men is not an extravagant movie. Most of the film takes place inside a small jury room - no extravagant sets in this movie. This gives us incentive to focus on the three strengths of the film - the acting, the dialogue (written by Reginald Rose) and the direction (by first-time director Sidney Lumet).The acting is outstanding. There is a long shot that takes place before any talk of the case, and simply based off this shot, we can tell so much about these characters - which way they will vote, whether they can relate to the boy on trial, and which of them will collide in the future. Special mentions of course go to Lee J. Cobb and Henry Fonda, the two opposites whose conversations are some of the most interesting in the whole movie. Lee J, Cobb's revelation scene at the end of the movie alone shows how multilayered he can play his characters.The dialogue is spectacular, and I am of the opinion it is one of the best scripts ever written for the movie screen - possibly the best. Every character speaks based on their motivations: Juror 5 speaks based on his experience as a kid from the poorer areas, Juror 3 speaks based on his own son, and Juror 7 speaks based on his desire to get to a baseball game. These motivations color their arguments and distinguish each of them from their peers, and ths is exemplified in the script. This film also contains the single greatest line in film history, delivered by Juror No. 8 to Juror No. 3 after No. 3 threatens his life. When you watch the scene, you'll know the line.And finally, the directing is masterful. The film's limited set means that the director, Sidney Lumet, had to come up with creative ways to frame shots to aid the film's storytelling. He does this by shooting in wide shots at the start of the movie, and slowly bringing the camera closer to the actor's faces, putting more emphasis on their reactions and reinforcing the claustrophobic size of the room. The scene where the men walk into the outside at the end is basically catharsis.12 Angry Men is a smart and engaging movie, and feels like it was made with every element completely fine-tuned to make one of the greatest movies of all time. I think this movie needs to be seen by everyone, not just to enjoy it, but to see how dialogue can be used masterfully to enhance a story.


                
Take a classic film and strip it down to its bare necessities. Gone are the extravagant sets and sweeping camera-work; removed are the lavish visual effects and epic story lines. What we are left with is cinema in its purest form, where acting is the sole driving-force of the narrative, and our attention is retained through the director's thorough exploitation of a bare-bones scenario. Sidney Lumet's debut feature-length film, '12 Angry Men (1957),' is quite simply one of the most arresting motion pictures I have ever seen, a veritable melting pot of gripping performances and impassioned monologues. With the exception of its bookends, and a brief scene in an adjacent washroom, the entire film unfolds exclusively within the one stifling, increasingly-claustrophobic jury room, as a group of twelve jurors {all male, mostly middle-aged and middle-class}, with vastly differing attitudes and prejudices, debate the innocence or guilt of a young Hispanic man charged with the premeditated stabbing murder of his father.Prior to 1957, director Sidney Lumet had already acquired some experience in television, though it wasn't until he released his first feature film, a low-budget offering shot in only 17 days, that he began to attract the attention of critics. Though '12 Angry Men' was commercially unsuccessful {in an age of lavish, technicolour adventures, David Lean's magnificent 'The Bridge on the River Kwai (1957)' was more to the taste of audiences of the day}, the film received three Oscar nominations, for Best Writing, Best Director and Best Picture. Of course, it was Lean's epic that won each of these categories, among numerous others. Lumet's film, adapted by Reginald Rose from his own 1954 Studio One teleplay, explores the fairness and infallibility of the American judicial system, and the ways by which personal prejudice may affect the outcome of a criminal case. Though the film opens at the conclusion of the hearing, as the apparently-bored judge (Rudy Bond) offers his final instructions to the jury members, the events of the trial are later recreated through dialogue, without ever resorting to cumbersome flashbacks or heavy-handed narration.What ultimately makes '12 Angry Men' such an electrifying viewing experience are the incredible performances of the twelve main actors, each player delivering a distinct, perfectly-pitched characterisation that contributes richly towards their jury's deliberations on the court-case. Central to the story, of course, is Juror #8 (Henry Fonda), the lone dissenting member, whose unwillingness to send a conceivably-innocent man to the electric chair forces the other jurors to reconsider their stance on what had initially seemed an "open-and-shut case." Fonda, who also co-produced the film, gives a sincere and righteous performance, his actions assuredly heroic, despite the very real possibility that he has helped a guilty criminal escape from justice. The remaining players (in clock-wise order around the juror's table: Martin Balsam, John Fiedler, Lee J. Cobb, E.G. Marshall, Jack Klugman, Ed Binns, Jack Warden, Joseph Sweeney, Ed Begley, George Voskovec and Robert Webber) each contribute with faultless performances, though some play a more significant role in the proceedings than do others.It would be plain naïve to label any one of the twelve jurors a "villain," but the man who clashes most frequently with the Fonda's well-meaning dissenter is Juror #3 (Lee J. Cobb), a loud-mouthed and temperamental bully, whose failed relationship with his own adult son has given him an overwhelming prejudice towards young people. Rather than deciding the murder trial based on the evidence, Juror #3 subconsciously relies on his own tremendous bias to settle the eventual fate of the accused man. Equally bigoted is Juror #10 (Ed Begley), whose astonishing partiality is fully revealed in his final manic tirade against lower-class citizens. In one of the film's most brutally powerful sequences, the remaining jurors callously rise from their tables in response to Juror #10's deplorable outburst, his confidence shattering as he realises that he is alone in his narrow-minded views. Also interesting is Jack Warden's Juror #7, an impatient salesman, whose complete indifference to the fate of the Accused prompts him to alter his vote in favour of the majority.Despite working in an extremely confined space, Lumet certainly makes the most of his minimalist setting, and cinematographer Boris Kaufman {who also worked on 'On the Waterfront (1954)'} employed lenses with gradually-increasing focal lengths to make it seem as though the walls were closing in on the characters, heightening the ever-present sense of claustrophobia. Lumet is a master of creating mood, as he also demonstrated in his finest film, 'Fail-Safe (1964),' and there's a certain, illogical urgency in the jurors' proceedings, as though Fonda's character is continually fighting a losing battle. Though some of events of the jury room would technically not be allowed {Juror #8's extra investigations <U+0096> purchasing the knife, pacing the old witness' journey to the door <U+0096> would undoubtedly have resulted in a mistrial}, the discussions in the film work merely to prove a single, all-too-significant moral: according to the Constitution, the Accused can only be convicted if there exists no reasonable doubt of his guilt. Ultimately, whether he actually committed the murder or not is almost beside the point, particularly when the life of a potentially-innocent man is hanging in the balance.


                
One does not expect an ordinary black and white movie like "Twelve Angry Men" to set the foundation for great drama. Nevertheless, superior drama is what is delivered in this film. The setting is; a common courtroom in an eastern metropolitan city where twelve ordinary men have been selected to sit as a jury. The trial is over and the verbal testimony having been heard, the jury must now decide the fate of the young man on trial for his life. A common enough occurrence in America. But what is not common, is the mixed assortment of characters assembled for the jury. The real drama unfolds when a single juror (Henry Fonda) takes his task seriously and challenges each of his fellow members to think and then decide before they vote for the death penalty. When he does, the volatile reaction is nothing short of inspirational. One can only wish the same would happen to anyone facing a similar ordeal. The cast of characters is a vintage performance from all. Henry Fonda's performance is wonderful and courageous. He is joined by veterans actors, Martin Balsam, John Fiedler, Lee J. Cobb, E.G. Marshall, Jack Klugman, Ed Binns, Jack Warden, Joseph Sweeney, Ed Begley, George Voskovec and Robert Webber. The honor of Classic fits this film like a velvet glove. *****


                
Deceptively complex courtroom drama enthrals for the duration as one man opposes eleven others in a battle of argument, reason, and logic.Starring Henry Fonda as Juror #8, 12 Angry Men is a very claustrophobic drama which conveys the deliberation room of a trial where the defendant is accused of first-degree murder. On the surface the case seems open and shut, with 11 of the 12 jurors entirely convinced by the prosecution's case. Only one dissenter remains, and that is Henry Fonda's Juror #8. Specifically he is not certain that the boy is definitely innocent, just that he doesn't know, and that for him is enough to qualify as reasonable doubt.12 Angry Men certainly is a moralistic tale, of the right to a fair trial and trying to give someone every chance, but it has many more strings to its bow than just this. Indeed, above all else it prides itself in endeavouring to portray a true sense of reasoned and rational argument which tries to overcome steadfast beliefs as possessed by the seemingly unshakable. Initially it may seem that Fonda's Juror is simply playing devil's advocate, but it becomes clear that it is more about standing up for what you believe despite what the facts seem to tell you. The more you scrutinise so-called unshakable evidence, the more you find holes in it, and the more that logical analysis seems to provide the real answers.Obviously, Juror #8 has to persuade those others who seem to have their own agenda, and pre-conceived notions of what truth equals, but nevertheless it is absolutely fascinating seeing how simply he probes the case and reveals the flaws.The whole movie's pace is absolutely perfect, and given its almost exclusive setting of inside the deliberation room it is a testament to the genius of the script and the brilliance of the acting that the duration of the film seems so short. The cinematography is also surprisingly excellent given the lack of scope necessary, with sharp imagery and clever camera-work which gives the whole picture a real amount of life.To detail the jurors themselves; Juror #1 reluctantly appoints himself foreman. He appears to lack esteem, and the chance to boss the table by being the 'leader' perversely appeals greatly to him as he lacks significant contribution to make about the case. He does not want to be useless, so is forced to take charge.Juror #2 is a slight man who is clearly used to being wrapped in his own cocoon, never deviating, so when he ends up as a juror in a murder trial, he is actually thrilled at his fish out of water status. He does not really have much to say about the case, taking it at face value.Juror #3 is the enduring Messenger Service owner. May have an ulterior motive for being so steadfastly sure the accused is guilty, given his first scene depicts ambivalence over the courtroom procedure given to him it is 'open and shut'. As time goes on, and evidence starts to suggest more than meets the eye, he begins to show emotional stress as his hardwired opinion looks flimsier. But he refuses to cave.Juror #4 has more emotional attachment to the trial than most, as he shares the same kind of background to the defendant and takes criticism of 'that kind of person' extremely personally. Experiences inner conflict between head and heart.Juror #5 is a cold and methodical thinker who has an elevated opinion of himself. Emerges more as the deliberations wear on, he is convinced by the evidence that the boy is guilty, and systematically sets about conveying this to the others.Juror #6 is the common working man with very little input, and whose two significant moments are to defend another juror who is being harassed, and to suggest another juror is badly wrong about his opinion.Juror #7 is more interested in the ball game at 8pm than the case. Doesn't want to be there, and while he details a little about the boy's background to start off with, his regular sarcastic quips throughout the story suggest he is simply desperate to be out of there as quickly as possible, with no care about the wheels of justice.Juror #8 is the only juror who does not immediately join the others with their guilty verdict. He has a lot of thought about the case eating at him, and wishes to explore it. He meets much opposition.Juror #9 is a wise, wiley old man who is sharper than anyone else and observed events in the courtroom closer than the others. Makes some smart observations which unearth vital truths.Juror #10 is an old school racist whose opinion is based on prejudice and not facts. A vile and odious creature, he has no interest in 'people like that' roaming the streets, and is offended at having to live in the same city as them.Juror #11 is an intelligent and interested spectator who listens to the facts and analyses them before reaching a conclusion. His European accent draws derision from some others, as does his general nationality, but he rises above it and provides some sensible comments, rarely saying anything which lacks thought.Juror #12 is a good-natured man but not a terribly strong thinker. He does not have much of an independent opinion on the case, often following others, and is often more interested in playing naughts and crosses or boring fellow jurors about his job.Overall, 12 Angry Men is simply as good as cinema can get. Incredible script, amazing performances, and captivating direction.Highly recommended.


                
Even being such an old movie..It never bores you...I loved the way the movie proceeds...It's got a good pace and actors played their roles effectively...This movie is one of those movies which proves that to make a good film you don't need to have large budgets or beautiful locations you just need a good script...This movie only had 12 characters and a courtroom to make to film it...and it s in itself a marvelous a achievement...The film grabs your attention from the start and makes you think how one person is gong to change the mind of 11 other people in such a short time and during this journey of manipulating minds there are sufficient amount of twists and clever inferences to find clues out of small details will just blow your mind...It is a must watch movie because of its intelligent script and great performance by all the cast...


                
