12 Angry Men is a terrific film that reflects a lot of the past problems and the proposed solutions of immigration, youth violence, and of course, overcoming one's own background and discrimination. The film surprised me in how progressive it was, and the ending social conclusions that it reached.In the film you can see clearly form a rift between the upper class, conservatives who are unwilling to change and the progressives who are proposing change for the better of all of us; this film, deep down, is a very class conscious and socially conscious film about discrimination and the deep lines it had in American society in 1957.Although the film's portrayal is sometimes overly simplistic, drawing a "stubborn, pig-headed" conservative versus "righteous, just" progressive, one can find that this was very much so a necessary film for its' time. In many ways, it is a work that was socially far advanced.Also what is interesting is the fact that it is a film that is done with great simplicity; some actors, and a room... It relies greatly upon the pure talent of the actors, and the great direction of Sidney Lumet -- this film is truly unique due to the true minimalism it embraces in its' production tactics, yet this is something that could easily go unnoticed due to the incredible quality of the film.


                
Henry Fonda is the star here, but the other roles are filled by legendary character actors. To see Lee Cobb, Jack Klugman, Jack Warden, and Ed Begley all doing there thing at the same time is a joy. My main problem with the movie is that it is soooo preachy. The scene is painted in black and white, there are few shades of gray. Most of the character are stereotypes-- ie, the bigot, the bully, the nerd, the immigrant, the glad-handing but uncaring salesman, etc. It is a tribute to the fine actors that they bring such one-dimensional characters to life. And shining through it all is the oh so good man who has right, justice, and the American way on his side. The self-righteousness is a bit cloying, and I almost expect Fonda to have a halo over his head. That being said, it is enjoyable for the acting and a must see for those who have missed it so far.


                
Yeah, I know, "12 angry man" is a classic. It deals with a topic that was and may still is very important. It was truly ahead of the times. Also the characters were very well portrayed and although the film is very minimalist it delivers the plot very well and it is worth watching, no doubt. But I think the movie is overrated. Its plot line is very very straight so that you know the end right when you start watching. There is no real turn, that blows you away. It is quite simple. Also I wasn't moved as much by this film, I wouldn't be thinking about it if I weren't writing this review right now. So don't get me wrong, I think the film is totally worth watching, but #9 on IMDb of all times? Don't agree.. There are a lot of movies which are ways better then this one, movies that blow you and your mind away, movies you are thinking about for years. I don't count this movie to those..
A youth from an underprivileged home stands trial for the murder of his father with whom he had a strained relationship. Circumstantial evidence seems to have convicted him beyond any shadow of a doubt. Yet as the jury retires to consider its verdict, one man chooses to look further than the boy's background, and in examining the prosecution's case, he finds both the 'proof' and the witnesses to be less than satisfactory.Reginald Rose's compelling story is first and foremost an excellent character study of "12 Angry Men" who all find their moral fibre put to the test when asked to decide the fate of a young street kid accused of a terrible crime. Each from very different backgrounds, the audience witnesses first hand as every man's true character comes to the fore under such pressure. The film also examines mankind's prejudices toward not only the youth of today, but also the less fortunate and the ethnic community.Director Sidney Lumet ("Murder on the Orient Express") creates tension and claustrophobia very well in the small, hot jurors room where the "12 Angry Men" struggle with both their verdict and their own moral values and personal convictions.The whole cast is very solid, especially Henry Fonda who delivers a stand out performance as the architect who just isn't convinced of the boy's guilt, and slowly but surely he starts to win some support for his arguments. Also superb is Lee J. Cobb as a bitter and biased man who is determined the lad should hang. Great support too from Ed Begley, Martin Balsam, EG Marshall and Jack Warden. A most rewarding and thought provoking movie.Sunday, February 19, 1995 - Astor Theatre
even after so many years, this movie still works.the movie manages,with his 12 authentic jurors, to be in an insecure position the whole movie. so you are not sure on which side to stand. every person in the room was different and understandable. and you could understand every single motive why each person would find that the defendant to be "guilty" or "not guilty" especially in certain moment. I think it is a brave and correct decision not to show the court negotiation itself, and tell the facts only through character. the audience must pay close attention to figure out the facts themselves. However, the end was a bit loose, because ultimately nothing was proved.
This film shows that you can make a great film with great dialogue. The majority of the film is set in one room and it keeps you hooked.


                
What is there to be said that hasn't already been said? It's earned it's status as a classic for a reason. While I wouldn't go so far as to call it one of the greatest of all time, it is a vastly entertaining take on a brilliant premise that has been used throughout the decades sense. The dialogue is sharp, the character turns are believable and interesting and the whole thing flows along at a swift pace. When it was over I couldn't believe that so much time had gone by. I'm always fascinated by films that take place entirely in one location (or almost entirely) and this was one of the early precedents for the kind of greatness one can accomplish when that is utilized properly.The ominous surroundings like the heat and the storm add nice bits of tension to the rising tempers of the men in the room and the confrontations between the soft Henry Fonda and the explosive Lee J. Cobb were intense. Sidney Lumet is a man who earned his reputation as an "actor's director" and made his career out of mostly setting up the stage and aiding his actors in doing what they do best, but I think his stylistic choices here deserve to be commended. The way that he slowly brings the camera down over the course of the film, bringing us more intimately into the heart of this room, it adds that sense of claustrophobia that makes the tension even more gripping as we proceed into the later stages of it all.Practically everyone in the cast shines at one point or another, my favorites being the commanding Fonda who is able to be the voice of reason without being annoying, the pensive E.G. Marshall, the racist and volatile Ed Begley and the wise, determined Joseph Sweeney. The film had plenty of great twists, like the knife reveal, but my favorite scene had to be Begley going off on his offensive monologue while one-by-one the jurors turned away from him until he realized that his ignorance had caused him to lose any voice he once had; a powerfully real moment. I also loved the added touch of putting Fonda in an all white suit while everyone else was in shades of black or grey.


                
The interesting thing about 12 Angry Men is that you come away from it and can't honestly say if the jury were right to acquit the accused man. The film never really answers the question of whether he was guilty or not. It just simply says that it was impossible to be sure. The film is ultimately about the Not Proved verdict.At least I certainly hope that we as an audience were not supposed to leave the film thinking that the accused man was definitely innocent. The counter-evidence brought to our attention by juror no. 8 (Henry Fonda) is often not especially convincing but seems to be taken very seriously by progressively more and more men in the room until inevitably we have a unanimous Not Guilty verdict. An example of this, is when Fonda successfully gets the others to acknowledge that the old man witness is unreliable, yet then goes on to base a major part of his own evidence on the old fellows testimony that he took fifteen seconds to get to the door to witness the murderer fleeing. Fonda clearly assumes that this man he has determined as unreliable would get his exact timings spot on in a moment of heightened emotion. It may seem like a minor point but there are just a little too many of these small inconsistent assumptions littering 12 Angry Men for me to feel it was an entirely successful exercise. I really couldn't help shake the notion that Fonda's character had his own agenda and was simply unwilling to back down. Perhaps he was the most persuasive man in the room and that was ultimately the reason that the decision was made. It's difficult to really say with any certainty that the accused was innocent at all. Did they really make the correct decision?Setting this consideration aside, one thing the movie does have in abundance is stellar acting talent. The 12 members of the jury are well played by all. While the direction is simple but highly efficient; it is not an easy task to set a movie in one room with dialogue the only action on offer but Sidney Lumet does keep things moving along at a good pace and maintains the interest. This is certainly a good movie despite my misgivings. For me it does ultimately have a definite ambiguous quality and if that was the intention then I can hardly argue with that.
I won't repeat the details of the plot as many comments above summarize the plot and even the 12 jurors in depth...Briefly, Fonda's character challenges the rest of the 12 man jury to take time to reexamine the evidence before they send a very young man to the mandatory death sentence. A fair challenge. Even tho the case (as one juror argues ) seem so "open and shut".Here, the best thing about the film (to me) is the use of logic. Why? As the 12 men examine each bit of proof, they discover several possible logical flaws or false assumptions. Sound too dry? Not the way it is presented.My criticism is that Fonda's character is just too perfect, too right and (for most of the movie) too free from perspiration, unlike the rest in that hot jury room. Fonda early questions some jurors as to whether there's any possibility for error. If he said "It's possible" one more time, I was going to scream. (I remember various evil characters getting off on slim technicalities...! ) But fortunately, his questioning leads others to question evidence and to find REAL doubt that the testimony, etc. is valid.Their use of logic to pick out the evidentiary flaws is fascinating. Thus, this is still an excellent movie worth watching!


                
The movie, though dated, is very much relevant to today's society. I would like to highlight a particular scene in the movie which resonated with me. From the movie, it can be seen that No.8 came to the discussion with an open mind and was keen on exploring the possibility of the alternative option that the boy could be innocent, while the rest were rather narrow minded and were bent on convicting the boy as guilty due to their preconceived judgement. Due to such differing views, it was difficult for the rest of the jurors to accept even the slightest possibility that the child could be innocent in the beginning. From this, it shows how people come into the negotiation with preconceived notion which locks them into their positional argument. Hence, I do think it is important to consciously detach oneself from the problem, and clearly communicate to the opposing party that the interest at hand is to target the issue instead of each other.
There are many other lessons that can be learnt from this movie. Highly encourage one to watch it!
The movie is a great one, good acting, nice drama.
I would highly recommend to all ages, its only one and half hour after all


                
A little slow at the beginning but the viewer soon realizes that was the intention. This movie had acting that didn't feel far from accurate and a script that was mentally stimulating. A good movie and a decent run time.


                
Plot line is suberb, really food for thought. It is based on a very sensetive issue of human society which makes it timeless.On the other hand, the movie is really old, some of the acting is bad and the camera and angles could have been better. It's the type of act you would prefer to see in a theatre instead.


                
When crisis threatens Gotham City, Bruce Wayne jumps back into the Batmobile to fight crime. Batman is joined on his quest by an eager orphaned cop (Joseph Gordon-Levitt), a seductive cat burglar (Anne Hathaway), and a violent masked villain (Tom Hardy).
I think this screenplay is the best i have seen . it is emotional and philosophical


                
***Spoiler Alert***This film provides an incredible platform in understanding negotiations. While it might be slow at the beginning, it captures the audience's attention with its nuances and necessitates focus in order to follow the storyline.This film captures perfectly what a jury might look like in America, and allows the viewer to deliberate on the process together with the jury, helping to develop civic-mindedness whilst understanding the implications of the legal system as a layman. For example, the film requires viewers to understand the term "beyond reasonable doubt" as one of the core tenets of the negotiation.Overall, I would highly recommend this movie.
The movie gets catchy when Mr. Davis is backed by McCardle. Still, there were few shots that missed the target.
It is interesting that this movie takes place almost entirely in a single setting, which is the courtroom. Through this movie, it can be seen that each jury members have different perspectives and interests which resulted in the different votes. In reality, some discussion or negotiation has to be done to reach a favorable decision because in a situation with multiple stakeholders, different stakeholders will have different personal interests they wish to hold onto or achieve. Hence, i felt that this movie was very relevant to the situations we may face in reality. If no negotiation is done, those who make biased decisions may possibly jeopardize the entire situation or cause losses to others, which in this case, was the life of a teenage boy. The way the movie evolves from 11-1 in favor of guilty to 11-1 in favor of acquittal was very interesting as the points brought up by jury 8 was unexpected because it was so detailed and specific. This movie changed my perception of black and white movies, and i really enjoyed this movie.
This stagebound potboiler has a plot which is a matter of shooting fish in a barrel. Racism, to use the prime example, is used as an instance of a rush to judgment and then it's used to excuse a rush to the opposite judgment.Still it's important to realize that this is entertainment. The equivalent of advocacy journalism, I admit, but no one denies that the creators of this entertainment have agendas. To the extent that the film affected me, it emphasized again in my mind how fallible our system of justice is. One should steer clear of it at all costs (The justice system, not the film).And having said that, we've arrived at our system of justice through centuries of trial and error. And the advocacy system still seems superior to any previous arrangement.But back to the film: it's respected because it's tightly plotted and exhibits impressive characterizations on the parts of several actors. I'm sorry that several characters are stereotypes when stereotyping itself is the 'crime' the jury (as opposed to the accused) is so guilty of. But the fact is that stereotyping is how messages are conveyed through the mass media, and it's a matter of whose stereotypes are being retailed. Rose & Lumet have their own, and they indeed add up to shooting fish in a barrel. (Immigrants=good, Nativist Americans=bad, etc.)There's also an implication that with enough consideration, no one would ever be considered guilty of anything, especially if we consider extenuating circumstances. Separately, it's scary to consider that the lack of air conditioning in jury rooms led to a lot of hasty verdicts!Finally, though, I can readily imagine how bracing this entertainment was in 1957. It was probably very much like a lightning bolt.


                
Twelve Angry Men was a very good movie, with good dialogue and an excellent cast. The cast had a lot of opposite personalities which made the dynamics on the movie very interesting to watch. Although the audio was not as good as present day films and the dialogue was occasionally slow, the tension and interplay of the jurors quickly picked up again and kept your interest in the movie. It was amazing how one by one Henry Ford's character was able to convert all the other jurors over to a non-guilty verdict. It was really scary how all of the other 11 jurors wanted to vote guilty just to get the trial over with because they didn't want to be stuck at the courthouse. They all had better things to do, like go to a baseball game or visit with the friends and they didn't want to look to closely at the accuracy of the testimony, but Henry Ford's character made them take the time to think it through. Watching the movie Twelve Angry Men was much better than reading the written play because you could really see all the characters more clearly. The emotions, the tension and the frustration was so much more obvious in the film and came across so much more strongly than it did in written form. A movie that I would recommend to anyone who wants to sit down and watch and old black and white film with a strong cast of stars.


                
The movie 12 Angry Men is a nice movie and I liked it. This movie is related to a murder case and the jurors are trying to find out if the son is guilty of his father's murder. The best part of the movie I liked is where juror #. 8 is the only one who votes the boy not guilty and the interesting part of the movie was where all the jurors sit by their numbers so they can point to the right juror for their opinion. After few minutes juror #. 8 tries to prove that the boy is not guilty. He also finds a similar knife that was found at the murder scene and everyone was shocked to see that knife because all jurors thought they don't sell that kind of knife anymore. The movie is more interesting to watch then read the play out of a book because it has the action in movie and the way they talk to each other. It is1950's movie but worth to watch it. The best part of the movie I liked where juror # 3 in anger was really going to stab juror #. 8, but all the jurors stands up and say "WOOOHH" and juror #. 3 stops and they go back to their seats. At the end of the movie everyone agrees that the boy is not guilty. This is a must watch movie specially who likes to watch drama movies.
I thought that the movie Twelve Angry Men was great because of the way all the actors played their roles to perfection. This is a type of movie were no sound effects were use so it required the actors to really become the character they were portraying in the movie. Something else that I like was at first mostly everyone said that the accused was guilty of the crime but then slowly the jurors began to change their minds except for one juror. Some of the things that I didn't like was the way it was filmed in black and white because it cause me to have less attention towards it than I would have if I was watching a regular colored movie and also how the whole movie was just filmed in that one room and this did not allow us to see how the jurors lived their lives and acted around other people outside of a jury room. Between the movie or the play I would say I like the movie more because I am more of a visual person I learn things faster like that but other than that I thought the movie was interesting because of the way it allowed me to see and believe that character were who they really were when I was reading the play.
I personally think the movie Twelve Angry Men is better then the play. Not just for the reasons that I like retro movies or that the acting was so bad it was kind-of funny. But for the fact that the movies plot connected to me in a way I don't think it connected with other people. Because I have a thing for law and I think that this plot and this movie/play showed me a different side of law that isn't really talked about, but is a big part of the process. The reason I picked the movie over the play was that I guess my era is used and is attracted to movies more then to reading also that it was funny that the whole movie was 90 minutes of twelve men sitting in one room which got really boring but not as boring as the play. This might not be the best. Another reason I don't like the play as much as the movie is that. I don't think everyone was interested as I was and didn't really follow along and when it came to their part to read I was ready and they weren't ready to read which was really boring. Because yo9u would have to wait for them and I think I fell asleep a couple times. But overall the movie was WAY better then the play. If you're into law I think it's a must see. Well before you see the remake. Just for some laughs.


                
I didn't know much about the movie before I started to watch it, except the fact that everyone says it's one of the best movies ever. When that one member of the jury said he thinks the boy is not guilty, I instantly knew that he is going to convince the other 11 members to believe that by the end of the movie. I think the plot is good and that I couldn't know HOW he is going to make them believe that, but it wasn't really exciting for me. On the other hand, I liked the way they think and how they pay great attention to the details. They are all great actors and great characters, nicely built. I give this film 7/10 because of the story, characters, the acting, but I definitely don't think it's really that stunning, nor a masterpiece. I just wasn't thrilled enough.
12 Angry Men is a film which should be taken for what it is. A brilliant and engaging script draws in the viewer and as the events unfold, we are left truly captivated.The film shows how perceptions in human nature can be clouded by bias, prejudices, or indeed ones' desire to see a baseball game. The subject is even perhaps less about the actual guilt or innocence of the chosen party, than the turmoil the jurors have in deciding so.Although this movie may be a tad plot-driven and lacking a bit of creativity in directing, taking the film for what it is, it is a great success.


                
