The plot of12 Angry Men revolves around the murder trail of a Latino boy who is accused of killing his father. The conviction of the boy would mean a death sentence and the destiny of the boy's life is in the hands of twelve male jurors of ranging personalities. The case seems open and shut with a murder weapon and several witnesses to place the boy at the scene of the crime. For eleven of the jurors the decision is apparent that the boy is guilty but for one juror, Mr. Davis (Henry Fonda), the boy's life should entail some discussion to eliminate any reasonable doubt the jurors may have. As the film progresses the personalities of the jurors become apparent and many underlying issues influence the guilty decision chosen by the majority of the jurors.The underlying issues are the complexity of the personalities of the jurors and the reasons why they have the motivation to feel and act the way they do. As the case unfolds further, more is learned about each juror individually. The personalities range from being a short-tempered loud mouth to a straight- laced accountant who never breaks a sweat. As the movie progresses much more is learned of the characters that exposes the intricacy of human nature and people's different personality traits. This film is an excellent example of movie making that does not require elaborate sets to entertain the viewer. The majority of the film takes place in a jury room with the men never leaving the room from their deliberation responsibilities. The cast and dialogue make this film memorable and the film has some clear moral issues that are addressed. The main issue is that not everything is as it seems. With further analysis the understanding of a situation becomes more concrete enabling the men to make a solid decision that affects a young man's life. 12 Angry Men is a classic film that should not be missed.


                
(Spoilers) I really liked the message of the movie: A lot of times things that look crystal clear at first glance, upon deeper inspection, aren't so clear. The acting was top-notch all-around, especially with Juror #9. The product ends up being not very preachy, which is a considerable achievement given that it's built entirely around a simple parable.With the benefit of hindsight, though, one can see a few things about this that I personally find really disturbing.The question that drives the movie is whether the jurors have properly awarded the defendant the benefit of any reasonable doubt, and as the climax approaches, the attention given to this reaches a fevered pitch. Left behind in the dust, is the equally critical question of whether the defendant is really guilty. There's a scene early on when Jack Warden, the juror who just wants to get the voting over with so he can watch a ball game, meets Henry Fonda in the washroom. The last two lines in that scene discuss the possibility that the boy may be acquitted, even though he is guilty. Fonda says something to the effect of "that very well may be" or some such, and to my recollection this is the last time this possibility is even considered.The jury may have released a murderer onto the streets. You can make the argument that with the presence of reasonable doubt, this was their job. I agree. But as Henry Fonda walks down the courthouse steps to resume his everyday life as an architect, would it really then be fitting to have the happy "a wrong has been righted" swelling-orchestra music, as our hero walks proudly among his fellow citizens with his head held high? Doubt or no, conviction or no, this kind of peace-of-mind is not lying in wait for you after your last day on a real jury. There are jurors who want it anyway, and because of that, will not convict anyone. They have seen this movie, and want to be Henry Fonda. I've served with them. It's a pretty serious problem.There is a short speech given by Fonda shortly after he is revealed to be the one juror who wants to acquit. Several times in the speech he makes the point that the defendant is poor, has had a rough background, and has been beaten up a lot. It is not entirely clear where he is going with this, since the movie is supposed to be about what is reasonable doubt, and how the doubt applies regardless of economic class. There is at least one other juror who wants to convict because the defendant is poor; does Fonda mean to say with a defendant who was wealthier, he himself would have voted to convict? That doesn't seem likely at all. But then why bring it up? It means something to other jurors, but it isn't supposed to mean anything to Fonda. The only way it could support any of Fonda's arguments, is if he was making decisions based on the way those decisions made him feel about himself, rather than based on the evidence. This is something jurors aren't supposed to do.Four years after this movie was made, the Supreme Court defined the Exclusionary Rule in Mapp v. Ohio. So by this time, you weren't supposed to convict anyone unless you knew they were guilty beyond any reasonable doubt, and in addition to that, if you knew too much, then you still couldn't convict. During the sixties, conviction became such an unlikely goal even when the evidence seemed compelling, that a lot of District Attorneys refused to make arrests even though they knew a suspect posed a significant danger to society.By the seventies, Americans were so fed-up with the "justice system failing us" that they began turning politicians out of office in bulk, hoping against hope they could fix what was broken before their own children were murdered or their wives were raped. Between Vietnam and Watergate, this was a third salvo against our fragile faith in government, and it was an erosion of our trust that we don't talk about too much today.What really concerns me is that a little while after this film was made, with the poorest Americans being forced to live among violent people and thus becoming increasingly interested in vigilantism, suddenly we had a huge surge in movies about "Taking the law into your own hands." Dirty Harry, Death Wish, and countless made-for-TV projects. In summary, the pendulum swung in one direction, then a few years later, the other. Hollywood got to make money both times.I have trouble getting completely behind this film because it's a concentrated effort, ultimately a successful one, to get that pendulum swinging wildly. If we spent that relatively short amount of time, just fifteen years or so, leaving "revolution" out of it and reforming our justice system in baby steps, the mistakes of the past could have been avoided. I do not know if it was possible to fix what was broken back then, by doing this -- convictions weren't always carefully considered back in the 1950's & earlier. But a lot of innocent people would be alive today if all those violent felons, in subsequent years, were arrested like they should have been.I would say, if you're going to serve on a jury, by all means rent this because it's a very meticulous and passionate reminder of your civil duty, it makes some great points, and everything in this movie is highest-quality. But also on your required-viewing list would be Primal Fear, the Richard Gere movie. Better yet, watch that one last, so the final scene really sticks in your mind.Nobody should be serving on a jury, if they can't seriously consider the consequences of releasing people who are really guilty of violent crimes.
It has been described as "flawless", "immaculate" and "supreme" -and for good reason. '12 Angry Men' is an old Swiss golden clock in the age of Japanese digital watches, a Flemish renaissance mahogany armchair in the era of prefabricated furniture, a handcrafted motion picture at a time of processed film-making. Henry Fonda is the sole dissenting juror in a murder case, who utilizes rational methodology to convince the remaining eleven jurors that the accused is not guilty as charged. Filming almost exclusively in a small, nondescript jury deliberation room, director Sidney Lumet produces a masterpiece of American film-making, reaching the limits of structured cinematic delivery. The opening segment, which rolls uncut for over 10 minutes, is unparalleled, as is the dramatic sequence of the murder recreation. Assisted by an outstanding theatrical script, the film's cast members literally forget to act, allowing their roles as jurors to inhabit their conscience as they perform. Notably, E.G. Marshall (juror #4) splendidly captures the essence of his role as a prudent financier, while Lee J. Cobb (juror #3) writes cinematic history with his phenomenal portrayal of Fonda's leading adversary among the jury. Last but not least, the film's didactic quality is multifaceted, on the one hand illustrating how educated citizens can guide, rather than endure, the democratic process, and on the other hand illuminating how moral purpose and artistic dedication can guide a film's production in ways Hollywood creators often choose to neglect. Overall, a solid film that has earned the respect of successive generations of movie audiences.


                
This movie, currently ranked as #21 all time on the IMDb list, is a simple story of the deliberations of 12 men on a jury of a murder trial. We see nothing of the actual trial or the closing arguments. The story begins as the judge instructs the jury, in weighing the evidence presented, they must return a verdict of 'guilty' unless there is reasonable doubt. Although not made clear in the movie, a verdict of "not guilty" is not the same as 'innocent.' Not guilty simply means that the prosecution did not present a case strong enough to prove guilt beyond reasonable doubt. The case that we do not see or hear of first hand involves a son accused of murdering his father. One witness was an elderly man who claimed to have seen the boy running down the stairs from the apartment a few seconds after hearing voices and a body hitting the floor. Was this old man who shuffled along really able to get there in time? Could he really hear clearly over the noise of the passing train? Another was a woman who identified the boy as the one plunging the knife into the victim. But did she wear glasses, and did she have them on when she claimed she saw the murder 60 feet away through the windows of a passing train on elevated tracks (the 'el')? First seated the jurors take a vote, and it is 11 to one in favor of conviction. There is a ball game that evening and many of the men are anxious to delivered a verdict and get home. One man (Henry Fonda) says he is not sure, the boy may in fact be guilty, but suppose he isn't. He just wants to talk about it. A boy's life is at stake. Don't they owe it to him to examine all possibilities? But the other 11 at first look upon their task as one to convince the lone juror that he is wrong.As the 90 minutes move along, various jurors bring up points that they noticed, possibilities that neither the prosecution nor the defense attorneys had brought up. Others gradually join the 'not guilty' side, until it is only one for 'guilty.' Then there were none. Much of the dialog brought out prejudices certain men held, that were clouding their reasoning, and preventing them from seeing both sides of the argument. This is a story less about jury verdicts, and more about human nature.The movie sets out to show that with reasonable doubt at hand, a verdict of 'not guilty' must be returned. Thus it is mostly an examination of how our personal prejudice can cloud our judgment. I suspect that this story was much more significant 50 years ago than it is today. There have been a number of very public trials (e.g. OJ Simpson) where most of the evidence appeared to point to guilt, but a jury returned a 'not guilty' verdict because of reasonable doubt. However it remains part of the foundation of our legal system, that a person is innocent until proved guilty, even if it means some guilty persons will go free.Although only Lee J. Cobb stands out, as the angry juror who was the last hold out, this contained a fine ensemble cast. Martin Balsam, E.G. Marshall, Jack Klugman, Jack Warden, Henry Fonda, Ed Begley are others who are prominent in my mind.
First of all, what a cast! Fonda doesn't seem like much of a New Yorker, but the rest of the cast reads like a Who's Who in New York movies. All of them except Sweeney and Voscovek went on to lengthy careers in character and support roles.The plot comes from a TV show and is very tightly written. There's hardly a wasted word or an unnecessary gesture. This has its drawbacks because it imposes a dramatic frame on the characters and the development. There's not much sense of "real life" here. Everything fits together too neatly for that. But if events follow earlier events with a logic that is a bit obvious, it's forgivable because the screenplay is done so well. Like "Stagecoach," it may be mechanical but it's as finely tuned as a good wristwatch.Also more or less unavoidable in a short movie dealing with a dozen often conflicting characters is the reduction in their complexity. Each is a stereotype. They practically wear sweatshirts with logos on them. "I AM A SHALLOW AD MAN." "BORED MARMALADE SALESMAN HERE." "KICK ME, I AM AN IGNORANT RACIST." They are capable of changing their opinions but they show only one side of their characters.A third unfortunate quality in the script is that it is imbued with what Tom Wolfe referred to as "nostalgie de la bou" -- a kind of admiration for the lowbrow. Pauline Kael made the same observation back in the early 60s in an essay called "Fantasies of the Art House Audience." What it boils down to is a dislike of the middle-class. Fonda is an architect, a professional. The other good guys in the movie are members of minority groups or ordinary working stiffs with slum backgrounds. The two most repulsive villains (Ed Begley and Lee J. Cobb) are self-made men who run their own successful businesses. The rufescent Begley has a line, something like, "I got ten factories going to pot while we're talking' here." Cobb brags about how he built up his delivery business starting out with nothing. A third dummy is a SALESMAN -- of marmalade! (Yukk.)Okay. That gets pretty much all of the weaknesses out of the way. The pluses outweigh the minuses by exactly two short tons. The acting is almost impossible to improve upon, not surprisingly. It's unfair to single out Jack Warden and Martin Balsam for their performances but I'll do it anyway.The photography, by Boris Kaufman, is perceptive and adds to the tension, the feeling of claustrophobia. Especially memorable is the scene in which most of the jurors are standing together, there is a rumble of thunder, and a shadow falls gloomily over the group. It's a small touch but palpable.Lumet manages to suggest New York City effectively in this crowded room, practically the only set. (There is a shot at the end that is done on the steps of the real Courthouse.) Lumet's direction makes the most of his actors' talents. The pauses in their arguments last just long enough for us to take a few breaths.Rose's script avoids an easy ending. Yes, there is reasonable doubt enough for the verdict to turn out as it does, but there is no dramatic introduction of crucial evidence to demonstrate that the defendant is innocent. Did he do it? We don't know. Suppose the kid actually did it and gets away with it? Fonda is twice challenged on that point -- once at the table and once in the men's room -- and in neither instance does he have a reply.Overall, it's a marvelous movie, a lesson in acting, directing, writing, and shooting. The recent updated version has been made politically correct but is not an improvement over this original. See it if you have the chance.
This is surely the most famous film jury drama, quite riveting in its dialogue, its claustrophobic jury deliberation room setting, its brilliantly depicted characters, its atmosphere of oppressive heat and tension between these jurors. The twelve angry men are admittedly largely one dimensional stereotypes but they are brought vividly to life by a star studded cast including Henry Fonda, E.G. Marshall, Leo J. Cobb, and Jack Klugman.The jurors include an arrogant stockbroker, a stressed out man from a poor social background, a wise and endearing old gentleman, a quiet and respectful immigrant, an extreme bigot, a loud and pushy businessman with son issues, an advertising executive who sees everything in terms of sales, and a sports fan interested only in getting out in time to see his ballgame. The jury foreman tries to keep the group organized but isn't a particularly bright or thoughtful man himself and seems in over his depth. The (supposed at least) hero of the piece is the intelligent juror number 8, an architect, who appears to take his responsibilities seriously. He encourages full discussion of the evidence when others seem happy to return an immediate Guilty verdict for a young Hispanic defendant accused of fatally stabbing his abusive father. As a result of this juror's persuasive powers, the vote changes from 11-1 for Guilty to a unanimous final Not Guilty verdict.No one would be interested in watching a movie about twelve calm jurors politely and rationally debating the evidence. Thus we have this drama which makes for compelling viewing but isn't for those preferring some degree of subtlety. The case itself is ultra dramatic 'all or nothing', acquittal or the death penalty with no possibility of life imprisonment. Juror 8 has illegally purchased a duplicate knife to the murder weapon and slams it dramatically on the table. These jurors are constantly bickering. One juror threatens to kill another. Eventually the other jurors all turn their backs one by one on the bigot. Surely this must be a textbook example of everything a jury should NOT be! While real life jurors do bring their prejudices and life experiences into the jury room, some of these jurors were simply too unbelievable. For example, 'the bigot' seemed to flaunt his bigotry at every turn rather than, as would be much more realistic, making some effort to conceal it. I believe one would need to look far and wide to find a juror with so little regard for human life that he would happily send a possibly innocent kid off to the electric chair rather than miss his ballgame.As for juror number 8, at first I admired his sense of responsibility and calm, reasoned questioning. However, by the end of the movie, after he had raised doubts (whether reasonable or not is up to individual interpretation) about every single piece of evidence and testimony, I no longer saw him as the heroic champion of justice we're manipulated into believing, but almost felt as though he had some agenda of his own to acquit and would never convict anyone of any crime, whatever the evidence! This jury didn't rationally debate the case at all but as juror 8 would raise some 'doubt', one or other juror would suddenly change his vote, ignoring all the other evidence. A good case could be made that this jury let a murderer go free because they lost sight of the cumulative nature of the evidence as a whole.While this movie is often classed as a character study, a psychological drama, or a study in small group dynamics, it's also considered a commentary on the American jury system. As such, I feel that the writers should have 'done their homework' and had these jurors follow standard jury instructions rather than the gross jury misconduct they displayed -- juror 8 doing his own independent research by purchasing that knife, their questionable little experiment with the old man's rate of walking, their improper acceptance of one of their number as a switchblade 'expert' and taking his opinion of stabbing techniques as gospel. If all this had become known to court officials in real life, this grievous misconduct would almost certainly have resulted in a mistrial.I also felt the movie quite manipulative in casting a defendant who could hardly be more sympathetic, a young kid with poor social opportunities, the victim of bigotry and paternal abuse. What viewer would ever want this boy to receive the death penalty? This film would have packed a greater punch for me if the defendant had been a rather despicable character (or at least neutral in terms of sympathy factor), yet the jury been able to acquit him anyway due to finding reasonable doubt.Therefore, while this film is a 'must see' classic, a thoroughly engaging way to spend an hour and a half, and a masterpiece by comparison with most modern movies, I don't consider it flawless. At least in my case, it hasn't held up well during subsequent viewings and further scrutiny. Entertaining, yes, but I have a big problem with its clearly intended message that this jury, which I see as a lynch mob-turned-group of pushovers, has ultimately served the cause of justice.
Twelve-man jury decides the fate of a young man on trial for murder; eleven think the kid is guilty, the twelfth isn't so sure. Director Sidney Lumet makes his directorial debut here, and he's overly fond of riled-up actors shouting at the camera, but he doesn't stray from the proved path of this celebrated play by Reginald Rose, and that's a plus (the material stands quite well on its own). The claustrophobic, muggy atmosphere is rife with tension, and Henry Fonda is a tower of sanity as the only voice of reason. The film attempts to substitute the electricity of a live performance with too many tight shots of angry, sweaty faces, spitting and yelling, however this ensemble cast has a rich anti-camaraderie that puts the film across. *** from ****


                
A dissenting juror (Henry Fonda) in a murder trial slowly manages to convince the others (Jack Klugman , Martin Balsam , Jack Warden , Lee. J. Cobb , Ed Begley , E.G. Marshall , Robert Webber , among others) that the case is not as obviously clear as it seemed in court. As Juror #8 holds out with a verdict of not guilty, thus setting the stage for arguments and reasons why or why not the boy may be guilty . As he desperately seeks to convince his eleven peers to reconsider their hast conviction of a boy framed of murdering . As 12 jurors are struggling to decide the fate of a teenager who allegedly killed his father . Made for television classic about twelve jurors quick to condemn a youth on trial for murdering his father before reviewing the evidence. Though the whole movie is set in a jury room it never lacks for taut , suspense , intrigue and inspired direction . The struggle behind closed doors is tense , charged and riveting . Reginald Rose's brilliant TV play script was left virtually intact in its move to feature film. This famous play from the 'Golden Age of Television' was splendidly directed by Sidney Lumet with an extraordinary plethora of actors who give magnificent performances .Because the painstaking rehearsals for the film lasted an exhausting two weeks, filming had to be completed in an unprecedented 21 days and shot in a total of 365 separate takes. However, nowadays none of the twelve stars are still alive . The acting level of the cast during some of the intense discussions and debates almost bursts in the screen . The movie is commonly used in business schools and workshops to illustrate team dynamics and conflict resolution techniques. Nominated for 3 Oscars , another 16 wins & 6 nominations ; the film lost out in all its categories to The Bridge on the River Kwai . It ranked #2 on the American Film Institute's list of the 10 greatest films in the genre "Courtroom Drama". This Lumet's impressive debut was followed by a remake made for cable TV (1997) , a contemporized rendition of the memorable tale whose script has been slightly updated but the premise is the same , it was directed by William Friedkin with a formidable cast such as William L. Petersen, Edward James Olmos, Hume Cronyn, James Gandolfini, Dorian Harewood, Ossie Davis, and Courtney B. Vance , George C. Scott , Armin Mueller-Stahl , Tony Danza and Jack Lemmon takes on the voice of dissent , the Fonda role . Furthermore , a Russian version (2007) by Nikita Mikhalkov with Sergey Garmash , Valentin Gaft , Aleksey Petrenko , Yuriy Stoyanov , Efremov , among others .


                
+++++ POSSIBLE SPOILERS +++++"Twelve Angry Men" is the perfect demonstration that when you have a good script, an intelligent director an a well selected cast a film doesn't have to be expensive or spectacular to be a real good one. This film is all about dialogues and acting and is set 95% in a small room yet its most entertaining and has a lot of tension.When I said it had a well selected cast I didn't mean an all star cast; Henry Fonda was the only major star; Lee Cobb, Ed Begley, Martin Balsam and E.G. Marshall where very talented supporting actors but not stars; Jack Warden and Jack Klugman weren't even known much in films yet. But a simple direction by Sidney Lumet leaving the development to the script and actors performances worked well and the film is tense, intriguing and most entertaining from beginning to end."Twelve Angry Men" is a "trail film" but with a very original focusing since by following the jury's debate the whole case is clearly revealed up to the verdict. It's also interesting that the verdict is not based in a not guilty conviction by the jurors but for the benefit of the doubt, which means that perhaps the boy actually killed his father.One of the best movies I've ever seen in its genre.


                
Overall I loved this movie. It shows the group-dynamics of 12 people, the jury, trying to decide if there is "reasonable doubt" concerning whether a young boy killed his father. The discussions are tense and little by little we learn from these what supposedly happened on that night the kids father died. We are therefore also drawn into the question of whether the boy did it or not ourselves and what at first seems like a clear cut case along the way becomes all of a sudden much more complicated. It is a film that dares to handle nuances and ambiguities (we are never certain of whether the boy did it or not) in a way we rarely see. Its also a movie that lets us watch these 12 angry men discuss in the same room for a full 96 minutes without it ever getting boring, which I have to respect; you really have to thrust your material to let a whole movie consist of a discussion.The movie also tries to show how personal issues can cloud the judgments of the jurors. I am thinking about one specific juror, and although the idea, of showing us how his own personal story interferes with sound judgment, is splendid, I frankly didn't like the way it unfolded in the movie. That's why I only give this movie 8/10.If this movie in any way is supposed to represent how the legal system work I pray to god that I will never be put in a situation where a jury have to decide my guilt in any matter.Regards SimonPs. When you read reviews that gives max score check to see if the user has made more than one review. If not consider the possibility of a lobbyist. If you agree consider putting this post scriptum at the bottom at your own reviews.


                
There's not much that can be said about 12 Angry Men apart from it being a very well made movie. It is ture that its plot is nothing special and it seems very boring at first but as you get deeper and deeper you start to enjoy it. Because the thing that makes this movie good is not some awesome and unique plot but the impressive dialogues. I actually think that this movie is a bit overrated but I have to admit that it has one of the best dialogues. These marvelous dialogues are the thing that makes this movie the masterpiece it is.The acting is on an average level. The actors did a good job but I can't say that anyone of them did an outstanding performance. As for the cinematography it could've been better. I personally think that if they had shot this movie form different angles it would've looked more intriguing and intense. But still as I already said 12 Angry Men has a very well written script and that's enough for it to be called a good movie.


                
This movie is my favorite classic movie that has great plot that really makes you think. Taking place in a courthouse for the entire movie, 12 jury men discuss whether or not a man is guilty of murder. 11 of the men think he is guilty, mainly because they just want to go home. But one man thinks he may be innocent. They discuss the murder throughout the entirety of the movie. I believe classic movies are generally looked down upon by my generation (teens) just because it is old, this angers me that people are that ignorant, this movie is truly impressive and timeless. It is very engaging that kept me glued to the screen. The dialogue is really good.


                
Despite being set in one room for the entire runtime, 12 Angry Men is able to keep the audience enticed through stellar direction from Lumet and excellent performances from the ensemble cast. An absolute classic.


                
Purely dramatic and an instant classic from the times of the vintage arts were created. A reminder of Hitchcock's "Rope" but brings something more artistic and moral than the latter.Amazing piece of work and classic that will live forever.Overall - 4/5


                
'12 Angry Men' does not use names and could be set anywhere. Each character represents the different characters in society and its deeply-rooted flaws. Hence, it paints a bigger picture of constitutional inequality and susceptibility to manipulation within the American judicial system that all countries can relate to, including Singapore. Hence, this movie serves as a poignant warning that everyone has a social responsibility to respect the judicial system as a platform to protect individual rights, regardless of background.
One of the best known courtroom dramas since "To Kill a Mockingbird" starring the great Henry Fonda in a tale of justice and the search for truth. A young boy has been accused of murder of his abusive father and now it's up to 12 men to decide if the boy will live or be sent to the electric chair. 11 men believe the defendant is guilty, but one lone juror (played stoically by Fonda) is convinced that the boy is innocent of the murder. Also starring Lee J. Cobb as the antagonistic and angry Juror #3 who harbors personal hatreds, John Fiedler as the meek Juror #2. Jack Klugman as Juror #5 who was raised in the slums, Martin Balsam as the Foreman of the jury and many more make up this panel of unique personalities. The film is packed with tension, anger and mostly importantly a tale of morals and its importance on human judgment. A truly wonderful film by famed director Sidney Lumet with a memorable cast.
The plot of this film unfolds entirely in a claustrophobic and uncomfortably hot jury room. The twelve angry men of the title are jurors and must decide the fate of a young man accused of killing his father. It does not help his case that he is poor and Hispanic, and not even the tone of voice of the Judge in the case seems to hold out any hope when giving instructions to the jury about their forthcoming deliberations. The evidence to convict, and thus send the man to the electric chair is overwhelming, and the first vote taken by the jurors is 11:1 to convict. Then Juror No 8 (Fonda) starts dissecting the evidence piece by piece in an almost forensic analysis of the facts. Is everything as it seems ? Of course not. The whole film is built around the concept of reasonable doubt and whether our individual prejudices will allow us to see it. The film offers no safe answer, as even the juror who was completely dispassionate about the whole affair turns out to be mistaken. A tour de force performance by Fonda as the Liberal everyman we all wish we could be, but with excellent performances all round, particularly from E G Marshall as the composed and evidence-led Juror No 4, and a scene stealer from Lee J Cobb as Juror No 3. This film is an object lesson in film making. The tension, which ratchets up nicely throughout the film as each successive vote is taken, is created entirely by the friction between the twelve protagonists. We are presented with a cross section of American society in the sixties, and undoubtedly we will agree with some of their perspectives and disagree with others, although in fairness to Lumet the unsympathetic characters are not difficult to spot and there are some powerful moments as their true characters are revealed. There is a valid question raised in the middle of the movie by Fonda's character: there is a man's life at stake: shouldn't they take some time to talk about it ? After all, supposing they get it wrong ? I think that whether you come away from this movie as a champion of the jury system will depend on whether you believe that your peers are indeed "twelve good men and true" as the one point this movie does make is that while the jury system is all we have, it is far from foolproof, an can easily be derailed by ignorance and prejudice. In this case, however it doesn't and this leads me to suggest an interesting aside. I believe that if this film was made again for a modern audience, and here I am also discounting the 1997 remake, so let's say a 2012+ audience, the director might wish to provide an ending where the Fonda character does not win through in the end, and the petty arguments and prejudices of the majority of the jury are too powerful to be overturned. However, for it's time and place, this is an almost perfect film, filled with excellent performances, and a Hollywood morality tale ending where goodness and common sense win through in the end. No wonder Fonda allows himself a Mona Lisa smile as he walks away from the Court House at the end of the movie. Brilliant.
Twelve men sit around a table and talk for an hour and a half. There's your movie. Doesn't sound like much now does it? But 12 Angry Men turns out to be an exercise in wonderful simplicity. It is refreshing to know that in order to make a great movie you do not need a huge budget. No special effects are necessary. Wonderfully vibrant locations can be done without. In some cases all you need to make a great movie is a great story performed by great actors. And in 12 Angry Men that is what you get.12 Angry Men presents an exceedingly simple yet undeniably powerful story. We follow the jury deliberations in the New York City trial of a young man, a boy really, who is accused of killing his father. There is a very brief introductory scene in the courtroom as the judge presents the jury with its instructions. Apart from that scene and another very brief moment outdoors at the very end the entire film takes place within the confines of the jury room. And what goes on inside that room will fascinate. What seems to be, as one juror points out immediately, an open and shut case turns out to be much more complex. We will get to know each of the twelve members of this jury, men who come to this room from all different types of backgrounds, each with his own unique perspective. Some of the twelve will end up playing a bigger role than others but each man certainly plays his part in what unfolds.Initially eleven of the jurors vote to find the defendant guilty. There is only one holdout, Juror #8, played by Henry Fonda. Fonda's character may not be convinced of the boy's innocence but he feels the defendant is at least owed a fair deliberation to determine if there could in fact be reasonable doubt. And off the movie goes, with Juror #8 seeking to convince his fellow jurors that maybe this is not such an open and shut case after all. Suffice to say it will be quite difficult to get some of those in the room to change their mind. There are dramatic twists and turns along the way and in their interactions we learn a lot about each of these twelve men who bring their own prejudices and emotions to the proceedings. A few of the jurors stand out, most notably numbers 3 and 10 who are most adamant about the boy's guilt. Played by Lee J. Cobb and Ed Begley respectively this pair threaten to overwhelm the proceedings at times with their explosive outbursts. The contrast between this pair's rantings and the calm, rational, reasoned arguments presented by Fonda's character are quite clear. Without a doubt Fonda is the star of the film but it is the opportunity he gets to play off of the other characters which really makes the film. Without the contributions of Cobb and Begley the whole thing would be rather mundane. And the other nine actors are not to be forgotten either. Each of the jurors is completely unique and every performer in the cast does a terrific job in breathing life into their character.When a movie consists almost entirely of a group of men sitting around talking there are certain to be a few lulls and sure enough this film has a few. But once the deliberations really hit their stride and the arguments are flying back and forth the film never fails to fascinate. It's an incredibly simple movie. In this case simplicity works wonderfully. Great performances, from Fonda of course but from each of the other eleven actors as well, make this simple story real edge of the seat stuff. What goes on inside the confines of that jury room is truly memorable. It's a wonderful film and a wonderful look inside the American justice system, serving as a reminder that even the most seemingly open and shut case may not be so clear cut after all.


                
I just watched this for the first time, ashamed to admit that the IMDb ranking was the first I'd heard of it. My excuse is that I am not American, and not a "die-hard" classic films fan. That being said, I really prefer movies with intelligence and a good realistic plot.Now the movie itself... I was sitting 1,5 hours captivated by a black/white feature all taking place in one room with just talking...The reason for this was the amazing acting by everyone involved. The characters really grab you, and you hang on every word. It is clear that these actors were "forced" to be more skillful, they had no special effects to cover their shortcomings.It was like watching a room full of Daniel Day Lewis' going full blast for 90 min... anyway, that's what I thought of it :)(and by the way, any remake of MUST cast DDL as that last, angry juror ;))


                
One of the all time classics! The story is about 12 jury members in a room for about 90 minutes (real time) to decide the open and shut case of a young boy of 18 years killing his father. There are 11 votes confirming guilty and 1 for not-guilty. The whole movie is about how the 12 votes finally reach 11 confirming non-guilty and 1 for guilty, until the last one too gives in to an anonymous verdict that the boy is not guilty of his father's murder.The movie was delicately presented. As audience we find that the case that was to be fought in the court-room was fought among the jurors. Each and every juror was aware of all the facts of the case and everyone was on the same page, except one <U+0096> Juror no. 8 (Henry Ford). The movie explores the value of one life on looking minutely at the known events and unfolding them in better light for audience to understand and know that what seems truth often is not <U+0096> if you look closely at it.The movie is shot in a single room that is hot, humid and sweaty <U+0096> and halfway through it starts raining outside. The enigma of the 12 jurors, the ding-dong dallying between guilty and not-guilty, the peeling of the case layer by layer with new discussions crossing personal experiences and relation to the case was fascinating to watch.Henry Ford acts with such anxiousness that you are bitten by his conviction of not-guilty the moment he speaks his doubts by saying <U+0096> I do not know, I am not sure. That starts the mastery roller-coaster to a finale that is hard to take the eyes off.The Director Sidney Lumet does a fantastic job in I think (most probably) converting this stage drama into big screen canvass with eminent 12 actors. All of them have acted poignantly well in their well written characters and mannerisms. One can see their upbringings while they talk and that is marvelous.Wonderful movie, normally I hesitate to give movies more than 8 stars, but for this I will give (Stars 8.25 out of 10)


                
There are some films that are acknowledged classics of one degree or another. Whether it be a technical aspect such as cinematography or something less tangible such as emotional content or a gripping narrative, some stand out. 'Twelve Angry Men' is one such film, mostly noted for the amazing acting performances from a large cast in one room. They have few props and one main set. The stage for twelve actors to show their stuff. And show it they do.This film works as a pure stage play on the screen. All twelve actors step up to the plate. The writing is immaculate making the complex inter-relationships between the twelve work believably and never letting the pace slacken. It's tense and taut. The points being made aren't always subtle, but they're never hammered home. Keeping twelve characters involved in a story while keeping it moving along is a tough task for a writer. All of them want to have their say so you don't forget them, all of them have to show what their character is, yet none of them must be allowed to dominate. Reginald Rose deserves immense plaudits for what he achieved here.There is a political message here. To some it may be obvious, to others it may be unpalatable. You may call it propaganda, yet unlike a lot of more modern propagandists, this doesn't solely preach to the converted. This is one to think on for everyone. It's important that even at the end, the viewer doesn't know what really happened the night of the crime. Did they save an innocent from the chair or did they let a killer walk free? It asks questions, says where its loyalties lie but doesn't claim that the issues are black and white. A truly unusual standpoint and one I would welcome more of in film.Perhaps one of the notable aspects that isn't much commented on about 'Twelve Angry Men' is the oddly un-filmic qualities it has. As previously mentioned it moves like a stageplay rather than screenplay. The look is reminiscent of a TV production including the sans-serif credits underneath the actors faces, and the simple studio set. This hasn't prevented its strengths propelling it into a slot as one of the best and best loved movies of all time.
12 Angry Men is one of a few films that take place in, essentially, one location. Such a story requires, first of all, an intriguing Script.  Second, it requires great acting...and that is exactly what it has.Certainly one of Fonda's  best, 12 Angry Men earned every single one of its Oscar Nominations.As this film is nearing fifty years old, it is slipping away from current audiences -- which is truly unfortunate.   Anyone interested in court drama cannot miss this film.  Furthermore, anyone who can appreciate a witty script with real characters and excellent verbal warfare will enjoy this film.


                
This movie makes you wonder whether the jury system is the best way of deciding the outcome of a court case. Twelve "ordinary" men and women decide the fate of the defendant - how many are objective about the process? Some bring personal prejudices into the jury room - others couldn't care less about the outcome. These points are effectively raised in the movie.Even though the action is confined to one room, the dialogue kept me riveted to the screen till the end. All the actors portrayed the different personalities of the jurors very well.


                
I was very positively blown away by this movie. I definitely must say that it is one of the best I hae seen. Something that I find very fascinating about it is that it keeps you interested in the story and on the edge of your seat even though it takes place in the same room for the entirety of it and it is just made up of conversation. in that respect it reminds me of "Rope" by Alfred Hitchcock, which I think is a masterpiece.
The performances are very engaging and I think that all of the characters were portrayd in a very well done and believeable way. Henry Fonda is obviously very good but I was happy that he didn´t steal the show despite being the main character. All of the characters had their time to shine and their own little character arc.
Before watching this I wouldnt have thought that a bunch of people arguing could be this entertaining to watch however later on I was legitemately sad to see it end. I belive I could honestly watch this movie for days. It just never gets dull.
The mystery aspect of the movie I think was very well handled for the most part. The fact that we do not know any of the evidence before the debate of the twelve jurors was very good because that way there were a lot of awesome scenes where a crucial piece of evidence was presented that turned the argument around. (A good example for this is the scene where Henry Fonda pulls out the knife.)
In the end the audience never finds out whether the young man actually comittted the murder or not which seems somwhat dissappointing to me but when thinking about it further I guess that´s the point of the movie. Its not really about whether the boy is guilty or not. It´s just about what you choose to believe.Overall this movie made for a very entertaining watch and I would recommend this movie to everybody. See it as soon as possible. I really loved it a lot and if it was possibl to give half stars I would give it an 8.5 instead of an 8 to get a more accurate rating. Maybe on a second viewing I´ll give it a 9 but that remains to be seen.Excellent film.


                
Cinema classic that everyone interested in cinema history should watch.


                
