Last year I was a freshman in High School and I was falling into a depression. My grades were awful, I abandoned all of my friends who started to change for the worst and I would constantly argue with my family. Life sucked for me back then, until I started watching TNG. I finally had a bright spot in my life.I had watched Star Trek the original series in the past and enjoyed it, however I was more of a Star Wars fan. When I started watching TNG, my life changed forever. Most people I feel would say that they like Star Trek for the adventure and story, but I like it for the characters. I don't think that there are any better role models out there than Jean- Luc Picard.I got so attached to these characters, that I found myself starting to tear up in the final scene of the show. However I would recommend that if you want to watch the 4 tng movies that you do it before you finish the series. They're okay movies, however I would have much rather said goodbye to them all in the final episode 'all good things'. I learned so much from this show about life, being Human and doing the right thing. I literally have learned more important things from Star Trek thank I have in school. I cannot even begin to say how much inspiration I've gotten. In the end though, the best thing about this are the characters.I would highly recommend that everyone watches the series. I honestly think that if everyone were able to learn how to be a better person from it, then the world would have changed for the better.


                
Nearly twenty years after the original Star Trek was cancelled by NBC, Gene Roddenberry and Paramount sought to capitalize on the enormous success of TOS in syndication and on the big screen. Roddenberry decided to make the new series with few connections to the original, so that it could stand on its own. Many fans didn't like the idea of new characters, but Roddenberry pressed ahead, and Star Trek: The Next Generation was born. British stage actor Patrick Stewart assumed the role of Frenchman Captain Jean-Luc Picard, bringing gravitas, phenomenal acting skills, and an English accent that would become the boon of many jokes; Jonathon Frakes became William T. Riker, the Kirk-esque "Number One" with a love for the ladies and jazz; Brent Spiner was cast as Data, the android who envied human emotion; Gates McFadden was Dr. Beverly Crusher, the CMO with a complicated past with Captain Picard; Wil Wheaton was her irritating son Wesley, who would long annoy the fans; Michael Dorn brought a distinct presence to the recurring role of Klingon officer Worf, so much that he was promoted to regular. Marina Sirtis looked good as Deanna Troi, the psychiatrist who had once been involved with Riker; LeVar Burton was cast as Geordi LaForge, the blind Conn Officer; finally, Denise Crosby was Security Chief Tasha Yar. Also in the pilot was an unnamed conn officer played by Colm Meaney, who would later become Transporter Chief Miles O'Brien.The first two seasons were of average quality, but they did a good job of setting up the characters and expanding the Trek universe. The series gathered its own following, although it continued to exist in the shadow of TOS. Q became an ongoing presence, appearing twice more after the pilot. His third appearance had him introducing the crew to the Borg, the fearsome cyborgs who would become Trek's most famous villains. Denise Crosby left TNG near the end of the first year, saying that her character wasn't being given enough to do. The producers also removed Gates McFadden's Dr. Crusher, introducing Dr. Kate Pulaski (Diana Muldaur) to induce more conflict. The fans did not take to Pulaski, so McFadden was brought back for the start of Season Three. That season was when TNG really came into its own, ending with the reappearance of the Borg. The Borg abducted Captain Picard, and turned him into one of them; Riker, now in command, gave the order to destroy the Borg Cube, while Picard was still onboard. That was the greatest cliffhanger in TV history, and TNG received a great deal of media attention as a result. Droves of new viewers tuned in for the fourth season premiere, which many perceived as a bit of a letdown after all the hype; but the viewers stayed, and TNG soared in the ratings, producing more and more quality episodes. While it did lose a bit of steam in its final year, it finished with an incredible series finale, All Good Things..., and then launched a movie franchise of its own.TNG Top Ten Episodes: Conundrum; The Next Phase; Data's Day; The Best of Both World Parts I & II; Redemption Parts I & II; Reunion; The Defector; Face of the Enemy; The Pegasus; Elementary, My Dear Data;


                
The occasional campiness of the 1960's Star Trek series was not at all evident in Star Trek: The Next Generation, arguably the best science fiction television series to ever be aired.  It's funny TNG wound up so brilliant, considering the first two seasons were a bit iffy in terms of quality. The show ended up the ultimate representation of Star Trek, with an immensely engaging crew with a great sense of camaraderie, intelligent and intriguing stories, and special effects that were excellent by television standards.With the exception of Wil Wheaton, the cast was uniformly superb. Patrick Stewart had a lot to live up to as a successor to William Shatner's Kirk. With his magnetic presence and wonderful acting chops, he's crafted a very different individual from Kirk, and probably my favorite Trek character, period.  Jonathan Frakes made for a likeable, intriguing Commander Riker, who's occasional rowdiness reminded me a bit of good old Kirk. Brent Spiner is simply terrific as the android, Data, who aspires to be more human.  I can't imagine anyone else in the role, which is probably the highest praise you could give to an acting performance.  Michael Dorn excelled as the tough Klingon Worf, Levar Burton was immensely likeable as chief engineer Laforge, and rounding out the cast were the series' two sexy and smart women, Marina Sirtis as Counselor Troi and Gates Mcfadden as Dr. Crusher (the latter of whom looks even more beautiful now than she did in her first season on TNG).The series has had a barrage of standout episodes, whether it was with suspenseful ventures into the unknown (the first appearance of the Borg) to the ultimate cliffhanger in The Best of Both Worlds, The Next Generation was an exercise in masterful storytelling and vivid characterization.  Since then, three shows have spawned from Trek lore: Deep Space Nine, Voyager, and Enterprise.  I have only seen one episode of Enterprise (and clearly, it didn't make much of an impression on me), but I had sporadically watched DS9 and Voyager, enough to know neither of them were overall quite as compelling as TNG (the only aspect they definitely had over TNG were in the sets and visual effects).  For me, that's rather odd, since I often have a preference for a TV series that follows through a central storyline, as both DS9 and Voyager have, but it simply goes to show how each stand-alone episode of TNG made an impression.


                
In an early episode, Captain Picard delivers a line from Hamlet: "What a piece of work is a man! How noble in reason, how infinite in faculty! In form and moving how express and admirable! In action how like an Angel! in apprehension how like a god!" But he delivers it with conviction instead of irony, and by doing so creates the thesis of the entire franchise.Star Trek was never meant to be a realistic depiction of what the future will be like; rather, it's an optimistic argument for what the future could be like. Our heroes on the new Starship Enterprise are noble and rational, and the writing is more concerned with ethics than with punch-ups. Fans of Captain Kirk's red-blooded man of action might be disappointed, but then this is a more mature version of Star Trek. As we mature, we realize there are better ways to solve our problems than with violence. Patrick Stewart's Shakespearean captain is a renaissance man, capable of using the right words and unexpected actions to overcome obstacles, and he needs neither a hairpiece nor a fight scene to prove his character.The show's other standout star is the android Data, Spock's opposite yet kindred spirit. Where Spock repressed his emotions and was disdainful of illogical humans, Data is curious about our foibles and aspires to be more like us. That implies that being human is not a curse, but something wonderful and virtuous.There are no space wars in The Next Generation, and for a good reason: creator Gene Roddenberry hoped that by the 24th century war would be a thing of the past. The interpersonal conflicts and domestic dramas of other shows are here replaced by adventure and exploration. Human nature doesn't have to be absolute: people can change, and humanity can grow and evolve. Star Trek: The Next Generation is seven seasons of optimistic, outward-looking space adventure for people who believe that the human race doesn't need to be defined by the villains it faces, but by its own innate spirit.


                
This series is a true marvel! I don't recall seeing any other series so diverse in its thematology, so rich in ideas. Patrick Stewart really adds a lot of depth to his role, throughout the series there are references to drama, literature, science that make some episodes a true journey through beautiful ideas. Also, the plot is sometimes very good, despite the scientific discrepancies one often encounters, or the effects that might at some points appear outdated. This is science fiction that aims to elucidate the eternal human questions, not just give a dramatized prospect of human evolution. Data is a unique character, his interaction with the captain (and the rest of the crew) is uniquely enjoyable, often giving insights into the evolution of human ethics, as for example in an episode where Captain Piccard is called to support the view that Data is a conscious life form and thus has the right to decide for his own fate; that he cannot be considered as property, even though he is a human construct. You really never know where the next episode will take you...from MacBeth to Cyrano, or from Data's love affair to the first contact with the crystaline entity, or Sherlock Holmes mysteries. Truly, I have never seen any other series with such a broad range of ideas and references. I wish to thank all those who made it possible, and Patrick Stewart for adding such a dramatic depth to his role. Truly, in no other case has an actor in TV done such a great job at combining so diverse elements in a single character, and with so superb acting...Patrick Stewart really carries you away with his acting, it is epic to say the least. I remember him in so many roles, never did he disappoint me.Its a magnificent work of art, one that stretches across many marvels of the human intellect to create its beautiful and educating (in the Greek sense, as actors become teachers of life through their dilemmas and adventures) drama.


                
The original series was one of greatness but this show took the series too all new heights never dreamed of in the 1960's. Patrick Stewart as Captain Picard is stunning and eloquent. Every thing he says you feel he means. While Kirk in the old series was quick to kill, Picard is more laid back and reserves blood shed for only the more extreme cases (like the Borg). This difference is mainly from the times of which the series were created. Kirk's show had the stigma of the Cold War and Communism to fuel it's story line and reflect on the time it was created which was the time of much great fear and revolution in the world especially even in the U.S with racial tensions which that show dealt with in a good manner. Now flash forward to the late 1980's when America and Russia are quickly coming out of the Cold War. This was a time ripe Captian Picard and his resiliency for humanity. Picard remains calm and collected in his shows and always beats the enemy with wit, not might, like Kirk. The Next Generation is also cool because it had a stellar supporting cast. Michael Dorn as Worf is classic and to date he has more appearances in Trek than anyone else. Johnathan Frakes as Number one is cool too, he's not quite the foil to Picard that Spock was to Kirk, but it work. The foil to Picard that equals Spock's levels is that of the character Data, played to perfection by Brent Spiner. Data is what gives this show it's heart and it would not have been what it is without him. I never did really care for the females in this cast Miriana Sirtria and Gates Mcfadden. It's not because their not good actresses, I just feel they were never given the opportunity to grow. Levar Burton as Geordy La Forge is great. He is what mainly drew me to Trek, because I had liked him from his Reading Rainbow days. And to round it all out there is Wil Wheaton. Wil was a fine actor. I like him best in Stand By Me, but he does good in this show. I wish he had stayed through the entire run. But alas it was not so. Watch this show it is great.
Even now it's hard for me to believe that Star Trek: The Next Generation only ran for seven seasons. Watching the reruns on the Sci-Fi Channel the future world we saw is as alive for me as it was first seeing it back in the day when it was initially broadcast.Gene Roddenberry had a boundless faith in the ability of man to overcome his animal nature and make a better world. I've always felt that was the real secret of the success of the first Star Trek series, that it came out at a nasty time in our history and showed us a better world if we're willing to make it so.The initial series with William Shatner and Leonard Nimoy introduced us to worlds and cultures beyond our's. But it really was only an introduction. TNG took us deep into the politics and culture of various alien races throughout the galaxy. We learned a whole lot about Klingons and Romulans, their thought processes, their culture, their politics and shifting alliances with each other and with such new alien races like the Ferengi and the Cardassians.Jean-Luc Picard as played by Patrick Stewart was an extraordinary man, a really fine representative of civilization on earth. As captain of the Enterprise I felt he was called on more than William Shatner to be a diplomat as well as a warrior. We got to see a little bit more of Star Fleet and the traditions of that future service with Picard and the rest of the crew.As befit a future where races are actually trying to live together we had a great crew on the Enterprise. It consisted of a Klingon security officer in Michael Dorn, a Betazoid telepath as ship's counselor in Marina Sirtis, and even an Android lieutenant commander in Brent Spiner. When Data was off kilter for any reason, with his capabilities he could be dangerous foe.My favorite on the show was young Wil Wheaton as Wesley Crusher, son of ship's doctor Beverly Crusher played by Gates McFadden. A young friend who is now gone envied so much the make believe world that Wesley inhabited. His own life was not so hot, but when he watched TNG he believed in a boundless future and would have given anything to have been having the adventures young Mr. Crusher was having. By the way when the series ended and Wil Wheaton's character was given a resolution of sorts, I thought for sure he was going to come back either in a future Star Trek film or one of the succeeding series. Make It so.TNG's stories and characters since we have several hundred years to see what we make of our future and see what the universe holds offers exciting possibilities. As far as optimism, this show boldly went where no one has gone before.


                
Star Trek doesn't get any better than this. There are so many things going right for this show. The cast is wonderful and works well with each other. The stories rang from pure entertainment to thought provoking deep scripts. The characters are strong and unique. You can watch it over and over again and still be entertained.If there can be any down sides to this show it would be in some of the sets dealing with other planets. Still this is not a very important thing to note (it would be if we were talking about a feature film). Maybe another problem would be that they didn't have enough seasons.In essence this is a true achievement in science fiction.


                
I don't understand how you could possibly not love ST:TNG. The way it built up its characters while maintaining an episodic, lighthearted structure throughout all its seasons was remarkable.In all these user reviews I'm reading, people are knocking the show for being too "politically correct" and "detached" from reality. What they don't realize is that this marks an important evolutionary step that we as a species should aspire to. As for the show itself, it's interesting, humorous, and doesn't let off for a minute. Patrick Stewart is such a fabulous actor that he keeps the audience's eyes glued to even the dialogue scenes.This series is a must watch, especially the last four seasons!


                
I read somewhere that Patrick Steward is proud of the educational role Star Trek – The Next Generation had over young viewers. I'm glad he enjoyed his work just as much as we did, because it had indeed quite an influence on me as a child. I practically grew up with the Enterprise crew, and Captain Picard was one of my role-models. Even now, revisiting the series restores my belief that the world will get better. After all these years, TNG is still so much fun, even more so. In a media landscape full of violence of all kinds, Star Trek – The Next Generation is something to treasure. It's that unique 'feel-good' vibe, the funny make-ups, wild scenarios and holodeck escapism, that make it a magic, timeless adventure. An ode to diversity, exploration, friendship and growth, TNG is the evidence that true values can be affirmed in a manner that is both educational and great fun. Gene Rodenberry had an admirable vision of the future...The series stayed faithful to the characters until the end, and it's a miracle that it didn't "jump the shark", which seems to be the fate of all successful series, for some reason. STNG just got better and better with each season until its final episode, thanks to Patrick Stewart's growing involvement in the production, script and character development. Rarely do we see a truly gifted actor with such dedication to his craft.Among all characters, Captain Picard shines with his tremendous commanding presence, wisdom and moral stature. Patrick Stewart's talent, professionalism and commitment to the role are that one thing holding everything together. My favorite episodes include "Chain of Command" with the memorable Ronny Cox as a non-villainous antagonist, "The Big Good Bye" and "The Measure of a Man". There are many, countless others that are just as good, in fact I love them ALL.


                
The Next Generation's Enterprise D is boldly carrying on the space adventures begun in TOS. While I occasionally have the odd qualm with a few of its moral messages, in general this is another fabulously engaging Star Trek series with compelling characters, apart from a few notable exceptions.The Enterprise D is captained by the scholarly, sophisticated, restrained, and dignified Jean Luc Picard. Surely he is the Federation's most diplomatic captain, perfect for first contact situations. Patrick Stewart brilliantly portrays this bald gentleman of French origin who has a British accent and a passion for Shakespeare & classical music. A bachelor, Picard has a couple of notable love affairs, one with a stunningly beautiful, empathetic Kriosian metamorph, Kamala, being transported by the Enterprise to her wedding, and another with an officer under his command, Nella Darren, a stellar scientist and accomplished musician who plays duets with him. I never much appreciated the relationship between Picard and the totally unsuitable rogue archaeologist, Vash, so am choosing to ignore it here!In Next Generation, we are first introduced to the threatening Borg with their cubes and spheres. The two part episode The Best of Both Worlds, in which Captain Picard is assimilated to become Locutus of Borg, is surely the most compelling of the entire series. Later in the episode I, Borg, Picard experiences emotional conflict in dealing with a Borg the crew have taken on to the Enterprise and given the name Hugh.Perhaps the most lovable character is not organic at all but the android Data, who serves as Second Officer / Science Officer. Although he officially lacks (but craves) emotion, he seems to have the most personality of the lot and eventually becomes proud owner of a cat named Spot! Worf is the sympathetically portrayed though ever amusing Klingon tactical officer, totally driven by the Klingon's crazy obsession with honour. Worf's young son, Alexander, an adorable but sometimes challenging lad, spends some time aboard the Enterprise.Geordi LaForge (played by the wonderful LeVar Burton) is the Chief Engineer. A likable boy next door type, he's blind but has a special visor to permit vision. It took me awhile to get used to Deanna Troi, the ship's Counselor. At first I considered her too 'touchy feely' for my taste. However, this beautiful, raven haired, empathetic Betazoid lady with her renowned passion for chocolate, sort of grew on me and I got to quite like her. Deanna's mother, the audacious & man hunting Lwaxana Troi, sometimes appears long enough to stir up trouble aboard ship!The series has a few characters I never much took to. Picard's Number One is Will Riker, Deanna's ex boyfriend. Riker is surely the Federation's most boring First Officer, good looking but notable mainly for womanizing on Risa and blurting out, 'What in hell is going on down there, Geordie?' Tasha Yar, Security Officer at the start of the series, failed to interest me much. Likewise, the rebellious Bajoran Ensign Ro, who seems to have such a chip on her shoulder. Dullest of all is the attractive, capable, and widowed Dr. Beverly Crusher. Only her occasional chemistry with Captain Picard is of interest. My ultimate horror is Beverly's insufferable, cocky, rude, and incessantly irritating teenage son, Wesley, who constantly bemoans that the adult crew doesn't understand or appreciate him. However, I did admittedly enjoy his little romance with the lovely young Salia in The Dauphin.New technologies introduced in the series include the replicator and the holodeck. The much larger Enterprise D is also equipped with a special shuttle called the Captain's Yacht. There are the usual visits to new planets, my favourite name being Galorndon Core...I can picture those bolts of lightning now! Some interesting new aliens are introduced, including the binary lilac skinned Bynars who travel in pairs, the weird symbiotic Trill with their succession of hosts, and the warlike Cardassians with their despicable lengthy occupation of the planet Bajor.The series features a number of clever plot ideas. One of my favourite episodes is Darmok, featuring the endearing Captain Dathon and the other rather reptilian Tamarians, who communicate by means of metaphors that refer to their myths. A brilliant idea! One of the saddest and most thought provoking is Half A Life, in which the scientist, Dr. Timicin, is expected to return to his planet Kaelon II for his Resolution, a compulsory suicide at age 60...much to the horror of Lwaxana Troi who has fallen in love with him.The episodes with Data's evil identical twin brother, Lore, are always intriguing. My son is a great fan of the omnipotent Q, though his episodes aren't my personal favourites. Of course there's still assorted drama with the Klingons as well as ongoing strife with those sneaky Romulans, duking it out with the Federation over the Neutral Zone. Spock's father, Sarek, turns up in a couple of episodes and Spock himself makes a wonderful guest appearance in the two part Unification. Scotty also appears in a Next Generation episode, Relics, having been suspended for decades by a transporter glitch.All in all, this is a worthy sequel to the fabulous Original Series...and that was unquestionably a tough act to follow!


                
Is it perfect? - No
Is the acting always amazing?- No
Are the CGI great? - Well, no (understandably) ... an so on... blah blah blah.
But, oh boy, is this a breath of fresh Air or what?!
Let me explain. I watched this alongside a modern show (nothing to do with Star Trek) but wow. The modern show was all about thrills- violence, sex scenes, intense and dark narrative. While this Gem shone out from the 90s with a message of hope, morals, an idea that humanity can do better.I'll leave it to you to decide, but we could do with a few Picards, Rykers, Crushers and Datas out there.


                
Today, we find televisions shows to be more often than not one-dimensional, and with good cause: the majority of people love one-dimensional television shows that often do not raise cerebral themes nor query the mind to life's deeper questions. The proof behind this theory lies within the usual top 10 shows here at TV.com, but I digress from this point. The main point is that Star Trek: The Next Generation is a show that is for the intelligent viewer, and shows like this do not exist in prominence anymore Themes such as humanity's purpose, galactic politics (which of course draw upon and translate to the politics of the world today), and the discovery of the unknown permeate throughout this series from episode one to episode 176.The Next Generation follows the 24th century crew on board the Starship Enterprise D captained by Jean-luc Picard. Joining him on his discovery of the galaxy are Will Riker, Data, Worf, Geordi LaForge, Deanna Troi, Beverly Crusher, and Wesley Crusher. Each character has a unique and integral background within the show, and they help us relate to the show with various allusions to people we know and understand. Picard draws upon the persona of a French philosophe of the Enlightenment (Picard is French after all). He has a strict set of high morals which do not falter throughout the series (let's not talk about the movies) and always relies on them to make the correct, well thought-out judgments. Picard is a natural-born leader as well for he radiates self-confidence and intellect. Picard is joined by his first Commander Will Riker. Riker evolves in the series from a young and eager star fleet officer to a smart, wise, and mature "Number 1" as Picard refers to him as. We find Riker to be very cunning in his tactics not only as a commander, but also with the ladies. Many of us headstrong males can relate well to Riker in these regards. Lieutenant-Commander Data is perhaps the most interesting character in that he is an Android possessing amazing powers who would trade them all for the flaws of humanity. The security chief Lieutenant-Commander Worf is the first Klingon serving in Star Fleet, and there are times we find him having to fight his natural tendencies as a Klingon when he needs to conform to Star Fleet standards, but having been raised by humans, Worf is able to keep himself in check. Geordi LaForge runs engineering as a blind man yet with a sight-enhancing visor which allows him in some respects to see more than even the average person can. He is an every-man who always gets the job done and exceeds expectations. Deanna Troi is a half Betazoid who utilizes her gifts as the ships counselor. She understands the emotions of people so well, and sometimes I imagine myself wanting to talk to her about my meager problems. Doctor Beverly Crusher is an inquisitive and moral doctor (quite similar to Picard in some respects), and is open to new ideas in the world of medicine and even beyond in the scientific community. She is joined by her son, Wesley Crusher who is a genius comparable to Mozart-as stated in the show. His gifts serve the crew of the Enterprise in various creative ways.Throughout the show, this unique crew chemically reacts with each other to form a new substance: that of efficiency, discovery, and righteousness. We leave this show knowing and loving this crew individually and as a whole. The genius of the show and many other shows is creating this bond with the audience and characters. Beyond that, Star Trek makes us think inwardly after we watch the show, something few shows do. The themes are very deep, even spiritual. I encourage each and every person to watch and think big about what you see. I leave you with this quote, "The human race is a remarkable creature, one with great potential, and I hope Star Trek has helped to show us what we can be if we believe in ourselves and our abilities." Gene Roddenberry, author and creator of Star Trek.
OK , so this is what you'll find in this series. Exploration, philosophy, spirituality, ethical situations, politics, human rights, classic time travel, cold wars and espionage for the most part. The variety of stories are rich, & almost each of the enterprise characters that are introduced have a chance to be fleshed out. Even incidental characters or ones that seem like nothing but support casts have a dedicated episode to show their acting chops. These little episodes are treats since we get to see the depth and range of characters personality that hasn't been tackled. There is a lot of intelligent dialogue and memorable episodes involving robots rights and respecting cultural belief systems. Some of the series highlights are the episodes with the borg and their never ending assimilation drive.Conflicts between the enterprise crew was not as much of highlight like the first star trek series unless it was due to a coercive circumstances where a crewman is doing it against his conscious will.Other episodes involve the holodeck which is a matrix style 3D interacting representation of any setting or circumstance desired by its crew. There are some great episodes that came from this area as well. Where holodeck characters become self aware and attempt to leave the holodeck room. The first few seasons are OK do to the costumes and settings. The episodes are a little corny but they still have substance. The seasons after that the writing shines and some episodes are truly thought provoking. It is important to note that the pacing of these episodes are slow and steady. If you are looking for action packed, speed suspense or a more modern approach to the star trek series i would say stick with the newest or recent show star trek:enterprise.
In the true spirit of Star Trek, The Next Generation is a voyage of contrasts. It entails adversity yet optimism as well; it carries perils yet also an unwavering belief in the triumph of morality. While the special effects continue to trail those of other notable sci-fi productions (chiefly Star Wars), the strength of Star Trek lies in its profound exploration; not so much of space as of our selves.While the original Trek broke new ground by having a multi-ethnic and gender-diverse crew at the height of racial segregation in the US, TNG takes it a step further. The age-old adversaries of the Federation are now allies through the presence of the dour yet intriguing Lt. Worf. Brent Spiner succeeds Leonard Nimoy as the Enterprise's voice of logic through the logical, yet lovable, android Data. And at the head of this diverse complement stands Captain Jean-Luc Picard, whose courage and moral fiber will be put to the test as the Enterprise begins its seven- year voyage, cruising the vast expanse of the galaxy.Some episodes are no doubt very weak, but boring through them is well worth it to reach the defining moments of the show (personal favorites of mine include "Who Watches the Watchers", "Déjà Q", "The Drumhead" and "The Measure of a Man"). In an analogy from the Klondike mining fields; you have to sift through quite a few pans of gravel to get to the rarest of gems. But once you do, it will have been well worth the wait.9/10, but I rate it 10/10 to bring the average closer to that value.


                
I was a teenager still in school when the premiere of Star Trek The Next Generation happened in mid-1987. A lot of die-hard Trekkers, including my father dismissed the news of a new television series based on the beloved 1960s show as nothing more than a fluke riding on the wave of massive popularity thanks to the huge box office returns of the first four Star Trek films.But, when TNG premiered, I was absolutely blown away, here we had a (then) state of the art Enterprise, capable of separating during battle, a holodeck where people could interact with computer images, and a bridge that looked more like a hotel lobby than the old bridge of the 1960s shows.Even the costumes were very 80s! Taking in tight fitting one piece spandex uniforms over the glamorous 60s costumes from the original show.The standout, of course is Royal Shakepere Company actor Sir Patick Stewart as Captain Jean Luc Picard, while not as much of an action captain as his predecessor, was a stand out authoritarian. Brint Spiner taking the Spock role as the android Data, Gates McFadden as the sexy Dr. Beverly Crusher, Jonathan Frakes taking on the first officer role, Commander Riker, Sexy Betazoid shrink, Deanna Troi, played by Mirina Sirtis, The grouchy Klingon Worf, played by former Chips star, Michael Dorn, the late Tasha Yar, played by Denise Crosby, and of course the child prodigy, who was designed to attract younger viewers, Wesley Crusher, played by teen actor, Wil Wheaton.For seven seasons, the Enterprise D took her place alongside the original Enterprise as a great vessel of adventure, and excitement. What followed were four average Next Generation films which could not live up to the television show's popularity.All in all, I would say that Star Trek definitely lived long and prospered with The Next Generation, a show that equals in both popularity and quality with the beloved Original Series from the 1960s.
What makes Star Trek TNG so emotionally powerful, decades after its creation, is the durability of the message it carries: humanity CAN improve and overcome its petty modern squabbles. The human race CAN become a great force for good in the galaxy, can strive to explore the farthest reaches of the universe and discover wonders beyond our wildest dreams. We will still have problems; we will still be flawed, we will still be human. But we can strive nonetheless.TNG is not some perfect and idyllic view of the 24th century, seen through the eyes of saints. The 24th century has problems too; seven seasons' worth of them. It wouldn't be any fun otherwise, and besides, Lt. LaForge wouldn't have anything to fix. But the scope and span of those problems are astounding even for today's world. TNG was one of the first shows to confront the problem of artificial sentience--and actually came up with an answer, and a good one. Captain Picard and his valiant crew faced problems in the 80's that were far-fetched and ridiculous at the time--from string theory to power sources that harmed the environment--and are far more pertinent or possible today. Gene Roddenberry and crew were visionaries who foresaw a future much like the present, except that humanity had gained a little more sense, thanks to WWIII.The characters are complex and endlessly fascinating; the missions range from hilarious to heartbreaking to just plain breathtaking. Everybody slips and falls sometimes, but they pick themselves up again and keep on going. Picard remains my compass for utter moral steadfastness, and Data reminds me to never be afraid of the potential for artificial intelligence.Unlike many, many of the other sci-fi shows available, Star Trek is nearly unique in that its vision of the future is a positive one. Not ridiculously perfect or stupidly happy, but just an improvement on the present. Humanity has not degenerated into a brawling pack of thieves but instead evolved into the co-creators of a vast and (mostly) peaceful Galactic Federation. And, most importantly, we retain the insatiable thirst for knowledge that led us to explore the wild west and the abyss and land a man on the moon. Humanity strives for something greater; it's who we are. It's the heart and soul of the Star Trek franchise, and especially TNG. Three hundred years in the future, we're still Boldly Going. And that is the true nobility that makes this series one of the greatest ever made.


                
This is the best Trek show, and why?  Because I do like the other 3 but original-too goofy.  Ds9-way too boring sometimes.  Voyager--ok but not like this.  This is just the best trek show.


                
There have been five star trek serials now: Star Trek, Star Trek the next generation, Star Trek deep space 9, Star Trek voyager and Enterprise.Star Trek was 10/10, simply because it was so novel and the character interactions were so well done. Kirk made a great captain, Spock was a unique person but also a unique first officer, McCoy provided many laughs and was always questioning Kirk and especially Spock's decisions. The music was also varied and good.Star Trek the next generation was a little different from star trek. It didn't seem to be as catching because it seemed subdued. Much of this probably has to do with Captain Picard. Picard takes some getting used to. He seems stoic and unemotional outwardly. However, the more one watches him the more he realises that Picard's style is simply different from Kirk's or most captains. Riker is an excellent first officer, with Kirk's tactical skills. Worf is a great security man and one of the best characters ever on any star trek series is Data. Data is played by an excellent actor and his growth on the series is something the viewer will appreciate. LaForge, Crusher and Troi are excellent side characters. Star Trek the next generation was a 9/10.Star Trek deep space 9 took a year or two to get going. By the 3rd season, it was good. The 4th, 5th and 6th seasons were great. The last two years, however, were not so good. The show became obsessed with one enemy, the Dominion. This could have been a good thing but turned bland because the settings were always the same and no new characters were introduced. The idea simply got worn out and wasn't executed too well to begin with. Star Trek deep space 9 had memorable characters, though not in the league of the previous two series. Captain Sisko became too military-like and robotic in the last two years. Kira was too much of a feminist to begin with, while Dr.Bashir, Chief O'Brian, Garak, Dukat, Odo and Quark were excellent characters. Star Trek deep space 9 was the third best serial in the series. 8/10.Star Trek voyager wasn't watched much by me. Star Trek started going downhill at this point. Janeway was a pretty good captain but the plots were starting to become darker and character interactions were becoming superficial. Love triangles and inane comedy was beginning to be introduced. Seven Of Nine was nothing special as an actor or character yet the plots seemed to revolve around her. The writers started losing the essence of Star Trek with this show. 5/10.Enterprise is the newest Star Trek serial. It ran from 2001 to 2005. I don't know what the writers and producers and directors were thinking when they made this show. Or rather, I do know what they were thinking. And they weren't normal thoughts. Firstly, they tried to get away from being associated with Star Trek by taking out the words Star Trek from the show's title. They then brought in Scott Bakula to play the part of the captain and a woman for the second officer position whose only appeal is supposed to be for her looks. The plots may be alright but 90% of the show is spent on crew relationships and saying hackneyed, dull comical lines. The reason behind all this is to appeal to the younger generation of viewers, those who are 14 to 23 years old. These viewers grew up in the age where television has gone dramatically downhill due to feminism and bad scripts. Explosions on the screen is the way a show's greatness is judged these days. Or if there are character interactions present, it will be in the form of American Idol or other 'reality' based contests. Without the element of diverse natures, mystery and the uncertainty of how a character will respond, the fun in watching television loses its appeal. Enterprise is 2/10.Star Trek the next generation was one of the greatest serials made for television. Gene Rodenberry's input on that show was one reason it did so well. I don't think he would approve of where the Star Trek legacy has gone now.


                
Star Trek: The Next Generation is, in my opinion, the absolute best of the Star Trek series.The first season was a bit rocky, at times even a bit corny. Throughout the first season, there are mistakes in filming, such as visible light stands in some scenes and in one episode, one of the film crew's hand can be seen retrieving a glass (can only be seen on the DVD, TV broadcasts cut enough of the shot that this wasn't visible). Anyway, things greatly improved into the second and third seasons. Not only did character acting improve, the scripts became more interesting.It's unfortunate that TNG only lasted 7 seasons. It had a good run, but many of the fans, including myself, wanted more.


                
The first Star Trek and the journeys of its cast ended in a disaster after just three seasons, but thanks to its fan base support and (by 1986) four great movies in their name in 1987 Paramount and Gene Roddenberry knew that the time had finally come to hand over the TV series to a new generation, hence the name. Despite the early opposition, they held on to the plan that would result in one of the best sci-fi series ever produced. Gene's hope for humans to work together for a brighter future in the cosmos finally began bearing fruit after just almost 19 years.TOS was just a prelude to the more wider universe that this series tried so hard for many to explore, with newer planets and races to meet up (like the Borg and Ferengi) and more stories to tell, and Starfleet's traditions and its academy began to be more explored as the series moved on.No more would be ladies nor strength count in this one. Now, wit, wisdom, courage and determination are the norm in this... the very series which at long last brought the future to a new and growing generation of viewers all over the world as the 1980s began to close. This was the first in which Star Trek's signature computer system debuted, the orange screens made their first appearance and everyone saw the famous computed controlled Holodeck and the Ten Forward bar. Above all else was a truly modern USS Enterprise (NCC-1701D)- more larger, more equipped and more grander than ever before... and its now 1000 plus crew and the people at the helm of it.First up is Sir Patrick Stewart as the more diplomat and capable warrior Captain Jean-Luc Picard, a Anglo-French type of officer and gentleman in Starfleet that is more smarter, disciplined and better than Cpt. Kirk. Jonathan Frakes as Commander William Riker, Picard's Number One and deputy is a more capable officer who knows that he must do his job well. LeVar Burton's role as Chief Engineer LTCDR Geordi La Forge, blind but capable of doing his duties, is nicely done. Brent Spiner as CDR Data is one of the best officers, an android that truly wants to be like every human. Proving that working together regardless of race can bring victory is the lone Klingon officer, LT Worf, acted out great here by Michael Dorn, who serves as the chief security officer later on. This was the job that was first taken by LT Tasha Yar (well played by Denise Crosby) but only briefly - we all know what happened to her. Q, played here by John De Lancie, has well earned praise for his great act. Colm Meaney first started out as one of the communications officers, but later became more better as Irish Transport Chief Miles Edward O'Brien. Whoopi Goldberg as Guinian proved to be more better than her duty had provided while Michelle Forbes as Bajoran ENS Ro Laren is a more efficient one.LTCDR (later CDR) Counselor Deanna Troi, acted well by Marina Sirtis, is one lady who inspires all who approach her, and is in fact Riker's fiancée. Dwight Schultz as LT Reginald Barclay does well in his engineering skills and abilities. LTCDR Dr. Beverly Crusher, played great by Gates McFadden (the first lady doctor of the franchise) is the ship's chief of medicine and does a great job handling whoever comes to her for treatment. Her brief successor, CDR Dr. Katherine Pulaski (played well by Diana Muldaur), a Polish-American, proved to be a less able but more working doctor. Rounding them all is her son, child prodigy Acting Ensign (later ENS and CDT4C) Wesley Crusher - we all know Wil Wheaton acted well in this role - the acting officer who brings the experience to teens and kids of his time, and despite being the subject of opposition emerges as the hero in several occasions.Who would remember the many guest starts who took time here like James Doohan and DeForest Kelley, both of TOS, Ronny Cox of Taps fame, Daniel Davies and so many others? And one would remember Majel Barrett Roddenberry as the voice of the computer system.. as well as Deanna's mother.Indeed, this series became the trigger that led to ST becoming the series we truly know and love today. 25 years after its debut it has inspired so many and made thousands of people become part of its legacy. Truly, even as Gene would pass away at the time of the series turning 25 and TNG's season four, his blueprint remains in all of us who honor his everlasting vision steadfast and true and are prepared to, just as Captain Picard would tell his crew, make it so.As the saga lives on in all of us in the next 25 years and counting, it's time to engage.


                
I cant really say anything about this show that doesn't make this show awesome. I like every show as much (almost) and it has some kind of magic that some of the movies don't have. The special effects are very good from the second season and the acting is very good, near perfect from everybody on the show. I am sure that this show will always be in the memory of people as the best or second best Star Trek show. Sometimes I cant understand people who are afraid to like them like my friend and my brother. They are afraid to like so they don't watch it. I will always love this show more than any of the movies or other Star Trek show and I can say that I am proud of being a Trekkie.


                
Silicon Avatar --Not a very good episode, but even more so because the "so-called" scientist was hell bent on revenge; something that has been told through the annals of history to be an extremely flawed ideology.She completely ruined her science career for doing nothing but fulfilling something she felt her son would've wanted her to do... on that he didn't.Most people will agree with her intentions because we still in a century of having a very primitive mindset. The average intelligent human being today (living in the early 21st century) would have rooted her on like a fanatic football fan with their mouth full of beer and hot dogs.But this isn't today (thank goodness), and what the scientist did is something that a primitive human being (living today) would have done.She was wrong on ALL accounts, and the crystalline entity, for which was not evil nor had evil intentions, was plain and simply "cold murdered".She should not only lose her career, but should be locked up away for life until hers expires, like she did to the defenseless entity that was interested in making contact to perhaps amend for its actions.The entity was not a mass murderer, but she is most certainly now a murder.P.S. Picard was way ahead of the bunch in this episode. My congrats for him being extraordinarily enlightened in the face of adversaries.
After watching the entire series on bluray, I have to say that the overall quality of every episode is remarkably consistent. Patrick Stewart as Captain Picard is undoubtedly brilliant, and Brent Spiner is not far behind playing the android Data. The rest of the "gang" fits in nicely, although I don't enjoy the character Worf as much and every episode with him as the main character is not as good as the others. But on the whole it is a great show with interesting reoccurring moral predicaments and philosophical questions about the understanding of humanity. As someone pointed out, the world would be a lot happier place to live in if its leaders would sit down and watch the show and learn from it.After you finished watching the series, the perfect "epilogue" would be the only really good Star Trek film, Star Trek: First Contact (1996). An excellent finale of the whole Star Trek TNG experience, which also connects with the episode Q Who? (S2E16) where the Federation first encounter the Borg. So, if you've never seen Star Trek before, this is the way I would start, because it is simply the best of Star Trek.


                
Without giving up any spoilers; this series is as good as the original yet couldn't be any more different. The original is very much Cowboys in Space, but this series is very much a thorough exploration into human morality and how that translates, or ideally should translate, under a vast range of challenging circumstances.That may sound boring, and I can see why, but life is about doing what we believe is right, you do not throw that desire out the window for the sake of comfort, remaining true to your principles and senses of justice are what we fight for, it is our humanity, and this series explores both the obstacles and benefits that such values can offer up.If anything; it may well be idealistic but it is a beautiful vision of the future, that although we remain flawed individuals, we can find and embrace ways to do things in great ways. 10 from 10.


                
