Where to begin? The characters in ST:TNG were just dreadful. The crew was a collection of shiny, happy, perfect, cold fish, with no depth, no passions that ever seemed more than a put-on, and who were evocative of nothing--the sort of people you'd send millions of miles away just to get rid of them. This was probably inevitable, given the circumstances of their creation. Most of them weren't created as "characters" at all, but were conceived as nothing more than line-item gimmicks--an empath, a Klingon, a teenager, a Pinnochio-modeled android, a blind man at the helm.Whatever glue Gene Roddenberry was sniffing at the time convinced him that the last--a blind man leading them--was a *fantastic* metaphor (luckily, cooler heads later prevailed, and the blind guy was packed off to Engineering).Most of the show's significant elements were cannibalized from earlier projects. Storywise, a gap of about 80 years is supposed to exist between the original series and TNG, but they're still using exactly the same technology, in the time of TNG, as they were in the original. All of the same equipment, with all of the same capabilities and limitations; technology hasn't advanced an inch in eight decades. TNG's one technological "innovation" was the holodeck, and even it was lifted from the ST: Phase One project from the '70s (which had mutated into ST: The Motion Picture, sans holodeck). That project also provided two of the other TNG characters: Will Riker was Will Decker from STP1, with Troi as the Ilia-modeled empath with whom he'd formerly had a relationship.TNG also cannibalized the original series for stories. The first season of TNG was littered, from beginning to end, with plots and other elements lifted directly from the original. This unmotley crew of gimmicks spent their first season blandly going where the first Enterprise crew had gone before. The show improved significantly later but its major defects were structural, and stayed with it throughout (which is why it's so hard to watch in re-runs). The improvements shouldn't be overstated, either: TNG ran for 8 seasons, and if one were to extract all the good-to-great episodes from the entire run, there wouldn't be enough to fill a single season. I found much of it unwatchable when first running, and it holds up even worse on second viewings. Overall, just a really awful idea, done, for the most part, badly.The writers also seemed genuinely committed to the notion--and this is one of the things I hated most about TNG--that meaningless technobabble is a substitute for competent writing. The ultimate outcome of what seemed like dozens of episodes hinged on whether a polymorphic induction framistat could be made to generate a positronic field, or whether Geordi and the robot could rejigger a 10 power electron thingamabob to elliptically convert alpha waves into magnetized mercury particles."Make it so, Number One." And he does, and the universe is saved. Except that's really, really stupid, and unengaging. This was a problem TNG never overcame.


                
I was living in Europe when TNG debuted so I didn't begin watching it until 1990. I watched because of my fondness for TOS and because there was no decent alternative. I didn't much care for it then, even though its sets and special effects budgets were noticeably higher than that of TOS. Now that I've begun streaming it on the Internet, I absolutely hate it. I skipped a handful of the Season 1 episodes because of silly plots, and I could not go beyond S2E1.My reasons sustain what other reviewers who gave it a "1" wrote. In no particular order: The characters--
 Wesley, the most repugnant of them all. I could not bear to look at the creep for even a minute. A smart-alec teenager is given the helm of Starfleet's flagship. Right. Why not make him head of Starfleet during his summer vacation?
 Captain Picard. This arrogant Frenchman seemed more suited to owning a restaurant then commanding a starship. When watching him I often thought, "Stick your finger up your nose and Pick Hard." Stewart is a Shakespearean actor, period.
 Guinan. Two male Africans weren't enough. Someone decided a female was needed. What a useless padding role she played by the worst actress they could find.
 Data. Currently we have sex robots that look more realistic than the makeup they gave that character. And couldn't they make his lines consistent? Either he uses contractions or he doesn't.
 Dr. Crusher. Gates was beautiful but unconvincing. Couldn't they find an actress who could pretend she knows something about medicine and medical procedures?
 Geordi. In ST Enterprise, the redneck Trip Tucker said it took him 11 years to become chief engineer, but Geordi jumps from helmsman to the same position in one season on an even more sophisticated starship? Oh, that's right, he's Bantu African, the universe's superior uberrace, like that female captain in S1 "Conspiracy" who rose to captaincy faster than anyone in Starfleet history.The stories. On the whole, I believe they were worse than those of TOS, and I know TOS had some howlers. So many TNG plots were just plain stupid and silly. No Star Trek series was science fiction--they were/are fantasy, but TNG was more "Social Justice" than any of them. Like one reviewer wrote, I would not have been surprised if the cast held hands at the end of each episode, sang "Kumbaya," and encouraged all viewers to vote Democrat and fight white supremacy. Oh, and just because it's cool and our audience is largely dumb, let's have sound in outer space! We'll have wooshing sounds, weapons fire, and explosions. So cool!"The actors. Did Roddenberry raid the Los Angeles office of the Communist Party USA to gather this crew? I see from 2018 perspective what a bunch of Marxist Revolutionary anti-American loons they are. Just about everyone associated with ALL the Star Trek series signed a statement in 2016 opposing presidential candidate Donald Trump and endorsing Hillary Clinton. 
I saw Stewart in person once. He should have been declared persona non grata and sent back to the socialist utopia that is the UK. Would an American who lived in the UK and spent much of his time advocating for the abolishment of the monarchy be welcome there?
 The has-been Wheaton, who couldn't even run a successful game show, fortified his leftist credentials by vulgarly insulting the President of the United States.
 Goldberg: 'Nuff said.


                
