For every good episode there are 3 or 4 utterly boring ones. Even with this series starting in the late 80s other shows from the same time had better writing/production/sets/choreography than this. Why am I reviewing this now? Nostalgia. But unlike most other people reviewing this show I'm not blinded by mine...


                
Star Trek TNG (1987) was just more of renegade Star Trek concepts. I still agree with Bill Shatner's original comment in the newspaper of it not really being Star Trek. The commercial TV previews of it seem to misled me into thinking William Riker was gonna be captain, as it should of been and that Picard was Starfleet Command going along to oversee the Enterprise off. A poll had proved, Picard's baldness may have been sexy but women still prefer men with hair, more so. I didn't care for Deanna Troi character as they used her and Will Riker to play off of what Will Decker & Illya had in the motion picture. Will Decker, Illya and vulcan Sonak were good characters that should of been saved and not wasted into oblivion. Riker & Troi were never anything like Decker & Illya. It was ironic how the android Data wanted to be more human of which was totally the opposite of what Spock wanted. It seemed like the show was trying to say "Encase you don't like Data, well here's Georgi with some eye visors, that seem like an eyesore. Beverly Crusher and her kid Wesley made the Enterprise seem like Romper Room In Space. Capt. Picard was so seriously stiff I couldn't help but be glad when someone else was taking his place and would try to ignore him being there. The only relief I got was when Q was annoying him. I didn't even like the new Enterprise design as it didn't seem anything like any ship of Starfleet but more like a passenger ship on a cruise in space. I got the impression it would of been better as a toy for Elroy Jetson. I didn't particularly care for the Klingon Worf either, as his name sound like a dog barking 'Woof woof woof.' No wonder the Q entity said to him "Worf growl for me." Even though Worf's head was nicknamed Pumpkinhead by some of the cast members, it kinda reminded me of the great wizard of oz hologram head in the classic Wizard of Oz movie, that was scary. But even Worf's growl wasn't scary but reminded me of when a baby is taking a dump in their diapers, hahaha. I kept watching Star Trek TNG not cause I liked it but hoped it would do lousy enough to bring back the original cast, since there was an unexplained gap in years before the Motion Picture that should of been fulfilled, instead of left undone. The dumb use of the word 'Next Generation' seem to be a spin off from some old 1970's TV show that used those words.
