The original Star Trek show was significant in its day for having a crew that was diverse, as in from many different places, which was a good idea. The original show also had the first interracial kiss ever to be on television. So, detractors of the original show and TNG might be called bigots when all they could be are bored with the sometimes feeble story lines and the often hilarious premises contained therein. Star Trek is such a huge thing, it is so many things to so many different people. THG takes the view that women showing their legs is somehow old fashioned,as in they did that in the original show. TNG was something that should have followed the initial show sooner because the world had changed so much from the late 60's to the late 80's as to make all comparisons between the two shows an exercise that was dubious, and perhaps even odious. Lots of thrills and chills in TNG, and a continuation of the Military style format that was The Enterprise In Space. The original show came out during the Vietnam War, but there was no war on in 1987. Maybe someone thought there should have been. Will Rikers character in TNG is good, as in he hails from the country, like Bones from the first show-ouch-odious comparison. Well, at least we have these shows...as if there was nothing else to do with time than watch TV. Tsk Tsk Tsk.


                
I'm a huge Trekkie. I think this series did a great job of creating the universe but didn't run with it as well as movies like First Contact did. Definitely ds9 trumps this in terms of entertainment value


                
In 1987, STAR TREK: TNG was the only act in sci-fi town; and for the first two years, it was a bad act! Wildly inconsistent acting/characters, embarrassing dialogue ("Shut up, Wesley" or "He's frozen!") and a seeming lack of direction (even a flashbacks episode! Right out of FAMILY TIES!). I watched in the hope that it could only get better. In year 3, it did. More stories that sprang from the characters (i.e. SINS OF THE FATHER, THE OFFSPRING), a different 'look' for the show (softer lighting, no more spandex long-john uniforms, slightly better production value) and less inconsistency overall. For a while, it made for some good stories. Some on a par with the classic series (BEST OF BOTH WORLDS, YESTERDAY'S ENTERPRISE). 4th year was more of the same, but a little blander (DATA'S DAY, IDENTITY CRISIS---Geordi turned into an invisible lizard! Okay!). Year 5 offered perhaps the best (most mature) episode of the ENTIRE series; the still astounding INNER LIGHT. Jean Luc Picard's (and Patrick Stewart's) finest hour, despite the bad aging makeup. After that, and a few good episodes out of year 6 (RELICS, FACE OF THE ENEMY) the show got dull. DEEP SPACE 9 came on about then, and added a little spice to the staid, conservative patterns of TREK. But, curiously, DS9 didn't do so good. Fans seem to prefer lukewarm TREK. So VOYAGER warped out of dry dock to dull those sharp edges quickly! After the pilot and about a dozen or so good episodes over 7 long years, VOYAGER was like watching milk thicken into cheese. Just not as tasty or filling! At this point, sci-fi town was awakened and opened for business; there was X-FILES, BUFFY, ANGEL, FIREFLY and my personal favorite, the new BATTLESTAR GALACTICA. These shows made NG seem irrelevant. With its never-changing characters, over use of "techno-babble" as plot-hole Spackle, and constant use of 'reset buttons' to keep the Trek universe status quo (except for the edgy DS9; they blew that button into shrapnel!), NG now seemed like the older, nerdy parent to the wild, rebellious offspring it helped pave the road for. Even classic TREK (with cardboard sets and bouts of overacting) is more enjoyable! For reawakening sci-fi television in the '80s, the show deserves kudos. For staying relevant into the 21st century (like classic TREK and DS9), NG sadly, does not. I do not dismiss ALL of it, and INNER LIGHT still brings a tear to my eye. And I still loved the first two NG feature films; GENERATIONS (it has a mood and illusionary theme very similar to the classic TREK pilot, THE CAGE) and FIRST CONTACT. The last two NG movies were average-at-best. But most of the NG TV series seems too sanitized, clean-cut and over-starched in a wild and unruly new century.
I remember watching a few episodes of this particular show back in my childhood. It seemed interesting if a little complex. And LeVar Burton made a good Geordi La Forge in this series apart from being the Reading Rainbow host. This series felt more animated than its 1960s predecessor and it seemed to have aged well. If only they could put reruns of this show on TV I would love to watch it again and learn more about Picard and the rest of the crew. If I could have one Star Trek of all of them, this would be it. This, the JJ Abrams films (haven't seen the third one), and The Voyage Home. That's what I'll keep.


                
This is better then the first show of star trek. The 7th Star Trek movie Star Trek generation is better. But still this a great show. It has good story lines. It also has good acting. It is a great TV show. The 8th Star Trek movie Star Trek first contact is better.


                
Aliens, spaceships and an android who don't understand humor. That's just three things this show is about. I didn't cared for it when I saw it the first time, but after the second time I was hooked! Brilliant actors, intelligent story lines and very interesting characters: Deanna Troi (the half-betazoid consular), Worf (the first Klingon in Starfleet) and my personal favorite; Data (the android that works to become more human).The show doesn't stuck to one mood, so be prepared to both cry and laugh throughout the whole series (when Lwaxana Troi appears, you will laugh!).One thing though was the character Wesley Crusher that sometimes was a little annoying, but I blame the scriptwriters for that.I don't really know if this review contains things that counts as spoilers, so I'm on the safe side.Voyage!
*Ron Jones getting fired was terrible decision* is a quote from In_Correct from below.I certainly agree.How sad that Gene Roddenberry passed away during the run of this series. The show lost its soul. Still, there are some decent episodes as he laid enough groundwork to keep it flying.When DS9 appeared, the Patton quote came to mind: *Fixed fortifications are monuments to the stupidity of men.*Gone was the joyous hope of the original series replaced with a dedication to gritty unpleasantness. The Trek franchise from this point was a wasteland.One of the perplexing and annoying elements of the post-Gene era was the conceptualization of aliens. Gone was any sense of imagination as we were simply left every week with gobs of paint and rubber on actors' heads as in the old Outer Limits series.Perhaps with the recent movie, it can LLAP once again. It was a very good effort but the jury is still out pending the next one...


                
When this show first aired in 87 I was fan instantly. And for the next 7 years I watched and loved every minute of it. Up until my purchase of the box set DVD a couple of weeks ago, I hadn't seen the show since 1994. And I was shocked at how a show I watched religiously hasn't aged well and seem very corny at times.The stories are still compelling and well written, but all seems a bit to politically correct and almost cheesy. It's like when Riker tells a alien race that kills animals for meat that "we don't enslave our animals, for meat" I was like what? And all that standing around the bridge with big grins and laughing at something whimsical that Data might have said.And the whole federation and it's prime directive seems like it is something that has just been spewed out from the EU parliament. It has a idealistic, wishful thinking, outlook of the future of humanity. That in todays terroristic climate is something that we will never archive, let alone in 400 years time.Thats not to say the ST:TNG is bad because it's hasn't aged well. 90% of the episodes are amazingly fun to watch, and some even shocking. The last few season of the show are all quality, and is worth watching just to see Patrick Stewart's performance. And has laid the foundations for shows like Stargate and Battlestar Galactica, and made the television producers realise that sci-fi can be intelligent and adult.TNG is still the best of the Startrek franchises hands down and should be watched by all sci-fi fans.


                
I must say, why do we have be so... Well tired. What happened to our sense of humor? To be fair I didn't grow up on this. I didn't grow up on any Star Trek. I just ask that these people have a conversation. Let's talk about their flaws. One of them has to feel lonely occasionally right? Now I know, Data is an excellent character. He feels that he wants to feel emotion and my favorite episode is the one where he creates his own offspring. The episode is sad and I recommend it. Riker's smile is also a memorable sign of emotion. Everything else feels very monotone. The morals are there and it's cool but it's weird I am all about morals and truth and standing up to inspire but for that to be executed properly we must first explore the bigotry of ourselves. Simply stating a moral doesn't make it good writing. Good writing puts a twist on us. Another thing is the technobabble (I know I'm not a full fledged Trekkie.) Most of the Trek talk probably isn't even accurate so why put so much emphasis on it and just get to the story? I'm not a Trek hater I have my share of likes and this series has some notable entries. The one where Riker is convinced he lost his memory, Picard being there for that kid, the Yesterday's Enterprise. I like the actual character developments not the fake sciences. I mean absolutely no offense good Trekkies but remember a wise saying, "Opinions are like assholes. Everybody has one."


                
