Following the success of the Star Trek movies in the mid 1980s, the producers decided to put ST back on the small screen with a shiny new Enterprise a new crew and a whole host of new species worlds and enemies. The first season and the majority of the second season are a bit shaky but from the third season it picks up massively. Patrick Stewart is now the captain, a more cerebral, diplomatic captain and played wonderfully. This series introduced far more relationships between the crew (Troi and Riker, Worf and his son, Crusher and Picard) which play out beautifully over the course of the series. The Special effects considering their now nearly 15-20 years old still look good and the Enterprise D is a true flagship vessel.There's so many good episodes it's kind of hard to pick out anymore than the main standouts most people have mentioned already, Yesterday's Enterprise, The Best of Both Worlds, The Inner Light are probably the most popular but everything, certainly post seasons one and two provides good solid sci fi.


                
While a pioneering series, it's still not consistent episode to episode and some story arcs aren't compelling. I love episodes involving Q and the Borg


                
In its time, TNG was a moderately dull show with a lot of heart but also a lot of '80s-'90s camp where the heart should have been visible. And it wasn't as good as the original series by any stretch of the imagination.However, I believe Picard was a better captain than Kirk, because he spent his time trying to solve problems rather than get green women into bed with him. And Picard's crew is probably one of the best ever assembled for a Star Trek adventure. However, the episodes, for me, have this sort of detached atmosphere that makes it feel like they exist only in their own little universe. I'm aware of the fact that that statement made absolutely no sense, so... go back and watch an episode. Pay attention to the imagery and music... you'll see what it means.At least this show had clever writing and good acting, if nothing else. And to those of you who consider this show a sacrilege, I strongly urge you to reconsider. Many people already have, and most of them are, today, this show's biggest fans. Just don't miss out on something that may not be great, but is still well worth experiencing.


                
I was sceptical, as were many fans of the original Star Trek series, when they announced a new Star Trek series. But I have to say, the new lot acquitted themselves pretty darn well, and took the franchise and ran with it.The shows' plots ranged from dumb to fantastic (much like the original series!) but in the end, it was the characters that kept you watching the show, not the plots. You watched it to see how they'd react to the situations they were placed in. So it became a character-driven, rather than plot-driven, show. And that's no bad thing.The only negative thing I'll say was the overuse of certain plot devices, like time-travel, as well as the dropping of some fantastic ideas without any explanation. The parasitic invaders episode (Conspiracy and the follow ons) was one of the episodes with great promise for future stories but, despite leaving the ending open (with the invaders getting off a message) nothing more came of it. Again they did this with Armus (Skin of Evil). The potential for Armus to escape the planet and become a nemesis of the crew was overlooked. And again, with the weird beings that existed in sub-space (and who experimented on the crew) - they launched a probe (it was believed) into our universe and the ending was left open, but again, no follow-up. A shame, since that particular episode (Schisms) was about as close as the show came to being scary - the clicking noises made by the beings was particularly sinister.But on the whole, the series delivered and continued the Star Trek name with laudable skill.EDIT: I'm rewatching these now (2014) with the benefit of the Bluray remastering and I can honestly say I'm having fun! The quality of the remastering is excellent and the show totally holds up to today's standards. Quality-wise, I prefer Season 3 over the rest, but they are all pretty good.


                
TNG pioneered modern Star Trek as we know it today. Great series with unique plots


                
Very good, almost everything in this series is good, the story is good, the characters interesting, the soundtrack very good, only the special effects are a bit bad, but otherwise I found the filne very good. Highly recommend.


                
"Space... The final frontier. These are the voyages of the starship Enterprise. It's continuing mission, to explore strange new worlds. To seek out new life and new civilizations. To boldly go where no one has gone before"Once you heard those words you know it was time to tune into one of the greatest TV shows ever created not only is it continuing what the original series Star Trek started but it has help created a new generation of fans and shows how it can stand on it own against all others.Star Trek: The Next Generation is the Star Trek series I grew up with as a kid and how I became a fan of Star Trek, I still have my toys from the series as well along with the Enterprise D star ship which is my favorite Star Trek ship.This series feature a new cast of characters who served on board the U.S.S. Enterprise D the successor of the original Enterprise under the command of Captain Jean-Luc Picard (Patrick Stewart).Commander William Riker (Johnathan Frakes),Lt.Commander Geordi La Forge (LeVar Burton), Lt.Worf (Michael Dorn), Counselor Deanna Troi (Marina Sirtis) Lt.Commander Date (Brent Spiner) Dr.Beverly Crusher (Gates McFadden) Each of them bring something special to the characters and make them legends in their own right and are fan favorites among the fans my personal favorites Captain Picard, Beverly Crusher and Data.The series feature well done brilliant acting from the cast, well written stories and excellent special effects.The series also gave us some of the best episodes not only for Star Trek but for Television as well some of my personal favorite episodes are "Yesterday's Enterprise" "Best of both Worlds" "Cause and Effect" Time's Arrow" "A Fistful of Datas" "Genesis" "Relics" "The Game" "Who watches the Watchers" "The Big Goodbye" and so many others the redefine television. Star Trek: The Next Generation to this day is as strong successful series that just gets better with age, well crafted acting, well written stories and special effects that you don't get to see too often on TV. Do yourself a favor and watch Star Trek The Next Generation Make it so


                
I was watching this again on Netflix and God I forgot how much I loved it. I remembered in theory. This show was when I became a fan of Patrick Stewart but my God how well the show stands up in my heart.My favorite episodes are still my favorite episodes. I remember loving Who Watches The Watchers and I still think the episode is fantastic for an early episode. The two part Best of Both Worlds is still chilling. Characters I didn't particularly care for don't bother me as much now like Wesley Crusher and Wil Riker mainly because their actors grew on me over the years. Wil Wheaton is the best and got a bum rap as a kid but so is life. TNG was always my favorite of the Treks because Patrick Stewart was my secret husband. My god did I have a crush on that man. The show is hardly perfect and if you want to be technical DS9 is better written with better characters who act in a more logical manner, but what I love about it still stands today like it did when it aired and what I disliked seems to have evaporated with time.
I love the Star Trek shows and have watched every episode of every series and spin-off series except for the cartoons...I don't do Star Trek cartoons. So, you can rightly assume I am a really big fan of the shows. However, I am not one of those rabid fans who is so blind that I think EVERY Trek series is perfect and better than any show ever made. No...sometimes the shows were not so great and some times (such as with "The Inner Light" from season five) they were brilliant. Obviously, though, I must really like this show since I gave it an 8. So what is the good and what is the bad? The good would include some truly innovative and amazingly fresh plots, great special effects and some very likable characters (such as Worf). The would include female characters who are more poorly written (Tasha Yar was very one-dimensional, Dr. Crusher's character was inconsistent and Counselor Troi was, at times, unnecessary--and I wanted strong females in the show) as well as a few episodes that were WAY too cerebral and relied on answers that seemed to come out of no where. On balance, however, the good far outweighed the bad and this series was among the very, very best of the Trek shows...perhaps the best.


                
Set in the 24th century and decades after original crew of the starship Enterprise, the new Enterprise NCC 1701-D is commanded by Captain Jean-Luc Picard (Patrick Stewart).This is a follow up to the TV series (1966-69) and the success of the movies made after. This is a slightly more flashy setup. They're using more CG. The big addition is the holodeck, an artificially created environment, which is basically a virtual reality. This series is most notable for restarting the series with a sequel and new characters/actors. This would lead to even more movies. It is definitely a worthy continuation of the Star Trek universe. That is not always a guarantee especially for an iconic series like Star Trek.


                
I recently came across some "beardless Riker" episodes I had never seen before that rekindled my interest. How fresh and playful these oldies look! The very first one "Encounter at Farpoint", introduces all main characters in the most interesting way. The second "The Naked Now" is a delightful self-mockery. The obvious financial limitations of the first season -- Tasha Yar is being killed by an over-sized oil slick -- only emphasize the importance of a good story and capable actors. Riker's beard is camouflage for a great performer. And I do believe Denise Crosby was right to jump off the train so soon -- it's hard to be noticed beside Marina Sirtis, Brent Spiner and Patrick Stewart.Captain Kirk's legacy was certainly a tough one to live up to, but The Next Generation has had its very own flavor from the start. Obviously the times had changed, not only the perception of women and blacks but also in terms of war and reckless social behavior. Kirk & Co. were firmly rooted in the Cold War, but also explorers -- they had something to run away from, real barriers to break down. Compared to Kirk's daring and sometimes foolhardy adventure, the Next Generation crew are a collection of anxious parents commuting between outposts -- they only travel "Where No One Has Gone Before" by accident. But between them and Kirk, some more fundamental brainwashing -- or genetic engineering? -- has been going on.Back in the 70's it was accepted -- if not in the script, then clearly in the whole structure of the series -- that the "human condition" posed certain limits one could not go beyond: There would always be irrationality, inequality and competition, and the series revolved around exposing these vulnerabilities and trying make the most of them. It is no coincidence that the character "Q" appears in the very first episode of TNG, accusing Picard of exactly these shortcomings, and keeps turning up like the annoying ghost of Christmas past. These issues, which were the life blood of the original Star Trek, have already been solved for TNG. Humanity has purged poverty and starvation sometime between Kirk and Picard, and afterward violent disposition, greed and need naturally(!) disappeared. That assertion is never questioned, ultimately the whole perception of Picard humanity as the peak of rationality and "civilisation" rests upon it. Man has recovered faith in society and military discipline. The remaining questions of right or wrong now lie with the individual; malfunctions of the system as such occur merely in the Klingon Empire -- therefore Klingons seem so much more "human"! TNG is -- superficially -- way ahead of our imperfect present, but on the other hand it simply mirrors the resurgence of conservatism and the comfy belief that society will change for the better all by itself. A tempting notion, but also dangerously naive. Picard and crew are essentially Humans Version 2.0, "grown-ups" from an almost ideal environment -- humanity like it should be, with a few Vulcan genes thrown in. The morality corset of self-control imposed on these "advanced" role models naturally blunts the "edge" of real human experience -- a Kirk would maybe not stand a chance to command here. So the series projects our quarrels onto other races in a most entertaining way. One advantage TNG has over its predecessor is the variety and importance of its center-stage aliens - Betazoid, Ferengi, Borg ... and Data, the android on the quest for emotions. The underlying morality never fails to emphasize how desirable this state of rational(!) humanity is. Episodes that overstep the limits of accepted behavior are, of course, the most fun (and usually the most trivial) -- the relishing self-irony of the actors is a great thing that gradually wanes as TNG becomes "serious" business (coinciding with the growing-up of Wesley Crusher from a cheeky kid into a stiff, pimple-less symbol of perfection). I don't crave life aboard the Enterprise, but drop me off on Betazed any day!My favorites: The "Ménage à Troi", all Worf/Klingon ones ("Sins of the Father", "Reunion", "Redemption") and of course the Locutus/Borg double episodes ("The Best of Both Worlds") -- these are most likely on everybody's hit list. Suspense never rose so high in TNG! But don't watch too many of them at random - each one has to be savored, although it's easy to be annoyed by the ever-present military backdrop and the "sirs" -- a virus not even Klingons are immune to, and distracted from the thought-food that The Next Generation has to offer, besides simply outstanding storytelling qualities.


                
Decades after Kirk's five-year-mission(that only lasted three... oops), a new crew(you might say that they're the "next generation"... eh? Eh?) is travelling space in a new Enterprise(it was evidently a bad move to call it the same as the original, because Trekkies responded(at first) with the indignant fury that only hardcore nerds and pious religious folk can muster). They are led by the seemingly chronically bald Stewart(no, even in the future, a cure has not been discovered... however, apparently no one will care) as the calm and diplomatic Captain Picard, with the charming Frakes as his more action-driven(there are very well-done sequences of that here) second-in-command(and the one who takes over for the Shat in teaching alien women to love), with the smokin' hot Sirtis as the empathic "counselor"(read: therapist and mind-, er, emotion-reader) Troi(with an utterly indeterminable accent), Spiner(who does amazing work here) replacing Spock as the "not quite human, albeit looking darn much like one" regular, as Data, the android that *desperately* wants to be exactly like us, who yearns to properly "feel", Burton as the slightly socially awkward techie, Geordi, perpetual bad-ass Dorn as the Klingon warrior Worf who... well, I'm not sure what the heck they have him doing(my theory is that they hired him, then realized they had nothing for him to do, but they didn't dare fire him. I don't blame them), and McFadden as the kind if also at times pragmatic Dr. Crusher(yes, ouch), who, unfortunately, brought along her intolerable kid, Wesley(who goes back and forth between being the whiz kid and the one who asks the questions that the dumbest audience members might want to). They go on many adventures, exploring themes and psychology, treating important subjects(as with all science fiction, perhaps all of ST, this is greatest when it's relatable, based on something you can understand, and compare to reality properly) with just the right amount of subtlety that viewers don't turn it off, and that the impact is not lost. There are countless great guest stars, including frequent appearances by a surprisingly good Whoopi Goldberg. The characters remain the best aspect, and there is an appropriate amount of self-irony about the ones that need it. Casting is spot-on and acting is spectacular for the most part(John DeLancie as Q is priceless). It is no longer a futuristic Western, we are now in pure sci-fi territory. Like TOS, there is food for thought, we get techno-babble(the viewers still have to figure out stuff from piecing together what the different technology does and how it works), misogynism, arrogance, heavy-handedness, and, well, Roddenberry(R.I.P.) clearly didn't get less naive with age, as this adds socialism to the condescension and better-knowing(seriously, you can practically sense the raised, wagging index finger), without taking the consequence of it, with big holes... this is very much a utopian view of the future. The tone is different, and there is an emphasis on continuity. When this works, and that is the majority of the time, it is smart, sweet, funny or all of the above. We're blessed with higher production values, with less corners cut and enough FX that it is easy to tell what's going on. This is especially the case from the second season(when changes for the better were made, relating to make-up, cinematography and such... the exposition gets an increase in smoothness, as well; you can really tell when it begins) and onwards, and from the third, this *really* got to be excellent; it found its voice. The writing can be really tight. There are missed opportunities, plots that could have been followed up on. Among the episodes are *perfect* ones. The ending is fairly satisfying. Oh, and teen problems and emo does *not* belong in this franchise. There is disturbing content, mild to moderate violence and relatively direct, if not graphic, sexuality in this. The DVDs come with special features, and these tend to be well-done, informative and contain cool anecdotes. I recommend this to any fan of the genre. There are far worse ways to spend hours of your life. 8/10


                
My Dad is a serious Trekkie, I'm a StarWars fanatic.. but honestly it doesn't get better than following the journey of the crew of the Enterprise D.. finally watched the whole 7 series from start to finish this year (2018) and it is still beyond its time, touch screen tech, transportation, and warp drive.. where did Gene get these inspirations from.. best Trek series in the galaxy 8/10


                
I can say that I did enjoy both Star Trek and Star Trek Next Generation notwithstanding the occasional dosage of syrupy liberal ideology. The most interesting episodes dealt with Captain Picard (Patrick Stewart) and the nature of leadership. Partrick Steward brought to the part the same qualities that he brought to the part of Emperor Tiberius Caeaser's hatchet man Serjanus in the NPR Masterpiece Theatre Production of I Claudius: a self-confidence projecting an air of authority backed up by a clear stentorian voice.I can't say I much liked the episodes involving Q (John de Lancie) and the continuum, but in Tapestry (Season 6, Episode 15 aired 13 February 1993) the overlay of the theme from the Continuum story line crossed over with the study of the nature of command was perhaps the best in the entire series and presents the age old question: What if you could undo your worst performance. In Captain Picard's case that was a bar room brawl. Q allows Picard to relive the moment and the world turned upside down.Picard yes he made in to the Enterprise but never attained rank and is regarded by the Command Group as marginally adequate. Can you live with your mistake? Will Picard beg Q to set things aright by living the moment he's most ashamed of? The episode was extraordinarily well done.


                
Star Trek: The Next GenerationRoddenberry's second creation of an elite group exploring space through humanity is a remarkable milestone for not only television but the sci-fi genre itself. As it quips repetitively, it dares go where no one has been before, and analyzes the good and bad of the nature. And it's that wide range of nature that is touched down, in all its hokum that it calls for, the answers are overwhelming to all the questions thrown out to it. Unlike the previous series, it has much more characters to handle which is a double edge sword. On the pro section, it helps writers jump in on diverse categories through them and swoop in as much as material possible through their individual perspective and still keep it all inside a definite and familiar circle.On the other hand, it also is challenging to fiddle around these many characters on screen, especially the amount of new contents and eerie ideas each episode comes up with, it increases the possibility to lean towards flaws. And yes, it has its own limitation, but in its own gullible range and potential, it just simply works. Plus, what's fascinating is despite of being brimmed with these many personas floating about in the space, they haven't allotted any stereotypical specific characteristics to the characters, their species and nature may definitely vary, but a cheesy note is strictly prohibited in Enterprise-D.The infamous Capt. Jean-Luc Picard played by Stewart who is mostly known by this role from his career, is exceptionally well crafted character that is simply nothing but a good leader and add Stewart's performance to that, the outcome is your iconic character that survives decades easily. Sirtis as the consciously enhanced counselor fits perfectly in the ship and the makers makes sure either they keep her up front to notify the shady part of the plot or distracts her wisely to advance the plot.Frakes, once again, a competent leader and warrior that is more explored into love affairs while Dorn as a hot head and Burton as the most adapting and willful learner on the ship helps make the environment more engaging and realistic. Spiner as the android, Lt. Commander Data, who means nothing but business, unfortunately, is the guy that means the least amount of business, often relied upon for the humor, he might be explored thoroughly but is rarely projected with sincerity.Personally, I prefer Stewart's mellow equation with Wheaten who looks up to him as a father figure and adds the right amount of emotion to it, McFadden's friendly relation too helps on spicing up this dish. The guest cast coming in- often playing the antagonist- invests equally and perpetually to this scoreboard. Advancing further than the previous series did, this journey also brings in rich traditional rituals and their own quirky references to the table. Star Trek: The Next Generation is your typical space ride, floating without any control it grabs everything like a child, and in its innocence and honesty it is one breathtaking ride.


                
I read a lot of your reviews, and I noticed in some of them that you said while this was a great show, it had some plots that were never finished, like the parasites or the inter-dimensional clicking aliens. I agree that it was disappointing that they didn't finish these and some other plots up (except for Armus. They couldn't have continued him. I mean, after they beamed everyone out of the shuttle he was confined to the planet and a warning beacon was set up around the place),but I'm reminded of another review I read here, that this opened up a whole new universe for Trekkies. I view the unfinished storylines as open-enders for other series to finish up. Granted it has been a long time. A very long time, but maybe the producers of Star Trek will look at the episodes of TNG after they're done with Enterprise and say, "Hey, that was a pretty good story. They left it open for us, let's run with it and see where it takes us."I also think that the effects in some instances, scratch that, in nearly all instances the effects were better-done then the movies before First Contact. Maybe Generations was close to it. The only real problem I had with the effects was the phaser blasts in the first season, but fortunately, they got rid of that shock-wave effect. Anyway, as I said in my earlier review, this is the best Star Trek media out there. Watch it on Spike TV (just beware of some commercials). You'll see what I mean.


                
