Widely hailed by the media and culture vultures alike, Life is Beautiful fluffs out its feathers as 'the first ever Holocaust comedy'. "A Holocaust comedy?", squawked the masses, "We'd better see that!". What's more, it's 'foreign', as in non-American, very much de rigueur in Hollywood circles. But the fact that a film detailing, humorously, with the 20th Century's greatest tragedy won the Oscar accolades it did is enough evidence of its true worth.It starts simply enough, with Benigni as the humble paesan who marries, has a kid, enjoys the good life in pre-war Italy. Soon, the evil Nazis have moved in, and his family is whisked off to a concentration camp where prisoners run around freely and no-one loses weight. Our hero attempts to protect his little boys from the horrors by creating an elaborate trick: telling the little tyke that it is all part of a highly imaginative birthday present. Soon, the film falls into a series of wholly implausible events, and we, as an audience, realise the real trick has been played on us. Benigni, too, seems to think the Holocaust was a trick, reflecting Allied guilt and denial after the Liberation. The fact that the movie was so loved suggests a sinister appraisal of its values: a collective sigh of WASP relief that it actually wasn't as bad as they'd been led to believe.The Guardian newspaper from Manchester & London called it 'fundamentally mendacious' and as such was the only newspaper not fooled by Benigni's three card trick. The writer/star/director of Johnny Stecchino would do best by sticking to what he does best: making humane, funny, light-hearted films. Life is Beautiful is none of these.The Hebrew word for the Holocaust is "Shoah". Benigni proves, without shame or responsibility that 'there's no business like Shoah business.'A despicable, reprehensible motion picture.


                
I saw this movie about 15 years ago and I rated this movie when I signed up in IMDb 7 years ago. Today I watched it again and I'm telling you, I immediately updated my rating. Same thing happened when I watched Hitchcock's Rear Window again.First 50 minutes of the movie was neither funny nor dramatic. The rest had a few such moments. Maybe it's considered a classic movie that every movie geek must watch. Maybe it was good those days. I didn't like it as a 8.6. I don't know how this got #25 in IMDb.I give it a 3 for its main idea and some scenes that I think will always be new. I put it in my Worst-Movies list. Because I don't want other people to waste their time.


                
Despite the rave reviews from numerous critics, this film has little to praise; its treatment of the Holocaust as a game is ludicrous, beggaring belief at almost every step. Never mind that the characters spend their internment at the cleanest, least guarded concentration camp ever seen, or that the characters are utterly empty-headed, the main conceit, that of the "game," simply doesn't work.


                
1998 saw the release of three high-profile films about WWII, and "Life Is Beautiful" is by far the worst.  It's silly, manic, zany--all good qualities if we're watching a Mel Brooks film.  But there's something distinctly distasteful about a joke built around the drudgery prison camp inmates were forced to undergo.  Call me a stick in the mud.  Tell me I missed the point of this movie.  I've heard it all.  However, I didn't miss the point of this movie.  Roberto Benigni isn't exactly Ingmar Bergman, and his points aren't all that hard to grasp.  And I don't mind the point of the movie.  I just hated the execution of it.As for the other two WWII movies released that year, I thought "Saving Private Ryan" stunk too.  I know, call me sacriligeous, but there you have it.  On the other hand, I thought "The Thin Red Line" was breathtaking--a stunner, pure and simple.


                
My comments are these:   1.  Roberto Benigni (Guido) was so obnoxious that after 10 minutes of his crazed antics I was hoping the statue in the main piazza would topple onto him.   2.  It's asking for too much suspension of disbelief to accept that the beautiful Dora would even speak to, much less fall in love with, a pestering boob like Guido.  Nowadays she'd be seeking a temporary restraining order (TRO) against him in court.  Back then, she'd probably have had a beefy brother tell him to buzz off.   3.  Many people have condemned "La Vita è Bella" for its saccharine portrayal of Auschwitz.  I have to say that, unlike some of the critics, I think it's OK to experiment with different artistic interpretations of the Holocaust, even comedic ones.  But because of the horrific nature of the Holocaust, employing comedy to interpret it is going to be an exceedingly difficult endeavor.  In trying to do so, "La Vita è Bella" fails completely.   4.  If you want to see an outstanding Italian movie about fascism and Italian Jews, I highly recommend "The Garden of the Finzi-Contini" ("Il Giardino dei Finzi-Contini").  Now that film is an artistic achievement.   5.  "La Vita è Bella," by contrast, is a dud, and I cannot believe that it won an Academy Award, or that it has garnered so much praise on this site.  I suspect that it's just another bad film (along the lines of "Last Tango In Paris" or "Henry & June") that appeals to people who consider themselves highbrow but aren't.  I gave it a 3 out of 10.


                
Which is itself an exaggeration, of course. But I cannot possibly imagine how rabbis and survivors of the Holocaust can recommend this movie to anyone. The first half of the film is so achingly unfunny I turned the tape off. Eventually I tried it again, and discovered that the second half turns into a completely different movie. Auschwitz is portrayed as a particularly grubby holiday camp where no one is beaten, the guards never shoot Benigni as he runs around looking for his little boy; people go to the infirmary and come back; and no one starves. I'd say this film plays into the hands of the revisionists who claim that the Holocaust never happened. The Nazis are indeed 'the mean people who yell a lot' since that's mostly all they do. Run Chaplin's THE GREAT DICTATOR to see a truly brilliant film about life in a Fascist state, and then run SCHINDLER'S LIST to find the best fictional portrayal of the Holocaust. They work together about as well as the two halves of LIFE IS BEAUTIFUL do. This is a real disservice to the memory of the people who died in the camps. Roberto Benigni is also one of the least funny people I have seen in film in a very long time.


                
In the immortal - although very paraphrased - words of Lieutenant Dane: "*Life* is *beautiful*? Well, kiss my crippled ass!"The first hour or so of this movie felt like being invited to a fancy dinner party in some beautiful restaurant in Toscana and having to spend the entire evening next to some socially challenged, annoying moron with delusions of charm and an inability to ever shut up. The second hour of the film is basically identical except now it's set in a concentration camp. So basically, the film is two hours of unfunny jokes with a Holocaust backdrop thrown in to make it critic-proof. How sad. Imagine a six-year old trapped in the body of a middle-aged Italian man on a steady diet of Red Bull and Ecstasy - that's how I'd describe Roberto Benigni's "characterization" of the film's star, Guido. He even has trouble stopping himself from laughing at his own wit at times (although referring to Benigni's humour as "wit" is like calling Xzibit an accomplished thespian. I'm not even sure it can be called "humour" - it's almost insulting to such masters of the genre as Adam Sandler or Owen Wilson). I guess this is how you win an Oscar these days. If you want to see a truly good performance from a comedian playing a foreigner, look no further than Sacha Baron Cohen's "Borat" which was released last year (I'm just telling you this in case you've been living under a rock for some time, or if you're from Ohio - in that case, I'm sorry). At least in that film, the main character was *supposed* to be mildly retarded, while in Benigni's movie the lead makes you unsure if you should laugh or cry as he hogs up precious screen time with his oh-so-hilarious antics. Sacha Baron Cohen was, by the way, almost completely ignored by the Academy. Go figure. The film's plot is about one man trying to make life less unbearable for a little doe-eyed kid throughout their stay in a concentration camp. They don't arrive at the concentration camp, however, before one excruciating hour of Benigni's constant mugging and a love story that rings so false it would make even Michael Bay retch. The second hour of the film is considerably less light-hearted than the first but just as boring, repetitive and unrealistic. In reality, a guy like Guido wouldn't have survived a week in a concentration camp. Chances are if the Nazis didn't kill him first, the other Jews would have, if only to shut him up for once. Just how the hell did Guido manage to keep Doe-Eyed Child Actor hidden from the Nazis for so long? The film can't possibly be supposed to be serious - it's too implausible - and it's not nearly funny enough to be a comedy. What a mess.The film only hints at the true horrors of the Holocaust and never really shocks or disturbs you. It doesn't say anything that we didn't already know about this tragedy and the unfunny jokes only make it more offensive. Ask yourself this: does Jim Carrey have anything to do in a film about the Holocaust? I thought not. Does a second-rate hack with only a shred of Carrey's comic talent but with the same urge to mug and overact have anything to do in a film about the Holocaust?? I think not!All this aside, the film is competently made in most other aspects, with some beautiful scenery and a not-too-awful score. Other than that this is an embarrassing and inexplicably acclaimed ego-trip. The only truly funny thing about this disaster is how everyone is calling it a masterpiece and actually believe that the Oscars were well deserved! Oh well, people loved "Crash", too (Paul Haggis' 'RACISM SUCKS' epic, not the one where James Spader has sex with a leg wound). Honestly, this film is so corny I'm surprised aliens didn't etch secret messages in it with their rayguns. How can you hand out a Best "Foreign" Picture Oscar to a flick that ends with a freeze frame of a mother hugging her child? Seriously, a FREEZE FRAME? Give me a break or some insulin because this is too much sugar for me. In conclusion, this film is manipulative, completely unrealistic, offensively stupid and features one of the least likely love stories ever. And it's unfunny. Dreadfully, hopelessly, comatose-ly unfunny. This coming from a person who could find something to laugh at in "Scary Movie 2". Trust me, I laugh very easily at various kinds of comedies, and "Life is Beautiful" is easily one of the worst movies ever to win an Oscar. And please don't call me insensitive, heartless, or soulless... I don't call you a tasteless, easily manipulated sheep, now do I?Finally, I'd just like to say that Benigni has one of the scariest smiles I've ever seen. Think Jack Nicholson, Tom Cruise and Rip Torn combined times a hundred. Every time his mouth twisted into one of his well-practiced, sh!t-eating grins (and this happens almost every twenty seconds throughout the movie, so don't worry, you won't miss it) I had an overwhelming urge to run from the room screaming. Avoid this movie.


                
Roberto plays a very, very nice guy. He speaks lots of supposed-to-be-funny lines, unfortunately he's the only who laughs. Roberto marries a very, very nice girl whom he adores like a princess, then they have a very, very nice boy. This Jewish family is perfect.The tearjerker formula is to throw the happy family from heaven to hell, so they're sent to Nazi's concentration camp naturally. The very nice daddy lies to his very nice son that this is only a contest game. Upon seeing those miserable prisoners wearing dirty clothes, this bright boy is still idiotic enough to believe daddy's words. The actor-director's trick is that no one in the background is allowed to say a word except himself, so the boy wouldn't hear any complaint from those poor Jewish.Everyday Roberto and other prisoners are sent to work, he simply hides the kid in their bedroom where there's no food, water, or toilet. I suppose there's no need to explain how the kid can survive to the viewer either.Though the depiction of concentration camp, built purely from Roberto's mind, is quite laughable, he claimed the movie is a fantasy about "power of imagination." Ironically, it ends with a voice-over saying, "This is my true story."The simple-minded movie is covered up by its beautiful score and fools millions of audiences, including members of Academy Award who use to think a foreign language film is definitely a great film.


                
I'm a big fan of IMDb and I was really excited to watch this movie as it was rated at #55.When I finally had a chance to watch this movie, I was really disappointed.I've seen many holocaust movies like The Pianist, schindler's list etc, considering the good reviews for this movie, my expectation level was really high but I'm afraid this movie did not meet my expectation.The so called comedy of the lead character just made me laugh at few places, apart from that there is nothing in the first half and second half was very disconnected.I was just wondering what made the female lead to fall for this clown? nothing was properly established in the movie.Half way through the movie, story takes an sudden twist and travels to Nazi & JEW problems of WW2.Here are few scenes which were really artificial 1. The female lead commanding the German guy to stop the train and ask her to let in and he immediately does.2. The male lead and his kid roaming around the Nazi concentration camp very freely.To summarize, the first half of the movie was just 'ok', second half was ridiculous.My rating 3/10
Congratulations to Rob 169 of Venice CA. His comments are right on. My feelings before seeing the picture was that I would not like the film. However, after reading published reviews and seeing discussions on TV I thought it must be as great as people were saying. But as it turns out my original reaction was correct. I disliked the film. To view the holocaust as a comedy even if it were to protect his child from the truth is insulting and disingenious. Future young people seeing this film might get the wrong idea about the truth of the holocaust. It wasn't funny and it wasn't fun.


                
I found this film to be an average an unneeded look at World War II.  What a unique idea - let's do a film on the holocaust of World War II - it was unoriginal, unrealistic and draining.I love most of Roberto's earlier films like Down By Law and I was wanting to enjoy this, but I couldn't.


                
I still do not get into my head, a subject as tremendous as this, I do not know how you can treat it in the form of laughter. The film has ended and I feel very bad, but not because of what the film tells me and that has influenced me a lot, no, but because it seems almost an insult to me to treat this subject as if it were a joke. I must be the only person who feels this way, as far as I can see, but I can not help it. Your intention will be good, but for me, you will not get it at all.I imagine that the fact that this comedian, has touched such a dramatic fact, will have been what gave him the power that gives him everything much, but for me, it is still a forgettable film.He does not have a nice picture. It does not have nice blueprints. Your address is normal. The actors can not avoid being very Italian, without the spirit of being derogatory if not as an adjective.It has a great production behind and that only tells me, what a great waste of time and money, could have made a good movie.


                
After hearing so much about "La Vita è Bella", I was excited when I discovered that I was to watch it for an English course. I had heard mixed things beforehand, from family, friends and critics, so I wasn't sure what to expect. Despite Benigni's over-acting, I quite enjoyed it for the first 45 minutes. However, when Guido (Benigni) and his son Giosué are sent to a concentration camp, my views quickly changed. Guido decides to hide the truth from his son, telling him that it's all just a game, and that in order to win, he must obey the Nazis. Even at the risk of losing his own life, he tries to make Giosué laugh. I was offended by the way Benigni turned such a serious situation into a light-hearted comedy/drama. The Holocaust is not something to be joked about, under any circumstances. All in all, there was good cinematography and performances, but the tone of the movie made me feel sick.
Making people laugh about Concentration camp is a courageous if dangerous endeavor, especially as a wave of neo-Nazism sweeps over Europe. Laughing is a serious matter, however, as Begnini seems to believe, and why could it not make us discover new aspect of the Nazi horror? Well it could but in the case of Begninis's film it does not. The film is less a film on concentration camps than another love story, of a man and a woman and of a father and his son. The Holocaust is turned into a banal jail the Jews project (I particularly resented the depicting nearly every prisoner as Italian speaking, in itself a highly unrealistic assumption) to serve a melodramatic story. Italy has produced with Primo Levi's self-biographical book If This is a Man one the strongest account of life in Nazi's concentration camp to date. Begnini's film is indeed an insult to Levi´s masterwork. Read Art Spiegelman's Maus: A Survivor's Tale comic strip on the subject instead.


                
I don't get the hype on this film at all.  The comedy and plot are inane. It is too bad that it had to be about something as nontrivial as the holocaust.It was just plain bad, plain stupid, and plain boring.


                
The dad just drove me nuts and sound not stand him.
I did not like how the father sugar coated what was going on and it so seemed fake to.
