I went to see La Vita è bella when it was first released, in Italian, and knew nothing of the plot.  I loved the first half.  Typical Benigni, a clown that tries to win over the charms of a pretty woman (his wife in real life, as usual).  It was the same sort of thing as many of his films, e.g. Johnny Stecchino.  I'd give it a nine for the first half.  But then the second half left me horrified.  I suppose it was meant to.  I wasn't expecting it. While I recognize how well made the film was, I just can't see how you can make a film half comedy and half holocaust.  It was meant to make you laugh and then cry, and so it did, so I guess it was a success from that point of view.  But sorry folks, I'd rather watch Johnny Stecchino when I want to laugh and then Schindler's List when I want to see a harrowing story of the holocaust.  Putting them together for me was in very very very poor taste.


                
Having heard nothing but positive about this movie, I must admit that I was slightly disappointed by the movie. The movie is not the effective and emotional involving concentration camp movie it promised to be, which is due to some poor choices of storytelling and its approach. But of course nevertheless this movie is way better than the just average movie regarding the subject and the movie still manages to be effective on most of its fronts, just not on the most important ones.The main problem with the movie is that it can be divided into two separate parts. In the first part of the movie 'life is wonderful' and everything is perfect and the story is told almost fairytale like, with a dreamy like love-story and lots of slapstick-comedy in it. It's just too perfect and happy all, which really doesn't make the movie believable. Yes, I of course realize that this was done on purpose to make the contrast of the second halve of the movie that is set in a concentration camp all the more bigger. It's almost like; no matter what we are going to show in the second halve, it's always going to look worse and more horrible compared to the 'happy' perfect-life first part of the movie. It felt like a really cheap way to steer the viewer's emotions. And let's face it, nothing really bad actually ever happens in the second halve For example; correct me if I'm wrong but we never get to see anyone get killed on screen. And all of the prisoners could walk around freely it seemed and the way the story was told made it seems as if they were in the camp for only two days or so. We never get to see any of the WW II cruelty which occurred in these sort of concentrations camp at the time of the war, with the exception of two or three sequences, which just isn't quite good and effective enough for such a sort of movie that tries to get the viewers emotional involved with the characters and events that occur in this movie. Also the fact that the mother was on the other side of the concentration camp gets highly underused and underdeveloped. They could had really made the movie more effective and emotional with this plot element.Also the comedy of the movie was far too slapstick like for a movie with such an heavy subject. It for me was the reason why I enjoyed watching the movie but yet just never got emotionally involved with it. Roberto Benigni is a clown, not an actor! But yet he won an Oscar for his role in this movie. Sorry, can't say I'm really a fan of him. Too much jumping around and shouting and not enough structured acted out humor, though he shows he's a competent director with this movie. Despite taking some not so effective approaches, the movie is still well structured and directed.It's rather cute that Bengini and his wife Nicoletta Braschi always appear together in movies but I'm sorry to say that Nicoletta Braschi just isn't the greatest actress around,, to put it mildly. It's also always dangerous to have a young kid play one of the other main characters of the movie. Giorgio Cantarini does an effective job with looking cute and Innocent at all but he also looked a bit too much to the things going on behind the camera's during sequences, as if he wasn't focused enough on the actual filming process. This was getting a bit disturbing after a while, especially in some of the sequences toward the end of the movie, which are the most heavy moments of the movie. I admire the approach the story picks when the movie gets set in a concentration camp, when the father is coming up with all kinds of things to make his young son believe they are in some sort of holiday camp, instead of a concentration camp. Truth gets mixed up with fiction in the movie, which provides the movie with some good moments. It's perhaps the best and most interesting idea of the movie, which certainly helps to make this movie an unique one. The movie is really good looking, which is of course mostly due to the Italian settings of the movie but the movie also does a good job at re-capturing the '40's period, in terms of costumes, sets and props. The movie is most definitely not a cheap-looking one, which perhaps is the case with most other European productions, especially the ones regarding the same subject and time period.The movie was one of the big surprises of 1997 and was also nominated for 7 Oscar's, also including the ones for best movie, best directing and best screenplay. The movie eventually took home 3 statues for actor in a leading role, best foreign language movie and best music.I was overall slightly disappointed by the movie but my expectations for it were perhaps a bit too high.7/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
I don't really think people could just run around in concentration camps, or have a nap, or joke around for that matter. Seriously, I was surprised that they didn't have a scene with a sack race. Anyway, Guido, a guy who spends the entire movie laughing like an ass, tries to make the best of the situation and tells his son a story about winning a tank when he gets a thousand points. Kids believe the darndest things. This is supposed to be heart-warming, even though it just plain isn't. The writing is just never really good enough.This movie doesn't really have much going for it in the first 100 minutes or so, but the ending is nice. It's really touching and all. Okay, the power gets thrown in the dumpster because a dead character doubles as the narrator, but it's still good. The idea behind this film is Oscar-worthy, but the way it's done is often just boring and Guido's joking isn't that amusing to me. Maybe others can see the humor is not shutting up but I don't. So overall, "La Vita e Bella" looks like a missed opportunity.


                
This film is another in a long line of "feel good" European films that get released in the states with much studio hype (usually by Miramax), charm the socks off of people, and win lots of awards (think Il Postino and the Full Monty).  That's a shame.  This film is so simple minded that its almost an insult.  I mean, its good for what it is, but Best Foreign Film?  Best Actor?  Are you kidding me?  Whoopi Goldberg winning the Best Supporting Actress award for Ghost has always been my pick for worst Oscar winner.  Not any more.


                
I've seen this movie today, and I must say that this film is very good. There are many reasons, and I will name some of them.The story is great and different from other WW2 movies. It is about heroism without action, but with words. A man falls in love with a woman and after some years they have a baby. Unfortunately at that time (1944) they are Jewish, and things turn out very bad. The story tells us that you can put fear away with humor.The acting is very good, and the cast is also very well put together. All actors perform great throughout the whole movie, especially the main character and the little boy.It's a very special film. One you can't find on the screen very often, maybe once a decade. Therefore I recommend it to everybody. Your day will be good after seeing this one, it's full of humor/suffering/sacrifice/happiness.My score 8 out of 10.


                
I had fun watching this film, but I was not so extraordinarily impressed as other people did about the whole project. I guess because Holocaust is so overly done that even a cute comedy/tragedy can look same as the other films made about the subject.Yes, acting is excellent, and the plot is interestingly imagined, that it really makes it very interesting to watch, but I simply was not so impressed as other people were.I recommend that you watch this film if you did not already, I guess in 1999/2000 everybody had to, it was that type of film and year.We will remember as Mr. Benini was jumping all over the chairs as he made his way to receive his Oscar.


                
"Life is Beautiful", an Italian film called "La Vita e Bella" takes place during the Holocaust. This movie is directed by Roberto Benigni, starring Roberto Benigni himself as Guido; a humorous yet romantic Jewish character who instantly falls in love with school teacher, Dora played by Nicoletta Braschi. Guido wants to open a bookstore and while trying to do so makes enemies with the town clerk who we later find out is Doras fiancé. Through many accidental encounters with Dora and Guido she gets to know his loving and goofy personality while he tries to woo her. After yet another accidental encounter that happens to be her engagement party, she says to Guido "take me away" and he does just that.Years have passed, off-screen and we are introduced to Guido and Doras son, Joshua played by Georgio Cantarini. Guido and Joshua are then taken away on trains to go to a Jewish camp. When Dora finds out she follows and demands to be let on the train. Dora is at the same camp but separated from Joshua and Guido. Guido convinces Joshua that they are part of a game and the winner receives a real tank, his favorite toy. Through the rest of the movie he is trying to protect his son from the harsh death camp and get his family out of there.Roberto Benigni, as Guido was the perfect person for this role. He had very goofy personality as he does in real life and it fit perfectly for this part. Not only the acting was great though, also the technique used to show significance was very powerful. At the beginning of the movie it showed a foggy place, and it was foreshadowing the rest of the movie saying that it was going to be a sad movie with downfall of the characters. Another time that was significant was when they got on the train to go to the Jewish camp. It had the train leaving in a long shot showing that they didn't have control anymore of what was going to happen to them and they were out of reach of their fate. This movie did a perfect job combing a normal love life with the struggles of the Holocaust like many people had to live through. Benigni wrote the death of Guido perfectly as well. The viewers had grown to love this character and then he was shot and gone just like nothing had happened. Some may think they should of played the death out more of the main character, but by not playing the death of Guido portrayed what actually happened during that time better. Families and friends had grown to love one another and with a single gun shot that love and connection were gone.While reading "Maus" by Art Speigleman in English class I realized there were some similarities to this movie. The book "Maus" being about the Holocaust also obviously shares a similar theme, but there are more similarities besides that as well. In both "Maus" and "Life is Beautiful", there was a bond between father and son. These relationships were similar because the fathers were trying to protect there sons. In "Life is Beautiful" by pretending they were playing a game for a grand prize of a tank, and in "Maus" by not telling Artie about Anjas diary and what he had done with it. Also in both of these stories they shared a theme of survival, much like any Holocaust story has. During "Life is Beautiful" Guido the whole time was trying to stay strong and survive for his wife and son and he was trying to protect Joshua from the harsh death camp. He strived to protect and help his family survive, and it ended in his death. This is similar to the book "Maus" where the whole time Artie is trying all he can do to make Anja feel safe and protect her and the ones he loves from getting taken away to a camp.Both "Life is Beautiful" and "Maus" are great stories about the struggles of the Holocaust and how this event changed life forever. They were both awesome stories and I recommend watching "Life is Beautiful" and reading "Maus." Through the techniques used they will for sure send your emotions on a roller coaster.
A touching movie.The first half of the movie definitely had some funny parts and was cleverly written. Also, the acting was funny and fitting for the main character.The second half of the movie gave an interesting different take on the holocaust. While not adequately showing the grotesqueness of the camps, I believe it did an innovative and touching way of showing how bad situations were and how far a man was willing to go to protect his son from knowing the horrific situation he is in.This part wasn't really that believable, but it was still touching. The end was fitting, as it was bittersweet instead of a a completely happy ending. In the end, it is shown that life is a gift and truly beautiful.
This was an excellent movie. I watched it with my sister last year, had no idea what it was about, and totally enjoyed it.That said, it just came on "Bravo," and I watched the first few minutes. I had goosebumps the whole time, I couldn't watch it a second time.By far, this is the saddest movie I've ever, ever seen. I practically can't even think about it.


                
In spite of having taken the world by storm with this tale of a father who tries to hide the horrors of the holocaust to his son, there is a serious flaw that affects the tone and the overall sensation of the movie to more demanding viewers: after all, is this movie a comedy or a drama? Because Benigni doesn't seem to grasp an overall tone and the structure ends up being erratic, with some great laughs and some serious dramatic moments, and some moments in between that don't allow the viewer to know if they will laugh or not. But don't let my review cast a shadow over this movie, since its idea is genius, and one of those projects only Roberto Benigni would grasp.


                
I think I must be in the very small majority of people that neither loved nor hated this movie. In many ways it was skillfully made and well acted. However, the first half of the movie felt like a wacky romantic comedy with an Italian slant. The second half of the movie, however, is set in (of all places) a Nazi death camp. I happen to believe that if you're going to set a movie in the midst of one of the most terrible parts of history, you want to have something say and to do it very carefully. This movie fails in this, I feel. The message of the movie is very trite: "The human spirit can triumph over any adversity" might be a good summary. Rather than being uplifting, though, I found the implausible caperings of Guido and the credulity of his son to be ghoulish and disturbing in a way I doubt was intended by the filmmakers. I'm afraid I can't go along with the premise that the horror of Auschwitz could be covered up with some clever lies and a silly walk.However, I must stress that the movie is artfully made and contains some memorable scenes. The mountain of corpses in the mist was almost as creepy as Guido's final conversation with his friend, the good Doktor Lessing.La Vite e Bella is certainly worth a look; it is, however, neither profound nor historically valuable.


                
At first glance the film seems like it will be more like Cinema Paradiso but it plays out more like an italian Charlie Chaplin film. The movie is cute, funny, emotional, and conveys all the necessary elements the creators undoubtedly wanted.


                
Before watching this movie I knew nothing about it and so I was not sure what I was in for at all! When watching the first half of the movie, I immediately thought that this movie would have been some kind of immortal romantic relationship since the main character Guido, incessantly tried to make Dora his woman. He went through great lengths to do so as well and ended up doing so even though he was a Jew and she was Italian. Abruptly, a child appeared, who happened to be their son, with no sign that they were even having a child to begin with, but perhaps that was intentional in some way to throw the audience off. In addition, another event that happened with no hint whatsoever was when Guido's place was trashed and we see them getting transported to the train that would take him and his son to the concentration camp. That is when I realized that this movie was about the Nazi Concentration Camps, which was about half way through the movie. Finally, I extremely disliked the part when the father was killed the day, literally, before the night when the camp was liberated, which was definitely intentional in order to keep the audience intrigued.Historically, there were accurate portrayals of what happened exactly at the Nazi Concentration Camps such as: merciless treatment of little children and the elderly by killing them, and making the men and women work mercilessly all day as well. However at the end when Giosue was reunited with his mom, the chances of that happening during the Holocaust Era was really minimal because families were torn a part to the last degree possible. Also, the chance that a child did not get put in the gas chamber and killed was not likely, but Guido's son got lucky in the movie since he did not join the other kids when they were told to take a "shower." Overall, the fact that Guido tried his best to make it seem like they were in some kind of game was really cool and unique since he was sold on not revealing to his son, where they really were.
The film La Vita è Bella probes an interesting question: should tragic events should always be presented in media as dramas. While there is validity to the belief that producing films about horrific events such as the Holocaust as comedies is insensitive, the film is successful in making the victims of the atrocities appear human. Through the use of comedy, the viewer feels emotionally connected to Guido Orefice and his son. The film is also successful in showing that life did not purely end when one was admitted into a concentration camp. Throughout their period of encampment, many prisoners engaged in discussion with one another about intellectual topics and strong emotional bonds were often forged within the camps. Many films about the holocaust fail to capture that the people within the camps would often develop "camp cultures" to combat their suffering. While the film is incredible inaccurate as it would have been impossible for a child as young as Guido's son, Giosuè, to survive within a concentration camp, La Vita è Bella is able to show that not every experience within the camp was inherently tragic and that every experience, even the most horrific experiences, are multifaceted.
The film, however, fails to truly illustrate the pandemonium that developes when a concentration camp closes. In contrast to the film, most concentration camps such as Dachau witnessed a sharp increase in the amount of prisoners prior to their capture by the Allied powers. While the film did depict the overall chaos which emerged when the camp was about to shut down, it would have been more realistic to have the camp population appear to grow as the film progressed. The population increase, however, could make it appear as if people were not dying at the camp and would have most likely undercut the majority of the humor in the final scenes of the film. Additionally, the film failed to portray what happened to the concentration camp victims once they were released. Many internees struggled to find basic necessities such as food or shelter following release, and many survivors had a hard time adjusting to life outside of the camp. Instead, the film end on the relatively uplifting note of the mother son reunion. The quality of the film, from both a historical and emotional perspective, would have been improved if the ending had been less positively by showing the adversity the mother and son following release.
This film is complex in not only does it seek to depict an experience within one of the Jewish concentration camps during the Holocaust, it is also the story of a special relationship between a father and son. To some viewers this relationship might appear at first glance to be over romanticized. How can someone possibly look back on such an experience with the acuity and detail that the film illustrates? Not only that, how can the experience, one that is surrounded by so much horror, come across as being wholesome? In order to refute such a view it is best to understand the film as being told through the eyes of a man who is trying to create a story as it actually was. Guido's humor throughout the film was his strongest attempt to carry through a life that almost could have never existed within the confines of the camp. Once again, to some viewers, to have such humor be a central piece of the film can be a disturbing aspect when it is under the circumstances such as the Holocaust. But such a representation serves a higher goal. By trying to view the very fact of the concentration camp itself as some sort of game makes it more believable to the sensible human that accepting the fact that such a tragedy actualy happened. 
 Of course, the film has some historical flaws, namely the fact that the chances of having a child escape is nearly impossible. There is no way a child could have flown under the radar for such a long time. But the film is not entirely supposed to give an accurate historical representation, it instead focuses on the endurance of the human spirit and how certain relationships allow us to survive moments in history that, without such support, would have forever crushed the human soul. Just as relationships can carry us through the world, we must be ever conscious of the relationships that seek to tear us apart. Guido and Doctor Lessing are a prime example of this. From the foreshadowing moment when Doctor Lessing asks Guido the answer to the riddle: "If you say my name I am not there anymore, what am I?" The answer was silence. Representative of the silence the doctor held within himself about the fate of his close friend Guido and other Jews. Guido's right to a place within the world was not only silenced but trivialized when the doctor helps pleads for Guido's help in solving a riddle as Guido lives at the brink of death. The doctor laments that he cannot sleep with such a burden on his mind. It is a riddle that keeps him awake at night, not the deaths of his countrymen. The film thus incorporates various levels of commentary on our relationships with the people we surround ourselves with.
"Life is Beautiful" can be described as somewhat of an "optimistic" Holocaust film, if there is such a thing, but brings a unique representation of life in the concentration camp. From a historical perspective, there are certainly inaccuracies in terms of dates and certain facts like the tattooed number. However, the movie does a good job of highlighting the fact that people who lived in concentration camps were not just a mass crowd of millions. Each person had an individual story and their individuality was something that the Nazis attempted to take in order to dehumanize them, but couldn't necessarily do so. In this way, the movie begins to make viewers better understand the effect of the Holocaust by delving into the story of one family and showing the pain and suffering they want through. Someone can read that millions of people died in the Holocaust, but this movie starts to explore the emotion behind those millions of people. This makes the experience easier to understand, something that textbooks fail to do.My main critique of this film is the characterization of Guido. The two main characteristics of him are that he is Jewish and a comedian. Yet both of these tropes are played up and limit the depth of his characterization and the experience of a concentration camp. Pre-concentration camp, he was hustling, stealing hats, and a fast talker. These stereotypically Jewish traits are played up, yet part of combating racial politics is recognizing that belonging to a group does not mean that one possesses every stereotypical trait about that group. It's saddening to see that aspect of racial politics being ignored in a film about the Holocaust. Also, both outside and inside of the camp, Guido is always upbeat, making up antics, and his smile and innovation never falters. Even when he was about to be shot, his facial expression never changed and he kept up his façade for his son until the end. While I can understand Joshua idolizing his father, the consistent positivity within a concentration just isn't realistic. When different problems arise within the camp, Guido never falters, not even once, to keep a consistent smile and pull another solution out of brain without a thought. Like I said earlier, I appreciate the sentiment of creating a story about the Holocaust that isn't all sad, as people in concentration camps did try to go on with their lives within the camp system. However, that doesn't mean living in a concentration camp was easy, let alone pretending it was all a game. I still encourage people to watch this movie, but watch with a careful eye and focus on the emotion of the characters, not the plot or facts about concentration camps.
I have seen quite a few touching foreign films before and this one falls just a little short, not because of the storyline, (which I do agree with some reviewers that it is slightly unrealistic, but hey, that's what a movie is for, a bit of escapism), but because the acting for Roberto Benigni is so over the top that it takes you out of the movie in some scenes. Worse is the main actress, whose acting is so wooden it is painful to watch sometimes. There seems very little differentiation between sadness and happiness on her face. I think the best actor in there is their son, the little boy, he is a total natural. For me at least, he steals the show in every scene. The script is well written and there are a lot of double-take wit and sarcasm in there and some laugh out loud scenes. It is a good movie to watch when you are in the mood for something warm and slow, and not action style, on a cold winter's night, relaxing on the couch.


                
Just upgraded this up to seven from 6, might even go a little higher. The reason for this is, I did struggle through the first half of the film, although I did enjoy the humour and actually laughed out loud at some of it, I didn't like the actor when I first watched it. I'm so glad I did continue, strangely I can't get some images of it out of my mind, but had felt underwhelmed when it finished.It is a weird subject to try make a comedy out of it, but underneath it does show how much any person would do for their own.Not sure if it's a SPOILER. But Near the end when he does his little march, just so his son keeps thinking it's a game, really touched me, thinking how many kids have had to suffer like that in reality. Not many films stick in my mind a week or so after seeing it. this one does and not really sure way, strange very strange.
The Italian movie Life is Beautiful, directed by Roberto Benigni, was very surprising. The main character Guido, played by the director, was a free spirited happy guy who helped his son, Joshua, and wife, Dora, throughout the holocaust. Without Guido the movie would have a completely different feel. Life is Beautiful gave a totally different look on how to portray the holocaust. Most holocaust movies are really tragic and depressing. Benigni put a different spin on how things are usually done by making a game out of it and he did a very good job.Although I felt the movie was a bit annoying at times, it was really enjoyable. Typically, I am not a fan of foreign movies but I liked watching this movie. I was able to feel everything they were feeling even though I did not know what they were saying.In Life is Beautiful, Guido was a lot similar to the main character Vladek in the book Maus, by Art Spiegelman. Both the characters were very optimistic and knew they could make it through this horrible time. It might have been different ways but they still believed they could overcome such a tragedy. Guido made a game out of the holocaust while Vladek kept his head up and always found ways to overcome things. Also both Vladek and Guido had connections that were able to help them. Vladek had his cousin and many others while Guido had his uncle and the physician.Overall, the movie was very good. The ending was both tragic and happy which kept me thinking in the end. Roberto Benigni truly made the movie and I suggest putting this movie on your "need to watch" list.


                
"Life is Beautiful" Review Life is Beautiful was a story about a family and their troubles of World War II. Its main character Guido played by Roberto Benigni sheltered his son while at one of the camps where Jewish people were kept during the Holocaust. This is very touchy subject and you don't see many movies like this talking about at all. There are some elements that remind me of another story about survivors of the Holocaust the book is called Maus.Maus was a story of a son asking his father what it was like during the Holocaust. Some scenes remind a lot of the story. They might not be exactly the same but two Dads trying to keep their sons alive as well as their family. Roberto Benigni character does a great job showing us how life is there for all of us and how that we need to make our children feel safe. Throughout the movie he gives his son courage by playing a game through the time they were captured to the time where the tanks of the allied forces rolled in. It was a story of how a kid and his dad fought through the rough times of the holocaust. This was a great movie, and I recommend to anyone, but also not just because it was a good movie but because there is a great lesson to learn from Roberto Benigni and his movie that he not only stared in but also directed the movie.


                
Life is Beautiful is a drama/comedy that follows the life of Guido (Roberto Benigni), Dora (Nicoletta Braschi) and the life that they live before and during the holocaust. It was filmed in 1997 and it is spoken completely in Italian. I watched it later with English subtitles. The first part of the film is dominated by Guido trying to make a relationship with Dora work out as she is a wealthy woman in upper class Italy. Guido, on the other hand, is just a waiter. Guido goes through countless stunts in order to try and make Dora fall in love with him, and then finally does get her attention. Eventually they do get married and have a son, Joshua (Giorgio Cantarini). Later on, they are moved off to a concentration camp where the family is split up by gender. Guido does a good job of convincing Joshua that it is actually a contest to win a tank. The movie then follows the events that follow them throughout the holocaust. Overall, the movie was entertaining throughout. From start to finish the movie keeps the watcher smiling because of Guido's quick sense of humor and ability to think on his feet. It was an unexpected change to the norm with a happier movie about the Holocaust and how it impacts an individual family. Life is Beautiful is definitely a movie worth watching for either the casual moviegoer or a serious movie buff. And if you don't take my word for it, listen to
Life is BeautifulThere are many stories from the holocaust that have been produced into a movie and many have been successful but few have captured the attention and the emotions of the audience like "Life is Beautiful" by Roberto Benigni. The story of A Jewish waiter named Guido takes place in Italy where he is waiting tables and living the life of a normal bachelor of the time. One day he stumbles upon a beautiful young lady who instantly captures his attraction, her name, Dora(Nicoletta Braschi) or otherwise referred to as princess throughout the movie. The key to remember is the time period this story takes place in. In the 1940's the Nazi's were rounding up all Jews and taking them to concentration camps all over. After Guido and Dora settle down and have their first and only child Joshua, the war begins to affect them in ways it never had before. On Joshua's birthday, they are taken by the Nazi's and sent to a concentration camp. Now, this is where things begin to sound a lot like the graphic novel by Art Spiegelman, Maus. In the story by Spiegelman, Vladeks father did everything possible to keep him out of the war and Guido did everything to keep Joshua out of harm's way. The similarity between the two fathers is their instincts as parents to protect their child. They both knew that they had wanted a better life for their kids and did everything possible to make that happen. While there were many other ways that these two stories connected to each other, there were a few twists in either side that prevented them from being the biggest connection points unlike this, which is clearly and easily relatable to both.


                
Recently I watched the foreign film Life is Beautiful, it gave me a sense of thought on an authors intuition for their story in other words what it brings to the audience. It is a turning of events when a man falls in love, has a beautiful child, wife, and house is forced to go to a German work camp. You can depict your own conclusions from here.As I was watching the movie realization struck me that it had a comedic edge to it. Hopefully some will ask themselves; why is the author trying to portray "funny" in the holocaust? I came to one conclusion; the author is trying to depict a sense of relief. No one else could pull off the part but Roberto Benigni. An innocent wife could be no better co-played by Nicoletta Braschi. The intenseness of these two characters really plays a part in the plot line. As I said earlier, Guidio (Roberto Benigni) has everything going for him. On a random day the Germans deploy every Jew onto a train and headed to the work camps. Through this you will see events and outcomes to see if Guido can save his family. The trait I mentioned in the second paragraph about the movie having a sense of "relief". To take such a powerful terrible thing like the holocaust and make something beautiful out of it is extremely extraordinary. In the graphic novel, Maus by Art Spiegelman, every living thing is an animal. The Jews being mice and German's being cats. This will make people more knowledgeable about the tragedies of work camps in Germany. Finally the twist turning end will come out of nowhere. This specific event blew and flipped my mind in the duration of a second. This particular thing made the movie personally. I love watching Roberto in action and look forward to watching more of his works. Overall, this was a beautiful story about a tragic event that inspired this movie.


                
This violently divided critics, some of whom saw it as a masterpiece of humanity, and others who saw it as trivializing the holocaust. I'm with those in the middle. There's a lot that's enjoyable and touching in the film, but also a certain amount that's too cute for the circumstances, or that screws up the story logic. I like the basic idea that Benigni tries to protect his child's innocence by convincing him that the concentration camp they're in is some kind of psychotic summer camp. And when the convention works it's very powerful. But when it gets hard to believe (as when the Nazi's fail to discover the boy over a long period of time) it takes a lot of the power out of it's punch. Still, some of the comic moments in the film's first half are gems, and while the dark 2nd half doesn't all work, it certainly gets points for trying. A film that's complex and confusing enough that I will re-see it.


                
Life is beautiful is really two films.  The first part -- the story of a poor bookseller's courtship of a beautiful school teacher set in WWII Italy -- is a delight.  The wryly ironic comments on the important contribution of Jewish artists, philosophers, and composers to European culture work well, as do the magical pratfalls of the always charismatic protagonist. Benigni's masterful Chaplinesque performance reveals the stupidity and hollowness of both facism and racism. The second part -- set in a concentration camp -- while it tries to further the satire of the first part -- fails. It is not funny enough to mitigate the grimmness, and it is not grim enough to do justice to history.  Still, it is a noble effort and worth seeing.


                
