What a fantastic series. Having seen Veep, definitely plays in the same ballpark, but it's edgier, darker, and meaner. The whole cast is absolutely fantastic. Capaldi is unbelievable in the role, already one of my all-time favorite comedic performances ever TV. Rebecca Front enters the series halfway and almost steals the whole thing. First two seasons are really good, but it's the last two that really resonate and make the whole thing hit another level. Great stuff. In The Loop is fine, but doesn't hit these levels. I find it especially impressive when a cast in a series knows they're in a comedy but know they have to play everything absolutely straight. If you knew nothing about what this was and stumbled upon almost any scene for a minute or so, you'd swear you were watching a political drama.


                
For the lover of the British political satire, one of the most ferocious and incredibly smart and up-to-date with the political era, this is a must see. Armando Ianucci did the tour de force of making a brilliant and successful American political satire, Veep, following the success of The Thick of It. Now with Brexit, it is hard for satire to keep up with the atrocities of the real world, because, what used to be funny and satirical has now become real. The phone hacking scandal, the Cambridge Analytica scandal, etc. The BBC has moved on to a more absurdist approach, with the 2020, mocking the organisation of the Olympics game followed by an absolute delight: W1A which mocks the BBC itself and the entertainment business at the very moment the Beeb is in turmoil internally and externally. That is British humour for you: at the worst of times, what sustains British society is their utterly weird yet so delightful sense of dark self-deprecating humour.
Unfortunately there is not a current political satire on air that measures up to what The Thick of It has been and stands for, as an icon at the top. It's my personal go to for a ferocious laugh when things are dire. I adore Michael Tucker's character, we all have met clones of him in the workplace, terror-infusing screaming machiavellan tyrans. #MeToo won't get rid, or even expose, all of them... Maybe Armando Iannucci should come back to it, we need an upgrade to political satire that encompasses all of the worst that has settled in nicely. If you've not seen it yet, don't miss it, it's unbelievably smart, somewhat accurate (real-life cabinet people have been cited as an inspiration for Michael Tucker such as Alastair Campbell, Blair's spin doctor) and witty.


                
