While monsters in the closet may seem to be a scary reality for some children, `Monsters, Inc.' makes it light hearted by showing them it's all in a night's work.  The characters are as charming as the cast that speaks for them.It's a learning experience children get to see how an industry works. Monsters, Inc. is an in-genius corporation that has scientifically learned how to channel children's screams into energy that is used for electrical power.  It has monster employees, an assembly line of doors (which give monsters access to children's bedrooms), a top-flight training program and some of the top Monsters in the scaring business.There's a colorful Metropolis, filled with houses, buildings, businesses, cars and everything that makes a city run smoothly along with a population of colorful creatures.  One of the colorful groups of creatures is the yellow swat team.  Their job is to protect the Metropolis of Monsters, Inc. from human contamination.But what happens when a human child mysteriously gets through the bedroom door and terrorizes the city with screams and boo's.  It's wondrous and funny.  In the mist of all this is industrial crime, brought on by greed. But, the story ends on a very happy note.John Goodman is the voice of `Sulley' a colorful large blue-green ape like monster who's the star Monsters, Inc. employee.  He's some type of monster, cut, cuddly, and he has a conscience that leads him to feelings of regret about scarring children.  He becomes attached to Boo (voice of Mary Gibbs) a cute, little big-eyed girl who is mysteriously brought to Monsters, Inc. and in his quest to return her home becomes very attached to her.Sulley's best friend is Mike (voice of Billy Crystal) who's a funny looking green ball with stick legs and one huge eye.  His comedy is seen through out the movie.  Mike is Sulley's driving force, acting as his agent.  Mike's job is to make sure Sulley remains the top Monsters, Inc. employee. But when it comes to laughter Mike proves he's on top.Mike's girl friend Celia (voice of Jennifer Tilley) is the stylish employee who has Mike's best interest at heart.  Her job is to keep him out of trouble.I give Monsters, Inc. a ten.  It is an animated movie that can be enjoyed by the whole family.  It makes for great family fun.


                
Monsters, Inc.We were all, at one time, scared of monsters under the bed. Shadows of clothes in the closet. Weird sounds outside in the trees. I remember thinking there were all kinds of monsters in my room - not as much under my bed as in the closet. And once again, Pixar, who brought us "Toy Story" 1 & 2, plays on both adults' memories and children's dreams, making it equally enjoyable for both children and adults.John Goodman voices James P. Sullivan, known as "Sulley" to friends. He is a big, blue, hairy monster with horns on his head and hands the size of a watermelon. Billy Crystal is Mike Wazowski, his wisecracking, one-eyed best friend. Both of these monsters live in Monstropolis, a world where monsters roam freely. Their city is powered by a rare source of power - children's screams. That is where Monsters, Incorporated comes in. At Monsters, Inc., monsters like Sulley and Mike open portals into children's rooms - through closet doors - and scare the children, capturing their scream in a little yellow bottle. Sulley is the top-scarer, bringing in the most scares. But Randall (the always enjoyable - even when animated - Steve Buscemi), a wormy, multiple-armed lizard-monster with the ability to change appearances to its surroundings, is jealous of Sulley, and will attempt anything to get more scares...even if it means taking a child from the real world and bringing it into Monstropolis. But after the child escapes, Sulley and Mike reluctantly look after it, all the while trying to get it back to the real world before Mr. Waternoose (the late James Coburn) and others find out about the incident..."Monsters, Inc." does for monsters what "Toy Story" did for toys. Pixar once again not only expands our mind, but our very worlds. I respect their company and commitment values very much, as you can read in my "Toy Story" review. They stick to the values that made Disney films so family-friendly back in the fifties and sixties: Respect for the audience, respect for quality, and respect for the audience's INTELLIGENCE, something Disney, who has recently coughed up a bunch of lousy, thoughtless sequels, has forgotten. Now, I know that LEGALLY Disney is co-creator of "Toy Story" and "Monsters, Inc.," but they really are not. They just give Pixar the money and get their name branded on the front box of the film. And even then, I have heard multiple claims that Disney is very mean-spirited towards Pixar (read into sequel trouble for "Toy Story 3") and gives them the bare minimum.But that is straying off the subject. "Monsters, Inc." is one of the most enjoyable animated films I have ever had the pleasure of viewing. I didn't enjoy it as much the first time, but I then bought it, and have since watched it many times. It is an instant classic. I will be watching it years from now, when I am old and frail and in a rocking chair. It ranks right up there with "Toy Story" 1 & 2, and all the OLDER Disney films from the 50's-70's. It has all the elements of a sweet, charming, emotional and pleasurably good-natured animated film. And, more coudos to Pixar: Thank you for not packing it full of the language and inappropriate content that Disney shoves into the dark recesses of their films nowadays.Not only has Pixar brought back the "Family Film" genre to what it should be, but it also redefines it. Pixar's animated films are some of the most thoughtful, imaginative and enjoyable animated films ever - not to mention 100 % family safe. Thank you, Pixar, for getting back on track.5/5 stars


                
The best way to describe this movie in one word is; fun! "Monsters, Inc." is a movie you can easily fall in love with. It has some great fun character, some awesome moments and some well placed comical moments. "Monsters, Inc." is entertainment at its bests.The voice cast is amazing. John Goodman and Billy Crystal form a great leading duo. Steve Buscemi is a great villain and James Coburn has a great voice that fits his character perfectly. John Ratzenberger as always is very entertaining this time in a role as banished Yeti.The story itself is pretty simple but thats what makes it easy to follow and so much fun to watch. The movie not only knows how to entertaining but also knows how and when to emote. The combination of fun and emotional things is perfectly balanced and placed within the movie.There is some great dialog but the true power of "Monsters, Inc." are the wonderful characters. Not is there only a wild variety of strange and weird characters but also some characters that are good for some serious laughs and Boo is simply adorable and a pretty fair representation of a kid in real life. Well done Pixar!Pure entertainment for the entire family!10/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
Pixar is the best! Of them all, Monsters, Inc. takes the cake. The realism of the characters' movements & feelings is perfect. The ending is a tear jerker on a happy note. At first I was concerned with the plot of monsters scaring children with a "business as usual" attitude, but right away you discover that the monsters are as terrified of the kids as the kids are of monsters.... wonderful juxtaposition throughout the film... a totally enjoyable, feel-good story. Buy it for the kids and let them watch it over and over. (adults may want to sit-in on more than one occasion themselves). Personal Note: For me, a mystery about this film was "Roz"; the voice reminded me so strongly of the grandmother in "Dinosaurs", and I thought the character drawing was similar as well; upon researching the two, I found they are definitely different actors.


                
Until now I couldn't bring myself to believe that computer animation was the equal of either stop motion animation or hand-drawn animation.  All computer animated films looked a little (usually more than a little) too sterile, many were animated poorly ("Antz", "Shrek", "Final Fantasy"), and even the single unqualified success ("Toy Story 2") provided little evidence that a computer animated film COULD reach the heights other kinds of animation could.  "Toy Story 2" had flawless character animation, but nothing as inspired as the best in "Tarzan" (released the same year, although I could have chosen almost any other Disney cartoon to make my point); effective art direction, but nothing to match "Fantasia" or "The Nightmare Before Christmas".  And I thought that "Toy Story 2" was as good as the art was ever going to get.I was wrong.  This is far better.  And what's more, there's no sense whatever that the script (an unusually rich and uninhibited script) is bumping up against the limits of what the medium will allow.  It's now been proven that computer animation CAN be just as good as any other kind. Whether it will be allowed to be in future is another question, but for now, I'm hopeful.  What we have here is computer animation's first ENTIRELY unalloyed artistic delight, with every character gracefully and characteristically animated, every virtual set just right and pleasing to look at, and an eye-tickling mastery of colour, light and shade that I thought would forever elude CGI artists.It's not fair to judge anything good as "Monsters, Inc." as though it were a children's movie, but I can't resist comparing it with "Shrek" - which emphatically IS a children's movie.  "Monsters, inc." is admittedly ABOUT children, in a sort of a way.  The inhabitants of Monstropolis rely on children's screams for their energy, and the central story is kicked off when one of the monsters accidentally brings a small child (which he calls "Boo") into the city.  But we never see things from her point of view.  We see things from the point of view of the monsters, who are all adults - and who, like most adults, see children as frightening, almost incomprehensible members of another species.  And they ARE.  To be sure, Wazowski comes to feel strong affection for Boo, but she never becomes more than a humanoid pet (which is not to demean the relationship).  This is a story about adults looking at childhood from the outside."Shrek", of course, is a children's movie through and through.  Its attention span is short, it has an unthinking mean streak, and children will have a whale of a time watching the central characters (the bigger they are, the more fun it is) act childishly and make poo-poo jokes.  "Monsters, Inc." has too much genuine wit, characters too rich, a world with too much depth, and a story at once too coherent and too complicated, to be PRIMARILY a film for children.  This is not to say children won't like it.  Maybe they will. (Who can say?)  Here's the bonus: if they DO like it, it will (unlike "Shrek") actually have a beneficial effect.  It will make them less frightened of the dark.


                
There's A Monster in My Closet!I would definitely recommend Monster's Inc. to people of various ages. Not only would I recommend this movie for its endless comedic scenes, but also because of its refreshing story line. The combination of these two elements makes this film relatable to everyone for we seem to seek for movies that allow us to express amusement or for a new plot. Furthermore, the unique characters added to the overall appearance of the film.I watched the film Monster's Inc. at the comfort of my own home on Saturday, November 13th, 2005 at approximately five o'clock in the afternoon as I listed my twenty dialectics and worked on my Film Reflection Journal.I recommend Monster's Inc. to anyone for it contained many comedic parts. I believe that people of all ages would relate to this film because it achieved to have both humor for children and adults. It has the simple amusing scenes that children would laugh at for example when Sully gets stuck in the trash can and books fall on his head and there were also the new generation, hilarious scenes that adults would get such as the scene with the Abominable snowman. Its story line was another factor that would make everyone admires the movie. It was unique in the sense that everything that happened in the film was nothing like any other movies that I have seen. The beginning started out with Mike and Sully doing their regular routine of getting up, greeting everyone monster they pass by, and going to work where they would scare children for the sake of Monstropolis. Then a child from the human world comes into their lives, which will eventually affect the city of Monstropolis including theirs.The characters in the film were made for the purpose of having the audience see a whole different side of them rather than focusing on their appearances. People could relate to the characters for they showcased personalities that we would display. They showed traits like jealousy, greediness, love, caring, confidence, anger, and more. Being able to relate to these characters allows us to become more attached to the movie for we see ourselves in the figures that are in the screen. We tend to remember some parts of our lives when something similar occurs in the movie. The last parts of the film showed Sully and Mike getting chased by Randall, who was attempting to capture Boo. I remembered my aunts chasing my cousins and me as we rode around with tricycles in the Philippines. This brought back memories from when this happened to me.In my opinion, I think that the movie would relate more to children than adults for some reasons. First, the characters were full of life and animated, which would suit the likings of children. It included a lonely but friendly Abominable snowman who wanted to be accepted. Secondly, the character of Boo speaks for every child who watched the film. There were probably some children who felt the same way that Boo did and possibly even have dealt with a similar problem. I know that I related with Boo because she brought me back to my past time when I had dilemmas with monsters at night. If I could relate to Boo, I know that other children will as well. The way that the monsters went to work and used the doors of children to enter their realm and scare them was a brilliant idea. This concept really tied the whole movie together. It was a critical part of the film for this is where Sully and Mike met Boo. The way that they competed on who can gather the most screams from children affected the movie in a positive way for it added more comedic parts in it.If you are looking for an animated yet memorable movie to watch that contains drama and comedy, Monster's Inc. is the film to choose.
Pixar. With only seven movies you've built yourself a reputation as the greatest current animation studio of them all. Dreamworks has made some good ones and 20th Century Fox's movies have made me chuckle a bit, and Disney has gone downhill in recent years. But you can consistently produce quality work with almost no stain on your track record (except A Bug's Life, the one Pixar movie I did not enjoy). But I've lost track of my thoughts.I'm here to talk about Monster's Inc., my personal favorite Pixar movie.I'm a doodler myself, and wan't to be an animator someday. And I love drawing monsters. Weird looking, many armed, strange-eyed creatures. That may have been the 1st reason Monster's Inc. appealed to me. So many of these creatures looked like something I would draw, and I spent much of my movie time looking at the creatures in the background.I also was captivated by the world that was created in Inc. A big problem for me in Pixar's newest movie Cars was lack of real explanation for their universe, like how they built their buildings. In Monster's Inc. the monster world is explained so much more in depth, and we really believe this world could exist. There's a beauty in watching the thousands of closet doors zoom around and I always get goosebumps from watching the "scare montage", because I now know the mechanics of the world these creatures live in. The characters in the world are also incredibly well realized. Mike and Sully both are easily relatable to, and even small characters have feelings and motivations we can understand. "Boo" actually behaves like a young child would, and that helped me believe she had real emotions. But the creature Randall is what stole the show for me. With his many arms, chameleon-like ability and sheer voice presence, it was hard for me to keep my eyes off of him. But what really made me love this movie so was the characters. When it comes time for the "sad part" of this movie, I was sad. I was actually seeing an animated cartoon that managed to make me feel for these animated creatures without being emotionally manipulative. And I'm not afraid to admit that I cry 4 out of 5 times at the ending.So, in the end, I can't recommend this film enough. I think this stands above all other Pixar productions and is definitely one of the best animated films I've had the pleasure of seeing.


                
This film is great. It made me laugh out loud and made me feel sad when I was supposed to too. The monsters all live in a city called Monstropolis and they need the screams of children to power everything. Sully (the big blue furry monster) is the top scarer and he and his one-eyed green friend Mike work together at "Monsters, Incorporated" gathering screams. The monsters are terrified of the children however, thinking that if they get touched by a child they will die. One of the children (she ends up being known as Boo) gets into the monster world and everyone goes into a panic. Sully and Mike must return her to her home before she gets caught. Boo is a cute little character and that's a lot coming from me (I am not a huge fan of small children - it may be because she isn't real). There is also an evil creepy monster called Randal who is planning on kidnapping children to harvest as much scream as possible. The animation was great, I am always amazed at the patience that must go into animating hair, Sully is very hairy. As with all Pixar films there are "bloopers" during the credits which were really funny. With some of the rubbish that Disney seems to be coming out with (Little Mermaid 2, Jungle Book 2 anyone?), Disney/Pixar has to be the wave of the future.


                
Monsters generate their city's power by scaring children, but they are terribly afraid themselves of being contaminated by children, so when one enters Monstropolis, top scarer Sulley finds his world disrupted.Monster's Inc explores childhood fear, the fear of looking under your bed or looking at your open closet thinking a monster would pop out. Pixar of course wouldn't make it fearful, but brought lightheartedness to it and made a highly imaginative tale of a fictional world where monsters scare children to power their city. This film is illustrated with creative monsters and styled with classy/jazzy music. The feeling while watching this is amazing and the emotions you feel for the monsters is just magical. Pixar has once again OUTDONE their-selves with every project they have thought of. Monster's Inc is definitely one of the top Pixar movies and also one of the most creative. If you can outlook the childish themes and look deeper into the movie's heart and soul, you will definitely be immersed in Pixar's movie-making magic. Most people would complain about the animation because animated movies have this thing when where one sees one, it's automatically horrible and childish. If one is made by Pixar, I highly recommend you sit down and see what they can do to animations; you will be amazed. 10/10.


                
I only watched it on DVD, but I wish I was at the theater, when Monsters, Inc. was released. Anyway, I was blown away. Sometimes I was rolling on the ground while laughing, sometimes I couldn't hold back my tears. Simply amazing, marvellous filmmaking.The animation is picture-perfect, the dialogue is brilliant, the story is truly original. Pixar's finest, I think, it's way better than Finding Nemo. A cinematic masterpiece, which is full of emotions and laughter. If you haven't seen it yet, then GO, RENT IT! You won't be disappointed, I guarantee it.Boo is the cutest animation movie character EVER.An obvious 10/10


                
This movie is great!  Technically its amazing but the attention to realistic detail makes the movie.  It is obvious that one of the animators has a small child running around the house. Boo's mannerisms are dead-on.  The story itself is well told, too.I am not really a big fan of animated movies, but this one is definitely one that I will see several times in the theatre and own when it comes out on video.  Its not just a children's movie!  >)


                
Great family film. One of the most underrated movies of the year. I took my 2 year old to see it. He loved it! He now has books and toys of Mike and Sully! This movie will be going into our library. We can't wait for the DVD release in September 2002!Just think they did not need a campaign of trailers, food chain promotions and commercials. If you have a solid story line and a genuine script<U+0085>people will come to see it!


                
This movie is one of the most brilliant, creative and intelligent animated movies of all time, along with all the other Pixar Animation Studios' Movies. The characters are hilarious (Billy Crystal as Mike Wazowski and John Goodman as Sulley was brilliant) and heartfelt, and the movie exposes raw sensitivity with the separation of Sulley and Boo. The animation is incredible, the humor is witty and the storyline is flawless. This movie should be seen by any Pixar fan, Billy Crystal or Goodman fan, or anyone who just plain likes funny movies, lighthearted ones. Pixar, you've done it again, made a brilliant epic masterpiece! Congrats! Watch out for another appearance by John Ratzenberger (Hamm, P.T.Flea etc.). Hint: Himalayas! Overall, loved it! And I can't see why anyone else wouldn't either. Something for everyone!


                
As I'm 20 years old I wasn't very enthusiastic when one of my friend's brought Monsters Inc over to watch one night. I've never been into what I once thought were kids movies. I couldn't get into A Bug's Life or the Toy Story movies (though they were just as well-made) but when I saw Monsters Inc I was amazed. The colours are beautiful and the monsters actually have individual personalities that you can form an opinion about. My personal favourite is Sully - the way the bond grows between him and Boo is wonderful to watch, and he's such a tender, caring character. It's the only animated movie that has ever truly moved me - the ending brought a tear to my eye. I cannot find any fault with this movie and I fell in love with it the first time I saw it. I'm now the proud owner of the DVD and it's definitely one of my favourite movies ever. Anyone who hasn't seen it should - it's brilliant.


                
Monsters Inc. is just what I expected, Amazing. Every time I see a Pixar movie, from the spectacular Finding Nemo, or the hilarious Toy Story, I know I will be enjoyed. Pixar has such a way with making movies interesting to all ages. Because everyone of all ages, can relate to these characters, or the plot. From all the special features and commentaries I watch on these movies, the directors and writers really do spend so much time in making sure all audiences can watch their movies.Now that I have talked about Pixar, I will talk about Monsters Inc. The movie is just wonderful. From the first scene, where the monster is just totally destroying this kid's room, to the last scene, where Sulley finally sees Boo again, I laugh, I worry, I feel. If anyone says there is nothing funny in this movie, they must either have no sense of humor, or a really bad sense of humor, or just want to be cynical. The movie is HILARIOUS, with lines such as "did you loose weight, or a limb" The voices are wonderful, John Goodman just has this wonderful voice for animated films, it is so deep and hard, but tender and soft. Billy Crystal is just wonderfully funny. Even all the little characters, like the abominable snow man, are just hilarious. And the story is also touching, you really feel for Boo, and her relationship with Sulley, and even with Mike.I think the thing that makes Pixar so different from all other animation companies such as Dreamworks, Pixar doesn't very many vocal songs. They have an orchestra do most of their music. It gives the movies much more of a genuine tone. Even though i love the sound track to Shrek and Shrek 2, I feel i watch the movie for the music, not the plot. Pixar has such amazing music, you don't realize that it almost another character to the films.Overall, Monsters Inc. is a wonderfully entertaining film and should be watched by any age group.
I am always happy too see a Pixar movie. They have not yet disappointed and there films are always perfect. They missed a few things in Cars. But smashed away by worries away with Ratatouille. They haven't made one bad film. Just by the knowledge of Monsters Inc being made by Pixar should be enough for anyone to see this. Again another superb animated movie.The animation was great. Wonderful color and details. After a little while the characters stop being 3D images and start being lovable and actually have the ability to move you to tears.Even though there are monsters in this it is still suitable for kids. There are some scenes that could scare young kids. But they shouldn't scare kids too much.The story was great. It was very creative. Monsters Inc is the kids scream power plant in the monster world. In the monster world human children are toxic. When the plants top scaring team Sully and Mike accidentally let one kid called Boo into their world. All hell breaks loose. Returning the kid to her bedroom is not as easy as it sounds.I couldn't have asked for a better ending. There's action,laughter and tears.This movie just keeps getting better and better. From a colorful and creative opening to a funny end credits scene, Monsters Inc is one to put on your must watch list. I recommend it.10/10


                
When I first heard about this film somewhere in 2001, I thought that, after the failure from Toy Story 2, Pixar wouldn't redeem themselves. But in early 2002, when I saw this in theaters, I was shocked! The movie was fantastic! I laughed at everything to be laughed at, and the beautiful animation and wonderful voice cast just made it better.The Plot: (may contain spoilers) The movie starts out with an introductory to all the main characters and scenes. Mike Wasoski(Billy Crystal) and James P. Sullivan(John Goodman) are getting the day started when the new TV commercial for Monsters Inc. premiers. Mike is so anxious to see himself on TV, but when he's on the screen, the Monster's Inc. logo covers most of his body. Mike doesn't realize this however and starts shouting with joy.After the morning is started, Mike and Sully head off to work. Mike wants to drive his new car, but Sully says that there's a scream shortage(screams are used to power the city) and that they must walk. Along the way, they encounter some friends and neighbors.When they arrive, Mike walks up to the counter to see Celia(Jennifer Tilly), who he refers to as "Googly Bear". It's her birthday and Mike has reservations from a restaurant known for its almost impossibility to get a reservation. After that, he and Sully walk to the locker room to get ready.Mike leaves the locker room early to get his flies from Roz, the secretary who wants it her way and her way only. Mike tries to make it romantic, but fails to put her in a good mood. He still pretends to like her as he walks away, but then snaps out of it soon.Mike and the other scare assistants get the work station ready. They take they're scare card out and slide it in. A door comes by and locks into the station. The door leads to a child's room. It is the scarer's duty to scare the child to produce screams.After setup, the scarers come out. The attendant prepares the monitor and scare records. The assistants prepare the scarer while the attendant prepares the countdown. Then the monsters run into the room and scare the child. Some aren't so lucky, but it turns out to be a good day.But then a scarer, George Sanderson, comes out with a sock on his back. This is considered toxic(the code is 23-19) and the CDA(Child Detection Agency) charges in. A child or anything owned or touched by the child is considered dangerous to monsters. George is decontaminated and has all his fur shaved off.The scare floor is shut down for 30 minutes. The day then goes on as usual. Henry J. Waternoose(James Coburn) asks Sully to come by and give some trainee scares a demonstration. Sully agrees, and eventually the quitting bell rings.Mike and Sully walk into Roz again. Mike says he has a fun-filled evening planned, but after Roz reminds him about paperwork e was supposed to file, he immediately panics. Sully says he'll get the paperwork just as Celia arrives to get Mike. Mike tells Sully what to do and leaves with his date.Sully goes back to the scare floor to get the report. he notices a door was left behind, which is considered carelessness, because all doors must be return by the end of the day. Sully explores the door to see if anyone is left behind. Then he notices a child is play with his tail. He screams in terror and runs off.I'd like to say more, but because of the character limit, I should leave it to you to find out what happens next.The Voices: This movies features a variety of great voice talent. It stars talent like John Goodman(TV's Rosanne), Billy Crystal(Deconstructing Harry), Steve Buscemi(King Of New York), and even a cameo by Frank Oz(Star Wars). All of them worked hard and it paid off.The Verdict: This is a wonderful movie and it's a great way to help younger kids understand that monsters aren't always scary. Plus the great humor, brilliant animation, and wonderful voice cast don't even begin to say how great this movie is.10/10
I purchased this movie over online as a DVD pair, the only movie I have ever done this with. I liked Randall Boggs best and found myself sympathizing with him more than I ever have a villain before. The plot twist may have been foreseeable to some reviewers, but I was taken completely by surprise when I first saw it, and even seeing it again do not have any inkling about what it will be until it is revealed. The relationship between Sully and Mike is right on target, and the storyline is excellent. I did not see this for the humor, but for the plot and setting, and at these the movie is superlative. The only problem is that we do not have a PG-6 rating level, since it really doesn't deserve a PG-13 yet might be too scary for very small children.


                
Though I slept on the couch throughout my life, I never really experienced sleeping in my own bed until I got older; and yet, I never figured out if monsters ever lived in my closet or better yet, wondered why there would be a monster in my closet? Monsters, Inc. is about a company in Monstorpolis City (hence the title) that has monsters to scare kids as a way of their energy of keeping the city alive. It's very amusing that they show the monsters in a room where they would have different doors leading to a room in different parts of the human world. The world's top scarer is James P. Sullivan (voiced by John Goodman) who is known to friends, family and fans as Sulley. His assistant is the little one-eyed green ball Mike Wasizoki (Billy Crystal) in which they are partners no matter what (like Shrek and Donkey). Sulley's competitor is Randall Wallace (no relation to the director and is voiced by Steve Buscemi) who will do anything to win and be number one.The rule that Monsters, Inc. has is not to get into contact or let a child touch them. In one scene during the big scream fest, a big blue monster screams out of a closet crying saying that the child wasn't scared and that it touched him. The other monster replies, "She was only six!" When Randall tries to cheat in the competition while every monster is away, Sulley sees a door with flowers on it and opens the door. He hears someone messing with his tail and sees a little girl playing with it. Sully does not scare her, but he's reaction lead into a chase where this time it's the other way around; the little girl is chasing the monster. The city finds out that there's a little girl on the run and afraid that they'll get a disease from the child. Though the film is a buddy picture, the main characters are the little girl (Boo) and Sulley as he watches over her making sure that she doesn't get hurt. Most people would consider "Shrek" a better cartoon because of its cruelness and ethnicity, but I also like "Monsters, Inc." because it's cute in a way of curiosity and realizing that monsters have lives too.


                
If you liked "Toy Story", you gotta see this latest one from the same studio, PIXAR. The monsters in this town work at a factory that can put them in any child's closet world wide. Screams power the city and are collected via these portals. But strangely enough, any contact with a child also scares the monsters, let alone the thought that one should come back thru the door into their city. The pressure is on Sulley and his one-eyed partner, Mike, to keep their number one ranking at work. Randall will to anything to get that number one spot, even... Although this movie is not meant for real young children, all will enjoy the story. The animation is top rate, so well done you can see his the texture of his fur and the scales on his skin. I can only hope PIXAR will top this with their next animated feature...


                
I don't know how many times I have watched this movie, but it always makes me laugh like it's the first time I see it. Overall I think it's one of the most original and entertaining movies Disney has ever produced.


                
This is a hilarious, fast paced fun movie about a little girl who gets into the monster world with Mike and Sully. Sully's bond with Boo (the girl) is probably the best thing about the movie. I also loved the character of Randall and the scene where they're flying around hanging onto doors is very entertaining.


                
Look I've seened many Disney movies we all have at least most of us but this was a major success for its writing animation and heart warming pilot and dialogue this was a major in the early 2000's and will also be when you look at a Disney movies enough times you realize that it will never get old and you will still remember it probably.
Ok I understand it's 2018 and this movie released in November of 2002, but I feel like I should still give my own personal review! Monsters Inc is Just one of many of Pixar's Library And just happens to be a big hit!! My own score of this masterpiece is 10/10, mainly for the Heartwarming relationship of Sully and Boo, the friendship of Mike and Sully, Humor, Visuals are insane for 2002, and the Soundtrack Is Really quite Good! In total conclusion Monsters Inc Will definitely be a film to remember for a long time to come!!


                
This movie was the only thing I would fall asleep to every night and I have watched it more times than I could possibly count. To this day when I watch it it still makes me cry. It's beautifully done and has a great plot. In my opinion. It's the best movie ever to come out of Disney Pixar.


                
