This has to be one of the most overrated movies of all time. I don't know what it is, but it may have to do with how old you were when you first saw it. I'm guessing that when the movie was first released, a lot of guys took their dates to see it <U+0096> women typically love romantic themes, even when done badly <U+0096> and got laid that night or something, hence they remember it fondly. Or it's possible that even younger audiences were fans of TV's "The Wonder Years" and loved Fred Savage or something. But for anyone who wasn't younger than 25 at the time of its release, this movie's popularity is an enigma: As a comedy, it's not very funny. As a fantasy, it's just bad. It has some qualities as an action adventure, though it comes off as a cheap imitation of a cross between the Robin Hood story and Monty Python and the Holy Grail (a silly movie that works, at least for most guys, in a way that the Three Stooges do not); shame on Peter Cook. Overall, the story is childish, the dialog is juvenile ("She is alive, or was an hour ago. If she is otherwise when I find her I shall be very put out". Come on!) and repetitive, the sets are pathetic, the acting is abysmal (Andre the Giant and that annoying little dweeb, please), and the special effects (rodents of unusual size) <U+0085> ugh!


                
This film is one of the true wonders of cinema: Why is it so loved?I'm all for fantasy movies, and I have no problems with comedy and romance, but "The Princess Bride" is slow, cumbersome and tedious. Loaded with long-winded scenes, I found myself laughing in only two spots (the old woman and "the wine" scene). Otherwise, the laughs were non-existent.Worst still, there were no surprises and the conflict lacked intensity.The movie put me to sleep and I had to rewatch the disappointing ending.This could have a great film, but it was slow and lackluster. My only question is why didn't Elwes truly make it as a leading man? He's intelligent, handsome and can act in any genre, but just like Peter Weller, things didn't pan out as they should have.


                
I last saw The Princess Bride around 20+ years ago. I can't recall what I thought of it then but I have always been aware that it has a great following. Having just re-watched it I am utterly dismayed that a film this poorly written, so poorly acted and with such a jarring almost absurdly bad musical score has such devotion. I can only guess that it's nostalgia that's clouding the minds of its fans. It's not even remotely funny and this coming from the guy that gave us This Is Spinal Tap? The sets look worse than the cheapest TV shows. It even makes reference to Australia being full if convicts yet has a Medieval period setting, hundreds of years before Autralia's convict influx. Did nobody vet the script? Where's the alleged humour? Please give me a funny line that I may have missed. This is woefully amateurish stuff.


                
Let's face it. Rob Reiner is not Mel Brooks. (Perhaps both of them are glad of that...) I watched this film on the recommendation of several people whose intelligence I had hitherto respected, but was, alas, disappointed. My first reaction to the whole thing as "this film is unremittingly silly!" Andre the Giant is no Alex Karras/Mongo. "Max the Miracle Man" who brings people back from the dead? A woman who thinks she's been married without having agreed to it by saying "I do"? A hero who has to be dragged to climactic action because he's "mostly dead"? This film gives new definition to the term "willing suspension of disbelief." My biggest worry now is that friends who have become fans of this thing will trot it out and force me to watch it again. I will not be saying "As you wish."


                
I really did not see the appeal in this film - maybe it's because I first watched at the age of 19 rather than a lot younger. I didn't think there was much of a plot, and there seemed to be no relationship ever forming between the two lovers. I literally could not believe I'd wasted an hour and a half watching this alongside two friends who had grown up with it and adored it. Honestly I think I would probably have enjoyed it a lot more if I'd seen it when younger and grown up with it. Seeing it as a young adult just made me hate the whole thing and want to criticise every aspect of the film. I don't plan on ever watching it again and if you are also a first-time watcher at a later age I can't imagine you'd see what the hype about it is either.


                
Let me just start out by saying to the legions of fans that I just did not find this movie to be that good. Now, don't get me wrong...I love a lot of 80s movies, AND Monty Python, AND I have a pretty good sense of humor. All the rabid fans of "The Princess Bride" seem to use those as guidelines for who likes this movie, but I'm not buying it. This just did not do ANYTHING for me.My college roommate was shocked and appalled freshman year that I had never seen, or even heard of, "The Princess Bride." So, she had me set aside some time to watch it with her. Let's just say it was like this: have you ever been watching something, and thought "when does this get good?" That was exactly what I was thinking by about 20 minutes in. I gave it a fair shake: I'd never heard of it except for the glowing reviews of my roommate, and we also have pretty similar tastes in movies for the most part, so I was expecting it to be at least fairly good if she liked it THAT much. Ah, geez, was I wrong. It was all I could do to sit through this. I won't go summarizing the entire movie, but these are my main points:1. Cary Elwes is pretty good as Westley. But then again, I like him. I didn't really like any of the other characters at all, especially not Buttercup. I didn't even really want Westley to end up with her.2. This whole "quotability factor" is blown way out of proportion. Especially this "inconceivable!" line that everyone thinks is so great...only mildly amusing at best.3. The sheer repetitiveness of all the "Prepare to die" and "Inconceivable" stuff is ridiculous and tiresome (it gets that way VERY quickly). Even the oddly endearing "As you wish"...you just get tired of hearing it. All the "un-funniness" really just takes away from the few amusing parts.4. When it comes down to it, I was just bored. The story is so up-and-down, all over the place...I don't know how a child could sit through this, when I was waiting for it to end before the midpoint.Just my opinion...this movie is WAY over-rated.


                
