'The Princess Bride' is a fantasy film about a man who goes to rescue a kidnapped princess that he has fallen in love with. The main problem that I had with this film is the production; the monsters and fights did not look realistic, and the romance was silly and awkward in places. The production of this film could have been much better. As a story, I think that the film succeeded. The way that it was presented as a tale from the grandfather to the boy also put it into perspective, but the production made it seem like an unprofessional film, and I did have trouble taking it seriously. As this film is generally well-liked by a wide audience, I would recommend it. Just try to not let the production put you off.


                
Sorry for being honest, and no offense to the people who've chosen this movie to best their favorite ever made, but my friend and i watched this because we we're told it's beautiful and a classic. We were so bored by about half time, that we literally suffered through the rest of the movie, hoping for it to end in some kind of fruitful way. What a waste of time. P.S. Still i must say, we did both laugh twice. But i wouldn't want to spoiler. If you like love-stories watch s.th. like "eternal sunshine of the spotless mind". Like s.th. old & classic try "Dead Poets' Society" or "One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest".I'm pretty sad to not have found real fantasy. i guess i was hoping for s.th. like "sleeping beauty".


                
The Princess Bride is widely regarded as a classic fantasy-romance semi-spoof movie for children of all ages. I started off with that description because I supposedly saw this movie. But it's very strange: the movie I saw was a crappy, predictable, sappy princess movie without a single subversive element to it, held together one or two fun characters and quotable lines.I'll get right to it: this is really just every crappy 80s fantasy movie, full of hammy acting and dialogue, that everyone treats like a classic. It's Space Jam for children of the late 70s/early 80s. It doesn't have the imagination or production value of something like Labyrinth or The Neverending Story. And good god...have I mentioned how goddamn sappy this film is?It's doesn't even work on the level of being a "spoof". It's a semi-spoof, i.e. the exact same as the material it's spoofing, except with more laughing involved. It doesn't try to piss-take or subvert your expectations.There are one or two characters and lines that you'll remember, but on the whole this movie is one of those films that deserves to be forgotten. A comfort film for those of a certain vintage, completely value-less to those younger than it.


                
