On my own, I would never have watched this movie based on the title alone. But it's in the IMDb 'Top 250', so as I manage my viewing to go through that list, this one came up in it's proper turn. I'd have to say this one was more than a surprise. It was fairly entertaining and I don't mind saying it had the very best sword fight I've ever seen in any movie, which is saying something because I've seen Errol Flynn, Tyrone Power and Douglas Fairbanks in action, and I don't think any of them could have held their own with either Dread Pirate Roberts/Farm Boy Westley (Cary Elwes) or Inigo Montoya (Mandy Patinkin). Now there could have been some special effects involved there, but if so, it wasn't transparent. Those two put on quite a show.The story also had a few pretty cool concepts like the shrieking eels and the Cliffs of Insanity. The Fire Swamp and the Lightning Sand were kind of original too. The convoluted turn of phrase that old Vizzini (Wallace Shawn) engaged in trying to outwit the Dread Pirate was pretty amusing, and if you try to keep up with it you'll be hopelessly lost, so best not even to try. It was also neat to see Andre the Giant in the film, one of the wrestling world's all time favorites. Interesting, but when he spoke he sounded kind of normal, unlike his in-character TV interviews where he had a much more guttural and heavily accented voice.With all that going on, it's easy to forget that the Princess Bride tale is a story within a story, as a grandfather (Peter Falk) attempts to carry on a long family tradition of reading a favorite book to his grandson (Fred Savage). It doesn't sound very favorable at the outset with the romance and the 'eeeuw' kissing, but the kid warms up to the story when it sounds like there will be some action and adventure. If I had to come up with a minor nit-pick, it seemed like the picture got a bit more slapstick in the final third of the movie. Otherwise the humor was well placed and I thought it made for fine family fare.
Despite the glaring flaws you will find in this movie. It remains one of my favorite ones to watch for a number of reasons.1) It has EVERYTHING! Action, comedy, drama, suspense, revenge, fairy- tales, heroes, villains, pirates, giants, miracle men, even rodents of unusual size. There is a reason it is always among the list of Best Movies, Funniest Movies, and Best Love Stories of All Time. 2) The CAST. Hard to name a more fitting princess than the beautiful Robin Wright, Cary Elwes can sweep you off your feet as a farmboy or a masked man, Mandy Patinkin delivers the most memorable quote of his career, and the rest of the ensemble transport you into their magical world.3) It has ROBIN WRIGHT in it! Did I say that already?4) It brings out the KID in me and the nostalgia of those days. If only for two hours you can go to a distant land and be on an adventure and feel positive and young again. 5) It has plenty of MEMORABLE LINES and scenes. SOME MISSES: - SPECIAL EFFECTS are pretty lame, even by 80's standards (the rodents could not have been more fake and some of the props are sub-standard) - STORY: Predictable and full of clichés - SCRIPT/DIALOGUE: While there are numerous memorable lines, they are repeated too frequently throughout the course of the movie. The script was simplistic. And to be objective, not too funny for most adults. - ACTING: There isn't much depth to any of the characters but the script didn't give the actors much to work with, for starters. Younger audiences may not notice it, but older ones may cringe in some scenes - CHEESE FACTOR: oh boy, it has plenty. It openly deals with "True Love" in a fantasy environment so it's pretty much set-up for sappy-ness.FOR: - People who still have their inner child intact somewhere - Family movie night - Slumber Party with the girls - Reminiscing with others who have seen this movie as a kidNOT FOR: - Kids who are too young (who might get scared by giant rats, some fighting, torture, talk of killing, and kissing scenes) - People who take themselves too seriously or are jaded cynics - Grown-ups who will be seeing this for the first time and have been misled by the high ratingsBOTTOM LINE: Cheesy Mac & Cheese with bacon bits. My favorite food ever since I was a kid. It was yummy then and still yummy now and I don't have to explain why I love it, I just do. If only for the fact that I've carried my love for this movie since childhood, my sentimental attachment to it would give it a 10/10.But then my Mac & Cheese, no matter how yummy, is never gonna get 3 Michelin stars next to a dish with fancy truffles. As a MOVIE, stripped of my nostalgia, this one is mediocre at best. There are more imaginative fantasy movies, funnier comedies, more romantic love stories, and more exciting adventures.


                
"Hello. My name is Inigo Montoya. You killed my father. Prepare to die."I know, I picked the most quotable line of this epic fairy tale (sorry for being such a cliché), but it was honestly the scene I enjoyed the most in this movie. Rob Reiner's The Princess Bride is one of his most revered films and it has become a cult favorite over time. I didn't fall in love with it however, but I can understand the appeal this romantic fantasy has on so many people considering it has it all: a tale of true love, adventures involving pirates, sword-fights, fantasy creatures, and a princess who is forced to marry against her will. The premise is no different from that of your typical damsel in distress fairy tale, but the way the film seems to be mocking and honoring those familiar elements at the same time are what makes it stand out. It has a unique innocent quality to it while remaining funny, charming, and sweet. Perhaps I would've benefited from watching this at a younger age, but having waited so long to experience it for the first time was a bit of an underwhelming experience. I wasn't swept away by its magical and fantastic elements and the love story didn't stand out from other romantic tales. There are several fun scenes and unexpected character interactions, but during most of the film I felt a bit bored. The satire works in parts and so does the fantasy, but it just felt too familiar to win me over entirely. The screenplay was adapted by William Goldman from his own novel of the same name. Although for this film he uses a grandfather (Peter Falk) to narrate the story as he is telling it to his sick grandson (Fred Savage). At first the grandson isn't too keen about having his grandpa read him a story, especially because it starts off with kissing, but once the adventure begins he's hooked. There are occasional interruptions that bring us back to the kid's room, but most of the film takes place in this fantasy land where we are introduced to a very beautiful woman named Buttercup (Robin Wright) who falls in love with her farm boy, Westley (Cary Elwes). The two have found true love, but having no money to marry he embarks on a trip and promises to return to her. Buttercup is shattered when she hears that Westley was killed by a fearful pirate named Roberts. With nothing more to look forward to, eventually she gets engaged with Prince Humperdinck (Chris Sarandon) of Florin who promises to turn her into a princess. On the eve of her wedding, Buttercup is kidnapped by a man named Vizzini (Wallace Shawn) and his two hired henchmen, Inigo Montoya (Mandy Patinkin) a skilled swordsman who has promised to avenge his father's death, and the strong but gentle giant Fezzik (Andre the Giant) who really doesn't know no better. While holding Buttercup ransom and fleeing from the site, they discover that they are being followed by a mysterious man in a black mask. He catches up with them soon and the adventure begins as these men face off with one another and new revelations are made.Allowing for the story to take place through this narrative style was one of the better decisions because it gave the film its unique dreamy style and it wasn't necessary to deliver realistic visuals. It was all part of the fantasy, although I would've preferred less interruptions, but I guess they had to give Fred Savage and Peter Falk some more lines. The relationship between Elwes and Wright was believable, but it didn't stand out because it was too familiar. However, they were both the perfect casting choice for these roles. It was Mandy Patinkin as Inigo Montoya who stole the movie for me. I absolutely loved his character and the sword fighting scene was the highlight of the movie for me. It included a brilliant homage to Douglas Fairbanks (which I'm sure gave someone the idea that Elwes would be the perfect choice to spoof his Robin Hood character in a later movie). Montoya was probably the inspiration for Antonio Banderas as well when he was cast to play the Zorro. This character has become an icon and he was the saving grace of the film for me. The rest of the characters were OK, but he stood out. The exception and I think I'm in the minority here was Vizzini. I found Wallace Shawn's portrayal of him rather irritating and I couldn't stand him. There is also a hilarious scene with Billy Crystal playing a miracle doctor, who you'd only recognize due to his voice because he is heavily covered in make up to look like an old man. The Princess Bride had its strong moments, but somehow I never managed to fall in love with the fantasy and wouldn't consider it one of Reiner's best films. It does prove however what a versatile director he is because the film is very different from his other works. I'm still a bit shocked that the film is so widely loved, but I can't argue it isn't a good movie. http://estebueno10.blogspot.com/


                
I have just watched this movie again because I remember only watching bits and pieces of it a long time ago. I only remembered the part in which "The Man In Black" goes around besting the three guys to rescue the princess, basically everything until they exit The Fire Swamp. So I decided to watch it again but this time fresh in my mind and it actually isn't that bad.When a common woman tells her (I really don't know if it's slave or something) named Wesley to do things he consistently says "As You Wish", really meaning to say "I love you". When she loves him back he decides to go out and make his fortune however he is said to be killed by a Pirate. Later an egotistical Prince (I'm not kidding, this guy almost has the ego of William Shatner) decides to marry Buttercup and she gets kidnapped by three bumbling people: a giant, a swordsman and the brains of the operation. They decide to help the 2 feuding countries start a war but they are followed by a man in black, presumably the same pirate that killed Wesley. Once he stops all three and reveals to the Princess that he is Wesley she feels she would rather marry him then the Prince. However he won't allow that and he then gets help from the swordsman and giant to stop the Prince because someone high up in the court murdered the swordsman's father.Okay, This is a very well made movie but on some points I just feel as if I have to be the bad guy. The whole part of this being a storybook being read from grandfather to grandson I don't think contributes anything to the plot. I also need to say that the setting is off, I mean they make references to Earth locations when you have swamps that shoot fire, giant rodents, giants and a whole lot of other things that scream "Okay, this is not our world". I know, this movie is pretty much a fairy tale but it just feels wrong.On the positive notes, the humour is a little funny if you like people saying things only to have you say "Wait, what?" at it. I think the weirdest is when Wesley and Buttercup (The Princess) are in the Fire Swamp and, it looks like Dagobah from Star Wars The Empire Strikes Back if it was back-lit a little more and he comments that it's not bad, then says the trees are "quite lovely", it's just so stupid and yet it does bring out a chuckle. I guess the other way to describe it is if you've seen anything by Joss Whedon, just think that except a little bit more out there.I would also say the set design, the cinematography are a couple of things I liked as well. The sword fighting I think could have been shot a little better (Although I did like the one with Wesley and Indigo Montoya) but aside from that there is no complaint here. I also think the moments when it's intentionally corny do it really well.So if you haven't seen it I say what to expect is pretty much a fairy tale. It's simple bare-bones motivations, true love will prevail and all that stuff. Although it is extremely self aware that what it's making is that and it does satirize the whole Disney thing beautifully. I'd personally say if you want to see it then just keep what I said in mind and if that's for you then, you'll like it okay. However if it's not your thing then steer clear.


                
"Hello. My name is Inigo Montoya. You killed my father. Prepare to die." Those words will trigger one of two things for a person, either massive confusion or the amusing fairytale, The Princess Bride.Alan, a young boy, is sick in bed with the flu playing video games. The last thing he wants is his grandfather reading him some "mushie story with kissing." Reluctantly, Alan agrees to let his grandfather read The Princess Bride to him, a novel that has been read in Alan's family from generation to generation. Alan expects an everyday story with your usual Prince, Princess, villain, rescue, and romance. But this book had a lot more to offer, yes, including "kissing" (as said by the grandfather to Alan)<U+0085> The strength of true love is essentially the makeup of the storyline for The Princess Bride. A beautiful girl named Buttercup falls in love with her farm hand, Westley. It's the perfect relationship till Prince Humperdinck picks Buttercup to become "Princess Buttercup," which she resents. Suddenly, another complication occurs—Buttercup is unexpectedly kidnapped by a group of three evil villains, "The Sicilian, The Spaniard, and The Turk" in which Westley must battle to win back his one and only love. At the same time, Prince Humperdinck also sets off to look for his soon to be "Princess Buttercup." Will Westley save his soul mate before the Prince can interfere? Is Buttercup going to become royalty? Only true love is to decide how this one-of-a-kind fairytale concludes.Whether you are looking to watch a movie for an adventure, a mushie love story, or just for laughs, The Princess Bride is for you. This movie is suitable for the whole family has been classified under many categories, including, comedy, romance, drama, adventure, and even fantasy. Not only is it a well-written screenplay and has been rated over 8/10 stars by most movie critiques but it has been nominated for five awards and has won five other awards, some including the "People's Choice Award" and the "Saturn Award." In addition, this movie also features a dynamic cast. The entire cast did a remarkable job in making this fairytale realistic (to an extent). One example is about how the combat (sword fights, flips, tricks, etc.) scenes were well done and rehearsed. They kept the viewers on the edge of their seats through every "clink" of a sword and "swoosh" from a flip. Another is how the make-up and costumes in the movie added a great effect to the cast of characters, especially to the older, more mystical characters featured, such as Miracle Max and his wife. The 1987 release of The Princess Bride shows viewers that this movie making process took time and consideration, along with an amazing cast, and a hard working crew, creating a story that's to be a great audience pleaser.Three evil villains, a cruel Prince, a beautiful bride, a hero, Cliffs of Insanity, a Pit of Despair, and so much more chaos and adventure—no one has ever had to fight this hard for true love.


                
We were pleasantly surprised with "The Princess Bride". This is a very cleverly written movie. Also, it is obvious that the direction and acting had to be cleverly and skillfully done. The actors do not "try" to be funny. They trust the script. Actors who try to ham it up, even with a funny script (Milton Berle, for example), water down the humor of the scene. I found myself chuckling at many lines and situations. The casting is wonderful, and the cast and direction of Rob Reiner make the time period work. This production took some risks, but the gutsy move pays off with a definite sleeper hit.


                
The disappointment that I had with this movie I think can be attributed to how many people copied off of it. From what I have gathered, this was the first time anyone had done a non- traditional fairy tale and people loved that. But now, Disney does that every time it adapts a fairy tale. All of the elements of Princess Bride can be found in either the Shrek movies or one of the Disney "fairy tales with a twist". So Princess Bride hardly felt revolutionary to me after seeing so many movies that modeled themselves off of it. It's really too bad, because I think I might have really enjoyed it if not for that.The story follows many of the conventions of a fairy tale, so that was a little disappointing. There were plenty of good scenes, though, and much of it was amusing or at least entertaining. The action choreography was pretty good for what it was. Low budget, or at least not huge budget like we see today, but still pretty exciting and not that violent. The turns are not exactly predictable, but they aren't devastatingly unexpected. They just sort of happen.I think I was also expecting there to be more of a Monty Python or Men in Tights feel to it, which there was a little bit. But a lot of the movie had a surprisingly serious tone to it, enough that there were many times when I didn't know whether I was supposed to laugh. In some ways, this isn't bad. It can be kind of annoying to have the jokes hold up a "laugh" sign next to them. But it decreases the entertainment level a little.All things considered, it's well crafted. I wouldn't say that it's anything you should study as an aspiring filmmaker, but the people who worked on it did a good job. I wouldn't recommend that you watch it if you don't think you'll like it. You can only enjoy this movie if you go into it with an open mind. It's a good family movie, but most kids under about 8 won't appreciate it that much. Overall Rating: 7.3/10.


                
The 1980s were the golden age of the fantasy movie – Excalibur (1981), The Dark Crystal (1982), Legend (1985), Willow (1988) and many others, sword-and-sorcery sagas for the blockbuster generation. But what those aforementioned pictures also had in common were high-production values and emphasis on aesthetics and stylisation. In some cases this was to hide the lack of a decent story. The Princess Bride by comparison is a decidedly minimalist affair, devoid of special effects (bar a bit of puppetry and prosthetics), atmospherics and big fight scenes. This is a fantasy movie which must rely on other things for its appeal to the viewer.The Princess Bride, adapted by William Goldman from his own novel, is really quite a light and simple story, more of a fairy tale than a work of what is normally called fantasy. Its world is too cosy and its baddies are not really evil enough to give it a sense of danger. It also contains a fair few plot holes along the way. It is however saved by two cunning devices. First is the framing narrative whereby Peter Falk is reading the story to his cynical grandson. The grandson's attitude pre-empts criticism, allowing the story to acknowledge the weakness of its own opening and challenge the nay-sayers to keep watching. Secondly there is the constantly humorous angle, a wit in the words that is often self-deprecating, and more irreverent than outright hysterical. The humour is all within character, so not enough to classify The Princess Bride as a spoof or even really a full-blown comedy, but it prevents the viewer from laughing at the corniness of the movie, because it gives the impression that all along the movie is chuckling at itself.Conveniently enough, director Rob Reiner had a background in comedy, and part of his skill in this area was selecting good comedy actors. The Princess Bride provides great opportunities because it has a lot of minor characters that aren't necessarily comical on paper but can be made funny in the way an actor plays them. Because these parts could be interpreted in a number of ways Reiner is more or less free as to who he casts in which role, and he actually seems to have stacked them so they get better and better as the movie progresses. First up is Wallace Shawn, great at doing indignant pomposity. Then there's Mel Smith, rarely seen in films but a fine character player from his days in TV sketch shows. Then we come to Billy Crystal, whose act is a masterwork of timing, working brilliantly in tandem with a lively Carol Kane. And finally there is the brief cameo by Peter Cook, a model of decorum and propriety<U+0085> until he opens his mouth. Wonderful stuff.While we have the cream of the crop in the small parts, it seems this production could not afford big stars for the leads, and we get too relative unknowns as the heroic Westley and his eponymous princess. Someone may have had the idea that Cary Elwes would shape up to be a modern-day Errol Flynn. He certainly has the looks and can pull off a swashbuckling swagger, but he just doesn't have the necessary presence or charisma, and it's no wonder he was picked mostly for supporting roles after this. Robin Wright is similarly bland, although to be fair despite being the movie's namesake her character does not really have a lot to do here. Better things can be said of Mandy Patinkin who brings the right blend of cheekiness and earnestness to his part (Inigo was my favourite character when I saw this as a child). An honourable mention must also go to Andre the Giant who is surprisingly good considering he's a wrestler hired for his bulk. He struggles with the language but it's clear he was an intelligent and sensitive man.It is essentially all the little touches that make The Princess Bride what it is – the wit, the quirkiness, the set-pieces. And yet, it being a fantasy picture I do find myself wishing it had a little more of the glamour and spectacle with which its contemporaries were filled. It may win out in the comedy stakes but it lacks the wonder and enchantment of Labyrinth, Legend or The Dark Crystal, and thus it falls short of brilliance. This is a little picture that works well on its own terms, and belongs solidly in the category of good plain fun.


                
The Princess Bride starts as a Grandfather (Peter Falk) visits his ill Grandson (Fred Savage) & decides to read him a classic fairytale, he opens the book & begins to read the story... In the kingdom of Florin a farm-boy named Westley (Cary Elwes) & his boss Buttercup (Robin Wright) fall deeply in love with each other, Westley leaves & Buttercup receives word that he has been killed by the dread pirate Roberts. Five years later & Buttercup is engaged to be married to Prince Humperdinck (Chris Sarandon) even though she has no love for him, shortly before the marriage Buttercup is kidnapped by a man named Vizzini (Wallace Shawn) who then sets sail for the kingdom of Guilder where he plans to kill Buttercup in order to start a war between Guilder & Florin but Buttercup is saved by whom she thinks is the dread pirate Roberts with Prince Humperdinck & his army close behind...Produced & directed by Rob Reiner this was written by William Goldman based on his 1973 novel of the same name, while not drastically different I haven't read the book so cannot compare the two but I really enjoyed the film on many levels for it's action, it's adventure, it cuteness & sense of humour. There's a neat wraparound story in which peter Falk tells the story of The Princess Bride to his young grandson & there are several amusing moments in which we cut back to the pair who make several comments, the sort of comments that a young boy might make while listening to an old fashioned fairytale but it's also nice to see him become engrossed & caught up in the story like anyone watching The Princess Bride will, the point that mere words on a page can captivate as much as a computer game is well made. I would call The Princess Bride itself more of a swashbuckling adventure adventure yarn rather than a straight fairytale, for some reason the fantasy elements are downplayed quite a lot with only giant Rats & Westley being brought back to life (if he was dead anyway which is never made totally clear) the only fantasy aspects. The Princess Bride seems more interested in amusing one-liners, sharp, witty dialogue & sword fight action which is fine as it all adds up to a throughly enjoyable light hearted fantasy romance. In fact the main aspect that The Princess Bride lifts from the average fairytale is the idea of true love conquers all, it's a strong & constant theme throughout thankfully without ever getting to mushy or sentimental. The Princess Bride manages almost perfectly to balance seriousness & parody with an assortment of wonderfully drawn character's all of whom have great personality & some great moments. At just over an hour & a half the film never lacks pace & keeps moving all the time, it's easy to see why the young Fred Savage gets so engrossed in The Princess Bride & I am sure most viewers will feel exactly the same way.As I mentioned earlier I am a bit disappointed at the lack of overt fantasy elements, even the settings & locations from woods & ancient Castles look a little drab. The ROUS (Rodents of Unusual Size) are dwarf actor's in Rat suits which look a little tatty but at least they have fluid movement & still look better than a modern CGI computer effect probably would. There are some great fencing & sword fighting scenes, some of the best you will ever see to be fair as th makers don't seem to go for historic accuracy or realism & just go to town with various stunts & improbable gymnastics.With a supposed budget of about $16,000,000 the production values are good & it looks nice enough having been mostly filmed on location here in England. The acting is good, Cary Elwes as the smooth, handsome & likable Westley shines although Robin Wright is a little flat in comparison. Billy Crystal, Mel Smith & Peter Cook all have comedic roles.The Princess Bride is a highly entertaining & witty play on the old fairytale clichés that is a cracking action adventure film in it's own right. What's not like? I thought it was clever & humorous & heartfelt & exciting. Definitely recommended.
I was not ten years old when I first saw "The Princess Bride",far,far from it.And it isn't,despite hundreds and hundreds of pleas on this site,one of the greatest movies ever.Sorry,but it just ain't so.It is rather sweet,aimed at children but movie - savvy adults will enjoy much of it. Mandy Patinkin and Cary Elwes get in some neat swordplay,Robin Wright is very pretty if a little wooden.The rest of the cast ham it up to a greater or lesser degree(think Alan Rickman in almost anything).Along with Bryan Forbes' "The slipper and the rose","The Princess Bride" represented a late 20th century take on the fairy story.Mr Forbes used music and dance and "serious" actors,Mr Reiner a script by William Goldman that worked on many levels and young,vigorous actors.I suspect it succeeded beyond his wildest dreams.
An outlandish, offbeat satire of the genre, being a modern retelling of the essential fairy tale plenty with attractive scenes, all of them make this one an amusing an entertaining story as children as adults. A contemporary rendition upon the basic fairy tale jammed with all the cliches, outright satirical humor , sense of style, Error Flynn adventure and Pythonesque shafts of humor . It deals with an irreverent love story between a gorgeous maiden, Buttercup: Robin Wright Penn, and her young swan lover , Gary Elwes, this one helped by a duo of brave warriors : the assertive Mandy Patinkin and the huge Andre the Giant, both of whom battle the wicked evils of the mythical kingdom of Florin to be reunited with one another. When Buttercup is destined as consort to the wicked prince, Chris Sarandon, she is kidnapped, then our starring has to save her through a series of life-threatening exploits. Meanwhile, a grandfather , Peter Falk, tells his grandson, Fred Savage, the marvelous tale.This adventurously enjoyable romance movie centers around a wonderful adventure crammed with traditional fantasy, including great dueling scenes, damsel in distress, dashing protagonist and evil villains. It exudes a certain innocence, sense of wonder and upright enthusiasm into the proceedings. The main interest lies in attempting to recognise the well known cast, many of them beneath mounds of makeup. Gary Elwes and Robin Wright give charming interpretations. Mandy Patinkin injects any real enthusiasm to his undaunted revengeful role . Support cast is frankly excellent. As Christopher Guest as a James Mason-like villain, as well as the sympathetic Wallace Shawn . Peter Falk as the old storyteller does a Granpa Columbo. And some miscast comic cameos such as Peter Cook, Mel Smith, Billy Crystal and Carol Kane .It displays a colorful and glimmering cinematography by Adrian Biddle. As well as a sensitive and unforgettable musical score by Mark Knofler from Dire Streets. Based on William Goldman's cult book being well updated and compellingly directed by Rob Reiner(This is a Spinal Tap, Alex and Emma). A better than average fantasy that kids will probably love it. Rating :7.5/10 essential and indispensable watching.


                
A lot of people and critics believe 'The Princess Bride' is a masterpiece and some even believe it is one of the greatest films ever made. However, objectively speaking the movie is not a masterpiece but primarily a highly entertaining escapism flick which still far outweighs its negative sides.Not entirely sure why the film was told out of a book straight from another modern day story, because the modern scenes really seem to have little significance and it also eventually ends up going nowhere. Fortunately, most scenes take place in the historical fantasy setting, which is obviously far and away the most entertaining one. The cinematography is beautiful, with a lot of stunning shots of the beautiful british landscapes where it was filmed on. Also the area where Inigo and the Man in Black face off is worthy of mention as a beautiful piece of cinematography. While being covered in comic aspects, the said scene with the sword fight between Inigo and Man in Black is actually also a masterpiece of choreography and incredible moves, resulting in possibly the greatest single duel swordfight one can ever see in film.The acting was mostly good, especially by leads Cary Elwes, Mandy Patinkin & Robin Wright. They manage to make their characters likeable due to their natural charm and witty line delivery. A lot of other characters were ridiculously overacted, such as Wallace Shawn's Vizzini. The screenplay is a bit wobbly as a lot of the dialogue is extremely witty and original yet Patinkin's constant uttering of 'Hello, my name is Inigo Montoya, you killed my father, prepare to die.' grows tiresome after a while. Some things are really predictable such as who the Man in Black really is but other things such as Count Rugen's response to the first time Patinkin says the you killed by father line are quite original and somewhat hilarious.It is quite the cliché to say if this movie was serious we might take Elwes & Wright's romance and struggles emotionally serious, but there is still truth to it as it is not the kind of film that leaves you with feelings or thought long after it is finished. It was generally just made as the type of feel good escapism flick and if you limit your expectations of true cinema it can still be considered as a worthy piece of entertaining art. However, anything transcendent or thought provoking it is obviously not therefore it should not be judged like actual masterpieces.


                
This will hit a particularly sweet spot, if you only let it. It will find the child in you, and tell you a story of medieval adventure and true love. There are going to be like in the storybooks, expert swordsmen, six-fingered knaves, giant rats, fiery swamps, the Dredd Pirate Roberts. The maiden will need last-minute rescuing from the cruel king.But as the kid in you becomes prepared to be engrossed, the narrator will show you that it is all goofy make-believe for the kick of making it all up as we go. It will not be epic with grand battles and pure evil because you are not actually a child, but sketch only the picaresque outline of things, trusting you to imagine the rest.So this is nice. Both the storybook for kids, and good-natured acknowledgment of its fiction.We can be both in and out of the film, poking fun at knowing it is fun.


                
The Princess Bride is one of the most sincere and heartfelt fantasy movies I've ever seen. The movie is framed as a story that a grandfather reads to his sick grandson and it's a perfect idea for a movie that has some tongue-in-cheek takes on fantasy clichés.The story begins with Buttercup (Robin Wright Penn) and Westley (Cary Elwes), two farmers who fall in love. He decides to leave and return one day a rich man to marry her. Then she hears he was killed by a pirate and Prince Humperdinck decides to make her his bride. But when they least expect Westley returns for 'true love' and the story turns into one of the funniest and most fast-paced adventure ever. There are deadly eels, giant rodents, dangerous forests, giants, revenge-obsessed swordsmen, and miracles. The heroes are noble and fair, and the villains despicable. And true love wins in the end. A movie has never been more honest about its intentions than The Princess Bride.The cast is mostly great, especially Cary Elwes and Mandy Patinkin, a swordsman looking for the man who killed his father. Penn could have been a more interesting character than the usual damsel in distress, but I guess some clichés you just don't touch. Peter Falk has a short but adorable role as the grandfather trying to pass to his grandson some of the pleasure of reading books.The Princess Bride is a wonderful story that should appeal to anyone who never lost their sense of wonder and who still like to see the good guys truly win without compromises, something rare these days in mainstream cinema. It's a charming movie that has no pretensions about what it is and which does everything right. Watch it and love it!
THE PRINCESS BRIDE is one of those movies that is revered by Gen-X-ers and 80's babies, along with THE GOONIES and other children's films that have a certain adventurousness and whimsy to them. I, however, was born at the tail end of the decade, and missed out on a lot of these cinematic treasures as a child. Finally, I have rectified that by watching this film, which is firmly ingrained in the pop culture consciousness. Does it live up to the hype? Yes and no. From a filmic perspective, the narrative is a bit formulaic and cliché, like the storybook tales that this movie takes its inspiration from. On the other hand, there are plenty of moments of pure genius that make it stand out from the rest. Fortunately, the latter outweighs the former and overall it was a perfectly enjoyable viewing experience.The story, although about the titular Princess Bride, is actually framed by a grandfather reading a book to his sick grandson. I think that this part is essential to making the film work because it gives the audience a way to understand the story and how it works on more than just a surface level. Fred Savage's character is the audience stand-in and his questions and commentary can represent the questions of all little boys who have been told fantastical stories by their own relatives. The grandfather can represent the director, or any family member who has served a storytelling role, and guides the audience through this familiar, yet not too familiar tale. The story of the Princess Bride itself is reminiscent of many a fairy tale, and like many before it tells how true love overcomes great obstacles. There is a great cast of characters, many serving up some choice and memorable dialogue that has gone down in the pantheon of great quotes. My personal favorites were from Vizzini, Inigo Montoya and the Impressive Clergyman.In terms of quality, Rob Reiner did a great job directing his actors, who all give great performances. Even Robin Wright does an impressive job for her first big-screen role which, aside from Jenny in FORREST GUMP, is the role she is best known for playing. The filming aspect was also quite well done, with most of it being done on well-constructed and detailed studio sets. The cinematography, while not particularly memorable or flashy, was competent in workmanlike kind of way. The real weakness here is the script which, while serving up plenty of individual moments worthy of praise, didn't always flow naturally, and not because of the framing story either. There is also a long stretch of the movie where Inigo Montoya (Mandy Patinkin) and Fezzik (Andre the Giant) disappear, which just seemed odd to me. In my opinion, the story could have been fleshed out a little more in some respects. Still, what is there works for the most part, and I can't really fault it for trying to mix things up a bit.Overall, THE PRINCESS BRIDE is a perfectly enjoyable movie, even if it doesn't live up to the enormous praise heaped upon it. The movie does have some flaws, but those are mild in comparison to the great storytelling on display and great dialogue, which enhance its replay value. Highly recommended, especially if you haven't seen it yet.


                
***There is a minor spoiler below** First I want to say that I DO NOT hate this movie. I gave a "7" because there are a few things in this film that I strongly object to. 1. Inigo using the "S" "O" "B" term. (right before he kills Count Rogan.)2. The grandson using a word in the wrong way. (When he finds out that the Prince doesn't die.)3. The R.O.U.S.'s (Rodents Of Unusual Size) fight was too long and not necessary.Other than those things, this is a entertaining movie. Not among my Top 30, nor will it ever be. Cary Elwes did a great job as Weslry, and I have to mention the great performance of Andre The Giant. He was funny, and very strong. Too bad he died in 1994. Anoother actor's performance is noteworthy. Mandy Patkintin and Wallace Shawn, who played Inigo and Vizini respectively. Billy Crystal stole the whole movie, even though he was only in the movie for about ten minutes. His character was very important as it turned out. Overall, this is a good movie, but I recommend you mute the words above, and the fight scene with the R.O.U.S.'s. My Score: 7/10
One of those odd films which is very high in the overall IMDb charts, much loved, and although it is overrated it is still a good, entertaining film with much to recommend it. It begins with an old man telling his grandson a bed time story of princesses, giants, magic, and mystical lands which the kid hopes will have no kissing in it. Naturally it does. We are thrown into the world of Buttercup, a beautiful young girl kidnapped by the evil Prince Humperdinck. It is up to her true love Westley to save her, but she thought he was killed by pirates. Along the way he meets many strange people and creatures, travels across dangerous lands and eventually must fight the evil Prince.This is a story which takes all the usual fairy story traits and aims to light-hearted with the moral about love conquering no matter what is thrown at you. It is engaging and unusual and succeeds in being a cult hit. It realises the cheesy stuff involved, that young boys don't particularly want to hear love stories, but ones full of adventure, but this is suitable for all. The cast has some good cameos from Billy Crystal to Andre the Giant, Robin Penn is pretty but good have been better, and Carey Elwes is as annoying as always, but this is his best, and most effective role. There is some good dialogue, and everyone should enjoy it, but it falls short of other films of its kind from the same era such as Willow. The action is often less spectacular than other films, and the comedy, although refreshingly unique does not always work. These are minor things though, and it is clear to see why so many love it.7.5 out of 10
Based on R1 DVD 98 minCharming, witty, full of adventure and only a few kissie bits this is would make a great 'family' rental. The film delights in both poking fun at themes while providing great examples at the same time e.g. the duel at the top of the cliffs of insanity would shame Erol Flynn yet manages to be very tongue in cheek.Whatever your age this is a great cheer me up movie.7/10 well worth watching


                
Right from the beginning the movie is captive. The kid and his grandfather both are cute and the firm base of the story. Each and everything is non-sense but it is a children-story and hence it must be the way it is.Characters were good and enjoyable, love story was cute as we wish and set design was apt. The best point in the movie is that it doesn't work too much to make it look realistic and the usual-ness present in the princess bride made it appreciable. The movie is must watch for anyone who wants some entertainment. But among all, the best thing the director did is to take out appropriate acting out of the kid who is listening to the story. It is sweet cute and fresh movie with few could have done better but ignoring them, its fun.


                
Cary Elwes, Mandy Patinkin, Robin Wright, Chris Sarandon, Christopher Guest, Andre the Giant, Billy Crystal, Fred Savage and Peter Falk star Rob Reiner's 1987 fantasy based on the book. An ill boy's grandfather reads him a story of true love and adventure. This begins with an ill boy (Savage) being visited by his grandfather (Falk) who reads him a book, "The Princess Bride" that's been passed down in their family. The story is about a woman, Buttercup (Wright) and a farm boy, Westley (Elwes) who find true love with each other. Sarandon (Fright Night) plays ruthless prince, Humperdinck who tries keeping them apart, Patinkin plays Inigo Montoya, A Spanish swordsman who befriends Westley while searching for 6-fingered man, Count Rogan (Guest) who murdered his father years before and is also Humperdinck's associate. Andre the Giant plays Inigo's strong pal, Fezzik and Crystal (When Harry Met Sally...) plays Miracle Max. This is a great fairytale that's one of Reiner's best with a good cast, good score & beautiful settings I recommend.
Before you jump on my head about the title of my comment, please hear me out. I definitely do not think The Princess Bride is a bad film, per se. I have heard it called all sorts of things, from a timeless classic to a great fantasy romp for all ages. Neither of those things are quite true. The film is as dated as most of the Nightmare On Elm Street episodes (especially the Clown Freddy ones). It also falls into the trap of trying to appeal to everyone, and as a result limiting its audience more than it otherwise would. But what it lacks in classic status, it (almost) makes up for in some other areas. On one hand, I can see why I was so reluctant to see the film when it was recommended to me around ten years ago. It was, after all, released in the same year as the holy chunk of awesome that is RoboCop. On the other hand, I can see why it was recommended to me on two occasions that span over a decade apart. I won't put this in my list of favourite films, but I admire it for its uniqueness among the fodder that was made in the same year.I will get the negatives out of the way, since they are the smaller part of this comment. The extraneous storyline involving Peter Falk playing a grandfather who reads this tale to his grandson, played with impeccable irritation by a very young Fred Savage, was utterly unnecessary. They get in the way of the story rather than enhancing it, especially when the action is interrupted to make some comment or to beat us over the head with how universal the story supposedly is. The characters are about as deep as a puddle, and we get no sense of why Westley loves Buttercup (or vice versa) so dearly. None of what passes for motivation or character development here is shown to us, it is all told. Some of the locations shown in the film have names so daft it will make your eye muscles twitch. Yes, there were names with a daft factor in adventure films like The Goonies (a far better children's adventure film in spite of what the IMDb would have you believe), but The Goonies succeeded in making the audience not notice (or care).Now that the problems are out of the way, let's concentrate for a moment of the film's strengths. Mandy Patinkin would have been a far better choice for the focal point of the story, as he runs with the campiness of the story at a speed that would impress Olympic champions. Christopher Guest portrays Patinkin's nemesis with a grace and, dare I say it, subtlety that could have worked wonders if it had transferred to the rest of the film. Robin Wright does the best she can with a very unidimensional role. She is mainly there to tell off the villain or beg for the hero's aid. The real jewel of the cast here is André the Giant, one of showbusiness' true well... gentle giants. As he is making comedy based around his knowledge of how big he is, the softer side of him that realises he is not in the best of health even for a forty-one year old shines through every time he delivers a line. Granted, one can only understand half of what he says at best. But of all the performers in the film, André is the one that will be remembered long after the rest have been forgotten.Some of the trick shots or effects sequences are lousy. The shrieking eels sequence was obviously meant to induce tension in the target audience, but even in five year olds, if the manner in which it is set up doesn't induce laughs or groans, the eels themselves surely will. Others, however, are very well-realised, and work well enough to make the film watchable. When André the Giant carries his castmates up the face of a cliff, one does not see whether it is just trick photography or a set, but it suspends disbelief enough to leave one in awe of the character. I don't know why the IMDb lists the stunt rider of André in the final ride-away scene as being obvious. Maybe I am not as cynical or jaded as I would like to believe, but this shot sold itself well enough that I could feel sorry for the horse. This, friends and neighbours, is a sign of a well-made film.In summation, The Princess Bride is a lot better than I thought it would be, but it is nowhere near as good as many make out. For fantasy adventures, I am far more inclined to recommend The Goonies, which is far more realistic in the sense of being less normalistic than is the case here. Nonetheless, if you have already seen The Goonies, then The Princess Bride is worth a look. I gave it a seven out of ten. Of the hundreds of DVDs I have around me, it is far from the last I would watch.


                
I first saw this film in fifth grade and thought it was fantastic. I mean, come on, it had action, fantasy, romance, and comedy all in one! And even watching the movie now, the only thing that doesn't hold up as well are the special effects in the film, notably the R.O.U.S., the fires in the fire swamp, and the obvious body doubles here and there.But as for the rest of the film:The acting isn't Oscar-worthy, but it definitely isn't unmemorable. The characters are well-beloved (my favorites being Miracle Max and Valerie, the bishop, and Fezzik), and the actors were well-cast in their roles and also performed quite well. If you haven't read the book (by William Goldman) that this was adapted from, then read it. The movie is very similar to the book. In fact a lot of quotes in the movie are direct (or similar) to quite a few quotes in the book. Although there are very few differences, the book is just as exciting and witty as the movie.The costumes, makeup, and hairstyling were pretty good for a 1987 film. Props for Carol Kane and Billy Crystal's makeup and Buttercup's beautiful wedding dress.And props for Mark Knopler's music score as well. Aside from the action music, most of the score is sweet, poignant, and beautiful, especially the main theme. I'm glad that "Storybook Love" was up for an Oscar nomination for Best Original Song because I would have selected it as one of the best that year as well.Overall, I know millions of people have seen this film (which makes it kind of a "cult film"), but if you haven't seen it, you definitely should. Great casting, memorable characters, a wonderful storyline, great music, and lots of comedy, fantasy, action, and romance all in one. Who could ask for more? I can easily see why so many people adore this movie. It really is a treasure.My Personal Oscar Picks for this movie:Best Adapted Screenplay, Best Original Song ("Storybook Love"), and possibly Best Original Score


                
This is gonna be a long story. It is not meant as a serious review. So skip it if you are in a bad mood.***DORKY TALE ALERT***Back in 1986, armed with my Philips VCR, I stumbled across the TV show SANTA BARBARA while monitoring for music videos and glam/fashion inserts. It had this pretty girl in it, who looked like a teen model, I eventually learned she was in a minor yet regular part (Jade Perkins), but as soap operas with their slow, daily unwinding story arcs go, there was also this other wonderfully beautiful very very cool chick playing the part of Kelly Capwell. I watched regularly, for those two. The other girl gradually disappeared, but Kelly became {like wow, man!}...When I learned about THE PRINCESS BRIDE, I of course pursued it. It wasn't drive-in theater material (I live in a small town, no cinema) but I got it at a video-rent store, VHS, the good old days with the weak systems. My friend was about to copy* it for me. Now, this happened decades ago, and I cannot quite remember how it came to pass that I sneaked a peek, but to cut a long story short, I learned that it was kind of a Peter Falk show, was really miffed about the old man taking up such valuable time in the movie, what a waste of tape, hell, can't I do something about it? I then got the idea to record only an edited version, eliminating Peter Falk. I had several beauty competitions on tape, and was always exasperated by the ubiquitous 'vultures' taking up screen time, lounge lizard singers strutting their stuff, coming out of the woodwork, hogging the spotlight... So I was used to editing out glut. But I had my doubts about how my edit of THE PRINCESS BRIDE would appear. My objective was to do it in such a way that it wouldn't look silly, it still had to make sense.Dear people, to this day I remember that I was quite satisfied with my effort. I had thought it would look like a mess, but it ran fairly smoothly, as far as I can remember.Years later, watching on DVD, I was kinda skeptical about me ever having done that. I don't know what I would have said about my effort today. Back then I thought my version was better.But I maintain that Peter Falk was nothing more than excess baggage. A sweet charm? No, wholly unnecessary, the whole fairy-tale from GrandPa to the kid, holding back the story, give me extra footage of Princess Buttercup!Despite my view of THE PRINCESS BRIDE as weighed down by a dorky addition, it was still one of my early DVD purchases when I started collecting, not only was it considered a classic by the mail order company, it is a charming movie with a cute fairy-tale romance and a darling heroine. It's Robin Wright's best movie. (Forget about THE PLAYBOYS, that one's a bummer!) She should have been a major star!*yeah, yeah, copyright violator. Back in those days, years before DVD, that was the only way to hang on to a movie. I was a collector, and my friend did it for the challenge pf the technological aspect, we were both nuts about girls on film, no monetary gain was ever involved. And by the way, as a collector of original disks in mint condition, I have since paid my dues to Hollywood, have I ever!!


                
I loved this movie as a kid, it has a little of everything (action, romance, adventure, humor, supernatural, fantasy, to name most). But now as an adult, sadly I do not think this movie held up over time (at least for myself). I actually found it boring and rather childish, but I still rate this highly because I am sure a lot of people will like watching this.Definitely a classic movie and worth a watch, just no longer up there with my favorites. The acting is great, characters are classic, and it has a lot to like. I just wish it held up better for me, but I still recommend it (if that makes sense). Cary Elwes proves yet again that he is a great and very under-rated actor, as he carries this movie and plays the part naturally. He was pretty young in this as well, the rest of the cast is spot on in their respective parts. For kids, this movie could not be more highly recommended.


                
I used to watch Princess bride all the time as a kid. I have lots of good memories of me and my parents popping in a VHS tape of this film and eat some popcorn. As a film student and a movie critic though, I am not letting that get in the way of analyzing this picture. As a whole this movie is a bit of a mixed bag. The actors are the best part of the film. Even though it's a comedy, they play it straight which really works and makes the hilarious lines come off naturally. The second best is the writing. At times, the lines can be clunky and awkward-once again though those actors make them work-but the characterization makes up for it. These well developed characters are a lot of fun and you can't help but want to see them accomplish their task. The style and the direction of the picture are at about the same caliber. They display the action clearly and effectively so that the audience gets the picture. However some of the special effects shot look kind of crappy and a few of the props look a little too plasticy. I think though that adds to the appeal since it gives it a sense of cheesiness. Basically, this movie is pure fun with some good characters, cheesy special effects, and good one liners.


                
