I love this movie!  It's sweet, but with satirical humor. The dialogue is great and the adventure scenes are fun.  Rob Reiner shows an excellent touch once again with comedy and a childlike point of view.  It manages to be whimsical romantic while laughing at the conventions of the fairy tale genre. I would recommend it to just about anyone. I've seen it several times, and I'm always happy to see it again whenever I have a friend who hasn't seen it yet. I haven't watched it with any kids, but I think it has lots for them too. There are wonderful quotes throughout.  I think Mandy Patinkin absolutely steals the scenes he is in as the Spaniard Inigo Montoya, bent on avenging his father's death. I gave it 8 out of 10 mainly because it feels very light, but I may go back and change to 9 thinking of how happy this movie makes me and it's rewatchability.


                
The Princess Bride has been a film that I've always wanted to watch but never got the opportunity until now (Thank you Goodwill!). After finishing the film, I can see why it's close to so many people's hearts. Throughout the film, I caught myself smiling at moments and bursting with laughter at others. It is a very easy watch. The story's pace is great, making the viewer captivated and invested in the characters throughout the entire film. This is done with the help of some fantastically choreographed sword fighting, hilarious jokes, and an array of diverse characters.Even though I enjoyed this film, there are some things I can nitpick. I noticed many continuity errors while watching the film; not that it really matters, but it was sometimes distracting me from the story. I also felt as though there were times where the plot was too convenient or over the top. This could have been intentional since most child bedtime stories are outlandish, but there were scenes such as when they break into the castle that had me scratching my head and saying what the??? There were also parts of the film where I felt as though characters knew things or had things that they probably wouldn't, like when Fizzik pulls out a random black robe from his sleeve. That was confusing, but again, I might just be missing the humor behind those parts.Even though I had some tiny issues with the film, I still had fun with this movie. There were many moments that reminded me of when my dad used to read stories of knights and pirates to me as I fell asleep. This childhood sentimentality mixed with the feelings of whimsy and familiarity while watching the film is why I think that this film was such a fun experience. I would definitely recommend this film, it might not be everyone's cup of tea, but I think most will find something fun about this story of silliness, revenge, and true love.The Good
ActingHilarious/comedic timingCaptivating storyThe Bad
Continuity errorsPlot holesThe grandpa/grandson story sometimes getting in the way


                
By virtue of the "under 29" female vote, "Princess Bride" is somewhat overrated on the IMDB, but still is a good, fun movie.  I rate it "8" of 10.The recently-released special edition DVD is the one to view. The colors are nicely saturated in most scenes, it has 5.1 Dolby Digital sound, and there are lots of extras, including one of the better "making of" specials. One of my favorite actors is Mandy Patinkin, and here he is great as the Spanish swordsman seeking revenge for his father's death at the hand of the six-fingered swordsman played by Christopher Guess. This was Robin Wright's first film, as a 19-year-old, playing Buttercup. Cary Elwes is also perfect as her love interest. Andre the Giant, who died in 1993 at age 45, was so fitting in his role as the giant. Overall a fine cast and a fine, entertaining, funny film. A "comic fairy tale in a strange land" as read to a child.The moral of the film, "True love conquers everything."  How could anyone dislike such a story??


                
Plot - This movie's story is dumb and convoluted, but its really funny and entertaining. Characters - The characters are dumb, and the acting is mediocre, but they're all really funny. Cinematography - This is a pretty cheap-looking movie.Overall this is a dumb and cheesy movie that is not meant to be taken seriously. It is extremely entertaining, and I'd recommend it.


                
This movie has a grandfather reading to his grandson, and we get to see the story he is reading unfold before our eyes.  Rather good movie that entertains in so many ways.  The cast is excellent, even Andre the Giant is very good in this one.  Turns out he is the only wrestler that can act.  The story is fast moving and has some nice twists and surprises along the way, they surprised me the first time I saw this one (I won't give anything away though).  What made this film good for me though was that it contained quite a lot of humor and it really worked well.  I loved Cary Elwes delivery and Patinkin was also very good in his role too.  Billy Crystal and Carol Kane also make memorable appearances in this one.  Though one of my favorite scenes has to be when Cary's character has a battle of wits with the one guy.  One of the funnier scenes I found in this one.  There are also nice set designs like in the fire swamp.  The periodic interruptions also work, as they never let you forget that it is a simple story being read by a grandfather.  Good movie all around and fun to watch.


                
"Stand By Me" director Rob Reiner helmed William Goldman's adaptation of his novel "The Princess Bride" with Cary Elwes, Mandy Patinkin, Robin Wright, and Peter Falk. This imaginative fairy tale about true love is often amusing. A girl falls in love with her servant, but he goes away and is reportedly abducted by pirates. The story is framed by another story about a grandfather who reads a story to his sick grandson (Fred Savage) about a king who wants to marry a girl so he can start a war. Meanwhile, a swordsman (Mandy Patinkin) has spent 20 years searching for the six-fingered gent who slew his father. Cary Elwes and Robin Wright at the star-crossed lovers, and Elwes bears a striking resemblance to Douglas Fairbanks when he dons an outfit in black with a mustache. Billy Crystal has a cameo as a miracle worker. Although it is ostensibly a fairy tale rated PG, "The Princess Bride" has some gruesome scenes, particularly when sadistic Christopher Guest tortures our hero. Worth watching.
It is not surprising that Rob Reiner chose to narrate "The Princess Bride" from the frame story of a grandfather (Peter Falk) reading a book to his sick grandson (Fred Savage). The film is a fairy tale written by an adult who understood children, not any children, but modern children impregnated with action films and video games, who would more likely open their minds to thrilling sword-fights and adventures than anything involving 'a lot of kissing'.Reiner amusingly punctuates the story with the kid's reaction as to reassure the most skeptical of us that this won't be your typical 'fairy tale' fantasy. And rightfully so because the overture would hardly make kids lower their guard, the film starts with a (typical) love story between the beautiful Buttercup (Robyn Wright) and her servant Wesley (Cary Elwes). Wesley obeys every demand with an enamored "as you wish", until Buttercup realizes she loves him too, and the film hasn't make it to the fifth minute before the two leads embrace in land of Florin's bucolic landscape.The signature shot of "The Princess Bride" cuts immediately to the kid who can't listen anymore to that cutesy stuff, and at this time, Reiner got us, and by us, I mean, children and adults, the audience is relieved to see that the emotion shared by the listener is taken into consideration, and will work as the premise to a whole other material. I remember very well, the first time I saw the film, on 7th grade class, we were all 12 or 13-year old preteens and our teacher used the film to illustrate the value of 'narrative structure', we were all, 'what the hell is that?' until that immediate reaction, and the story could finally pick up.Wesley leaves the country to get rich and marry Buttercup but he's taken by Dread Pirate Roberts, known for never leaving anyone alive. Buttercup, out of despair, agrees to marry Prince Humperdinck (Chris Sarandon) but she's kidnapped by three eccentric outlaws whose different frames works like a comic-book gag. There's Vizzini, the Sicilian boss, played by a cunning and detestable Wallace Shawn, Inigo Monotoya (Mandy Patinkin) as the skilled swordsman and Fezzik, played by champion wrestling Andre the Giant who doesn't seem to carry the symptoms of gentleness <U+0085> not yet. They take the Princess offshore, followed by a masked stranger who seems to be Private Roberts and Prince Humperdinck and his men.When the film was screened, the teacher referred to many scenes as parodies : the Screaming Eels were an imitation of "Jaws", the investigating styles of Prince Humperdinck were borrowed from Sherlock Holmes, the masked estranger combined with Montoya's Spanish accent made Zorro, and so on and so forth. "The Princess Bride" could easily be labeled as a parody, feeling and talking like one, but I'm positive that the film isn't as much a parody as it's a fairy tale, in fact, it deliberately floats between these two levels, making possible to touch your heart with a genuine innocence, not incompatible with its sharp wit.And this is another power of the film, it takes some distance from Disney-like stuff without turning it into derision either, it's like a wink to the audience with a friendly tap on the shoulder. The story presents a series of adventures where we discover that there are more than simple characters in the film: Montoya plans to kill the six-fingered man who killed his father, he's already prepared his speech and naturally, with the repeated "Hello. My name is Inigo Montoya. You killed my father. Prepare to die", everyone cheered in the classroom, not to mention the last quote before the final slay. After triumphing over Montoya and Fezzik, there's also an unforgettable duel of spirits with Vizzini whose outcome is not only unpredictable but cynically hilarious.The film is full of eccentric characters that all have their shining moments. It also reminded me of these Grimm fairy tales we read on 11th grade, where everyone served a purpose, the villains, the antagonists, sometimes a place like the Forest with the fire spouts, lightning sand, and Rodents of Unusual Size, the helpers, like an unrecognizable Billy Crystal and Carol Kane, as Mr and Mrs. Miracle Max who'll resurrect the hero and allow the film to conclude on a satisfying way. And there's the eternal idea that brains triumph over brawn have and the way, Wesley defeats Count Humperdinck (Sarandon is excellent!) is also funny and original at the same time.The film has the wit and fun of Rob Reiner's "Spinal Tap" but it ends with the same bittersweet melancholy than his "Stand by Me", when after the excitement, we're left with the feeling to have witnessed something so miraculously sweet and tender, (the music helps and the "Storybook Love" enhance that emotionality) that we've had our share of thrills or fun and we're not that reluctant to have a final kiss at the end. The grandfather closes the book before the kissing, but the kid's reaction again matches ours <U+0085> the film is one beautiful romance and deserves a romantic finale, we wouldn't have accept it from a spoof, but if it was one, the film wouldn't have been this endearing and so lovable classic."The Princess Bride" is a timeless classic full of unforgettable characters, a sweet thought to the late Andre the Giant who marked forever Cinema with his giant footprint, and unforgettable quotes. The grandfather couldn't give a more appropriate answer than his 'as you wish' when his grandson asked him to tell him the story again the day after. And like the book, the film can be seen over and over and I'm looking forward to show it to my little girl when she'll be old enough to appreciate it, hoping that her generation wouldn't be made of children reluctant to watch such a cinematic treasure.


                
One of the most well-known and respected fantasy films and for a good reason. The Princess Bride is a genre-defining film that has endured the test of time beautifully and still stands as one of the best adventure films and the one film you should see if you're interested in swashbuckler films.What I like the most about this film is its unpredictability. Sure, it's an adventure film aimed for all audiences, so the good guys are going to win and all that, but the way they go about accomplishing that task is what makes this film enjoyable. You're never sure what's going to happen next, the characters are very creative and there are a lot of them, the plot twists come right out of nowhere and the humorous tongue-in-cheek tone ties it all together. There is drama and high stages, yes, but it's still an adventure film and meant to be enjoyed with a smile on your face.The story develops rather erratically, going from one scene to another with very few tie-ins, but in this case it works, because the whole film is told more like a fairy tale than a typical story. So it's more of a preference of style than a flaw.If I were to nitpick, I'd say that the frame story involving a grandfather reading his grandson a book while he lies sick in bed is not as interesting as the actual story and sometimes the kid's interruptions in the story come at the worst possible times. This is only a nitpick, however, because the banter between these two is actually quite humorous, which keeps it from becoming an annoyance. It'd be interesting to see just how well the actual adventure would flow without the frame story, just for comparison.I like this film, I like a lot. It has a strong story, it's fun and charming without being immature, its characters are great, it has a lot of memorable dialogues and as a whole it's just bursting with imagination. One of the best adventure films I've ever seen and well worth your time, whoever you happen to be.


                
"This is Spinal Tap", "When Harry Met Sally" and "The Princess Bride" give director Rob Reiner a trio of timeless classics. "Princess Bride" takes the classic boy-meets-girl setup and adds "Wizard of Oz"-level lines such as "life is pain, anyone who tells you otherwise is trying to sell you something" and "you keep saying that word (inconceivable)-I do not think it means what you think it means." He also adds a flawless cast including the under-appreciated Mandy Patinkin, a shockingly menacing portrayal from the normally silly Christopher Guest and the previously unusable Andre' the Giant who is somehow made to deliver an understandable and winning performance. By the turns the movie is funny, frightening, dramatic, comedic, suspenseful and whimsical. The framing device with Peter Falk and Fred Savage allows Reiner to step out when things become too intense and makes this watchable even for the younger set. In short, add this to your must see list especially if you have children.


                
The synopsis of this film in the TV guide suggested that this film's target audience would be young girls; but as I'd heard good things about it I decided to give it a go; I'm glad that I did, as it was a lot of fun. The main story is in fact a story within a story; a grandfather, played by Peter 'Columbo' Falk, visits his sick grandson and reads him a tale about a young woman called Buttercup who is destined to marry a prince she does not love after her one true love is killed by the dread Pirate Roberts. Shortly before the wedding she is kidnapped by ruffians who plan to kill her in order to start a war. As they take her they find themselves pursued by a masked man in black<U+0085> a man who claims to be none other than the dread Pirate Roberts! He manages to free the girl and when he removes his mask she is shocked to see who he is. Unfortunately she is soon back in the hands of the dastardly Prince Humperdink. As her wedding day approaches it looks as if nobody will rescue her but this being a fairy tale there is somebody who wants to free her and he won't let a little something like being dead stop him! This film is a lot of fun and will probably amuse children and adults alike although some scenes may disturb younger children. The cast do a good job and it is clear that they were having fun making it; the heroes are suitably heroic and the villains suitably villainous. While some of the scenery and special effects looked less than convincing by today's standards that only adding to the charm and giving it a feel of swashbuckling films made in the sixties. I'd certainly watch this film if you get the chance and you don't have to be young or a girl to think it is great.
A good friend of mine loves this movie and convinced me to watch it. It was a very sweet, fun fairy tale kind of movie and I very much liked how the movie was made(the story being read to a curious child by his grandfather).This is very much a feel good fairy tale type of movie in the form of Ever After and The three musketeers. It's also a very sweet story with the standard "love conquers all" type of message but you believe it in the story of Buttercup and Westley.I thought Mandy Patinkin was particularly good as the fierce yet inherently decent Inigo Montoya. And of coarse there's Cary Elwes for many a girl to swoon over-did anyone else notice how much of a resemblance he has to Brad Pitt?My only negative, is a scene or two were surprisingly violent for this type of movie and people not expecting that maybe in for a surprise. But that is my only strong negative.All in all a very sweet feel good movie that's well above average and is definitely worth checking out. My vote is 8 of 10.


                
So, I really only watched this movie when I did to prepare for Once Upon a Deadpool, but I'm glad I finally came around to watching one of the classic fantasy-adventure films of the last century. Earnest and honestly funny, The Princess Bride captured my imagination (even at 24) for an hour and a half of pure joy and spectacle, even if the film is pretty dated by most 1987 standards. I don't think anyone can say the film isn't completely cheeseball at times with some of the dialogue and performances, but I'll take that sword fight between Westley and Inigo any day of the week. That, the timeless performances from Andre the Giant, a classic romance, and one hell of a revenge story with Inigo, and you have the adventure that is, The Princess Bride.8.0/10


                
Plot; A grandfather spins a tale of romance and adventure for his sick young grandson. I remembered The Princess Bride as a charming and deftly balanced mix of romance, humor and swashbuckling, and I'm pleased to say that it remains just that, even through my now more jaded eyes. What I'd forgotten is that the humor is far more sly and witty than I'd given it credit for, and that the pace is, for lack of a better word, "jaunty" and serves the story rather than undermining it. I should also make a note about Andre the Giant. In a cast that's quite accomplished, how is it that a professional wrestler not speaking his first language upstages them all? A fairytale indeed.
Not what I thought it was going to be. In my mind I thought it would be a proper Shakespearean fantasy, y'know the whole "thou shall not kiss thy lips". That kinda thing. Then I saw it was directed by Rob Reiner and I knew I was in for a complete different film. A princess is kidnapped and young Westley pursues the criminals so that he can be with his one true love. A beautiful, light hearted story that everyone can enjoy. And a story is exactly what it is. The narrative is told through a storybook, extremely authentic and feels very much like a fantasy adventure. A perfect blend of comedy and adventure, I was smiling throughout (a rare achievement for me, I know). The screenplay was refreshingly witty, particularly the banter and line execution from the characters. The perfect scene to describe this is when swordsman Inigo waits for Westley to rest before duelling. Sharp, concise and punchy. Plus, many many many memorable lines. Two that spring to mind are "inconceivable" and "the cliffs of insanity" which were both delivered by Wallace Shawn. Acting all round was good in the whole, stand outs were Cary Elwes and Mandy Pantinkin. Robin Wright held her own as well in which was one of her earliest roles. The romance between Elwes and Wright was all too brief, I would've like some more development between the two. The first and third acts were extremely well paced and memorable, the second dipped dramatically to a point where I've forgotten what happened. A shame really. The use of props enhanced the authenticity of the world that the film is set in, so I admired that. Overall, The Princess Bride was immensely enjoyable with a light whimsical nature that can entertain pretty much everyone.


                
I like this movie. I don't think I love it as much as some folks do. It's an agreeable fairy tale with an enjoyably self-aware, slightly cynical sense of humor. When it works, the sword fight between Cary Elwes and Mandy Patinkin for example, it really excels. When it doesn't ... Billy Crystal, some of Andre the Giant's acting ... it just kind of lies there, but never for too long. It sometimes feels to me like the film thinks its' absolutely hilarious, while maybe it's just pretty damn amusing.


                
I love this film! It will always be one of my favourite films. This film has been the center of many nights in, sleepovers and just onion the background while cleaning the house :) It has everything you could ever want from an adventure film: sword fight, romance, pirates, villains, heroes etc. (as well as being seriously funny!) I would also highly recommend the book (although would suggest watching the film first to get some context)


                
So, I've just watched The Princess Bride for the very first time and it's probably the best thing I did all week. The Princess Bride isn't the best movie I've ever seen, but it is so well-written that every scene is so refreshing that you can't avert your gaze for an instant. I'm not very experienced on writing review, so I'll make myself short and just say one thing... I urge you to watch this movie if your looking for something to cheer up your day.


                
Director Rob Reiner is an Excellent and Diverse Director who makes Very Few Films. But most of them are Rightfully Placed in the Upper Echelons of their Perspective Genres. This one is No Exception. It is a Cross Generational Fairy Tale that has a Large Cult Following and can Now be considered a Classic. By the way, if You hear Someone Saying "instant classic", there is No such Thing and They are Trying to Sell You Something.This is a Movie that has Heart. A Comedy of Inspiration and Hope filled with all those Things that Grandpa tells His bedridden Grandson as He Smoothly Pitches the Attributes of the "Book", those things that were His Television.Here is a Charming Movie that may be a Tad Overrated but is Nonetheless a Fine Film and Deserving of its Reputation. In the New Millennium it is Likely to be Liked more by Adults than Kids or "Young Adults", and while not Inconceivable it may be something Worthy of some Discussion.


                
This movie is considered a classic and to some people the greatest movie of all time. I think that it is quite a good movie but would not go as far as that. What the Princess Bride is is a fairy tale designed to capture the hearts and fantasies of those who watch it, and this movie succeeds in what it sets out to do, but to understand what the Princess Bride really is, one must look at its origins because, unlike most films, it has a very strange origin indeed, and in fact until the film was made, it was incredibly obscure. But before I discuss this, I will run through the plot.The movie is based around Princess Buttercup and a farmboy Wesley. At the beginning of the movie we discover that they truly love each other, but Wesley is poor so sets off to make some money. During the time the evil Prince Humperdink sees Buttercup and decides that he wants to marry her, and as a prince he can marry who he likes. While out riding though she is kidnapped by a rather nasty character and his henchmen Inigo and Fenik. While sailing to another country Wesley, now known as the dread pirate Roberts, catches up with her and rescues her only to be captured by the evil prince Humperdink and sentenced to lie in the pit of despair for eternity.As I said this film is your typical fairy tale with the beautiful woman, the evil prince, the dashing hero, and the nasty monsters. The original is also quite old, but if that is so, why is it not read to every child at bedtime? Well, the new book is very difficult to obtain: I managed to borrow it from a friend whose brother got it from America, and the original book is not exactly the type of book that one reads to children (though William Goldman, the screenwriter for the movie and the author of the new book claims that his Grandfather read it to him). The interesting thing is trying to date it from the movie and the new book. Goldman claims that the book that he wrote is a truncated version of the old book with only his comments added and the boring stuff excluded. Thus dating it would put it after the Russo-Japanese War of 1905 - as somewhere somebody mentions the foolishness of fighting a land war in Asia, and that is the first war in Asia that the Europeans lost (and the book does take a Euro-centric world view). Another line mentions the mafia (approximately 1850) and only criminals dwelling in Australia (1776, the year the first colony, a prison colony, was established in Australia). Only the last line I actually remember from the book.Now what about the original? Well Goldman claims that the original author stated that the book was a exposition on the cultures of the nations of Florin and Guilder (which do not exist). The original supposedly contains chapters describing, intricately, princess Buttercup's wardrobe and other such stuff. The most disturbing part of the book is the end, where Wesley, Fenrik, and Inigo suddenly die from old wounds, and Humperdink catches up with Buttercup and forces her to marry him. The movie does not end in such a sadistic way, but when knowing about this ending, it opens one's eyes to the nature of the book. One wonders why such a good movie with such a good plot would use such pathetic names as Buttercup and Humperdink? The first answer is that it is a children's movie, but the main reason is that the original book is a satire. The story is supposed to be a fairytale, but the sadistic ending seems to show how pathetic the happily ever after endings are simply unrealistic and stupid.It sounds as if the original book was some long and boring treatise with pockets of interesting story thrown in (a little like Moby Dick, which seems to be a text-book on whaling with the story of the fanatical captain Ahab thrown in). The movie on the otherhand is quite enjoyable and we must thank Goldman's grandfather for putting Goldman through the torture of listening to the story yet having the desire to rerelease it in its new, enjoyable, form. I do wonder is the original did exist, but my friend seems convinced that it does.
I do not like romantic movie for a start. I think them nothing more than a cash cow in order to attract stupid girls in order to live their unrealistic love fantasies and if they have a boyfriend to torture him in the process. But sometimes , one in a thousand I may say it comes a romantic flick that is a quality entertainment for everyone, EVERYONE. Princess Bride belongs in this category because it focuses more in the story ,making it fun, and to the characters in order for the romances to become more "realist", in which I mean to make sense the couple to want to be together and you to wanted that to.Also the sword fights are well choreographed and the one liners are clever,funny and take you off guard. To everyone guy, who have a girlfriend ,if you try to find a romantic movie that you can have fun alongside your romantic partner with out wanting to shoot yourself after words ,then this the flick for you ,have fun!


                
Rob Reiner was on a streak in the mid 80s, and though it could be argued he his his peak at the start with Spinal Tap, this and Stand by Me can be considered two other important works in his decidedly since mixed career as a director. Princess Bride is as self-conscious as comedies get, but it's also a lot of fun for the whole family, and it's not just a typical aside to say so. On the contrary, as an adult now I find it funnier seeing it for the first time then I might have if I had seen it as a kid. This isn't to say that it doesn't have some special quality about it, that it's almost like a sprightly live-action cartoon. But there's a generous wink and nod behind most of the good jokes in the film, like how dialog between many of the characters point out some of the loops medieval fantasies take, in small things like climbing up a rocky cliff or in drinking a poisoned drink or going through a nasty swamp or in the convoluted mechanics of a "Machine", or even how to revive one from the dead with a, uh, whatever it is that's given to Cary Elwes.It's the tale as simple as can be: girl and boy fall in love, girl loses boy, girl gets engaged to bad man, girl gets kidnapped by dastardly (and inept) figures, girl gets re-captured by a man in a mask that turns out to be the boy again, boy loses girl again, boy comes back from dead, boy and girl go back together again. OK, a bit complicated, but the fun in William Goldman's script is seeing how the questioning of the archetypes goes hand-in-hand with telling a conventionally satisfying story. There's not a whole lot of dimension to most of them- certainly not to the bride- but that's part of the excitement is to see how the characters meet their fates (particularly Patikin's character, who will stop at nothing to kill the six-fingered man who killed his father, as he says about ten times while in the big climactic sword-fight). And why should there be, as the story itself is being read to a precocious child (Fred Savage) by a mustached Peter Falk.Actually, the script probably isn't even the best part, and neither is Reiner's often wonderful direction (though it helps, minus the score by Knopfler which is way too cheesy even for the material here). What makes this so watchable a comedy are the actors, who are all at the top of their games. Wallace Shawn (inconceivable!), Andre the Giant, Billy Crystal (65? can't do it for that), Patinkin, Christopher Guest in his most deadpan character yet, and Elwes and Robin Wright Penn in such straight roles, are equally enthralling and hilarious in how they dance around such good material, giving it the proper edge when needed and light touches of pure irony as well. Being more aware of what some of these character actors and stars have done now it makes for it to be hilarious, but what makes it work for kids too is that the actors never stray from being true to the goofy levels to their roles. This isn't quite Monty Python being dealt with here, but more family-friendly satire, and it's a success through and through.


                
I have come across with this beautiful movie nearly by accident and I'm very thankful for that. The actual reason that made me want to watch it was the fact that it was released the year I was born, and so I got curious and decided to look it up at IMDb and check if it was worth it... and so it was. Though you may think it is another fairy tale movie created for kids only, or that it may be boring or unappealing since it is "old" and it isn't filled with special effects, you should think again: it is absolutely amazing. It has an special something that makes it funny, catchy and simply lovely. I wonder whether it will be possible for me to get the book since I'm quite a fan of reading too... either way, at least I was able to enjoy this fantastic story through this great film directed by Rob Reiner.


                
Somehow, I had managed to never even hear of this movie till now (April 2002), when I went over to a friend's house and watched it on videotape. I discovered that I had missed out on one of filmdom's true treasures all these years!The storyline is passable, the scenery is nice, but what really makes this film a standout is the incredible wit that permeates it. Printed quotes don't really do it justice; the delivery by the actors is what really makes the humor stand out.Excellent entertainment, and highly recommended!


                
I remember I saw this when I was little I loved this movie back then but when I rewatch it I thought it was really cheesy but funny at the same time The props are impressvie but I do still like it


                
Based on William Goldman's riff on fairy tales, this is a charming and witty tale about True Love. The boy disappears when he leaves to seek his fortune, and rumour has it he's dead. So the girl doesn't object when the Prince decides to take her for his bride. The complications involve a giant, a swordsman looking for the man who killed his father, treachery and betrayal, and stuff like that. Of course the boy survived, and rescues the Princess from the evil Prince. Cameo appearances by Bill Crystal, Peter Falk, etc add to the pleasure.
So you might think this is just another light-weight entertainment. If that's what you expect, that's what you will see. I saw and heard an excellent script, above average acting, unobtrusive photography and music, and a meditation on the meaning and value of fairy-tale romance. Because True Love does win the end, though we may too often realise that too late. ***


                
