Fortunately, I haven't seen this film in a movie, big screen, just on a small screen on video. I doubt that I would have been able to sit through the film in a cinema and watch all the violence present in the film. After watching the first 30 minutes, I became both disappointed and curious.Disappointed because of the hard to follow story line, the hardly understandable screens, the huge amount of aggression - I still don't know why I had been shown the Daesu (main character) pulling out raw the teeth of another person, his beastliness on women, him cutting out his tongue. And also curious, to see what will the film say as a conclusion, what is the ending summary of all this brutality.Unfortunately, though the movie was not boring, I didn't get any answer to all these cruelty that I had to watch from the beginning to the end. To my opinion, if you want blood and want to laugh, there is Kill Bill 1-2, if you want blood with more meaning, you can take any recent war movie, and if you want an Eastern movie, there are much better titles out there. Afterwards I will take the ratings from the Cannes film festival with more precaution, as while Oldboy got a lot of praise from the jury, it had not much to say to me and had only 4/10 on my scale.I am hungry to see something beautiful, harmonious, with true feelings and a clear message.
By Jove, what an unholy mess! Revenge, incestuous love, mechanical games-like fighting, ceaseless and utterly unnecessary violence, some primitive "music" hammering away at the bewildered victims, big "surprises" (which actually tend to be about as "revelatory" as The National Enquirer's headlines). Add some shoddy camera movements pretending to be stylish and creative and you've already impressed the crowds. This movie's totally undeserved popularity powerfully indicates the very low level pop sub-culture has succeeded not only in achieving in the last decades, but also in imposing as dominant taste on an impotent audience. (For by far deeper insights into human sufferance under mental sickness, without "Oldboy"s vulgar excesses, I recommend an older Dutch/French movie, "The Vanishing".) Well, don't believe there's absolutely nothing good to say about this movie. In fact there is. The (in)famous scene in which the hero (is really a "hero", an abject father who sleeps with his daughter and then attempts to obtain forgetfulness rather than redemption?) eats a live octopus benefits greatly from the vivid presence of the best actor in the entire cast: the octopus itself. Too bad the poor beast, having been eaten, couldn't survive its one and only act in order to obtain yet another worthless diploma, for the "best actor", at the Cannes festival. Which festival, by the way, between Moore's propaganda nonsense and this epitome of worthless if somewhat exotic weirdness, became a festival of the vapid and of the ludicrous.Sic transit gloria mundi!
I went to see this movie because it had a 8.6 rating at IMDb.com. How can people overrate it like that?The first 90 minutes were sooo boring. The whole movie, you wait for something to happen which explains everything. And when that happens in the end, it's just a disappointment. The story is unrealistic, the dialogues are poor (and no they are NOT intellectual, for all wannabe-intellectuals - not only since the few wise sentences have to be repeated five times for everybody to remember them). The few messages could've been brought to the viewer in a much more entertaining way.Like in David Lynch movies, Oldboy forces you to think about it, and think about it, try to find a deeper sense, and while you are watching you realize that there is none - and that's just poor.


                
Great opening and build up but a disappointing end. It starts out with throwing an innocent man to jail. The end is a complex story about why he was put in jail mixed with some other weird stuff that are totally off base and it destroys this movie. The quality of the movie falls dramatically when this so called "revenge" takes place. Reminded me of a action video game where you get hit by all kinds off stuff but nothing ever happens, and the enemies are too easy to beat. It's pretty slow at times too (2nd half). You see long slow flashbacks and the reason for putting him to jail along with the other weird stuff are silly. The only good thing about this movie was the first half. Don't watch this if you want to see a good ending, because it never comes..!


                
Such is the case here with "Oldboy" as 64% of IMDb-ers rated this 9 or 10! Comparatively, the professional film critics weigh in with a 7.2 overall average, a full 1.1 points below the overpraisers here. I WILL concede that "Oldboy" is several steps up from "Sympathy for Mr. Vengeance", Park's 2002 pointless gorefest that I also had the unfortunate displeasure of sitting through. At least, "Oldboy" had something that resembled a coherent plot, but this certainly isn't groundbreaking in any way. In the end, it felt like a two hour endurance test. There were no compelling performances, no memorable scenes, just a dark, forgettable film. IMDb voters: you really need to get out of the house more and screen some other films. Think a bit before you give every film you like a "10". You do a disservice to yourself as well as the rest of us who vote here and look to this site for trusted information. Granted, "Oldboy" is better than most of the garbage that Hollywood cranks out, but it isn't even close to being a great film. 4/10


                
For those who haven't seen the film STOP NOW I am going to give away plot elements although if you go to the message board the "secret" is revealed.My biggest problem with the film is it seems to be mainly an attempt to "gross" people out. What difference does it make if a crazy guy is so wealthy he can torture another guy for 15 years all due to a twisted incestuous affair? Not only is that whole plot line just dumb the only reason for it is so there can be some outrageous violence involving hammers and shears. I guess for many it's better than roll out the old serial killer and have him do horrible things to his victims but when it comes right down to it the only difference is this plot is just weirder. With the popularity of Saw I foresee many more wildly ridiculous plot lines just so we can have more violent set pieces. Anyway the film lost me when the guy bites into a live octopus and stuffs it in his mouth. I'm not interested in seeing this but I guess with "reality" TV this is the kind of thing I have to expect. And why is this movie in DTS? Soundtrack is hardly Revenge of the Sith/John Williams quality.
This film has no soul. Thats my main problem with the film really. It has no soul. Sure the film looks fantastic, sure it supposedly deals with the often popular and heady subject of revenge in a brash, bold way but it does it in a way that is needlessly gratuitous and wholly sensational. The long, side-scrolling fight scene which is very striking and original is entirely unnecessary and drawn out. A clear cut case of style over substance, which is apparent throughout most of this film. And it suffers heavily from a certain style of writing that seems to be symptomatic of substandard east Asian filmmakers. The idea that drama and powerful film-making are the result of a cumulative effect. That is, if you add enough elements that are recognisably powerful and dramatic, you will end up with a powerful, dramatic film. For example, suicide is very striking and powerful, revenge is dramatic, unrequited love is dramatic, a character unable of feeling human emotions is a powerful statement. The problem is that this film amongst other Asian films (eg. hero, Samaritan girl) tries to imitate truly powerful films, without an understanding of what made those films powerful in the first place, thus creating a dramatic atmosphere by carelessly throwing all these features together without the slightest care for how it effects the characters that it subjects these "dramatic" events to. What you are left with are alien characters, that no human being can possibly relate to or comprehend, that have no soul of their own, but are merely devices, allegories and playthings of the sensational directors that use them. In short what you have here, in this highly praised and touted film is the tyranny of plot over character and ultimately the death of character.


                
I am incredibly confused about how Oldboy managed to make IMDb's top 250. While the basic premise is promising, the plot is contrived and really doesn't make a lot of sense to me. The violence is grotesque, the cinematography is amateur and the choreography of action sequences reminds me of a Weird Al Yankovic video. Furthermore the "values" expressed in this film just don't seem to transfer to Western culture at allOn the positive side other than the action scenes, Min-sik Choi does a good job with what he has to work with. He makes Oh Dae-Su's transformation from a mild-mannered businessman into a vengeful thug as believable as possible.


                
'Oldboy' has a very intriguing premise: A man has been locked up for 15 years in a private prison by unknown people. No reason has been given for this punishment. After he is finally released, he tries to find out who imprisoned him and what their motives are. The first part of the movie is very good. The plot is a little bizarre but you simply want to know what is going on. Once the puzzle start coming together, things are falling apart. The movie may still work for some as a morality tale, but those who desire at least a little bit of realism (and the first half of the movie certainly encourages this expectation) will be sorely disappointed. This is certainly not the first movie that uses hypnotism as a cheap and highly unrealistic plot device for mind control, but in the 21st century one should expect the authors to know better. This is a shame, as direction, photography and acting are fine. With a better resolution of the plot and a slightly less playful style this could have been a winner.
Calling this a great movie and giving away 10/10 are most likely the same people saying 'Er er, cool' after they see a chopped off hand, tongue or the totally unbelievable 1 vs. 50 fighting scene.Violence seems a topic which is testing the limits, Asian movies taking the lead. I have no problem with violent scenes as long as they are functional to the story. In this case most if not all violent scenes were not functional at all. I'd bet if taken out, most Beavises over here would call shenanigan.*plot spoilers* I'm probably not Korean enough to understand why Dae-su totally freaks out when discovering the plot. Woo-jin seems totally fine with having had a relation with his own sister, but Dae-su starts cutting himself up after being setup and having done something without knowing.
A very obscure Cannes prizewinner with lots of gore and incest and some fairly boring characters doing weirdly improbable things. Essentially a man is imprisoned for fifteen years in what looks like a private prison. On release he vows vengeance, and then discovers the man who had him imprisoned did so in revenge for something he, the first man, had done. Lots of arty camera-work, but nothing to make up for any credibility in the story.What did not come over in translation was how the imprisonment worked: it appeared a private company would imprison people for money, but the mechanics of this stretched credibility.
This movie is overrated and does not need to be watched. I understand why many people give it a high rating, but I disapprove. This movie is emotionally disturbing and should touch every sane person, but how couldn't it: It's full of violence and blood, incestuous sex and so on. I have no problem with that in principle, but using these devices should be justified by the story. Take Se7en, for example. It's full of violence, but the story makes good use of it. This movie fails to do so.People have commented this movie for the good acting and have brought forward, as example, a scene where the protagonist eats a living octopus. That's the kind of acting you gonna get. If you think that's great cinematic performance, you might enjoy this movie, if you have any taste, you'll be touched by the movie but will be left asking yourself: Was this worth it? I don't think so.
Although the movie plot is intrincated and raises a lot of curiosity it is a very sick storie. One could say that movies must be entertainment and I do agree. But there are entertainment that promote our growth and the ones that promotes nothing or bad feelings. This movie does not shock to me it sickens an will get forgotten very easily but some bad "taste" may rest in some shadow place in our minds making us somewhat used to expect the worse on the next of our kind instead of the reasonable.To have such a rank seems that our society still needs / likes to see the worst of ourselves. Finally I may say the movie storie has no positive side at all although the movie making (acting, picturing...) may have many qualities the storie , in my opinion, is something I'd rather had not known or does not agregate to culture or my character. Twisted and sick but well done nonetheless.


                
What starts as an intriguing premise is built up to what I assumed would be a riveting confrontation between the protagonist and the villain. Oh Dae-su is held captive for 15 years and released to find out why. The initial plot outline is certainly an opening that will spark the interest of any curious viewer. Unfortunately, the melodrama and incredulity of the story causes it to buckle under the weight of its own surrealist baggage.The big reveal is certainly sick and disturbing enough all right, but it isn't original, and where it's been done before it's been done better (Polanski's Chinatown). It seemed as if the whole purpose of the picture was to wallow in perversion, and the themes (how far the lengths of revenge and loneliness can string one along) are rather limp. At best, this film feels like an extra-saucy David Lynch picture, of which I am no fan.There are good points to this film however. The first half is entertaining, with plenty of black humour and some fantastic visuals, camera-work, and fight choreography, with clever editing tricks to boot. But the last third of the film felt flat to me. 6.9 stars out of 10.
