I read the review for "Oldboy" a few years ago and have since read praise about the movie from IMDb posters. Often times movies with that kind of hype tend to fall short and is a major disappointment. I don't know anything about Korean cinema so I had fairly low expectations. I had expected it to be a simplistic revenge film, shot in bad film stock. Well I have to say that I'm glad I was wrong, and even gladder still that I actually watched this film.The basic story is that a man named Oh Dae-Su is kidnapped and held captive for 18 years and then released. He has no idea who or why this is being done to him. While in captivity he readies himself for the day when he gets out and take revenge on those who imprisoned him, and to find out why he was imprisoned. So far it sounds just like any old revenge martial art flick and up to this point it pretty much is, but it's incredibly well crafted. I have to admit I have not paid much attention to Asian martial arts films since Bruce Lee died and maybe I should now. Mainly because this movie doesn't have the jumpy camera work, or bad editing of those old flicks. This movie is a crisply shot as any Scorcese film. That alone elevates this movie to a higher plateau.Once he is released, Oh Dae-Su goes on a quest to find what happened to his family and to find the identity of those who had him captured. During the quest for the bad guys, the movie played out like an old fashioned detective movie. The search wasn't rushed and neither was it boring. I suppose the set up made us want to go on this quest with Oh Dae-Su which sounds like Odysseus, and just as Odysseus went on one incredible quest so did Oh Dae-Su.It's when he finds the man who had him held captive that the movie truly departs from being an average revenge film to something that is extra ordinary and extraordinarily disturbing. It's at this point that I have to say that the less said the better. It's something totally out of the ordinary and something that I think will repulse some viewers, but at the same time one can't help have sympathy for all the characters even the man who ordered Oh's incarceration. The acting in the movie is excellent. I had no idea that Korean cinema has such skillful actors. They all really played their part incredibly well. Min-sik Choi, who played Oh Dae-Su was incredible. He goes through the rigors of being a desperate captive, to being a determined man on a mission. Along the way he runs through the gamut of so much emotion and not once did he hit a false note. Overall I have to say that this movie is incredibly well crafted and as good as everybody say, however I find it a little disturbing so I can't give this movie a ten. But don't let my not giving the film a ten scare you away it's a good, enjoyable film.


                
If you look at the awards this title has won, you will see that critics worldwide rated the film very highly when it came out. The story is one that has already been remade by the Americans - a man is imprisoned for 15 years by someone he has never seen, released - given a cellphone and five days to find out why he was imprisoned and identify his captor. Harrowing, excellent acting with the true horror not coming from guns but from a shocking personal realisation at the end of the film. Sadly, as is always the case after a mass murder, the media and the public are looking for an easy solution as to why Cho Seung-Hui murdered American students on a rampage. He was pictured in poses which the press tagged as those struck in OLDBOY but these are used by any soldier, terrorist or nutter. I'm sorry this film has borne the brunt of the backlash - Cho Seung-Hui was mentally ill - this film did not cause him to go mad, he was sick. Back to the movie, this will stick with viewers after watching. I'm glad to have a DVD copy of it.


                
A man is imprisoned for 15 years and is released; now he must find out why he was imprisoned.The film has some realistic and gritty fight scenes as well as a very strange yet alluring special effects; it is brilliantly done and the lead actor is fantastic at portraying the conflicted individual.The film is a shocking to say the least, the end will have you squirming as the truth is revealed about his lover and how far a vengeful enemy will go to destroy his already chaos filled existence.The fight scene in the long hall is still the main attraction though as he hammers and punches his way through endless numbers of enemies; it is beautifully shot and is definitely a must see.
This South Korean mystery thriller neo-noir film is like a hammer. It always manage to hit the nail on the head. Directed by Park Chan-wook, and loosely based on the Japanese manga of the same name written by Nobuaki Minegishi and Garon Tsuchiya. Oldboy is the second installment of The Vengeance Trilogy, preceded by 2002's Sympathy for Mr. Vengeance and followed by 2005's Sympathy for Lady Vengeance. The film follows the story of a Korean businessman, Oh Dae-su (Min-sik Choi), who is locked in a hotel room for 15 years without knowing the identity of his captor or his captor's motives. When he is finally released, Dae-su finds himself still trapped in a web of lies, conspiracy and violence. With the help of a female Japanese chef named Mi-do (Hye-jeong Kang) and one of his old computer friends, No Joo-hwan (Dae-han Ji), Dae-su must find a way to piece together the scattered clues of who took his life away from him, while cutting down anyone who gets in his path. Without spoiling the movie too much, this film has a lot of twist and turns, that will keep the viewer, interested in the story. The movie is an extreme art-house film, often using tropes taken from previous psychological movies such as 1929's Un Chien Andalou (1929) & 1966's Persona. The film also has several parallels to classic stories such as William Shakespeare's to Titus Andronicus & French author Alexandre Dumas's The Count of Monte Cristo. The most famous one is the Greek myth of Oedipus Rex. Other works, like Ella Wheeler Wilcox's famous poem, "Solitude", played a big part in this film. "The Man of Sorrow" by Belgium painter James Ensor gave the movie, some depth with it looks. Classical music gave the movie, its ears. "The Last Waltz" by Frédéric François Chopin, and the first movement of Vivaldi's "Four Seasons: Winter" are certainly used the best. The rest of the entire soundtrack is a work of genius. Not only does every title clearly applies to the events seen in the film when the track is played, but every track is takes their name after a famous film noir film. The acting is excellent for the most part. Min-sik Choi really put a lot of work, into this film. Not only did, he nailed it, with the emotional side, he trained for six weeks and lost twenty pounds to get in shape for the role of Dae-su, and did most of his own stunt work. If that wasn't extreme, enough, he ate four real life live octopodes as Dae-su in the sushi bar scene. While, it did provoked some controversy abroad. Eating live octopus in Korea is commonplace although it is usually sliced first. I saw nothing wrong with it, as long as he ate all of them. That scene was used, to represent, Dae-su hatred toward his enemies and I think Min-sik Choi capture that. Supporting character, Ji-tae Yu as Woo-jin Lee was great at being sinister, while being realistic. Director Quentin Tarantino was at the screening and was shocked to find himself crying for a character who had been completely despicable for the prior duration of the movie. That's how much, Ji-tae Yu got people to invest in the character. The only weak acting in the film, had to be Hye-jeong Kang as Mi-do. I really didn't like her damsel in distress, manic pixie dream girl role. Still, this was a very powerful film. The movie was shot, superb. Great use of mirrors, as a symbolism of fragmentation of one self. I like how everybody is looking at another person, through a mirror. I like how shots of Woo-jin Lee, show how much omnipotent by wealth, he is. I like how Dae-su is shown as the common man. Getting back at the society, by hammer. It remind me of socialism ideas pitting against that of capitalism. Still, the most well-known shot had to be, the lengthy scene in which Oh Dae-su takes on over a dozen men armed with just a hammer. Given that the scene is nearly 5 minutes long, and is all filmed on one camera, in one take. The fight sequence took three days, worth of attempts to nail it. The violence in this film wasn't as violent, as some critics made it out to be. The torture wasn't too in- depth, as the camera cuts away, when things become way too gory. I found the violent to, pretty tame for a Rated R film. The story matter is indeed shocking. The whole twist toward the end is a gut-wrenching and sick. The movie ends with a gloomy ambiguous ending. While, some people might see this as a fault; I see it as thought provoking. While Dae-su is let out of captivity, he can only free himself, by finding out why he was imprisoned. Dae-su takes on many aspects of an Ubermensch on finding the truth, but ultimately his character has no control of his own fate and plays into his enemies' hands. By the end of the movie he is a very, very broken man. It's a great example of why human decisions are meaningless and choice is an illusion. One of the most important themes of Old Boy is the truth. Sometimes, the truth doesn't set you free. The only thing, that I can see as a fault of the film is how some scenes were very confusing. One of the biggest mistake, you can make, is watching it, with the English dubbing. It's horrible. It doesn't match with the lips on the screen at all. Unfortunately, you will lose a lot of Korean language drastically changed over those fifteen years, with it. You should watch it with English subtitle, instead. This movie help influence a Bollywood remakes in 2005 & an American remake in 2013. Overall: This dark Oedipian tragedy is somewhat enlightening. Drop the hammer, and give this a watch! You will not be disappointed.
The only similarity between the killer (Cho) was a "hammer" pose from OldBoy (and Cho got it the pose wrong too). There is no similarity between this psycho (Cho) and the movie's story line / character. To blame this movie for this killer's action is misguided. As for not watching certain movies or reading books or listening to songs because they association with real world psychos, - would you stop reading "Catcher in the Rye" because it associated with John Lennon's killer? - would you stop listening to the Beatle's music because they associated with Charles Manson? - would you stop watching Jodie Foster's movies because she "inpired" John Warnock Hinckley, Jr to attempt an assassination on President Reagan? - the list go on and on.


                
Old Boy is a slick action thriller that is both entertaining and ultimately thought provoking. Fincher's 'Fight Club' and Miike's 'Ichi The Killer' have both been raised as stylistic comparisons and there is a lot of merit to this perspective.Essentially, it is about a man's imprisonment and subsequent quest for vengeance against his initially unknown captor. To state more than that would be to spoil a film that relies upon a significant plot-twist. This plot twist has been much discussed. Further, there appears to be a significant amount of ambiguity in the final scene that leaves it open to interpretation as to whether the protagonist has 'taken steps' to move on from the events, or whether he is still a warped monster of revenge.It is safe to say that it is a niche film - one for people who like overt cinematic technique - namely flashy visuals and inventive action sequences. My personal bias is towards such films that take an innovative approach to visuals and for this reason, and the provocative ending, I found it to be a very good film.I think that most people would find it entertaining to some degree. Whether they would find it a good film is a matter of debate. There have been a great many reviews extolling the merits of the film and many eloquent criticisms - both are equally valid.There are continuity lapses and some facile quasi deus ex machina (omnipotent villain) explanations, but in particular, I think the charge of nihilism is quite accurate. It is not a movie where the message is obvious, or indeed one where you could really categorise as having something profound to say about the futility of revenge or the human condition. That said, as a stylish piece of entertainment I enjoyed it immensely. I have seen Park Chan-Wook's 'JSA' and 'Sympathy For Mr Vengeance' and preferred this film. Whether this makes me a vapid pop-culture victim, so be it, but I honestly have a better time seeing something like 'Performance' or '...if' or even 'Ichi The Killer' than 'The Sorrow and the Pity' or 'Through a Glass Darkly'. Great films, like great literature, can be hard work and not always more rewarding.


                
This is not a movie for the faint of heart. But, for those willing to go the extra mile, it will be an unexpected pleasant surprise. If any of the following ring a bell: "Code 46", "Irréversible" or "The Truman Show" you'll get your money's worth with this movie. If by the end of it, you're disappointed that it doesn't give you any higher purpose, tough luck. About the action: a shabby semi-good guy, loaded with TV clichés tries to catch up with a superb villain. Nobody wins or, better said, they both loose. There's no elaborate story line, no claims of realism whatsoever. It's not so much about a gory revenge but more about a dark, sinuous journey for redemption. If this movie teaches you anything, it's no to look for greater-than-life answers in fortune cookies. Or movies, for that matter. 7/10


                
Amélie's quirkiness, Tarantino's violence and gore, interesting characters, intriguing plot, profound philosophical questions, and insanely cool action sequences made this gut-wrenching revenge tale the most gripping, entertaining, and enthralling movie of its kind, except it's actually one of a kind!Amid the gruesome scenes, and the brutal fight sequences, Oldboy has a very emotionally devastating story. Chan-wook Park could have easily leaned on nothing but the action and the gore to grab the viewers' attention from the beginning. Instead, he knew that if there is anything that can attract the attention of the audience, and make them invested in the protagonist as fast as possible, it would be a thoughtful moral philosophy mingled with a sentimental story. That's how Chan-wook Park captivated the viewers from the opening scene until he evoked a catharsis in the audience at the traumatic third act.Flawless is a very weak, and unsatisfying word to describe the third act. It's simply look like nothing you've seen before, or even you'll see. With its twist reveal, to the outrageous and shocking visceral images, the third act is provocative, distressful, and utterly maddening. But nothing would have worked in it, and in the entire movie as a whole without Min-sik Choi's kinetic multi-layered performance.The fact that this movie didn't get a single Oscar nod, at least for Min-sik Choi's incredible performance, is as infuriating as the movie itself. For me, Min-sik Choi delivered one of the best performances in the past decade. Yes, I would easily put his performance alongside Adrien Brody's in The Pianist, Leonardo DiCaprio in The Aviator, Daniel Day-Lewis in There Will Be Blood, and Heath Ledger in The Dark Knight. But all that thanks to Chan-wook Park who allowed Min-sik Choi to show all his talent challenging him, and his pathetic, Dae-su Oh.What is truly impressive is how Chan-wook Park put us in Dae-su Oh's shoes by changing the tone, so gracefully, to resemble how the protagonist feels. The movie starts off with flashes of dark humor matching how mazed and lost the character feels. Then, when things become more clearer and clearer the tone becomes darker and darker till the climax when the movie became acutely distressing and dreary.Nevertheless, these tonal changes didn't work very well at the second act. Not because the tonal shift wasn't smooth, nor it came abruptly, but because that was the time when our protagonist, as well as us, discovering clues, and collecting pieces to get the whole picture. The whole act was very convoluted, for better or worse, but the thing is that the pacing was madly rushed resembling Dae-su Oh's confusion and ignorance. Not to mention, there were some sequences where we get to know about some very important characters, and some specifics related to them. Adding insult to injury, some of these details could be passed up, because they are simply not that important. The result is that the movie almost lost me a couple of times. I mean that I really lose track of some small details.Oldeuboi is a very powerful, thought-provoking, and visceral film, and that's because what it implies more than what it depicts. I think it's the first Korean film I watch, and it definitely won't be the last. Just help me with some recommendations, if you wouldn't mind! :)(8.5/10)


                
To be hones I'm in a shock right now. The story of Oldboy is absolutely horrible. And no, I don't mean it's written badly, I mean the story is so horrifying that after I was done I just had to sit and stare the screen for a while. The only thought in my head is: "What the hell did I just see?" This is the beauty of movies with clever plot twists that actually do surprise you: Oldboy, Primal Fear, Fight Club... I'm sure there are many more, but just making a list would be lazy. The plot twist in Primal Fear is just surprising. It's clever, but the thing is, it's not that bad. while Oldboy... That plot twist is absolutely shocking. And the story is well written even when you don't count the plot twist. The main character's narration gives a lot more interest to the story. The mystery is intriguing, and the writers have a way of keeping the viewer invested in the story. Even when you don't really like Oh Dae-Su, you still want to know why. And even Oh Dae-Su is not really a likable character, you still wonder if he deserved that. That would be an interesting philosophical debate.There are a few group fight scenes in this film, and they are excellent. They are well coordinated and enjoyable (or as enjoyable as fight scenes are) to watch. The visual side of Oldboy amazes with how good it looks when it needs to. There were few gore-y scenes, yet nothing too horrifying was shown, so something was left to imagination. Still those scenes keep you on the edge of your seat.Oldboy is a very well made movie. It's shocking, and I'm not sure how good it is when you watch it a second time, but at least after this first time I am astonished - and shocked. I'd love to recommend this movie but I don't know how risky that would be.


                
I kept hearing about how good this movie is for a very long time now, and finally managed to watch it, and to everyone who recommended it i say thank you, this is a rich experience with a movie that has everything, and the corridor fight scene is one of the best fight scenes i've seen in my life, but the main magic of the movie is in the plot twist, this is one of the craziest and greatest plot twists i've ever seen.
9/10


                
Majority of the film I was puzzled at a lot of the stuff, in a like wtf kind of way. I cant really explain why but I liked the film, I enjoyed the journey he took along the way of finding out who and why. Then the ending was pretty sick and twisted which funnily enough I genuinely guessed before it happened who the girl would be, knew it wasn't just plain and simple when it came to her, now that's sick revenge.


                
Chan-wook Park is a genius, in my opinion. Following on from Sympathy For Mr Vengeance (another FANTASTIC film), Oldboy follows the story of Oh-Dae-Su, superbly played by Min-sik Choi. Locked up for 15 years without apparent reason and finally released to find out who and why and seek bloody revenge.This film is incredibly stylised, expertly directed, wonderfully acted and has a beautiful, haunting soundtrack.This is a one in a million film that is simply stunning in every sense.An amazing director, awesome script, stunning acting, musical score, and fantastic cinematography, come together to give you an absolutely mind blowing, revenge seeking, cult Tartan Asia masterpiece.


                
Perverse, obtuse, profane, controversial; but award-winning revenge drama about a common businessman(Min-sik Choi) with a family and a habit of getting drunk after work being kidnapped and put in a makeshift prison. He is incarcerated for no obvious reason; his prison resembles a rundown hotel room... but there is no windows and a locked steel door. This becomes his home for fifteen years; he is finally allowed to watch TV where he sees that he is a wanted man for murdering his wife and daughter. He contemplates suicide several times, but mostly he works out and writes of his situation in a journal. Just like he was kidnapped, he is set free and being obsessed in his wanting to carry out his revenge...a young sushi chef(Hye-jeong Kang)helps him find his captors. This South Korean film includes scenes of torture, sexuality and ultra-strong violence. This one is not easy to forget. If you are serious about your movies, OLDBOY should not be overlooked. Also in the cast: Ji-tae Yu, Seung-Shin Lee and Dae-han Ji.
(This Review is originally from my blog at http://samuentagareview.blogspot.com/. Feel free to check out my other reviews)Oldboy is probably the most famous South Korean film in the entire world, and since it's being remade by Spike Lee this year, I figured I'd watch the original film to see what the fuss was about.And wow. Wow. Wow.So, I'm just going to go SPOILER this time, because anyone who wants to see it probably already has.So this guy, Oh Dae Su, is kidnapped and kept in solitary confinement for fifteen years, the only contact with the outside world being the guards that feed him and never talk, and the television in his room. Suddenly, after fifteen years, he is set free, and decides to find out why he was kept inside that room for fifteen years.So then he meets this girl at a sushi bar, eats a live octopus whole, and then faints. He wakes up in her house, and a very awkward, sexually tense relationship begins as the two try and find out who put him in prison.Eventually, they find a security guard at the place he was kept, and try to find out who captured him by pulling his teeth out with a hammer. (By the way, this film is really gruesome) and then the famous single-take fight sequence begins, and it's really good. That's definitely the highlight of the film, and there's nothing else that quite matches up to it in the rest, unfortunately.Finally, following a couple of deaths, sex with the random girl, and several close calls to the man behind everything, he finally catches up to the man, who reveals everything that happened.So Oh Dae Su and the bad guy used to go to the same school, and the villain had this rather, um, inappropriate relationship with his sister. Oh Dae Su, on his last day at the school, sees this, and spreads a rumor around the school, not realizing that they were siblings. She starts having signs of pregnancy, and commits suicide.Then the villain, in anguish, decides to enact revenge, kidnaps Oh Dae Su, keeps him away from his daughter for fifteen years, then releases him and with help from a hypnotist, gets Oh Dae Su to fall in love with his daughter, the girl at the sushi bar.So then, Oh Dae Su is stricken with guilt, begs the villain to not tell the girl, and cuts off his tongue for no reason, resulting in the villain letting him go, and killing himself.So now, Oh Dae Su tracks down the hypnotist and gets her to make him forget about the identity of the girl he met at the sushi bar, so that they can continue their relationship without the guilt in Oh Dae Su's heart.What the heck.Yes, this movie is really well made and brutal, but it's also all kinds of messed up. I have no idea how they're going to remake this for more conservative American cinema, but a lot of the plot twists have to be readjusted for the remake.It's really a personal preference, but this sort of stuff just makes me uncomfortable sitting there, watching it.So yeah, it's good. Just make sure you know what you're going into, if you haven't seen it yet.
Oldboy, a Korean action thriller, is one of the best films I watched in 2004! Oh Daesu, on his way home to celebrate his daughter's birthday, finds himself kidnapped and placed in a small apartment-like room. Despite his attempts to find out why, he is never told anything over the 15 years he remains prisoner there! During the time in his cell, he stays busy by attempting suicide, watching TV, trying to escape, and preparing for when he does get out. It is at that time Oh Daesu will begin his violent, disturbing quest for answers. No more needs to be said, as this is a film best left revealed as you watch it for the first time. I will mention one scene for the action fans though. Oh Daesu, on his way out of a building, starts into a hall and encounters a whole gang of punks prepared to stop him. Armed with a mere claw hammer, our hero smashes his way to the other end, realistically dishing out pain (and taking his share of it back!). We witness this awesome scene of action beauty unfold over the course of about three minutes, scrolling from the left to the right, and with absolutely no cuts! Anyway, with its unique and suspenseful plot, great characters and acting, and sharp sense of style and music, Oldboy was an impressive feature. The film was less than a year old and a remake was already in the works! If you get the chance, I definitely recommend watching it. I'm looking forward to now checking out director Chan-wook Park's earlier film, Sympathy for Mr. Vengeance.Comment originally submitted on September 5, 2005.
"Oldboy" plays like a martial arts version of a Franz Kafka novel. Dae-su Oh is a businessman in Korea who wakes up one day to find himself imprisoned in what appears to be a cheap hotel room from which he cannot escape (any time spent in a Motel 6 can elicit the same impression). He doesn't know why he's there or who put him there, but he spends his fifteen-year-long "sentence" watching TV and perfecting his fighting skills, the better to exact revenge on those responsible when he finally gets out. When that day comes, he sets out to unravel the mystery of his captivity, seeking out clues with the help of a sweet, sad young waitress he meets on his first day of freedom."Oldboy" is an imaginative, high-energy film that keeps the viewer guessing right up to its final moments. Shot through with dark humor, stylish directorial touches, and cartoon-style (albeit fairly graphic) violence, the film is deliberately disorienting in the beginning, the better to approximate the confused psychological state of its protagonist. But eventually the plot points come fully into focus, and the film doesn't fall victim to that dreaded Third Act curse which has been the undoing of so many other mystery films of recent years.Fun stuff.


                
Inspired by the manga manga, "Oldboy" impresses the West, as it deals with violence and revenge in a surprising way, showing that even the smallest acts have their weight. We see here the story of Oh Dae-su (Choi Min-sik), a man full of regrets and sins who one day is imprisoned for fifteen years in a room, and when he leaves, he wants revenge, it seems a simple script, Make no mistake, inside this revenge we have several layers, twists, intrigue, suspense, action and of course, a touch of black humor. The photograph of "Oldboy" is very beautiful, all the colors are very defined, Dae- su's room is dazzling and at the same time despairing, the city is lifeless, we have that neon touch in dark scenes, even the same Being present, is an extremely clean photograph, and the soundtrack, well, it is a spectacle to the part, with orchestral musics "Oldboy" is sensational, mixing the violence when orchestrating a beautiful song - as in mechanical orange (7I) - all The times that your theme music plays, you delight and serve perfectly as a counterpoint to what is being shown the screen, and the last technical aspect that I would like to comment, what a fabulous edition, my congratulations. Yoo Ji-tae has a sensational performance, it's that villain that makes us all hate him, that is, he fulfilled his role, Choi Min-sik impresses at times with his expression caricats and scandals, but he lacks a dramatic tone And Kang Hye-Jeong does not have a dramatic or humorous tone, but is beautiful and concentrates all the attention on screen, this is the film that consecrates the career of the great director - the most popular in Western culture - Park Chan-Wook. The film does not contain an explicit moral, quite the contrary, it completely attacks and distorts what we know about morality, and its final message is troubled, loaded with oriental manias, "Oldboy" behaves very well, even in his scenes galletas de Action your trail and beautiful photography. It's a worthwhile movie, and it's the perfect gateway to Korean cinema.


                
I heard countless times how good of a movie this was from critics and fans alike. I watched a preview for it and what I saw was an action movie. While there is a few action scenes (one in particular that was beautifully shot) this is by no means an action movie. There are some cringe worthy moments of torture but it all works and not over done. Most of it happens on screen and you only hear what happens.The plot is about a man who was kept under watch in the same room for 15 years. He is released out of the blue and has vowed to find out who and why this was done to him. He meets a young girl named "Mi-do" and they quickly find a sense compassion and love towards one another.As the story unfolds we learn about who and why. When we the audience find out the reason I was blown away. Not since I watched the first "Saw" movie did I feel so shocked. It was one of the most brilliant twists I've ever witnessed and made me feel for the character even more because of it.I haven't watched the American remake and don't intend to after the horrible reviews and plot changes I read about. If you're a fan of movies and don't mind subtitles, I highly recommend this one.
Oldboy was a fantastic film which had an unexpected ending. It's one of those films where you purely and genuinely feel sorry for the main characters. The execution of the film as whole was genius and very well done.Character development was really well done and it wasn't hard to follow the storyline at any point of the film. The flashback scenes were done really well as well, and the black & white shading added nice tone to the scenes.Highly recommend this film to anyone who is a fan of Tarantino pictures or anything left-of- field!!


                
This movie missed my 9 because most of the essence of the movie was only just a very sensitive issue in the society. That was the main thing in the movie that triggered thoughts in viewers, I suppose.


                
This film is great. Even with the crazy ending. So much hatred in the movie


                
This movie is dedicated to the people who are constantly abused in society. It shows the world how one mistake can lead to an endless stream of issues. This movie follows the mistake a man has made, the main character is formed into a new person as his life is manipulated by the "antagonist". The harsh situations the main character experiences keeps the audience gripped to their seats. This film is a must watch since it breaks the boundaries between justice and revenge. No one can really tell who is the true villian of the story, it is for the viewer to decide who's story they believe.
-LV


                
wow i sure was surprised to look at all the negative reviews building up on this site, there is nothing wrong with this movie it is great, it is totally different and original. Asian people have such a different way of life then us and it really shows in their movies. watching foreign films is such a nice break from the usually westernized films we see all the time.there is quite a complicated story here, but not only is it complicated it is very strange, very unpredictable and just weird. i love it. Oh Dae-Su is mysteriously and suddenly imprisoned for 15 years without an explanation. he is then released. throughout the entire film he is just a play toy of some deranged man who gets pleasure from watching Oh Dae-Su do ridiculous horrible things, things Oh Dae-Su himself does not realize he is doing.stories don't get much more bizarre then this one but it is a very entertaining movie and i totally enjoyed every second of it. this movie stepped outside the boundaries and that is why it has become so popular, this movie is not afraid to include pedophiles, and men who commit incest. and because of that it makes for a much more interesting story.the camera work and scenery is very masterful and beautiful, it is a very visually pleasing movie, and it leaves you feeling good, or me anyways, i mean sure some people may be offended by this film, but perhaps that's just because they are too stuck and have stopped mentally growing,they cannot handle films that are outside their bubbles of reality or they it is just not up their alley.either way i highly recommend watching this film, if you don't like then its just not for you, i would say if you like stories like kill bill etc then you should defiantly check this one out.


                
As a young film student and woman of South Korean ethnicity, I was intrigued and highly entertained by this movie. The cinematography, lighting, and etc. was very reminiscent of film-noir based themes and the characters were your deranged Hollywood type outlaws with an Eastern twist. The acting by Choi Min Sik was very well done as well as the rest of the casting. I think its great that South Korean films are finally getting some light shed on them but I am kind of angry that they are going to do an American remake of this awesome film. Because then it's going to be all overly done in typical Hollywood style. Anyways I highly recommend this film.


                
Oldboy is not a masterpiece, but it is an excellent suspense/action film. To defend it from it's detractors:1)The plot is far-fetched but no more far-fetched than any other film of this genre. The motivation of the Dae-su's tormentor is not a let down, and the twist at the end is devastating and effective. 2)I agree that some of the histrionics toward the end could have been toned down, but otherwise the performances, especially by the leads, are excellent.3)The directors visual style and story telling are worth the hype.This movie is not for the squeamish or those looking for a happy ending. Or for that matter, for those who look to movies to see people who react just like they would themselves.


                
