The Maltese Falcon is about a detective who solves the crime of his partner's murder by dogged determination.The main plot is the solving of the crime (which ends in success), with a minor love interest subplot that ends in failure (the detective gives up the love interest after discovering she committed the murder).As a story The Maltese Falcon largely flatlines.The main plot moves from discovery to discovery but the turning points feel arbitrary and not meaningful. As the story unfolds, the detective unravels the back story of what the treasure is and how it got here. But the back story's revelation doesn't create much meaning for us or the protagonist as it mainly involves the secondary characters while our main character remains immovable and static. The main character untangles the sordid histories of these secondary characters to solve the crime, but we are left with a feeling of so what? In the end we get two somewhat moral triumphs: one, the detective solves the crime of his partner's murder despite the police messing up their investigation. But this moral victory feels empty since he and his dead partner's wife are lovers, which throws him off the moral high horse. The second is that he gives up his feelings for O'Shaughnessy and sends her to prison because he finds out she turns out to be the murderer. This moral dilemma also feels empty because: A) so he cheated on his dead partner's wife who was his lover to be with this new lover and then gives her up, how is that a moral victory? and B) The two of them only have 2 or 3 turning points to develop their relationship and their love doesn't have much to stand on.So the story is reduced to rely almost exclusively on a classic who dunnit throughline with some great actors who are unfortunately trying to breath life into empty cardboard box of characters. In other words, a big waste of time.My Story Chart of the movie is at storycharts.ca
This isn't just awful. It is possibly the worst film I've ever seen. I am completely baffled by the reputation it has. Everything is horribly staged, everybody speaks faster than is humanly possible. The plot is all over the place. It's all tell, no show. It is just terrible. If I was giving a scriptwriting class, I would use this film as a great example of what not to do.I realise that, made in 1941, it is of its time. But isn't that the point? For a film to be called a classic, it should still be relevant to audiences today? I really wonder if the people who rate it so highly have actually sat down and endured the whole painful experience. Or is it sufficient that everyone else says it's a classic, so it must be.People, it's time to let this one die.


                
I wonder how anyone can sit through this trashbag of a movie with eyes open. God help those who deceive themselves into thinking a movie is good because it was made before they were born. The movie involves a detective who goes around insulting women (and yet getting their attention) and hitting people twice his size. One'd think the writer must have been suffering from a massive inferiority complex. The plot is terrible and many events may insult the intelligence of a six year old (eg. the way the hero "outwits" the cops when they visit his place when he has that meeting with the female and that french guy). And I should confess.. I fell asleep around halfway and never did get to watch the remaining part. Nor do I ever want to watch it, considering what a ho-hum of a movie this is!  1/10.


                
The Maltese Falcon is a perfect example of 'rose coloured glasses'. The script is so bad/'first draft' you have to witness it to believe it! OK emotional realism wasn't a big thing back then but these characters are so wooden that it's impossible to feel anything for any of them. Mary Astor's role is so corn ball theatrical you wonder how she was even considered a real actress? The rest of the actors are cartoons at best. Bogart is Bogart and almost likeable but the end not even he seems like a real person. If you're like me you put this on your 'films to see before you die' list know this, if you do see it you will have wasted nearly 2 hours of what you had left of your life. Why John Huston is considered a good director dumbfounds me to say the least? I wanted to stop half way through but like a car accident I just have to watch it thinking it couldn't get any worse, well it does, far worse. A stinker!


                
The Maltese Falcon is a dull unbearable load of drivel. I didn't buy any of it, Bogart pushing around the flyweight division. I cringed the whole way through. None of the characters are suited to any of these roles. Mary Astor is no femme fatale and Peter Lorre being serious? Come on. Wilmer, now what the hell is this character? One of the worst henchman ever, just to make Bogart look superior. Though, Kasper Gutman wasn't much better. I don't even.. I'm done.
