Bogart made this film watchable. The rest of the cast acted well in it too though and and some of the dialogue is superb. However, upon viewing the film, I discovered that the story itself lacked any real zest or spark that could keep my interest. I had referred to the high rating on this website and the 5* rating Empire (film magazine) had given the film when it came to making my purchase, but needless to say I was very disappointed.After much double crossing amongst the ensemble cast, the movie lets us know the movies main concerns - the whereabouts of the Maltese Falcon and who killed Miles Archer. By this time, however, I had lost interest in the film considerably and I was neither surprised to discover who had killed Mr Archer nor did I care for the character who had. Also, the fact that the Maltese Falcon itself doesn't turn up in the end made the main resolution of the film redundant, futile and again highly predictable. So to conclude, I wouldn't call this movie good nor would I recommend you watch it. And the only reason it got 4/10 (2*) as oppose to 2/10(1*) is because of the intense and often intriguing performance of Humphrey Bogart as Samuel Spade.
Yes, Bogart's performance is classic, and Peter Lorre and Sydney Greenstreet are terrific -- they usually are. But the film suffers from the production code of the day; Hammett's novel holds up, and the sexual politics of it wasn't allowed to be transferred to the screen (although it could have with better writing -- Casablanca has a lot of dark sex jokes).The biggest problem with the film is Mary Astor. I don't find her attractive and her performance is mannered and oft putting -- which is a disaster for a femme fatale. In the novel, the character comes across as much prettier and smarter, and the sexual relationship with Spade makes her much more devious; it also makes the love talk at the end and Spade's rejection of Brigid logical. In the film, when this conversation starts, one is left wondering, "What?" These two have barely been on screen together and now there's talk of true love?One part near the end illustrates the problem with the story as filmed: In the book, when Gutman claims a thousand dollar bill is missing, Spade makes Brigid get naked in the bathroom as he inspects her and her clothes to see if she took it. Brigid protests, but is not modest, and Gutman is surprised that Spade would do this. This scene reinforces Spade's cold demeanor, the sexual relationship between Brigid and Spade, and impresses Gutman with Spade's icy thoroughness. As filmed, Brigid just makes a silent, knowing nod of No, and that's that. The Hayes Code eradicated a key scene, and the writing didn't attempt to find a way to make up for this loss.If Brigid had been played by a smarter, more seductive actress and the sexual relationship between her and Spade been alluded to, then the dark motivations of the story and Spade's character would be fully realized. As it is, it's a well cast movie (but nearly destroyed by one casting flub, Astor) and influential in terms of character, pace, and camera choices. It may have been the first noir, but that alone doesn't make it a classic. As it is, watching it is more history than enjoyment, while the novel still holds up as well written detective fiction.
Although it seems I am against the whole world on this, I say The Maltese Falcon is a relatively poor film. This may have been one of the first noirs, but does that alone make it one of the best? Perhaps in its time it was influential, but now it's just boring. There is nothing of interest or significance to keep my attention. In my opinion a far superior Bogart noir is The Big Sleep, directed by Howard Hawks... This ranks up there with Some Like It Hot as one of the most overrated films of all time; I think both are films that people call classic simply because they've been called that for so long.


                
It has been a while since I have seen this film, but I do remember this much.  I read the novel by Dashiel Hammet and it was by far superior to the film.  Compared to the book, this film was sadly, a watered down product of old Hollywood.  While his performance was good, Humphrey Bogart's Sam Spade was far less complex then Hammet's Spade.  The film was a very dissappointing adaptation.


                
I expected more from this film because its supposed to be a classic.  But I found the plot contrived and confusing and the acting wooden.


                
What was all the fuss about? This was supposed to be THE Humphrey Bogart classic? Get out a here. John Huston by all means is a great director who made marvellous classics, but this movie is just bland and going through the motions. Lacking in any sort of punch from beginning to the end.And I mean really lacking in punch, because I had to restrain myself from skipping certain parts that kept dragging on.The bad side: this movie has written FORMULA all over it. It was one out of dozen others. And one can sense that cheap formula format fairly easy when watching it, because there is no attention for detail. No true to life acting. No time or effort taken to make it special. The studio wanted to make this movie very quickly and director John Huston had every single line of dialogue prefabricated to speed production time up and save costs for the producers.On the good side: photography is beautifully done though. Many scenes are like portraits. Lighted in such a way that it could be a still photograph. Humphrey Bogart looks great when he doesnt move, but he acts a bit as a stiff puppet, although his acting isnt as catatonic as the supporting actors who look even more stiff and bland, churning out their lines as if it were a grocery list.What was all the fuss about this being an amazing classic? Get out a here. Only suited for movie geeks, but not for the casual viewer. Watch "Cassablanca" instead, because THAT is a TRUE classic, which still stands strong today and whjch has a story, that the casual viewer could really enjoy to this very day. "The Maltese Falcon" though is just a bland formula run of the mill movie, incredibly overhyped by senior movie geeks, who are only interested in the historic value of this movie.


                
