IMDb Top 250: 103The Maltese Falcon is one of the most famous film noirs, the film that made Humphrey Bogart a star, and an American classic.I have no idea why. Collectively, the Maltese Falcon is not an interesting movie and I frequently found myself trying to stop from nodding off. The story is not interesting: we don't like Miles, so we don't care that he's killed. That short scene with him dying was particularly bad. Miles stands, smiling with a goofy expression at the camera when a gun in first person shoots him, and he doesn't react until he's shot. It's cheesy, and the scene is poor overall. So we never care to learn who killed him. The whole plot is just silly, actually. Sam Spade tries to find a statue with a woman and a couple of bad Bond villains. There's little tension, action, or suspense in the entire movie. It seems the story simply progresses towards a finale that just... happens. Several things are poorly explained, so poorly that I don't know who is responsible for 2 of the murders, why a boat burns, or how Sam acquires a certain package.Speaking of Sam, his acting is one of the few highlights. Not his character though. Humphrey Bogart delivers as the snide main character, but I didn't like him, except for his action at the very end. He's just not a good guy.Another problem is Mary Astor. I learnt, post-viewing, of her wild private life. I wouldn't have known it by seeing the film. She's not a very good liar character, I feel she was horribly miscast. She doesn't have any edge, and she and Bogart have no chemistry.The three villains are similar. None of them are intimidating, except the boy, but he's too stupid or hot-tempered to be dangerous. The other two are just silly.The Maltese Falcon didn't live up to the hype I had for it. It wasn't interesting and had little payoff. In my opinion, it is undeserving of the praises it has received. 7.2/10


                
i enjoyed this most famous version of the story.it's as good as the previous two.Humphrey Bogart plays the Sam Spade role and is good,there's no question there.but the real standout to me is Peter Lorre as Joel Cairo.Lorre exudes menace from every pore.he owns the movie in my opinion.i also liked Sydney Greenstreet as Kasper Gutman.overall,this third version is comparable to the other two.i can't say it's any better or worse.i think the reason it's so acclaimed is because it's directed by John Huston and Stars Humphrey Bogart,which doesn't automatically make it a better movie.don't get me wrong.it's a good film but i wonder how many people have actually watched the two previous version of this story first,and would this version bee rated as high if more people had seen the other versions first?anyway,for me, this third version of The Maltese Falcon is a 7/10


                
It probably didn't know it at the time, but when "The Maltese Falcon" debuted in 1941, it was inventing a new film genre, one of my personal favorites: the film noir.Films noir got better later in the decade and throughout the 1950's; they got seedier, starker and more psychologically twisted. And if you can follow the plot of "Falcon," you're either smarter or paying more attention than I.But I don't know that anyone watches movies like this for the plot, and while I didn't see the "Great Film" in this that others seem to see, I still appreciate its place in screen history for kick-starting two things: film noir and the career of Humphrey Bogart.As long as Bogie's on screen, no one else really even matters, not even Mary Astor in a sizzling role. Though one can't overlook the presence of Peter Lorre, who makes any movie a bit creepier on the strength of his weird looks alone.Grade: B+


                
Greetings from Lithuania."The Maltese Falcon" (1941) was a bit disappointment for me to be honest. Given the classic status this movie has, i expected more. I did like writing and acting, but that pretty much were best things about it. The story itself did not really involved me. Maybe it would have i would have seen this movie upon its release.Overall, "The Maltese Falcon" is a good movie to see it once, but its not as great as i thought it would be. Some great writing saved it, but that is all.


                
Some Spoilers ahead.The Maltese Falcon has a lot going for it.  What it did for the Film Noir Genre and Humphrey Bogart can not be denied.  And it certainly is brimming with quotable dialogue.  But its just not a masterpiece.  I'm sorry, but its not.Humphrey Bogart and Peter Lorre are fantastic in their respective roles and the movie is worth watching for them alone.  Sydney Greenstreet pulls off another good character portrayal as well.  But Mary Astor is just dreadful. Am I the only one to see her reading from a queue card in her first speech in Spade and Archer's office? From then on she continues to be wooden and boring.  No wonder Bogey turned her over to the other side in the end, I would have too.  I saw better chemistry in my 8th grade science class.And what is up with Wilmer Cook.  How did this guy get to be a gangster? He is incompetent and meek.  What was the Gutman thinking taking on this guy? Brigid works herself into a tizzy when she first learns the Fat Man is in town, but Why?  Because of this guy?The story does have a very tidy plot that is enjoyable to watch unfold. But why does Sam spade, who is smart enough to talk two policemen out of arresting everybody, give a gun back to Cairo AND Wilmer?  You can say it's because he knew they needed him alive, but come on, its just plain stupid to give the enemy his gun back... twice.  He should have learned his lesson the first time, or not bothered to take the gun away at all.Despite the problems I have, I'd still recommend this classic to anyone who enjoys a good movie, especially to Lorre or Bogey fans.  But my recommendation comes with the caveat that Astor isn't worthy to be in this movie.  7/10
Most of the people who have seen this film argue that it is not understandable how the private detective Sam Spade (Humphrey Bogart) arrived to his conclusions, finding out the real guilty people of the murder of his partner. Looking the film carefully, one can see that Spade is always laughing with some roguishness after questioning all people likely to be implied in the murder as well as in the business of the black bird. This is a sign that he was already "cooking" something in his brains but during the film he did not show any finding until its end. So this final part of the film is not illogic as some may believe. Talking concretely about the film I found that Bogart was the right choice of Huston to play the role of Spade. Before making the film the proposed actor was George Raft, but Huston never agreed having him for the role of Spade. Another important finding was the inclusion of Sidney Greenstreet for the first time in a big screen. Certainly he played very well the role of selfish and arrogant Kasper Gutman. The other components, Mary Astor and Peter Lorre did what was required from them. This is probably the first film noir and due to its quality one can see it from time to time repeatedly.


                
Sam Spade and Miles Archer run a private detective agency in San Francisco, and are hired by a Miss Wonderly to find her sister, who has eloped with a man named Thursby. That night both Miles and Thursby are shot in separate incidents, Wonderly disappears and Sam is the police's chief suspect for both murders. Who killed them, and why ?Like only a handful of other movies, it's hard to overestimate The Maltese Falcon's huge influence on the crime genre in specific and cinema in general. Of course there are films which preceded it about private eyes, slippery femme fatales, shifty suspects and twisting plot lines. It's not even the original screen adaptation of Dashiel Hammett's classic 1930 novel (Roy Del Ruth first filmed it in 1931, and it was remade again in 1936 as Satan Met A Lady). This version however combines an astonishingly assured performance by Bogart with an outstanding supporting cast, a brilliant head-scratching script by Huston and superb direction to create perhaps the definitive crime picture, and paved the way for many memorable film noir and gangster classics to follow. It's also important to note the small scale of the film - Bogart and Huston were well respected as a supporting actor and writer respectively, but it was Huston's debut as a director (arguably one of the best ever) and it made Bogart a huge star and cemented his reputation as a hard-boiled tough guy. The screenplay is very faithful to Hammett's riveting book, with only minimal abridging for such a deliciously deceiving story, and as with all the best crime fiction it's really all about the people, and what drives their darker personas. Bogart plays a fabulous thin line between good guy, world-weary cynic and dangerous bluffer as he plays off everyone out to chisel him, on both sides of the law. He is aided by one of the most memorable support casts I've ever come across; Astor is sensational as the serial liar/lover who's constructed so many false identities she's not sure of anything anymore, Lorre is superb as the dapper Levantine Mr Joel Cairo, all perfumed accessories and aloof mannerisms, Greenstreet is unforgettable as the corpulently wily Kasper Gutman ("By Gad sir, you are a character."), and arguably best of all is Cook as the psychotic gunsel Wilmer, who seems constantly poised to explode but instead suffers every indignity at the hands of Spade. The players bring Hammett's rich and strange characters to vivid life with such craft and intensity it's almost impossible to imagine anybody else portraying them. The rumpled detective has become such a staple of books and movies it's easy to forget its origins, but Bogart here will always be the definitive private eye. Crisply photographed by Arthur Edeson (who also shot Frankenstein and Casablanca), this is an unmissable forties classic and one of Huston's best movies. It's also a truly amazing book you must read, although in my view two of Hammett's other novels, Red Harvest and The Glass Key, are equally sensational. Trivia - the one-shot-no-lines-die-on-the-sofa scene-stealing character of Captain Jacoby is played by the great Walter Huston, the director's father.
This movie may be the best film-noir ever made.  I can't say I'd put it number 1, but it's in my top 5  (with The 3rd Man, Chinatown, Touch of Evil and Sunset Boulevard).  The story is engaging and the pacing feels just right, as the audience tries to figure out the characters right along with Bogart.  The best part of the movie (aside from the badass statue, which I'm trying to look for a replica of for my desk) is the acting.  It's hard to think of many modern movies, especially mysteries which have such an excellent supporting cast.  I wish the movie was longer and had more scenes with Lorre (who is as usual my favorite here).  Still when one's major complaint with a movie is that a supporting role deserves more screen time, the movie must be good, and guess what, it is!Zoopansick


                
Bogart tour-de-force. Except for one important scene near the beginning he is never off the screen, so he hangs the film together. We are only allowed to meet others involved in the plot when Sam Spade meets them and this keeps us wholly dependent on him - keep up with him or even get ahead of him if we're able to. To keep us concentrated on him, the camera never shows us who he's speaking to on the other end of the many phone conversations. I really liked this story-telling device. There are no flashbacks to any of the many important earlier parts of the story. If Sam wasn't there, it's not important for us to see. This is ingeniously done but it does mean explanations of these events have to be told to us instead of being shown to us. And who is telling the truth anyhow? In the confusion we have to trust that Bogart will see us through and eventually reveal the truth. 
Loved the dramatic camerawork, the low-angled shots and the lighting. But I found the love affairs (the two of them) unconvincing. Because of this the ending for me wasn't as strong as it was meant to be. (7-and-a-half/10)


                
Most significant for, retrospectively, being considered the first example of 'film noir', it is also Humphrey Bogart's first starring role. Watched today it is fine with some good dialogue but it is slow to start. For current audiences the big entrance of 'knockout' Mary Astor is a real letdown. There is no sign of the lustful lovely and barely a hint of the 'femme fatale' although she does seem to get into the role and is hampered at first with the duplicitous nature of her standing. All is okay and interesting enough to hold the attention and then Peter Lorre enters and the screen lights up. Later it will start to glow when Greenstreet makes his wonderful entry. Bogart who has seemed a bit stiff and awkward with the similarly inhibited Astor is great with the guys, police and all. If his banter with the lady had been as good we would have had a fully fledged 'noir' from the start.


                
As a film noir, this movie encompasses everything about the movement. The overly masculine outlaw hero, a convoluted plot and of course a femme fatale. Despite not having much patience for older films, the black and white nature and slow camera movements didn't bother me that much but the major bad thing i found was that Bogart has the most unrealistic voice and line deliverance imaginable. But i suppose that's because he was in so many silent films he had no idea how to actually talk until the 40s. The plot is quite engaging despite spade's (bogart's) incredibly annoying partner in crime (or detective work) but at least he's killed off early on. The characters are pretty stock to be honest especially Gutman or Cairo, and you might as well have had a sign pointed towards them saying 'bad guys'.All in all, worth watching.
Great acting by Bogart, Astor and Lorre. I'm not usually a big fan of Bogart, I really don't understand his popularity. I liked The Desperate Hours, but not because he was in it. Casablanca I didn't care for at all. Mary Astor I've liked every time I've seen. I don't know that I've ever seen Lorre before (Umm, note to those reading - I had heard of Peter Lorre), if I did I didn't notice him.But watching a story about a Private Investigator I pretty much expected everyone to be phony. Nothing really surprised me. Just like hundreds of books I've read.I did like the quick pace and once again the strong acting. Good job John Huston.7/10


                
'The Maltese Falcon' is highly influential, oppressively dark and it presents a deeply pessimistic view of the world and life in Depression Era USA. The screenplay is very carefully structure and maneuvered to keep the viewer in the dark for almost the entirety of the film just like its protagonist Sam Spade. There is very impressive camera-work and crafty usage of lighting on show here which to a great extent laid down the framework for the visual language for film-noir. Reminiscent of German Expressionism, we see deliberately prominent shadows everywhere and a big chunk of the film gets engulfed by an oppressively, dark visual texture complimenting the thematic tone of the film. Like other noir films, the characters, including Spade himself are deliberately made to lack a sense of morality and they are shown to be greedy emotionless organisms who have opted to choose a life involving a constant pursuit of material gains, instead of being burdened by the worthless weight of a conscience.However if I have to be honest, even though I found myself relatively pleased and impressed by Huston's edginess and the colourful characters, I was never really bowled over by the film. I can easily understand and admire why it is so influential and important in American film history, but I'd be lying if I say the film and its contents lingered in my thoughts for a long time after it came to its conclusion. Whenever there is a film where the director is deliberately forcing the characters and the plot to remain and feel distant to the viewer, it has to be captivating and for the lack of a more appropriate term - fun. I find this aforementioned fun(along with thematic depth) in abundance while watching other noir films like 'Sunset Boulevard', 'Sweet Smell of Success', 'Ace in the Hole', etc. to name a few. Unfortunately 'The Maltese Falcon' never did manage to give me a similar fun experience at least on this first viewing which prevented me from being swept up by the film.I admire the quippy, razor sharp dialogue, I admire the technical elements like Huston and his cinematographer's lighting and intricate camera-work, I admire the colourful characters and the actors portraying them, but unfortunately I couldn't 'love' the film and as a whole it left me a bit underwhelmed.


                
Tough and gritty, the film noir classic The Maltese Falcon from 1941 has a fantastic cast, led by Humphrey Bogart in the role of hardboiled detective Sam Spade. A dame played by, whoops, a woman played by Mary Astor shows up in his office looking for a guy, but for reasons she's not being truthful about. A couple of murders later, Bogart comes to understand she and others are searching for a priceless antique, a statue of a falcon (from Malta, naturally). Bogart must navigate the waters between the police, who suspect him, the various tough guys, one of whom is the fantastic Peter Lorrie, and Mary Astor's character, who he's attracted to, but knows he cannot trust. Along the way, he'll blow smoke in a guy's face, take and give punches, and deliver several good lines, my favorites of which were "When I slap you, you'll take it and like it", and of course, the last one, in response to being asked what the falcon statue was, saying it's "the stuff dreams are made of". It's regarded as a classic, but for me it's good-not-great. I think one of the issues is the connection to Astor, I didn't see any real chemistry between the two of them, rendering a couple of the scenes false. It's certainly worth watching though.


                
"The Maltese Falcon" is a crime movie in which we watch a private detective takes on a case that involves him with three weird criminals who want to find a very precious statuette. In this quest everybody wants to find this statuette because it is very precious and they will earn plenty of money from this.I liked this movie because it has very nice plot and many twists on it and this is something that makes this movie really good and interesting. I also liked this movie because of the direction which made by John Huston but also fro the interpretations of the cast. It has to be mentioned the great interpretation for one more time of Humphrey Bogart who played as the detective Samuel Spade and Mary Astor's who played as Brigid O'Shaughnessy. Another one interpretation that I really liked was the interpretation of Sydney Greenstreet who played as Kasper Gutman and in my opinion he was really good at it.Finally I have to say that "The Maltese Falcon" is an interesting movie to watch and the thing that makes it so interesting and unique is the really well written plot. This movie wants to show us that you can spend plenty of the time of your life searching for something and in the end it will not matter the result. The only thing that it matters it will be the searching of it and the fight that you did in order to succeed it.


                
Maltese Falcon is a detective story with Humphrey Bogart in the lead role. It is competently shot and has the proper period music, which as was usual at that time has something to be desired of its recording quality, but is otherwise perfectly acceptable. What is rough however is the story. The plot is interesting but there are a number of flaws, mostly centering around how this films deals with its characters and their dialogue.As the movie progresses, the conversation between the main male character and one of the ladies indicates a romantic relationship between them, but this comes as a surprise because the movie had not built up their relationship in that way so the romanticism comes out of nowhere, and ignores another relationship introduced at the beginning of the movie.At one point a new character suddenly shows up more than half way into the movie for a few seconds and from then on his name becomes an important part of the plot even though we was never properly introduced, so you start wondering if you missed a scene or something.It also has that really convenient bit where the bad guy decides to explain the events because...let's be honest, because the plot calls for it, which is not that bad other than being a movie cliché.There are several times when a character talks on the phone and talks in a manner that explains what is being said on the other side. Monologues are nice and all, but it also looks cheap and lazy, especially when it happens ten or fifteen times as it does.It is a shame because the acting itself is quite good and the dialogue can be smart. Humphrey Bogart has a specific style of delivering sentences, which does not sit comfortable with me, but he is acting well and he plays a fairly interesting character, a bit of a scoundrel in a way that you cannot quite read what his plan is. Something happens to his colleague and he shows no sorrow, which seemed like poor directing at first, but then his situation justifies such a reaction.One of the bad guys is played by Sydney Greenstreet. This old round fellow is adorable and speaks in the most amusing British manner. The movie could stand to lose Humphery Bogart, but not this guy.Another minor complaint is about the missed opportunity of an adventure. If you look at the poster which IMDb.com used for this movie, it shows the main character holding two pistols, a woman and the line "a story as explosive as his blazing automatics". Throughout the entire film only one shot is fired. The story is supposed to be about a golden falcon but the movie does not mention or show it nearly often enough. This could have been a much more exciting treasure hunt than what it ended up being – a straight detective story, which is fine. This is the choice they are going with.Overall, an OK movie but the story has flaws.


                
This movie shows a classic detective at his best. This film became a classic for Warner Brothers and you can tell immediately why it became so famous. The dialog between the characters is snappy and intelligent and keeps you interested. There are even a couple fight scenes that are menacing and keep you on your toes. You get sucked into what you are watching and makes you want more. The acting in this movie is flawless and the actors have just the right expressions and deliver the lines perfectly to get their point across. Emotions are flying and it keeps you on your toes to find out who actually stole the priceless statuette. I recommend anyone seeing this who likes a good mystery.


                
Private detective Humphrey Bogart (Sam) is drawn into a case that involves finding a blackened gold statue of a bird that is covered in jewels - the "Maltese Falcon". He is approached by 3 individuals to help find it - Mary Astor (Miss O'Shaughnessy), Peter Lorre (Mr Cairo) and Sydney Greenstreet (Mr Gutman). These three individuals will stop at nothing to get it and there are also 3 murders that need explaining by the end of the film. Sam needs to piece together what has been happening.The cast are good in this film - except the very annoying pipsqueak that is Elisha Cook Jr, who is usually badly cast as a "heavy". What a joke! Well, he's cast as a "heavy" again in this film although they have given him what sounds like a suitably girlie name - "Wilmer". Everyone else does well with my favourite being Peter Lorre who provides some memorably humorous sequences, eg, his first appearance when he is so doggedly determined to search Bogart's office. Lorre also has an unpredictable edge to his character that is genuinely funny, eg, his declaration that he is tired and wants to go home at an opportunistic occasion and his non-greeting to Bogart one morning in a hotel. His dialogue delivery is inspirational at these moments. However, the dialogue, in general, was spoken quite quickly - it seemed like everyone was using too many words. In fact, you can't afford to let your mind wander at any point or you will lose the plot. A mention must also go to Lee Patrick who plays the secretary "Effie". She was very good in her role and deserved a bit of romancing.The story is good and Bogart is a bit of a ladies' man in this film which is odd coz he's got a weird mouth. Anyway, he knows what he is doing and I wasn't as sharp as Bogey in figuring things out.


                
'The Maltese Falcon' has one of those really intelligent scripts that might seem complicated but when watching carefully is very clear and very entertaining.what makes it so special in my opinion is that even though its old age (filmed in 1941) it could still be appropriate to watch and also impressive to the common viewer these days.Humphrey Bogart's very well acted private investigator Sam Spade, the star of this whole film noir piece is surrounded by more then a couple very "interesting" characters that give out some very nice performances as well and one peculiar golden falcon that makes them all twist and turn around themselves.one murder leads to the other and the guessing is left to us about who's responsible.justice, well not poetic but the kind of justice that will put a smile on your face when the credits will show up.you wont be disappointed for two reasons, the first one is that you wont have the reaction of not understanding why this is so highly rated or so well respected after finishing watching it.its pretty clear why it is considered a classic.the second reason is Sam Spade (Humphrey Bogart), close to the end you will hear him say something that will sound like this "I Won't Play The Sap For You", to understand what it means you must watch the movie but ill just give a little hint that in contradiction to so many men that fell victim to the charm of a woman, Bogie does not!


                
Recap: Sam Spade is a private detective in San Francisco when a ordinary case that dropped in his lap suddenly evolves into a great and dangerous mystery. A beautiful woman under a false name says she wants a man followed in hope to rescue her lost sister. But that tail leads to Spade's partner getting shot dead, the woman's story quickly falls apart as more and more people turns up taking an interest in the case. Spade must keep his nose above the water in order to survive, and maybe make a profit out of it.Comments: A delicately put mystery, with twists and turns coming as quick and hidden as they can be. Which is both the main strength and weakness of the movie. You must keep alert to follow, which is good, the situation changes constantly. And the camera follows Spade, and takes his view as the story unravels. Which is good and neatly done. But this also leads to the state of me, as a viewer, being confused, and expecting being confused. You never really invest anything into the present situation, knowing that it will switch soon enough, so you never really get surprised when that switch comes. And that is the weakness. A great mystery with a twist must fool the viewer to believe the present, but at the same time subtlety plant a foreshadowing of the twist. So when the twist comes, and the situation changes, you'll be surprised, but when thinking/looking it over you can discover the leads and find the logic. In the Maltese Falcon you never really care to look for many leads, as you know them to be false... However, the mystery is entertaining to follow, but it is limited to just that, follow, a passive viewer. You can't participate to solve it...The actors give good performances. Bogart is there almost always and never misses a cue. His rambling speeches with some little quirks neatly inserted, as when he is at the DA's office, are great. But the best performance is the Fat man, although he can be a little too much sometimes. Haha - not that he is big - but he repeats himself a little too much sometimes.So, I felt it was a good mystery, but didn't quite live up to being #57 on the top list.7/10
Top notch acting from Bogart, Lorre and Greenstreet propel the film forward through a mazy script that only makes sense if you pay attention to the onrush of exposition in the last 20 minutes. Houston directs well and the pace never lets up; a new location means a bad guy hiding behind a door, or a someone with a fatal bullet wound stumbling in the entrance behind you. Bogart gets to say all the best lines (though Greenstreet is given some awful stuff to spout at times, far too much of that "I like a man who..."). Mary Astor is a letdown as the femme fatal - very wooden, and completely lacking in smoulder. The continuity, even for 1941, is neglected badly - eyelines and postures are often out-of-kilter on the match cut. The Maltese Falcon is certainly worth watching, but it is not the classic many make it out to be.


                
Despite its reputation, nominations and awards, this film was boring to me. And I did not like the girls either.7/10


                
This film received such praise because of the quality film-noir tag it got. It's authentic, an engaging experience for the viewer right into the insides of the detective world, a grand prize involved, the complex plot with various characters and sides leading to the one same goal, the acting is assertive, energetic...But all in all, what we really get is a ton of that fast tough-guy talk for the whole way, even the "action scenes" really are a steady-paced piece of narrative, and whether or not this film certainly has its qualities in what it does it is still non-stop dialog which requires all the viewer's attention while not delivering much more than just what one could expect at the beginning of it. There isn't much surprise, anything in the way of its basic plot, if not for the expected turns of tides as Bogart's character is one of great verve and guts, not willing to give away an inch to his dissidents.It makes for quite a linear experience, and while again it achieves what it sets out to do, for non-fanatics of the genre it remains there is a flatness about it with a tinge of predictability or even monotony, but a fine product of its realm nonetheless.


                
The Maltese Falcon is the story of a private detective named Samuel Spade. After a job goes wrong and his partner is killed Spade finds himself wrapped up in a nearly two decades long search for a priceless solid gold falcon statue. Spade comes face to face with the group of treasure hunters so eager to kill over the falcon but instead of becoming their enemy he is given the opportunity to retrieve the falcon for an unbelievably large sum of money.Samuel Spade is played by Humphrey Bogart, and oh man can this guy carry a film like an ox through the Oregon trail. Bogart makes Spade into one crafty mother-father, but in a way that keeps him cool as a cucumber. This guy's the real cats pajamas, the bees knees, see? And no pistol packing goon or dizzy broad is gonna get in between him and a fat stack of clams. Bogart's performance is impressive and thoroughly entertaining. He takes a character that even by 41 is already a stereotype and makes him into a complete standout. When I thought Spade was becoming flat and predictable Bogart surprised me with how genuine his outrage felt in his first meeting with Kasper Gutman. Bogart's performance makes you feel like he owns the words. He made his lines flow so smoothly into conversations it was captivating in that certain way that makes you forget you're watching an actor play a role in a movie. The only noticeable flaws in his performance were how goofy he looked in his fight scenes.Unfortunately, not every actor in the film was as convincing as Bogart. In fact, it really felt like he was completely surrounded by over-actors at all times. The characters played by Mary Astor, Peter Lorre, and Elisha Cook jr. were all especially guilty of this, and the skill with which Bogart performed just made for an even sharper contrast between him and them.I also had a bit of a problem with the conclusion to the Maltese Falcon's discovery. Once Gutman had scraped the black paint off the statue to reveal it as lead instead of gold, he began to go on the supervilliany type of "Now's the time where I reveal to the protagonist every last detail of my intricate plan!" rant. This has got to be one of the laziest ways to wrap up an otherwise fairly interesting story in the cinematic world. After learning so much about the falcon and hearing how precious and valuable it was there had been a lot of build up leading to this moment. It's not like the reveal itself ruined the scene, but there aren't many ways to more efficiently deflate a plot than with a quick summary of the details and loose ends. The Maltese Falcon was easy to enjoy. It came across as the type of movie that doesn't take itself too seriously and invites the viewer to sit back and relax while they watch. This however, can certainly hold some aspects of the film back from greatness. Bogart was completely out of everyone's league, and the film showed all the familiar symptoms of a less than seamless novel adaptation, but what we're left with is still a lot of fun.
The Maltese Falcon was a great movie! An iconic scene was the end of the movie when the private detective realizes that the woman he has fallen in love with has killed his partner. The main character hands the love of his life over to the police in the end; this shows his honesty and loyalty. Throughout the entire movie his goal is to find his partner's , not knowing it was the woman's case he was working on the entire time, and his/her motive behind it. The movie is primarily about deception lies and loyalty. This movie goes hand in hand with the other Bogart film 'Casablanca' when the main character, Bogart, has to pull back together his tough guy image, after showing a more emotional side.
