I'm currently watching the first episode with one eye on the TV and one on the computer. From what I see it appears that they're trying to capture the irreverent humor of "Scrubs" (another show that doesn't use a laugh track). If this show had a laugh track, at least someone would be laughing. I've seen Steve Carrell be funny (on "The Daily Show") but he just isn't here. He seems surely destined to becoming a funny guy who isn't funny anymore.This show is this year's "Coupling", another purported hilarious British show that lost everything in it's trip across the ocean. In all fairness, I never saw the British incarnations of these shows (which is fine since I have no intention of watching the American versions either).2/21/2010 Update:I made it through 12 minutes of the first episode of the British series and found it equally lacking in any merit. I must be missing something that everyone sees; I just don't get it.3/25/2011 Update:I still just don't get it.....
Wow this show is horrible! All the actors are doing horrible impersonations of the original characters. And it just comes out BAD! The worst new characters have to be the boss and Dwight. These two actors are butchering the original characters. Ricky Gervais is an amazing actor and comedian, the guy playing his character should just stick to commercials, where he belongs. Dwight is also horrid, at least the other actors try to recreate their British counter parts, has he even seen the original? I love, love, love the British version and wish US television would just leave British humor alone!
Maybe the worst sitcom I have ever seen. The original British office had be cracking up one minute and cringing the next. This version is just awful. I got my hands on a promotional disk of the first three episodes. It was so bad I only watched 1 and a half. No reason to watch the rest.They took the original script almost line for line. Forget this rent the original or go buy the DVD. If we encourage the American networks by watching this kind of crap they'll just keep making more of the same.I can't believe some NBC executive gave this the OK. Somebody should get fired! They would have been better of just buying the rights to the British show and putting it on NBC.


                
I was always curious, the first moment I heard of an American version of 'The Office' it was my assumption that they would change the mood, setting, ideas, characters to make it more 'american' while remaining with the original concept. What I didn't expect was a more or less word for word remake of the original, an almost exactly the same setting, shot list, character profile... etc. The only thing that has changed, are the references and the language.Ricky Gervais, was David Brent and visa versa... he does not work as acted by anyone else. period.I thought of writing a long critique of this program, but I will leave it at this instead. This is an embarrassment to American People, and the people who made this should hang their heads in shame. We love Sex and the City, friends.. etc.. and we forgo the cultural differences, and are still able to find it funny. If we were to try and re-make either of these.. they would never be the same. So we don't, we enjoy the original.Most American's will have not seen the original 'Office', and they will probably find the 'new' version funny. But, well... it's not, it's a lame excuse for programming that should be canned in favour if the original... but then Americans don't know what a w**ker is maybe, so they would never find it funny.BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD..Bad


                
I think the British crew has more comic genius in terms of timing and delivery.Maybe I'm biased, since I was such a fan of the British show, but I'm extremely disappointed that this show has been recycled and dumb-ed down. I think the American version is an abomination actually.If they perhaps come up with some new material in the American version,then I will give it a shot, but if they're trying to do what's already been done, (and already done very well!), then I think it's a shame.The British show is comic genius and I wonder how the American version played out to someone not familiar with the series. It seems that it did not translate well, and to give me hope that I would again rejoin my favorite King of Awkward Pauses on the quest to fail miserably with painful social blunders, was utterly cruel. That did not happen in the slightest. Perhaps my expectations were too high? I think Ricky has the talent and the ability to make this work in America. But not like this.


                
Watching the pilot of the American version of The Office was like seeing a car wreck in slow motion, and then not wanting to see the aftermath, yet you can't help but look out of curiosity, all the while cringing and wincing at the result.You can't duplicate a show like this. They broke the mold when Ricky Gervais made the original series. That should have been clear long before the idea was hatched to Americanize this show. I actually feel sorry for the actors. It had to be obvious to some of them that their performances as the American character counterparts to the original characters would be awkward at best. In some cases, it's downright embarrassing. I would liken it to watching bad drama students trying to take on something way out of their league. -JM


                
But I didn't. The few bright spots were in the first series when elements of the original were replicated.From there it went down hill.The original might have seemed crass but it actually had a great deal of subtle character development and comment on modern British culture. The US version used caricatures and stereotypes instead.Sorry but it just isn't very good.The US can make excellent comedy such as Soap, Seinfeld, Curb Your Enthusiasm and even Friends was worth watching prior to the last season or two. So why make rubbish remakes of British shows that are a pale shadow of their former selves?I suppose at least this wasn't so bad that it got cut after 3 shows (or whatever) like many other remakes of good British shows e.g. Coupling.


                
okay so I'm watching the American version and I'm quoting the bbc version thats when you know a sitcom is bad, from the close names (jim-tim) to the stolen bits, it was an all around catastrophe, if you hadnt seen the bbc version MAYBE You'd chuckle, but it was just so poorly done that i really hope people judge this series based on this shotty imitation of a brilliant series.i think a lot of the problem is the fact that a perfect series can not be bettered so there is no reason to try to americanize it; i don't think the people will like this brand of comedy; sure its refreshing and different, but the masses i cant imagine will like this showanyone reading this please go out and get the bbc version its just such a perfect seriesmy analogy for us Americans is...you cant recast seinfeld and make a uk version why recast a perfect office cast and disappoint the fans of the old series:-( so bad.


                
Nothing about this dreadful transatlantic mess is good. I predicted this show would fail. So far, I've been wrong. How, oh *how* could I be so wrong when all the ingredients for disaster seem baked right in?Apparently, somebody changed that recipe long ago.This sums up perfectly what people want most out of their television nowadays: constant stupidity from people who are too egotistical to be in the slightest funny. If a show really is that abominably shallow and painful and moronic, it probably won't get canceled, while the terrific shows are lucky to last a year.Steve Carrell spits on Ricky Gervais by both taking his reins *and* fumbling his pass (maybe mixed metaphors will speak to the people who enjoy this). He plays the head honcho in an office full of idiots, slobs, and jerks. I will no longer watch anything that has him in it... not that I ever did in the first place. And while the documentary style has worked before, it only makes you want to die in this pitiful show.The British version had wit! It packed a wallop! It was amazing, a masterwork of ingenuity! If I were an Englishman watching this, I'd have no choice but to see Americans as a nation of bumbling idiots (on-screen) for the way this show does over-the-top, lunatic things for the sake of doing them. I'm still shuddering from the impact of this nightmare.


                
Well you know, it's been 5th episode of the first season shown here from one of our national wide TV stations, but it is enough to make an opinion. Having already seen thanks to the Internet the British version (I mean the original one), which was funny indeed, I can honestly and wholeheartedly say that this American remake as most American remakes is the most inane, stupid and putrid show that I have ever seen since ELR. Most of all it is NOT BLOODY FUNNY, it is not funny at all, can not bring even a smile on my face, and I am not known as one who was born without sense of humor, you know. Almost everyone of the cast are empty and full of boredom, the situations are simply plain awful and not funny at all. Why this turkey has won Golden Globe is truly beyond me. Well, not really. It seems to me that the public taste in America has fallen so low that is beyond comprehension. Ah yes, and Golden Globe and Emmy awards are simply given to every show around in order for the better profit.P.S. Now we're at Season 2, final episode and it's getting even worse! P.S.S. Thanks God, they have canceled it here after season 2 due to low raitngs.


                
The following is not a spoiler: 'The Office: Another American Remake' is rubbish. Can't the English one be appreciated for what it is? We don't remake American shows willy nilly and if we did, I bet we would try and make it different. The first series is a carbon copy and the characters are all identical. Any unidentical characters tend to be the ones that aren't funny. The Office is so much better than its American daughter and even now me and my mates crack Office jokes 6 years on.Some might say that we should simply enjoy your American Copycat for what it is and not compare it to The Office. I think that these people tend to be idiots. America's version of David Brent is not as good, nor is Gareth, or Keith, or Tim, or Dawn, or the others who work in the office.When was the last great American comedy anyway? Seinfeld and Curb are good, many people like Larry Sanders and thats fine. Don't copy our shows then complain about how stupid British comedy is. All I can say is, Father Ted, Peep Show, Office, Spaced, Alan Partridge, Ab Fab, Vicar of Dibley, Only Fools, One Foot in the Grave, Open All Hours. Not to mention Milligan, Cleese, Everitt...Sessions.


                
Amazing!! Not the show. The show is awful.Unwatchable really.Which helps to explain the really bad ratings.What is amazing is that not only has NBC renewed this stinker, but they're already hyping it again as the heart of their new Thursday. If Jeff Zucker really hates being in charge of NBC, he can just quit. He doesn't need to inflict on the public another year of this unwatchable masquerade of a TV show.Oh, the show! Why is it awful.Well, let's start with the fact that it's not funny. Why is it not funny? Well, there is nothing funny about shoddy camera work that obscures the work of the actors. Nothing funny at all.I guess NBC likes the show because it's the cheapest show on its schedule, including reality shows, which are better made than The Office.Someone at GE should start watching their own network and take action against this, the absolute worst show on network TV (including all the defunct UPN and WB shows!)***Update*** NBC has kept The Office on the air, supporting it with blast after blast of advertising and press and yet The Office's ratings are still mired in mediocrity. NBC itself is sinking fast into irrelevance. Whomever said quality didn't matter must have worked for NBC.


                
Wow, this show is special. I've never watched it and happened to turn it on tonight because of lack of anything better. I thought maybe it was just the way the episode was for the night, but no. I am told that the show is always like this. It is annoying and stupid!!! And the fact that it has been out since 2005 and no one I know has ever talked about it says something to me. Don't get me wrong, there were a few slightly humorous parts but they were strongly out-numbered by me going, "what the hell is this crap? Who would watch this?" But hey, whatever. Enjoy your boring office show. When I see this show again, I will quickly go past and roll my eyes at the fact that I actually wasted 20 minutes of my time trying to find some good in it.


                
Steve Carell's mug that says "Worst Boss Ever" should have been printed to say "Worst Show Ever".I honestly can't think I've ever seen a less enjoyable half-hour comedy.At least the crap they throw on UPN is WATCHABLE.This was just painful. Almost as painful as watching the Flintstones movie.I actually felt really horrible for these actors going through this boring, plodding, predictable, contrived, stupid script.I LOVE Steve Carell from the Daily Show. Heck, he showed more "funny" in his little finger in 1 second of a FedEx ad than he showed in the entire half-hour pilot of The Office.So my best guess is that the writers and directors are to blame for this pile of dog feces.I have never seen the British version of this show, so this isn't a case of me being "disappointed". I liked the Garry Shandling show. I loved Seinfeld and "This Is Spinal Tap". But this show just totally misses the mark.


                
In case you were wondering why nobody outside Hollyweird watches the Emmys nowadays, that's why.How did this unwatchable attempt at a television show get voted as "Best Comedy"? All it induces is nausea with its utterly unprofessional camera-work.Actually I know how it got an Emmy: NBC saw that Fox spent millions on the equally unwatchable Arrested Development and in spite of the fact that AD was canceled the next season, they thought it would be a good investment to get people to watch the "masterpiece".Well, I've got a clue for you NBC: Stop reading and believing your own press.Not only is The Office not funny, it is nausea inducing and completely unprofessional. The producers of the show have pulled a fast one on you and you are destroying what is left of your once powerful Thursday lineup by keeping this awful mess on the air.The Office is NBC's shame!


                
I'm terribly sorry, but this remake is one of the worst remakes I've ever seen. I laughed maybe a couple of times, but that's it. The Office US doesn't contain the humor that The Office UK has. When I'm watching UK, I wet my pants of laughter, while crying my eyes out. Steve Carrel just doesn't have the spark Ricky Gervais has. Therefore, I don't see why it is rated this high. It isn't that brilliant! The thing is, I think most people never heard of the office UK. Which is a shame, because it is so much better than the remake. I think you should've watched UK first before rating US this high, because if you rate this 9/10, The Office UK would be 20/10!


                
The season premiere "Fun Run" was horrible. How dare they mock Angela for taking care of her beloved cat! Then they had Dwight kill the cat. If that were real life Dwight would be put in jail for cruelty to animals. If they wanted Angela to be upset about her cat they could have had it die of natural causes which would have been bad enough but to have Dwight force feed it antihistamines and shove it in the freezer is reprehensible. Then to write in that the cat woke up and tried to claw its way out was even worse. What kind of sick person writes this stuff? People love their pets as members of their family and their death should not be taken lightly or made fun of. I think everyone should boycott the office for this.
I really think that IMDb *should* give us the users the possibility to vote with minus values. Being a Bulgarian, not British, I am devoted to the European way of life and humor. Which is not that I hate American one; in contrary, I adore *old* American comedies and I am pretty much watching it in my spare time. It is just that the modern sort of ... fart? no, humor made in USA is not that easy to swallow, especially if you have more that two brain cells.Since there are Yankees around here who are offended of what Brits think of their lousy remake, let me say this: in my opinion this is the most inept, despicable, pitiful, wretched, miserable, lamentable, deplorable, pathetic piece of celluloid to ever hit the TV screen. This is a show much about nothing - stale characters, no comic moments, unoriginal and most important thing - not funny story. This is the impossible but yet absurdly pushed up to the limits stinker - an totally unfunny comedy! Having seen the complete first two US seasons here in Bulgaria I am sincerely convinced we and the Americans have absolutely nothing in common because if they are really thinking THIS STINKER is funny, then nothing is.I feel sorry for you, guys, I really am. Take care.


                
The office UK is a fantastic show. Maybe one of the greatest shows ever made it is very clever and witty and each character is well thought out and believable. David Brent is a genius character and has made me laugh more times then anyone, the American alternative, well ... UNFUNNY STUPID HUMOR DESIGNED BY Americans FOR Americans and you have to be told when to laugh It shouldn't have the same name as the genius of the UK version absolute disgrace the same thing over and over again. How many series' 6, 7 i don't know like Ricky gervais said ''quality not quantity''this is my second review check my one for Prometheus


                
1(awful)This show is awful. It is literally everything that the original wasn't, right down to having been dragged out ad nauseum into something like 45251 seasons, in contrast with the perfectly concise 2 series + Xmas specials Gervais and Merchant produced so that the show didn't outstay its welcome, didn't get stale, and didn't have a chance to become less than brilliant.The main problem with the US version is that every ounce of awkward, cringeworthy, darkly vicious, breathtakingly raw subtlety of the original is replaced with an annoyingly cosy, self-congratulatory 'wackiness' that makes me imagine the whole US cast giving each other hi-5's in between takes, passing round cream buns, and going "Oh you guys...Ain't we just so gadamn funny!?!". It's just as cringeworthy as the original but for all the wrong reasons. In fact - ironically - this is exactly the type of inoffensive, kooky, clichéd drivel that the original Office was created as a reaction against. There was a razor sharp 'edge' throughout the UK version. The US Office is about as edgy as a pancake.Another failing of this remake is the botched appropriations of the UK characters for a US audience. Take 'Jim', for example. He's supposed to be the equivalent of Tim from the UK version, i.e. the solitary voice of reason in the show, the lone island of sanity in an ocean of corporate film-flam... And yet in the US version he's some cooler-than-thou, drawling, nonchalant, vaguely aloof personality vacuum - exactly the kind of person you'd call in sick just to avoid spending another day working alongside. In short, he's one of 'them'. Somehow the writers obviously think he's more or less the same guy as Tim, which tells you everything you need to know about how clueless this remake is.Of course, the big argument is that people say "don't compare them, dude!" and even get offended when comparisons are made. Are these the same people who would argue that The Monkees were equally as good as The Beatles because, well, it's unfair to compare them? The fact is, the US Office is closer in spirit to Police Academy 5: Assignment Miami Beach than it is to the UK version. That would be a more valid comparison, because everything that happens is so patronisingly implausible and dumb.I feel slightly better after writing this review that will be read by no one, it's something I needed to get off my chest, especially considering how many people are head-over-heels in love with this remake. Another thing I need to get off my chest is this: watch any old 80s episode of The A-Team and tell me the US Office's 'Dwight' hasn't stolen his entire act wholesale from Howling Mad Murdock. I don't pity the fool.


                
Let's set aside the fact that this show is a horrible remake of the Ricky Gervais original and focus on what matters. The plot gets old after two or three episodes. The acting, especially that of Steve Carell, is so over the top as to be unbearable. Sophomoric humour with not a single likable or relate-able character. I cannot emphasize enough, NOT FUNNY.


                
How can any one like this show. I have to come up with 10 lines to say how bad this is? Well, for one thing it is full of dumb actors in an office talking dumb stuff and acting stupid to try to be funny. Jokes that are not funny.Question: How is acting stupid as possible funny? Its not. They must be all drunk before performing on the show. I mean a normal person just does not go around acting as stupid as possible to make people laugh. I did not here or seen any of the episodes until I went to my college class, and were done with what the instructor was giving the students to do during class, and what does he do? He puts on a projector a episode of "The Office".I was like what the heck is this? I could not stand it and was happy when it was over to go home. It is the worst TV show I ever seen or would ever get stuck to watch like that. I hate reality shows with a passion, but this show is just as bad as any crap reality show. Why is all the sitcoms dumb? "Yes, Dear", was better by a long shot.


                
Had it been possible i would have given ZERO.I haven't watched the original series but having watched this or at least trying to watch this was an abomination.I really cant find an adjective to describe how awful this show was. What i cant grasp is how come so many people gave this show 9-10.I tried and watched first season but at the end of every episode i felt like the life was sucked out of me.What i would like to understand how people can say this is the funniest or smartest show ever. Because i know i am not genius but i am not dumb either.Actually i love Steve Carrell and his movies but him trying so hard to be funny is just horrible.I mean seeing him going through this bromidic, plodding, predictable, recherché, dumb.......... script.I have watched a lot of shows i really can recall any one of em being worse than this.


                
Back in the late '60s American filmmakers began to experiment. They adopted the use of the extreme close-ups, they tried split-screens, and in attempt to show they were avant-garde some would rapidly pan the camera from actor to actor, and quickly move from full frame to headshot and back. They were trying to show they were innovative, but what it really showed is they were bad directors, and by the early '70s this experiment had mercifully died out. Unfortunately, a quarter of a century later a trio of poor filmmakers resurrected this herky-jerky camera style with the Blair Witch Project, and ever since some bad directors have been copying this failed style of 50 years ago to show they are new and originals Alas, the TV show "The Office" falls into this category.Thanks to talented writers, actors, and creative people such as Ricky Gervais, the show does succeed fairly well as a radio comedy. If I listen to it I find it somewhat amusing, but I can't watch it. Unless you are a first year film student you should know better than to do rapid pans and jerky close-ups. Alas again, the show has many fans because they believe they will be perceived as avant-garde too if they say they like the show, so it never gets fixed. A decade hence people will be wondering why they ever watched it at all.


                
Sometimes it's unfair to compare a remake to the original, but not in this case; it's made from virtually the same script. Is there really such a lack of creativity in Hollywood that they had to American-ize the BBC's brilliant "The Office?" Steve Carell is an amazingly talented and funny man, but there's nothing he can do to help this awful mess. This version of "David Brent," no matter what they call him, is missing all of the things that made Ricky Gervais so watchable. The rest of the cast was just uninteresting. Given that he has a writing credit, I hope they paid Gervais lots of money. I will gladly watch repeats on BBC America or go buy the DVD's of the original, but there's no way I can bear any more of NBC's "comedy." Guess they didn't learn their lesson with "Coupling," huh?


                
