Yes maybe if the British office was never made and this was the first then it would be OK but its not. The casting just makes you want the British actors to be there. The British humor is also missed, they try to replicate it but it just cant be done with American actors. It is also trying to hard to be the British version. This will never be as good as the original and rightly so because the office was made as a risk and with a very low budget. They also did the right move by not making a 3rd season cause it would of got old and fizzled away instead of being the gem it is. All that is happened is America saw the potential to make big money on it and said hey why not, but it just wont work, it would be like making an American version of Black Adder or Faulty Towers, no one would dream of doing that cause it would just not work. The cleverness has gone and is now just trying to drain the life out of it. If this makes it past 1 season i will be very surprised.


                
I waited to comment, since I was hoping that the second episode would provide more insight to how the show was intended to be handled. If you are familiar with the original, then this is really pretty bad. If you aren't, then it's slightly more clever than the average office sitcom. And that is what they are dumbing the show down to. The opening sequence doesn't tell us that they are going to make any wry observations, it tells us that a lot of zany stuff is going to happen. There were a few good jokes in this second episode. I think I counted around four of them. But it actually hurts more when they take a good joke from the original, then mess it up for the sake of Americanizing it. I see that this series is actually about a cruel boss. They have removed David Brent's humanity, and transplanted the results into this new boss, who has no glimmer of wanting to do the right thing. The focus of the show is cruelty, and it's not masked at all. People picking on each other can be great entertainment; that's most of what Seinfeld is. Maybe if this show were trying to be more surreal. And maybe if they weren't working to tarnish the good name of The Office.


                
I am baffled by the acclaim piled upon this show by viewers and critics alike. What do you find so funny? The characterizations are pathetic, the comedy is lame, the jokes from the original British series are stretched out and made boring, and the acting is, well, sub-par, to put it mildly.I have watched and thoroughly enjoyed Gervais' original series, and also his later work, including Extras. His specialty is to extract humor from everyday embarrassing situations. It almost seems that he has personal experience in doing this, and portrays his characters as such. He is embarrassingly funny. One can't help but feel sympathy for the stupidity of his character and, yet, one can't help laugh at his idiocy.On the other hand, Carell is absolutely pathetic. He just doesn't live up to the expectations set by Gervais. He doesn't draw you in; he is often too predictable, given his own attempts at comedy outside of this show; his character is too fake, too unrealistic. The other actors are just as bad. Wilson is too unrealistic. Fischer tries her best, but her role isn't written as well as Davis', and what can one say about Krasinski? We might have been better off without him altogether.Gervais' original show had 14 episodes over 3 seasons - you could watch the entire series over a weekend, and enjoy it. This show, alas, has had 84 already, and the writers keep churning out more pathetic attempts at comedy.Given the brilliance of the original show, why is this so bad? Will NBC cancel this already? Please?


                
Well, before if I even begin this review, if you get offended easily, I would stop reading this.Anyway, to begin this honest review, I once saw this show on TV, and the ONLY reason why I saw it for the fist time, is because there was nothing else on, that I particularly liked. When I watched it, I only LOOKED, not watched, at the telly, for only 10 minutes, before I shut it off.The show's humour is so bleak, and has no depth to it. That is one of the things that I look for in a sitcom. People say it is a 'dry humour', when it is NOT. I know dry humour, and I find it humorous. I found Napoleon Dynamite absolutely hilarious, and that movie is the epitome of dry humour.The the times that I LEGITIMATELY laughed, I could count on one of my hands, and I watched up to the end of season 3. I think the humour is relative, and that is OK. I understand, if someone finds a show, based around shallow characters, doing what a 4 year old with special needs, would do in an office setting, funny, then hats off to you! I don't, and I may never develop a sense of humour for it.The problem, is that the show is incredibly underwhelming, as it is relative someone trying to tell a joke, while bursting out laughing, just before telling the punchline. That is how painful it is just to keep interest, after watching it for 5 minutes, let alone broadcasting 9 seasons of this... I guess that is how long it took them to realize how boring the show is.Though, out of fairness, the only character I find remotely humorous, is Stanley. Too bad they didn't showcase him enough throughout the series. He would be the only reason why I would watch the show.Anyway, the show is boring. I may develop a sense of humour for it in the distant future, but as it stands right now, it is one of the dullest shows to ever be shown on national television.EDIT: I managed to give the UK version a chance, and I think it far surpasses this overrated, over-glorified, bastardized version of the original.


                
This re-made version should not be compared to the original, as the humour is so inherently British that any remake will not capture the same sense of character recognition found in the original. The reason you feel the actors are so well-cast to the point that you don't feel they are acting, is that they understand and have been through very similar situations in normal life that they can virtually play themselves without too much additional acting input required. I am English living in the US at the moment, and now understand that English sarcasm and dry humour can be difficult to translate. The American actors could only ever be seen to be acting; the success of this series will depend on how well their future acting makes the characters believable and natural, and also on how well the script-writers write future scripts using the same premise but introducing American-style "cringeworthiness" into the boss's character, which could work. But I definitely agree with previous entries; the Gareth character misses the point and should either be re-cast or re-written completely.


                
"The Office" celebrates the idiocy of corporate middle management. All of the Scranton staff of "The Office" are more more or less "normal" people, but the manager, Michael Scott, and aspiring manager Dwight Schrute are portrayed as blatant fools. In the real world, any office staff wouldn't show such a fool manager any respect, much less his lackey Dwight.Yet, the personalities of Michael and Dwight mirror, in a way, my own experience in the corporate world. Middle level managers like Michael are what was once called "straw bosses". That is, middle level managers have the responsibility for everything, but the power to do nothing. Anyone put in that type of position is going to appear to line employees as at least a "phony" or, in the extreme case of Michael Scott, a complete fool.The character of Dwight Schrute is just pathetic. He sees the fool Michael Scott as an actual role model.I see "The Office" as a slam on corporate America, where those most incompetent rise up the corporate ladder. I watched this series on NetFlix from the first episode to the middle of the third season, but then I just couldn't take it anymore. It got to be too painful for me. As entertainment, I consider viewing "The Office" as a low level form of emotional masturbation. The scripts are "canned", predictable, and essentially one dimensional. I would put it one step above watching a fly on the wall.I would wholeheartedly recommend this series to anyone who likes turning his brain off while viewing TV.It is because of pathetic shows like "The Office" that I no longer have a TV set in my home.Joe Kulik ... jkulik919@gmail.com
I watched first season and half of season two and they were just not funny. Style was confusing, acting over a top. If characters do not take them self seriously (act as if they now they are in comedy show) I just do not find that funny but artificial. Most episodes had only one gag and with disturbingly slow pacing for comedy show.


                
