After reading all of the horrible reviews coming from the UK, I felt the strong desire to comment. I learned that most of the reviewers bashing it have only seen a few (at most) episodes from the first season - many haven't seen it at all, and are simply bashing it because of an overwhelming sense of pride in the original. I'd be surprised if this review isn't skimmed over and marked unhelpful by them. Obviously I'm not speaking to all the British, but the majority that unfairly judge this show with little to no basis in the truth. This whole fanaticism is juvenile and petty. The casts of the US and UK versions love each show. Ricky Gervais even wrote and executive produced a few episodes of the US version. Open your minds, people! Most of the US fans KNOW that it's based on a British version. It has gotten the credit it deserves for being a brilliant and hilarious show. But the American version is also brilliant and hilarious. I've read comments ranging from 'bad acting' to 'direct copy', neither of which are true. The first season may have had its borrowed bits, but that was to get it on its feet. The second and third seasons have proved that it is a show entirely on its own, with scenarios and characters having NOTHING to do with the UK version at all. The acting is just as convincing and real as the UK version. I've even read that Michael Scott is devoid of David Brent's humanity! In actuality, Michael Scott is shown as far more human than David Brent, who was more manipulative (albeit, poorly) and heartless. The US version still has the cruel elements of the UK version, but it balances these awkward, painful moments with tender, human moments, which makes it more enjoyable and watchable. As for the humor, each show has its own moments of subtlety, detail, absolutely outrageous moments, awkwardness, pain, cuteness, ridiculousness, and vulgarity. The UK version was groundbreaking. But instead of blindly basing your opinions on bias and arrogance, see the US version for what it is - a brilliant, brighter version that, in its first season, simply used the framework of the original (the characters and basic situations) to get started with. This is the funniest, smartest American television show in recent history besides Arrested Development. Not since Seinfeld has a show made me laugh so hard and smile so much. These three shows get better with each viewing and are great because there's so many levels of humor, from the apparent outrageousness to the minute details that are noticed after repeated viewings and are often funnier than the surface material.


                
The Characters are awesome, Dwight, Michael, Kevin, and Pam are my favorites.The episodes are good, but none have been standout so far. I like them all about the same.Ryan and Jan are very bad and annoying.I think this show is not an 8.8.Many episodes are too awkward.It is not very funny but it is still good.I like the Office.7/10


                
So little TV makes me laugh out loud, but this did a few times. The premise is so strong and the performances are right up there. It's not perfect and not the original, but if you forget about the original while watching this, it actually is a good show.I especially like this Dawn...er. who has a look that really lights up when talking to her suitor but palpably descends when faced with the path her life is taking with her fiancée. Give this a chance. Even if it's not the original, compared to most US TV, it IS original.I give it a 7. Steve Correll is good too but could use a little more subtlety. I really detest being made to write 10 lines almost as much as people who review TV shows without seeing them first. Addition: After 6 shows, it's still funny. In fact, the latest episode 9the bag girl) was making me cringe in discomfprt, just like the original!!! I sincerely hope this show gets picked up.


                
Being from the UK, a lot of people i know refuse to watch this show as a copy of the original.This isn't helped by the fact that the first season is basically a carbon copy of the UK version with American actors.Get past this and you will be pleasantly surprised, it matches then surpasses the original (which i also love. Many of the characters are charming and likable although I've marked the show down as sometimes they can act unrealistically and in later season's it does get somewhat repetitive.As a rule of thumb it goes downhill when Michael leaves, which is a bit weird and i genuinely enjoy the performances by his "replacements" Will Ferrell and James Spader.Anyway 7/10, well worth a watch, particularly up to season 7 (and once you go that far you will want to watch the rest!)


                
Very surprised that it got the negative feedback. For the majority of the American market that has not watched the BBC version of this show, it will be refreshing and new.I enjoyed the pilot very much. I got a lot of laughs and enjoy Steve Carrel in his imbecilic role.It seems that NBC might bring this comedy back to life in the summer or fall of 2005. Who knows for sure, but they are at least gathering new consumer feedback on the show which indicates an interest in bringing it in for another test run.I'd like to see this show hit the airwaves... it refreshing and funny, unlike some of the other NBC shows that seem to have lost their way (i.e. Will & Grace).


                
I'm a huge fan of the original (read: better), brilliant series from the UK with the incomparable Ricky Gervais and a cast of actors who seemed to not only have comedic timing but looked comfortable in the skins of their characters. I love this show and was against a redone Americanized version, but after watching the first episode, I'm optimistic. First, I'm curios what they're going to do after they get off taking from the original three episodes and start doing their own original episodes and not have the support of the comic genius from the original. I'm hoping this ends up being a good companion piece for the better series, but who knows anymore? But so far, I like it. Steve Carrell is hilarious and the cast looks decent, so I'm interested to see what they'll do with this show.I'm giving this a generous rating for being funny, but in the end my general reaction was popping the DVD for the original series and laugh harder.


                
It's unfair to compare it to the British version, but I will anyway: I liked the British version but it was too painful at times (and yes, I understand that's what many love about the original). I couldn't watch 24 episodes (more if it got renewed) of the British version, it would simply be too caustic to take for that long. But I could imagine the more humane version being bearable for however long it lasts.And frankly there were more than a few lines and jokes I simply didn't understand in the original (accents and regional references).I tried to rate this as if I'd never watched the original (which is really the only fair way to handle it). It's funny, and it made me think "I've worked with people like these" more than once.


                
Well no one really introduced me to "The Office" but fate. I was searching for t-shirts online and found a one with "That's what she said" tag line. YouTube further introduced me to this totally unique comedy series. "The Office" has a set of characters which are all totally different from each other. In fact one could correlate most of them with people from one's friends/colleagues. I think the whole series revolves around 3 scenarios (with the supporting cast in the background): 1. Michael's antics (not everything he does is funny 50:50) 2. Jim-Pam Relationship 3. Dwight Schrute's presence (he is the heart and soul of this show)Andy's character has been a total waste here. He could have been used in a much better way. (I am saying this because I watched Hangover movies before this series) But what I find most funny is Kevin's character with his teddy face and a retarded/slow accent. Rest all the characters (Oscar, Stanley, Creed, Toby etc) also justify their part and keep you interested.PS: I bought the t-shirt and loved my decision!! :)


                
I really like the office whenever its on i watch it but the show is weird they usually have music and stuff but that show looks like its scraped together. its funny Steve carrel is a funny guy i think it would be better with music and the camera not moving around so much. but the comedy makes up for that. and the characters are great too. the idea of the show is cool because they barely take that show anywhere but that office. its a good show its no Seinfeld but hey Steve carrel is funny. another thing i like is the parts they play Steve carrels part is funny hes always yelling and pushing his workers away for a girl. one of the best shows on TV.


                
Great series..... However it really trailed off. As soon as Steve Carell left, it started going down hill. Really disappointed in final season. Some characters got annoying as seasons went on. Pam bugged me.


                
The office, a satirical look at office life. The satire isn't always the strongest but you will forgive it because you fall in love with the characters.


                
I've tried. Twice actually. And I just cannot get myself past season 6. Why this is is still somewhat of a mystery to me. The only thing I know for sure is that I just got tired of Michael and did not enjoy any parts he was in any longer. It felt as if the writers were assuming I would keep on liking him unconditionally but they failed. Most characters like Dwight, Jim and Pam showed a definite amount of growth, development. Michael on the other hand just keeps on being the pathetic little child he is.And I *know* that he's supposed to be that way, that's his input. But I felt he was actually just blocking the growth of the characters I really cared for whilst giving no reward of his own. I have laughed out loud for about 4 seasons. And then it was just fading. The writers took no risks at all with the Jim-Pam relationship, as if they were afraid to displease the audience. Nothing was really happening anymore other than stuff related to Jim and Pam's wedding. I just wanted Michael to quit. His role was over after season 5. And I, being the masochist that I am, spoiled myself only to learn that he would only quit at the end of season 7. A moment that many hardcore US-fans regretted, actually. So something was very off between me and the writers' intent apparently.In countless interviews, cast members expressed their opinion that a series should not outstay its welcome. And yet they did the exact opposite. I'm sorry. UK is just better. Well at least they knew when it's enough.
With so many jobs taking place in office buildings, this television series that is based on the Ricky Gervais created BBC series, takes aim at that and other aspects of the modern American workplace. Steve Carrell leads a large cast of talented actors that succeed in creating a smart, silly comedy that works.Carrell is Michael Scott, the dim-witted boss of paper company Dunder Mifflin's Scranton, Pennsylvania branch. Rainn Wilson is Scott's odd second in command Dwight Shrute, a man who prides himself on knowledge of survival techniques and bears. Jim Krasinski is Jim Halpert, a salesman who has a crush on Pam(Jenna Schafer), the receptionist. These are only a few of the major characters in the ongoing, hilarious saga of Scranton at work.Several story lines can take place in the course of a single episode, giving the show more chances at laughs. In one episode, for example, there are conflicts between members of the Party Planning Committee, Michael's usual antics of procrastination, and the secrets of two characters's affair. These just make the show more original than ones that have a single narrative.Funny and intelligent, The Office is one brilliant spoof you should not miss.


                
I think the show is a fine re-tooling of the original. The changes seem to work, I mean certain cultural references wouldn't go over in the US. The humor is not as dry and raw as the British version, but not as dumb as say Friends. For a show on US TV it is pretty witty. I like Steve Carell, he does a fine job. He is more over the top than Ricky Gervais, but once again it is playing to the general tastes of the US TV viewer. I don't think the show will survive, it is a little to complex for the average "Must See TV" viewer. I could see it doing well on Comedy Central perhaps.I love the original, and do think it is better, but I don't think this take is terrible.It would be awesome if they had at least on Ali G reference though.


                
I haven't seen the original show yet... I will... I save this show to my DVR because I can't get enough of T.O.. Oh yeah.. I gave "The Office" and abbreviation/acronym. Yeah, whatever. Anyway, I really dig this show. I'm a Weird Al fan, and it dovetails nicely with my personality. Oh Yeah. I've just been informed that I need ten lines of info upon trying to submit my comment... So here comes some more. I'm currently watching the season finally for the third time. This shows got EVERYTHING. Serious people, laughable people, and everyone Antwan. Gosh, I've got a few more line to write. It's tough to think about something to write after a few rum and cokes. Please watch this show. It will be worth your while. I don't want to be a loner on this one.


                
Season 8 Episode 1 – "The List"The new Office Manager is<U+0085>Andy Bernard. How could we not see that one coming? With the popularity of Ed Helms from The Hangover and The Hangover Part II, his career has taken off and his mass appeal with audiences will hopefully build the ratings for once golden starred "The Office." Going into its 8th season without Michael Scott who was portrayed brilliantly by Steve Carell, the NBC show seem to have some serious hurdles to jump. The search for the new boss was brought on last season starting with the inclusion of film and television star Will Ferrell. Ferrell appeared in four episodes before his character hurt himself in the office and slipped into a coma. The final two episodes of the season had Jim in tow to find the next Dunder Mifflin's Regional Manager. Dwight (Rainn Wilson) took over for a brief period before shooting a gun off in the office and we even had Creed (Creed Bratton) taking over while housing a drug distribution it seemed. The final episode was left with a cliffhanger with a variety of talent "applying" for the new position. We saw the likes of Ricky Gervais, the creator of the UK "Office," Jim Carrey, Will Arnett, Ray Romano, and Catherine Tate, all vying for a spot in the Dunder Mifflin company. In the end, it was James Spader, best known for his work in television's "Boston Legal" and his outstanding performances in independent classics like Secretary (2002) and Sex, Lies, and Videotape (1989) as Robert California that impressed the search committee and was essentially hired. In the season premiere, we learn that Robert was hired as the branch manager and after one day, drove down to Florida and replace Jo Bennett, the CEO of Sabre, the merging company with Dunder Mifflin. With Robert California running Dunder Mifflin-Sabre, Andy Bernard (Ed Helms) is now Regional Manager. Andy seems to be still trying to fit into his new role and the rest of cast seems to be getting a bit more spotlights the season. Jim (John Krasinski) and Pam (Jenna Fischer) are still very together and very much pregnant with their second child. Pam is hormonal as ever and Jim seems to be a little high strung so far keeping up with her emotions and the office antics on a daily basis. Angela (Angela Kinsey), has married the Senator of Pennsylvania, despite the entire office's suspicions that he's a closeted homosexual, and she is pregnant as well. Stanley (Leslie David Baker), is more chipper than usual and seems to have a signature saying, "<U+0085>in your butt?" Dwight has taken up more martial arts and is trying to deal with the loss of the Branch Manager position. The rest of cast seems to be fairly the same, just enjoying the ride. As the series grows older, the more I begin to believe it's about that time to pull the plug. Carell was such an intricate part of the show and while the ensemble is/was amazing, I'm not entirely confident they can continue the show without him. When Ferrell joined, I was optimistic, but without him and relying solely on Spader, who is an acquired taste to some audiences, "The Office" will be looked at under a microscope this year and I wouldn't be too surprised if NBC decided to pull the plug on it. The first episode definitely had its funny moments and it felt a little bit like the first day at work, but being a fan of the show for this long, I hope they can pull through.


                
this is undoubtedly the greatest show since seinfeld to debut on network television. the irony and subtlety of this show astound and amaze with hilarity. it completely destroys the pathetic "UK" version. the relationship between dwight and michael, the assistant regional manager/ assistant TO the regional manager argument they have never gets old and only makes one smirk in amusement. jim's constant abuse of dwight, whether it be sending him faxes via "future" dwight or pretending to turn into a vampire after a bat gets loose in the office is hilarious. this show only gets better with every viewing, from kevin to bitchy angela. keep it up "the office", we're all laughing...


                
What is it like to work in the Modern Office? For those of us creatively inclined, we will never learn this sad reality as we are out in the open, creating films. Thank Greatness there is a show like "Office" to show us, because without a show like this we would be missing out on a modern phenomenon. The show is headed by great talent, show runner Greg Daniels having his foot in modern comedy masterpieces "Seinfeld" and "King of the Hill" as well as "Simpsons", and an array of wonderful character actors who make character acting seem almost like a helical art form. Where other shows find comedy arising from blunt charismatics and physical trials, "Office" finds comedy in the heart of the character, each explorational episode delving further into the study of one Modern Office caricature as conducted by an improv artist. Mind-melding stuff.


                
As a Brit I am a huge fan of Ricky Gervais's "The Office" and I thought this to be good American interpretation. Although the names and the situations were changed to make them more relevant to an American audience, I thought the characters were instantly recognisable and just as cringe-making! It definitely benefited for having the same "fly-on-the-wall" documentary-style treatment and I did laugh out loud (and cringe!) on several occasions. In conclusion: although it will never be as good as the original I think the main things that made the original great (the characters and the style) have been kept and this is what makes it a good example of a US sitcom.


                
I was very skeptical I could enjoy the American version of The Office.I was a huge fan of the BBC series.Well, the short first season was disappointing, it tried to compete too much with the original BBC series, and they could never reach the level of black humor and embarrassment than the original.But the good thing is that they somehow took the concept in their own hands and created something that now has a life on its own.My opinion is it's now impossible to compare with the original, and the character development of supporting characters is very very interesting.The second season brings us good smiles and laughters. But it's really the third season that makes it surprising and hilarious.Looking forward to season 4.


                
Are these reviews randomly rotated? Because I came to this page today to see a comment from a Brit talking about how terrible this show is compared to his precious British version. Well while their opinion is just as valid as mine, it bugged me to see such a one sided opinion, so here is my opinion to hopefully give the other side of the story.I love this show. It is loosely based on the UK Office, but I just don't see the point in comparing the two. Who do you prefer more, your mother or your father? Your brother or your sister? Daytime or night time? Sleeping or sex? Being punched in the arm, or punched in the leg? At some point, you have to just grow out of this comparing nonsense. It's completely pointless and worthless.The two shows are so different, and I like to think that I love both equally. The UK Office is an absolute classic. I will always love it and rate it as a very special show. Like a perfectly formed but tiny package. It starts, it sets up the classic "story", it entertains you a LOT along the way, and then it hits you with the absolute classic finale. Perfect. It was very funny, but it was also a very dark humour in my opinion. I could imagine any one of those people committing suicide, and just generally it was dark. For example, Ricky Gervais sitting in the little roadside café... in the context of that particular episode.. wow. That is depressing stuff. The US Office is not like that at all. It's a much brighter, US comedy. And unlike the UK office which is only about dozen episodes, the US Office is now in it's fifth season, each one being packed with content. So amongst them all, there may be one or two episodes that are just OK rather than great, but there are so many of them, and generally the standard is so very high, that it makes this a really special show. Also, none of the characters are really the same as the UK version. The boss is a kind of semi-translation, and some of the other characters are similar to the British version, but they are different people, individuals, and the story of the entire show is different. So to me at least, the show is completely different...As for the standard of the show itself, to stop this going on too long, I'll try to summarise this part as best I can. It is the best written comedy on TV, and it is my favourite show of any type. I watch Prison Break, Peep Show, Two and a half men, South Park, Scrubs, etc.. and they are all just something to keep an eye on while I'm cooking my dinner. But for me, The Office (US) is a league above them all, and it's something I really look forward to each week. The writing is top class, and all the actors are great, with an extremely special actor leading the way. Basically, I love this show, even although I'm a Brit, and I would hate to think of anyone being scared off watching it before they gave it a chance.P.S. Personally, it took me a little while to get hooked. The first season (which is very short) was good, but not great, in my opinion. But the second season was fantastic, and I've been hooked ever since. I don't give a 9 to things unless it's something really special.


                
I rarely post anything on IMDb but I can't help but to do this for the first time. Overall, I like both U.S and U.K versions. However, from artistic point of view one must admit that the U.K version is better. Foremost, I am going to leave aside differences in jokes since it is the cultural barriers which ultimately define our taste. Nevertheless, while the U.K version, which the plot is driven by subtlety and irony, the U.S version can be regarded as the "alter ego". The former is well constructed around empathetical characters in which we all can relate to easily; ultimately, it's highly depressing. However, I believe that the latter, while charming in its own right, has been forced; which leads to obscuring the true essence, fragility of life itself. Certainly, the apparent caricature of U.S version is amusing and entertaining. Yet, it lacks the same impact of the original. Rather than finding humour within ourselves through the faulty characters, the viewers are forced to laugh at exaggerated individuals in an hyperbolized realm. Even though I life the U.K version more, ironically, I usually find myself watching U.S version more. To me, it's an easier path to laughter since the original can be too abject.


                
Much of the original (British) setup and the humor were based on the flatness of the characters. I think the early American episodes were great because they followed the same pattern. Once they began to develop the characters, making them more well-rounded, in an attempt to add depth to them, that's where they began to fail: the original foundation no longer existed but the replacement was never developed to replace it. The result is yet another, soapy office melodrama with a banal and predictable plot with an occasional shocker thrown in for a comedic effect. Maybe the original producers knew the existing plot had no future or a time-limit, which allowed them to quit ahead. Regardless, I will still watch it, for the acting, if nothing else, I think the entire troupe is great.


                
I can ever watch more than three episodes of the office in a row, two max usually. The scenarios, the characters, the uneasy energy ad misplaced feelings are just too exhausting to watch! But a great performances, writing and character development. P. S surely Michael Scott has A. D. H. D!
Decent and funny but very different in comedic style to the UK version and was not as much my cup of tea. If you like Steve Carrell you'll like this series


                
