There won't be any spoilers in this review as the show hardly has a story. That's the same for most comedies though so it isn't a knock only against this.The Office is a good comedy, but ultimately overrated. The reason I say this is because this show receives so much attention, and is so popular when people list great comedy shows, yet when you go through watching it, you don't laugh often. Maybe a few times each episode, but that's about it. Whereas, if you compare it to the earlier seasons of Two and a Half Men, you're laughing just about the entire episode.Most of the humor is really cringy, awkward moments, and sure, it can be very funny at times, but it gets old quick. I'm the type of person that has never liked awkward situations though, so maybe that's why I didn't connect with this show as much as other people did.(Maybe this qualifies as a spoiler): Steve Carrell is the absolute highlight and makes this show. After he leaves, the following seasons are pretty poor overall and not as enjoyable. The character of Michael Scott is hilarious, but I found him to be wildly uneven most of the time. Sometimes, he'll have you feeling bad for him, and you can actually connect with the character on an emotional level, something pretty rare for comedies; and then other times he'll go and be an absolute ass to someone, like how he treats Phyllis. This leaves you in a place wondering if you should really feel bad for him next time, or if he just gets what he deserves. Another point of note is he never really develops over the series. Always seems to be the same Michael, flip flopping between what I just said.Not knocking this show though because it is enjoyable, and seeing as the episodes are short, it's not a complete waste of time to watch. Just watching during your free time can be entertaining. I recommend it if you're into cringy comedy and awkward moments.My Rating: 7.75/10


                
This was a let down for me because I had seen clips for this in various places and it looked really funny. I then later sat down and watched some of the episodes to find that not only was the show not funny, but it was embarrassing to watch. You could tell the creators thought a particular scene was supposed to be hilarious, but it just falls through horribly. I think Steve Carrell is hilarious in all the movies I have seen him in, but he can't save the show (he puts forth effort but for some reason, and I hate saying this about him, he just isn't funny here). The directing style is hard to watch, it is like a documentary and the shooting style just got on my nerves. The show has a few funny moments every now and then, but mostly it is just painful and embarrassing to watch. I must be honest, I am not sure why it is on its second season.


                
All those purists can stop whinging about how this isn't as good as UK version. It's so funny and lasted a lot longer. Worth watching


                
The Office is a very well done show that is full of witty, hilarious humor and has plenty of heart. The characters are very unique and have their own characteristics about them that are trademarks and they're funny in their own way. It stars Steve Carrel, Rainn Wilson, John Krasinski, Jenna Fischer, Angela Kinsey, Phyllis Smith, Mindy Kaling, BJ Novak, Ellie Kemper, Ed Helms, Oscar Nunez, Kate Flannery, Leslie David Baker, Paul Lieberstein, Craig Robinson, Brian Baumgartner, with occasional appearances by Melora Hardin. Very big cast overall and the result is very big laughs. Each actor brings their own style of humor and their own style to the show. Carrel plays Michael Scott, who is the star of the show the first 7 seasons. He is absolutely hilarious, no one could've played that crazy wild character better, Steve was the best. Fischer and Krasinski are great in the show and play their roles well, but their scenes and moments are the best when they're together, they have an ongoing attraction to one another throughout the whole show, and it's so sweet to see play out. Each episode has its own dose of laugh out load humor and that's why this is in my top 10 television shows of all time. And even if you put humor aside, it's still a great show, the characters have so much heart and they form friendly bonds over the seasons, then there is some romance that buds too. Now I'm giving this show an 8 instead of a 9/10 because seasons 8 and about 80% of season 9 just wasn't up to par with the previous seasons, and there is a pretty simple reason for that, Michael leaves at the end of the seventh season and to be honest a lot of the good humor leaves with him. I LOVE the first 7 seasons of this show and I really liked the finale at the end of season 9, but season 8 and most of 9 just weren't all that good, but just because one and a half seasons out of a show weren't that good doesn't mean that overall it's not a great show because it really is. I 100% recommend the office, its on Netflix, every episode. 8/10


                
Note: the spoilers contained in this review are minor and can be read even if you haven't seen the series, without worry of the entire thing being ruined for you. However, if you wanna go into the entire series blindly, please feel free to continue on without reading this review.With both mockumentary TV shows, as well as comedy shows in general, I usually fail to enjoy them as much as I wish I could due to the plain and simple fact that each show plays off like a novelty, and once that novelty has passed, you no longer find any enjoyment in the show. The Office is different; its ability to create such a diverse cast of characters in a setting that's as typical as it gets allows for a dumping of episode after episode of comedy without getting old, even after 188 episodes.As a whole, The Office is nothing more than a comedy. It does have its moments of drama, as well as a few episodes that would come off as being called a "bummer," but even within the sad, dramatic episodes, a majority of said episode is still a comedy. Just about every episode plays off like a comedy for the thick majority of it, with EXTREMELY few exceptions. The comedy within The Office is of an extremely large, vast amount, ranging anywhere from slapstick, to cringe, to insulting, to physical, to deadpan, to even sexual/blue. The large amounts of comedy present are what allow The Office to constantly create new content, as the same content doesn't really need to be reused very often. Alongside a large cast of wacky, fun, unique characters, The Office is, simply, able to be a comedy TV show that never really gets old. Thus, I really do consider The Office to be the pinnacle of comedy TV shows, as it really does do what is needed to be considered the perfect example of a comedy show, mockumentary or not......or, at least that's what I'd like to say. Unfortunately, The Office does fall off pretty badly after season 7, when Steve Carell, AKA Michael Scott, takes his leave from the show. Afterwards, his role as Regional Manager is replaced by a number of different characters from the show.The problem with that was simple: no character was able to take over Michael's role in the TV show alone. Michael was a character that always took over on-screen, and the character we would sit and wait for the entire time. He almost always executed the comedy, and made the show as good as it was. Without him, the entire spark that ignited the flame that made The Office so good was gone completely, which left only a shell of what it was for the first 7 seasons.Now, let me say this... seasons 8 and 9 of The Office weren't BAD by any means. Just not as good. Seasons 1-7 were constant greatness, with sprinkles of pure amazingness scattered throughout. Seasons 8 and 9, while not bad, were mostly mediocre, with sprinkles of greatness scattered throughout and VERY rare, once-or-twice-per- season moments of pure amazingness. Overall, it just didn't compare to the first 7 seasons.However, despite that, and despite what I said earlier, I'd still say The Office is the pinnacle of comedy TV shows, and definitely worth the watch. Contrary to most shows, where they start off bad and get better over time, The Office starts off great and only gets better, before falling off right at the end. So, in the case of it, you're not forced to slog through a bunch of crap before you get to the gold of the show, instead you start off with gold that develops into diamonds that eventually take a backflip and turn into bronze. Regardless, I still recommend it to just about anyone looking for a comedy show to watch, especially if they want it to last them a bit of time.My rating mainly comes from how mediocre I found the last 2 seasons to be. The first 7 seasons were, without a doubt, worthy of a rating of at least 9.5/10. However, that's still only 3/4 of the series, so my rating of 4/10 for the final 1/4 (seasons 8 and 9) is what causes the overall rating to fall quite a bit. But, as I said, definitely check it out if you haven't and you're looking for a moderately long comedy show to watch. I can tell you now that you, likely, won't be disappointed.
As a longtime fan of the UK version of "The Office", I had high expectations for it's American counterpart. When I first saw it, I was disappointed. I was annoyed at how much it wasn't the UK version. I dwelled on it for a few days to the point where I wanted to watch it again. So I did. This time, I went in with the attitude that it was just a new show on TV and forgot about its predecessor. This time, I really enjoyed it.The actors portray their characters as well as they did on the British version. They understand and know their characters and know how to perform as them with a natural and organic feel. They are not perfect copies of the British version and if you compare them to it, OF COURSE you'll be disappointed.The show is funny with Steve Carells interpretation of the Ricky Gervais character. It's his own unique version of a really inept boss and in a way different from the original, is still funny on it's own.I really am beginning to enjoy this show, but I worry that it will not succeed. It's too different from anything else on TV and just kinda fits in it's own little category. I just don't think it will catch on among viewers new to "The Office". Many fans of the original series are going to unknowingly compare it to the original and inevitably be disappointed.I admire NBC for taking a risk and producing this show. It really is cool if you look at it independently.


                
I saw the pilot. Can't understand why so many people hate it. It worked for me. The actors were not bad, they knew they would be criticized and compared, you can tell they were under pressure. They didn't change the script because that's what (the network) they paid for. And they had to make it palatable for 'some' American audiences. I mean, for those US people who liked the British version, they would have already watched it or bought the DVDs. This is obviously for those who have no inkling what is going on in the UK version. And this is where the execs made a bad call. Cos' that breed of people would not watch this type of comedy where there are supposed to be more pauses for 'viewer participation'. Those type of 'americans' like 'fast' comedy, where the jokes matter more than the character.All in all, it won't be aired, which I guess rather makes the pilot a collectors item. Well worth it to get a copy (if you can) if only to view it for curiosity, you won't be disappointed.


                
Do not be deceived! There are those who do not appreciate The Office, finding it slow, not funny and disappointing. I submit to you that this show is written for a particular mindset and not to be compared with anything else. I discovered the genius of the show from watching the entire second season in a week's time. When put together so closely in time, I became familiar with the plot, characters and general attitude of the show. To truly appreciate everything, you must view it as a collage. The Office is currently my most looked forward to show and I encourage you to get the first and second season and have a marathon!!Honorable Mentions: The romantics love Jim and Pam together. Jim and Dwight are hilarious interacting.Kevin - like nothing you've ever seen!


                
This show is incredible for so many reasons. The plots are highly entertaining and undeniably an accurate reflection of how many offices are run (I say this from experience!) The characters all have so many levels and layers to them and are extremely complex compared to the one-dimensional characters on other television shows.For those unfamiliar with "The Office" it is a mockumentary of the office Dunder-Mifflin, a paper product company. That in itself isn't so extraordinary but the brilliance is found in the characters and the many mini-plots. As the camera follows the Dunder-Mifflin staff around, we are treated to a plethora of stories and character backgrounds. There's Michael Scott, the manager/dense buffoon who may not be diabolical, but is certainly oblivious to what's going on around him. There's Pam, the permanently-engaged sweetheart receptionist who's with a habitual jerk who is constantly putting off their wedding date. There's also Jim, the witty and charming nice guy who harbors a secret crush for Pam despite her engagement. And of course, who could forget Dwight? Somewhat nerdy, "Lord of the Rings" obsessed, and comically abrasive/intrusive to the point that no one takes him seriously, Dwight is yet another highlight to "The Office." With the camera on these unforgettable and quirky characters and with some of the most engaging plot lines I've ever seen, "The Office" is a must-see show on television.


                
While it's true that nothing can beat the original, the fact is that this is still far funnier and classier than any other comedy on American television. And even then, so many slots, formerly owned by sitcoms, have been filled with (*shudder*) reality television, that any attempt is welcome. Every episode has a strong theme and a unique story (or borrowed from a unique story in the original show). The writing is clever and real. But what most impresses me is the verisimilitude of the characters. Even the minor ones seem like real people, and one can get something of a glimpse of their lives through the way that they act in their shared workplace. In addition, all of the actors who play them seem perfect for their roles. Steve Carell is a very funny man. Why can't NBC just serve as a re-airing conduit for the original? The world may never know. But as long as the original isn't being aired on American broadcast networks, we might as well watch this. 8/10


                
It seems that those who hate this show are all comparing it to the original. I've only seen one episode of the original, so I won't make that comparison.This is the kind of humor you either love or don't get. It's refreshing to see comedies without laugh tracks. The actors seem to all be great performers. I loved it.If you liked the original, then likely you won't like this because it's going to seem like they're copying it but not "getting it right". Oh well. Their intention is not to catch the spirit of the original. It's to reuse the ideas and attempt to make it more accessible to Americans.Anyways, what I mean is, to someone who hasn't watched the original, this is a great show. I don't care if they're not accurately copying the original accurately. Though I wouldn't mind seeing it. (I don't have cable.) The fact is, the original wouldn't be popular enough for NBC's prime time. Not enough Americans would be receptive to that. You can call Americans ignorant for that, but really it's just how entertainment has ended up worldwide. Film got its big start in America, so the rest of the world is used to watching our entertainment, and they "get it" because they've seen enough of it to understand American pop culture and in-jokes. Unfortunately, because of that, foreign entertainment hasn't really broken in here, because Americans haven't had a chance to see enough of it to "get it".I admit myself that there's a lot of British and Canadian humor that simply doesn't entertain me. It's probably because I didn't grow up with it.


                
Had I not seen the British version, would I have liked the pilot? I probably wouldn't have tuned in, to be honest, because the commercials looked so bad. Having seen the British version, I resigned myself to the fact that this would likely be inferior. It is quite inferior.That said, I'll tune in next week. I have seen some extended clips from the 2nd episode and got quite a few chuckles from it. I'm hoping that it is one of those series that will gain steam as it goes. Again, all indications I have are that the next episode will be far better.In terms of casting, I think I only have one complaint: The Gareth counterpart is just a different, less-effective character. I'll say nothing about David Brent, because I don't think you can replace the boss.My biggest concern with the American version is that it is much less "a documentary" than it is a bunch of people acting out for the camera. Were it not for the occasional herky-jerky camera work, I would forget that they're going for the documentary feel that was so effective in the original.


                
Every great TV show starts to dig gold gradually, and The Office, the American remake of the 2001 British show, definitely does somewhere at the end of the third season. Longer than the British counterpart at a whopping nine seasons, The Office can be best described as intelligent comedy. The witty remarks and rambunctious slapstick exchanged by a bunch of idiosyncratic colleagues of a paper company is relishing. Led by a mentally young Michael Scott (Steve Carell) - the branch manager - The Office is a mockumentary about the personal and professional journey of the employees of this company. It has the forth wall, office politics and relationships, and of course, a slice of life that will make you go mad about it. For those who have ever worked in an office setup, this show is going to be all the more better because you relate with things that it takes overboard and then some. Whether it is the rivalry between characters played with perfect finesse by Rainn Wilson and John Krasinski, or Carell's hilarious jokes, or Jenna Fischer's portrayal of an unsuspecting receptionist, The Office is going to start by making you laugh, and then when you are comfortable, it will break your heart season after season. So much can be written about The Office's greatness, there's no way I'm going to marry someone who hasn't watched it. The Office is funny, heartwarming, and probably one of the most quotable shows of this millennium. This is something you cannot run from. TN.


                
This is honestly one of the best comedy series there is, people don't give it a chance because of it's unique comedy structure of mockumentary. But here's the problem, it lost it's protagonist, this is a mistake a lot of shows do and this is not an exception. You can skip season 8 and it won't matter. Season 9 was decent but it had to end when the protagonist left.
For a while there, "The Office" stuck in my memory as a show with a distinct drop0off in quality; just a headlong flight over the cliff. Up until that point, it'd been one of my favorite weekly shows. That's actually what sent me to "Parks and Recreation" to begin with (so it kinda worked out, I guess).But a recent rewatch brought all of the glory screaming back. When it was good, it was fantastic, and really riffed on the droll day-to-day workplace environment . . . and its jackass boss.To that end, Steve Carell was integral, and some of the things his character got away with is startling (and yet he still found Michael Scott's dopey self-deluded center). Jim pranking Dwight was always a highlight for me, and I was sad to see that phase out as the series wore on. The character are great, the documentary aspect is played to great comedic effect, and it's highly conducive to binging.If you jump ship when Carell does, this show's a winner.8/10


                
Congratulations to the NBC for having the balls to produce the US version of "The Office." It is difficult to see how the subtleties of the show would be embraced by a punchline thirsty US audience though.The US variations on the UK characters are great. The show is superbly cast, particularly Rainn Wilson and Steve Carrel as the David & Gareth variations. The US version writers have picked up on some of the wonderful nuances from the UK version and accentuated them nicely.This is a must for any UK "Office" fan as it introduces some truly hilarious new themes into the "workplace," but be prepared to sit through some re-hashed material throughout the series.


                
What, did all you lovers of the original show (and all things Brit) get together and see just how dreadful a review you could come up with? This rightly smacks as some sort of smear campaign. I don't think I've ever come across such passionately written drivel meant to trash a particular show in my entire life! This show, particularly the second episode, had me and my wife laughing from the start. After watching the pilot episode, we let a lot of our friends know how funny it was and to be sure and catch the second episode. After the airing of the second episode (in which we both literally hurt from laughing so hard), our phone was ringing off of the hook from everybody we told to watch it thanking us for telling them about the show.This show deserves far better than the utter malicious crap that is being spread out there by a sad small group of malcontents who love for nothing better to do than to slam all things American. You all make me sick. All of your petty efforts are going to be in vain, I'm afraid. This show is going to make it.


                
Really folks, this show is actually quite funny. It might have been years since I laughed out loud at a network TV show and I did at least a few times tonight. I love Steve Carell but I, too, feel like the character has a ways to go to find his rhythm but have you ever watched old Seinfeld before the characters gelled - yikes! As a Canadian it's a bit hard to tell if Steve is really way over the top or just your stereotypical brash American boss.As for comparisons, let's give these guys a break. For a show like the original to fire on all cylinders right out of the blocks is a real testament to the genius of not only Gervais but of all the characters. That kind of chemistry is a very rare serendipity in any art form and, in fact, Gervais himself may be hard pressed to repeat it. Yes, having seen the original I have to suspend my discomfort a bit, but the issue is more mine than the show's. Think of those cover tunes you hear that you hate for every way they differ from the source but later come to love for those same differences. As for jokes the vagina/hysterectomy has made me grin for a few days now. And "coloured greens"! That has to be one of the best original American jokes ever written.


                
When i first heard that NBC were making an American version of the office, i was horrified, as i knew that nothing would be able to top the astounding brilliance of the British version. when it came out, i watched one of the episodes of the 1st season, not sure which, but my suspicions were confirmed. however, i recently managed to catch one of the 3rd season episodes, Branch Closing, and it was incredibly good! i wasn't sure if this was a fluke so i watched the rest of series 3 and then 2 and it was still great. this show is so well written, great acting, and the cast's chemistry is fantastic. i would hesitate to say that it is better than the British Office though, as there are a lot of things missing. i mean you get that its a dull place to work in but it doesn't convey any of the frustration of working in a dead end job. it doesn't have quite the same emotional resonance with the viewer either, and i see it as a slightly glossier version, lacking some of the realistic touches of the original (eg Tim, Jim's alter ego, is often seen with pit stains.) the cast is better looking, it's faster paced, and though it is very funny, it feels like the actors are always working their way towards a punchline, which isn't consistent with the shows documentary format. that said, i will continue watching it (though perhaps that's because the original is no longer on..) hope it stays on for a while!


                
Have andy bernard. what was people thinking he would replace michael scott,. I prefer the old characters.


                
It started great but lost momentum and laugh factor when a certain actor left! Still- i can watch this show on repeat and never stop chuckling.


                
Binged watched this show over the last two months and it brought along with it an array of both relatable and vastly unrelatable emotions, characters and situations, all (mostly) guaranteed with a laugh during each episode.Felt as though it started off slowly but with persistence I stuck by it and watched as the show unfolded, become stronger with its stories, content and characters as well as most importantly, put me in stitches.When Michael left, yes I did lose a bit of hope for the show but the last few episodes (granted that it was very predictable, where Michael came (that's what she said lol)) made up for that lack of warmth and baltent humour that Michael originally brought to the table. I felt warm and fuzzy and possibly shed a tear or two.One thing I do wish was featured more in the last few episodes on the series was more from the past cast members. I understand they are limitied to screen time and it's more so focused on the current cast members, but I would have loved to see Michael on the panel, especially considering what a big roll and defining character he playing during most of the series, or even have a longer script during the last episode(maybe I'm just bitter and I miss michaels presence).All in all a great, laughable and easy show to watch(especially to kill some time), with a simple but genius concept.
The final season of NBC's blockbuster adaptation of the BBC sitcom is just as strong as those that have come before it. Although Steve Carell's absence (following his depature at the end of the seventh season) is still felt, the show manages to navigate that gap by enhancing its ensemble-cast structure, which then lets many characters take center stage and create a sense of unity to the proceedings. In addition, series newcomers Jake Lacy and Clark Duke manage to fit right in - Lacy, in particular, seems completely at ease here, and that relaxed approach to character building makes him a standout. This show wouldn't be what it is without the intersection between its terrific writing and performing, and the show's wrap-up of the documentary structure that's defined the directorial approach so far is surprisingly poignant and effective.


                
It's another strong season for NBC's resilient and surprisingly durable adaptation of the BBC original. Although Steve Carell's absence is felt from the first episode, it's clear that the producers and writers made a good faith effort to keep kicking the can and it makes the entire season rather endearing, as it struggles to find its footing again while managing to propel the established characters and their respective arcs forward. James Spader joins this season as the new boss and unfortunately isn't given much to do (his Robert is easily the least interesting character), but it's a negligible faux pas instead of a defining one. There's plenty more for Rainn Wilson and, especially, Ed Helms, and Catherine Tate's Nellie makes for a great addition to the roster of supporting characters.


                
It's impressive that NBC's adaptation of the British sitcom entered its seventh season still fresh and funny, with plenty of well-developed, likable characters and worthwhile material. The ensemble comedic acting is as terrific as ever, while the production values and writing remain top notch. There aren't any series-best episodes here, but there are still plenty of strong, entertaining ones like "Andy's Play, "Sex Ex" and "Costume Contest" that make the most out of the established connections between the characters. It's hard not to notice that Steve Carell's on-screen participation is inconsistent, but his performance is as solid as ever.


                
