I don't normally feel the need to add my 2 cents to the review pages here but Archer has motivated me to do so.This is definitely one of the best animated comedy series I've seen in a while and had me laughing all the way through; if anyone can make being a real s**t funny then it's Archer. I'm not familiar with Jon Benjamin who supplies Archer's voice but he's perfectly cast and his comic timing is spot on. The rest of the cast is strong too, especially Chris Parnell who's voice I immediately recognised from his very funny Dr Spaceman (or Spe-che-man) in 30 Rock.In a world where other offerings are losing their shine (Family Guy, American Dad and even South Park are not as fresh as they used to be and of course the Simpsons jumped it's shark years ago) Archer shows that there's still plenty of good material being written out there.


                
Having just seen the special sneak preview of 'ARCHER' on the FX network, I have to say that this was possibly the most entertaining, most ribald, most disturbing and just plain hysterical thirty minutes of television I have ever seen. Think 'Venture Brothers' meets James Bond meets a truck load of self-obsessed heroine addicts and you'll begin to get an idea of what awaits us all in January when this series comes to the masses in prime time. Fans of H. Jon Benjamin will love him as he brings his own dead pan cadence to Sterling Archer, a character that is arguably the most narcissistic is television history. The writing is quick and sharp, the animation is stylized and hip and the laughs come faster than you can catch them.In short, watch for this amazing show to come to your TV in January and prepare to be amazed. Seriously, watch this show!


                
Archer is quite possibly the funniest show on television, rapid fire jokes about whore island, a hungry hungry hippo, and baby crazy ex girlfriends, all that plus the brilliance of stir Friday. I am a total TV alchoholic and this show is incredibly funny. Though there is a slight issue with the comedy, if you take yourself too seriously and or you can't laugh at sheer stupidity the show might not be for you. Anyways you won't know if you like the comedy or not without watching and episode yourself. So I strongly incourage everyone to sit down watch an episode or two and I bet you will be rolling on the floor due to the doucheness that is Sterling Archer. Alright Andy I know the fact that arrested development got canceled still hurts but it doesn't mean you should start bashing a different kind of comedy. Archer is incredibly funny, and yes it is basic raunchy humor, but it is the sheer ridiculousness of each situation that allows the comedy to turn in literal loll. so open your mind laugh at a Russian roulette joke and enjoy the brilliant stupidity that is Archer.


                
This show is the best thing that's happened to modern day TV. It is animated, yet hits serious topics right at the spot. It makes it look like a kid's show, but definitely with adult situations, which is great. The characters are light and well situated. The dialog is outrageously funny and naughty, containing serious amounts of irony and masked profanities. The plot of the show revolves around a secret agency (ISIS) and the relations between the people working there. The main character is the confident, arrogant and self-involved, yet not that adequate secret agent Sterling archer - a handsome hedonist man, that never cares about anyone but himself. Hilarious. 10/10


                
I was a fan of the hit and miss show Sealab and later on Frisky Dingo which was less hit and miss and quite entertaining. If you like rank shows. I am also a fan of Venture Bros and I don't see how you cant draw the similarities between the two. I am also happy to see Jon Benjamin get some steady voice work and he was great in Dr Katz and Home Movies. I would recommend it to anyone to watch the first episode before making your judgment. This is the best pilot I have seen in a while and usually their pretty lame even on shows I think have promise.The show involves a super spy whose boss happens to be his mother. He has an ex lover as a fellow spy that is currently dating some guy in accounting. You have a blabby HR lady and some other people thrown into the mix like a secretary who is in love with Archer. The situations and under the breath comments are laugh out loud to me and my friends. I can't wait for more.


                
finally a funny entertaining show! lately it seems the other short 30 min comedy shows have become lazy and stale. and with south park not starting for another month i was very happy to find this show down right hilarious from start to finish. sure its simple. but the characters are so funny and its pretty well written.the humor comes quickly and many times unnoticed. i have watched every episode at least twice. i like the style of animation and the voice acting is well done. they have also had some big actors show up as voices of minor roles. Thomas Lennon showed up as a gay guy (big surprise).Anyway, everyone should at least watch the first five episodes. 100 minutes of enjoyable chaos.


                
Before watching archer I would watch cartoons like Family Guy, American Dad and Futurama. These sort of animated shows are good but old and don't change the formula of a successful show. They are all the same, a family/ group of friends getting into mischief everyday and each day is completely different but with the same people.At first I though Archer was just going to be another comedy cartoon like Family guy. I thought it would be loads of random jokes (not saying random jokes aren't funny but Seth Macfarlane has been doing the same routine over and over) and hardly any story, but I tell you now I was wrong, so terribly wrong.Archer is pure brilliance. It's like James Bond became an abusive alcoholic and that everyone he works with are insane. It looks pretty and is well animated, it's full of funny jokes and most importantly of all it has a story line that runs through out the whole series!I love Archer because it doesn't have a new story every episode and forgetting what happened last time. You get to know the characters and see them develop as episode go on. The show doesn't shy away from changing things up, one minute you think that it's just an ordinary mission and the next minute something massive happens which leads to a character changing and this is who the character will act from now on.The jokes are funny and always make me laugh and sometimes the situations they get in are funny. The character are horrible people, if you met them in really life you would hate them but in the show you can't help but love everyone. The show also introduces loads of new characters that stick around or return every now and again for a episode.I have loved watching every episode and I've just started season 5 which is insane. The best animated TV show I have ever watched! 10/10 Highly recommend watching if you like shows like South park, American Dad, Bobs Burgers, Robot Chicken and Frisky Dingo.


                
if you don't like this show, then you have no sense of humor or you take your movies and TV shows far too seriously. this is a very funny and in your face comedy. lots of laughs, stupid jokes, just impossible situations. all of this creates an out of this world event. the premise if just a ridiculous secret agency that never gets the right things done. Archer is just a high school jock that never grew up. i showed this show to a few friends who'd never heard of it and we continued to rewind just to hear the jokes because they were just too funny. these jokes take it right to the edge without ever stepping over the line. its a must see for adults who still love their teenager side.


                
I started my cynicism with Ren and Stimpy, Log was my Favourite, and even in single digits I understood.I have gone on to watch just about every animated comedy series to some degree including around half the stuff you can think of off the top of your head. If it were top trumps, Archer and every character in it would win hands down, with the exception of Woodhouse. You will know why. It covers so many genres sometimes in one episode that you are left wondering what happened thorough, of course, the tears of laughter. I can see why some person may have given this show 7 stars or below, but I would disagree with them and suggest a sense of humour transplant. I'd know the guy to ask as well.In short, it has only one flaw, there is not enough Archer.


                
ARCHER is a brilliant combination spy show and workplace sitcom, with all the quirky and messed-up characters therein. H. Jon Benjamin is perfect as Sterling Archer, but the whole cast is excellent (Amber Nash, Lucky Yates and the always-hilarious Dave Willis, in particular). You could go blind from the heightened dose of smartassery and the dialogue zings back and forth like flying bullets. It's actually kinda rare for an animated show <U+0085> -ANY- show to be as consistently funny as this one. It's insanely quotable and packs obscene replay value. Seriously, it goes down like candy. And I love that they made Archer's spy car a '70 Dodge Challenger. Bonus points, right there. This show's a personal favorite.10/10
One liner after one liner after one liner after one liner, this show is just super sharp. Honestly, from what I've seen it is as good as South Park in its prime, although different in style. This show looks dumb when you watch it, but it makes you laugh constantly. It's an insanely sharp script disguised by dumb characters and I bet if I watch these episodes again I'll pick up new jokes I didn't notice the first time around.If you like South Park, or Family Guy (old family guy) then give this show a chance, the first episode should win you over. I have to stop writing this now because I really want to watch another episode.


                
Sterling Malory ARCHER, Code name Duchesses<U+0085> the over needy, sexist, mama's boy of a man. One of the best adult animations ever, with the outrageousness and crudeness of It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia but with the surprising allure and quick wit of Modern Family and Community.This show may not be for everyone, but its brilliance and quick dialog. This show speaks for itself and the animation style is perfect for the genre and the type of humor it exudes. It has the greatest quotes! And it's not as crude as you think once you actually listen to the conversation. It's really clever.


                
Archer is quite possibly my new favorite show. This comes from the creator of Frisky Dingo, the show that took a similar comedic aim at superheroes. Archer has some of the best character flaws on television. Sterling Archer is the womanizing main character who despite his aloofness and major flaws is one of ISIS best agents. Lana Kane plays his mocha ex lover who loves inter-racial porn and turtleneck skirts. Carol or cheryl or crystal, whatever her name is this week, is the sex crazed secretary who like to be choked in bed. Cyril is the comptroller who is somehow sleeping with Lana while trying to impress her more than Archer. Malory is Archer's mother/leader of ISIS. Her dog duchess spawned archer's codename and her torid love affairs with other spies all over the world get in the way of ISIS being the number 1 spy organization. And Pam is the chubby outspoken HR rep who is always looking for some way to appreciated while also insulting Carol for being Carol. The characters in the show mix so well together that each episode has the ability to be rewatched numerous times. Watch Archer on FX and see for yourself


                
I SPY with my little eye, maybe not AMERICA'S GREATEST HERO, but still the love child of THE MAN FROM U.N.C.L.E.'s Napoleon Solo & OY OY 7..Sterling 'Archer'.If you've ever wondered what would happen if Sir Ian Flemming, Larry Flynt and Mad Magazine decided to GET SMART and see if audiences would be shaken, and stirred after a half hour of laughing over entirely inappropriately placed mommy fetishes, sex, violence, sex, vapid vixens, sex, a past love you can't forget, sex, doggie-phobia, sexpionage..sex..drinking, sex, using people for your own narcissistic means, sex, torture, sex, Tax dollars wasted on whore island..sex. And something gratuitous I can't remember..No..it's not a MISSION IMPOSSIBLE.I'm pleased with the choice of voice actor/ess/s, and find the off the wall, ribald writing that's so entirely over the top at times you're not sure if you should be offended, it's refreshingly unPC & witty. It's great for mature audiences. I 'should' know, I watched it with my Mother..she said it was amusing.Sterling would like to thank SCARECROW & MRS. KING for classic misdirection so he can thank REMINGTON STEELE for his wardrobe and his mother for not giving him his BURN NOTICE.All I can say is that January can't come soon enough. Unless of course we get Sterling to rescue January from Whore Island and they don't have to doggie paddle.
It is a fantastic show. I cannot stress enough how simple the humor is, but they make you think beyond just stupid. The episodes flow very naturally and I find myself saying what is coming next (Phrasing!). That said, one would assume the show is predictable and boring; it is anything but. I find it predictable at times because the humor in it is exactly like mine is.I am sadden that a terrorist group (who I will not name here) has screwed the show (Phrasing! Are we still doing that?) out of using the same acronym. Although the International Secret Intelligence Service is going through a name change, they have found a way to make it work. The show is a cross between James Bond, the Keystone cops and Friends. Lots of shooting (and such), slapstick humor and, like Friends, (SPOLIER) everyone has had sex with each other.I have to say the show is good for at least one laugh out loud moment per episode! Archer is well worth the netflix rental fee or Amazon Prime membership. Watch it and enjoy it. (and "Hey jungle, eat a bag of d!@&s")
This is definitely my new favorite show. Absolutely genius, I would say this is the best show on TV right now. Of course, the content is right up my alley. I love Venture Bros. and other quirky Adult Swim shows, and of course various other animated shows with an adult target audience, such as Family Guy, South Park, Futurama, and the like. Of course, ARCHER is not on Adult Swim, but obviously it would fit right in. Fow now it is on TNT, which is great. I like the idea that a network other than FOX is getting into the this genre. Maybe we will see more shows like this pop up in the ratings battle.H. John Benjamin is brilliant, needless to say. I laugh my self silly every time I watch this show, and it is hard for me to say which episode is my favorite. I think, right now, I like SKYTANIC the most, although DIVERSITY HIRE was absolutely hysterical. I have to say SKYTANIC stands out particularly because of the end sequence when Archer and Lana are trying to disarm the bomb, and they have that genius dialog with the technical support team. I would almost describe it as being inspired by the old Abbot and Costello routine "Who's on First?" For those of you who have seen the episode, I am sure you know what I am talking about it. For those of you who haven't seen this particular episode, I say, check it out, set your DVR, and you will see what I mean and probably pee your pants. For those of you that have not seen this show at all, I say: What are you? Some kind of idiot? Do you live under a rock? Watch the show already! Its super funny.


                
I've watched every single episode .... maybe 10 times over. I watch from series 1 to series 9 and then when it ends I go right back to the pilot and start again.
It is phenomenal, witty writing. Incredibly funny and smart. An absolute delight.
People moan about it going down hill and all rest but i don't agree. That's the beauty of this show - it can literally go anywhere. Just sit back and enjoy the ride. It's hilarious.


                
I watch it over and over and even go to sleep to it. I just... it's perfect. Every character is amazing.


                
That's all I gotta say, Archer is EPIC. I can watch the same episode 10 times and never get tired of it. All the characters are hilarious.


                
This is my honest opinion. Archer is actually a great show. Although is may seem like stereotypical spy abusing women stuff (and it sort of is...) the show actually has heart and it's surprisingly funny. The numerous pop-culture references are hilarious, the nerve wracking situations that Archer and his gang go through are perfectly crafted to be cringe worthy and funny, and scary at the same time. Archer also adds a more realistic view on the spy agency, stuff like accounting and politics are incorporated to make the spy business of I.S.I.S. (International Secret Intelligence Service) a little more realistic. There are people who criticize the series because of the the sex, sex, and more SEX. The mistreatment of women. Alcoholism. Racism. Drugs. Over the top violence. And the extremely edgy political tone the series sets. Now I can't tell everyone what to do but if you like South Park for its satire. And you like James Bond for its coolness. And you like arrested development. This is the ultimate show for you. Adam Reed, you are a genius. Only Downfall: I CAN'T GET SEASON $*%#^&@ SIX ON AMAZON @#$%#*% PRIME! JEEZ!


                
Archer is the funniest show on TV and all the characters are amazing.Archer Vice was the best season yet and is very original. Cherlene. Outlaw Country. Danger zone. Skinny Pam. Smokey and the Bandit.Ain't been the best of mornings I spilled whiskey on my favorite shirt And the ocelot, he p@ssed in my purse So the writers took a chance and did something different. Just like the old gypsy woman said.For the fans who didn't get it or like watching the same episode over and over, maybe you should just watch Family Guy.Highway to the Danger Zone I'm gonna take you Right into the Danger Zone Highway to the Danger Zone Right into the Danger Zone


                
This show has great characters and voice actors. The lines are fast and clever and stunning how much is compressed into one episode. I am completely excited for Season 3 to continue and will watch every single one. I love the main character's voice and the character himself. He manages to be funny, blunt, and a jerk, but still likable in the end. The show is not for people who are offended easily, but that's a good thing as it makes the level of humor so funny and complex. The references to old movies, celebrities, and current media is just plain genius and the show has some of the best lines I've heard. It manages to balance comedy with action and good taste perfectly and the result is a hilarious with stunning animations, great actors and plenty of laughs. If anyone is looking for a new comedy, Archer will definitely make you laugh.


                
really amazing! he's a playboy secret agent, with a drink problem and quite a few personal issues, a rather strange relationship with his mum, and generally seems like a bit of a jerk as well! really he's the type of guy that you should hate like the bad guy in a movie, but instead of everyone realising this he always seems to land on his feet! the show is also really smart in some of the dialogue is unbelievably good! its also pretty to look at which makes a change from a lot of cartoon comedies. watched the first season and cannot wait for the 3rd. i desperately want this show to keep going at the standard! the secret agent that makes James Bond like a Gay, sober, schoolboy!


                
This is by far the best 20 minutes I have spent for a long time in media. I cannot begin to describe the pure pleasure I derive by watching each episode. I am glad that FX has the know how to not only accept this show but to prolong it by subscribing for a second season. The characters are perfect, the dialog is perfect and the stories are perfect. No need to say more. anyone who may not like this show has a screw missing. I am great fan of Arrested Development. We need more original programming which makes us who we are. The real reason I enjoyed each episode was even though there was certain expectation of familiar lines, each episode provided a unit story which not only surprises the viewer but allows them to be totally lost in the dialog.


                
i really do not care what anybody says about this show it is hilarious.if you would've asked me about 2 months ago i would have said that Family Guy was my favorite show but lately Archer has just blown me away with how funny and consistent it is. I guarantee that anybody who watches this show will be laughing for at least every 30 seconds. even the bad jokes are funny, such as "the tactleneck". If you have gotten tired of shows such as Family Guy, American Dad, or The Simpsons (although I highly doubt that this is the reason that anybody would start watching the show), if You need a new show to watch or if you just get bored and need something to do, watch Archer
