Lots of neat things happening in this show. It has a bit of 007 in it, combined with truly enjoyable zaniness. The characters are great fun and the voice acting is phenomenal. As the show progressed, I liked the art style more and more -- culminating in season eight's fantastic use of art deco. While watching the eight seasons, I was convinced that the writer would run out of material. Somehow he managed to keep coming up with interesting stuff. A note to people who want to check this out.... It's targeted at adults and some of the jokes get a bit graphic and maybe a little too over-the-top in the toilet humor department. However, it makes up for it with cool story ideas, strong characters, and great gags. It even throws in super-keen Aliens, Terminator, Six Million Dollar Man, and Blade Runner references. Oh and there's even an animated doppelganger of Lauren Bacall to boot.I'm definitely looking forward to the next two seasons.


                
Archer is James Bond spy spoof like Get Smart but with NC-17 style humor. The main character is a narcissistic womanizing creep but he's not the only one in the show. The entire cast has various personality defects and addictions. Pretty much all of the characters have had some kind of sexual encounter with each other and none seem to really care for fellow human beings. A big part of the humor comes from some characters being morally outraged by the behavior of another while they hypocritically pursue their own selfish interests. What outrageously inappropriate thing will the characters do next? Even with that thin of a gimmick, it still has a lot of appeal. It *IS* genuinely funny, even if the gags do tend to get repetitive and wear thin. You just know that Archer is going to do something sexist and callous at the next turn, his mom is going to be snobby and comically conservative, his ex-girlfriend and fellow agent is going to be conniving and violent, and so on.The writers seem to take delight in taking spy movie clichés and pouring in more ridiculously tongue-in-cheek sex and violence. Ah, the classic spy movie chase through the Alps with machine guns--hey let's make the love interest a 16 year old heiress who winds up topless while Archer blows up snowmobiles. Yeah.Don't expect any good guys or family-friendly situations, but if you enjoy seeing adult humor in a cartoon more thoughtful than South Park, give Archer a try.


                
A review from a humble viewer who knows that criticizing is easier than creating.The show is successful for me because Archer's complex and narcissistic personality is so well matched with a spy character. As a result, the farther away the plot wanders, the less interesting and more physically vulnerable Archer becomes. It is like watching a new Superman movie where Superman wears a kryptonite necklace; not for a scene or two but for the entire movie. It feels like the creator/writers are just bored of the show. This season, they have tried to freshen things up by changing all the scenery. Too bad, because Archer's life as a spy could have so many more wonderful plot lines that were never explored in earlier seasons. Lastly, I love call-back humor but the frequency this season has become ridiculous and it just seems to scream laziness now. A script that includes a lot of call-backs needs new humor constantly feeding it as well. Otherwise, it comes across like a pyramid scheme of humor (destined to collapse under its own weight). For me, season 7 became much more entertaining with each new episode so I am still hopeful because overall I really, really enjoy Archer.
wow, I had to add more words in order to submit my review to make it 10 lines of text, Archer (the main character) would just shag the person in charge of these rules and make them forget about them... Anyways, read on because it's right to the point :)The series is drawn like a bad He-man cartoon, so obviously the animation style isn't why it's so high on ratings. It's a no holds barred kind of cartoon, the humour is something that you wouldn't expect to see on TV. Being a bartender, our sense of humour is crooked to say at the least, so to me this series offers very little, but I really do understand people loving the shock effect of having cartoon characters just tearing into subjects that are politically incorrect, in so many ways! But besides the "rattling" effect, this series is rather boring.


                
This show has to be one of the funniest shows out there at the moment. This show follows the life and missions of Sterling Archer (Voiced by Bobs Burgers H. Jon Benjamin) , an international spy who works at ISIS (International Secret Intelligence Service). The series has a cold war era theme running, where sterling travels around the world on secret missions, but that is only half of it. Sterling has a huge ego complex, believing he is the greatest secret agent ever, and Gods gift to women, he is also dealing with unbelievable mother issues (it doesn t help that his mother is his boss at the agency) and working with and going on missions with his ex girlfriend. His father is head of the KGB and the doctor/scientist at ISIS is a coked up ex Nazi.This show is full of violence, curse words, drugs, everything you could imagine to make it one hell of a show. Go Watch
Archer was far better than I expected. It was like Family Guy with harsher comments, and a coherent story. This show is centred around the Isis (an international spy agency) agents and they're ridiculous lives. It's not so much that they are just a little odd, they are all so far-fetched, it really shouldn't work yet for some reason, I kept tuning in. Every character has an interesting story to tell or take on things, most should be locked up by now, and the action sequences really do sell the point of mockery.I have always felt that animation holds more scope for obscurity and absurdness. Archer manipulates this very well. When I think about the show, I can just hear H. Jon Benjamin yelling 'Lana' over and over. Shows that have a catch-phrase seem to sit better with me.If you love being shocked by language and mainly by an intelligent use of language, to offend (not just cuss words) then you will most probably put this on a loop and love it. It's pretty f****** good.


                
This spy comedy series is very adult And a bit hit and miss with the comedy. It tends to aim for perverse sexual jokes which get old.


                
This series finds its own line of comedy distinct from other adult cartoons on netflix. It's a mix of sheer absurdity and bluntness that can definitely bring on the laughs. I'm not a huge fan of the "comic" style of cartoon - I feel it holds it back from being funnier at times. All in all, still enjoyable.


                
