It was a great animated comedy show..umm correction..the GREATEST animated comedy show.Its gone downhill from season 7.Danger island is the worst.I cant believe I am struggling to find a laugh.We miss the original spy comedy.It was perfect.Bring it back.


                
In only 22 minutes, Archer gets away with referencing dirty sex every scene, showing off the backside of a woman with the sting of a ping pong paddle still red, and being a very funny, witty new show! It gets away with them because it is funny and also happens to be animated. The animation really works with the style of the show.Who said comedy is best when it's offending at least one body of people? There's something for everyone to love in this show and probably something for everyone to hate in this show. The first episode I saw last night was very promising. I haven't seen a quirkier show in a long time. It really moves to the beat of its own drum. The pace is very fast and what struck me was, besides the absurd situations and hilarious dialog, the basic plot line has actually been very coherent and interesting.Don't miss this show. It's got a lot going for it.


                
This show caught me off guard. I dismissed it without giving it a chance at first, but then went ahead and watched it on demand. I am sure glad that I did. Archer is an over the top raunchy fest based on the doings of a supposed spy firm. You have Sterling, an insecure guy who thinks very little, does very many, and says just enough to keep us laughing...mainly because he is so stupid. You have Malory, an unhappy boss who loves an enemy, hates being Sterling's mom at times, and has shown more than once to be off her rocker. You then have Lana(L-a-n-a), Sterling's Ex who isn't over Sterling. She is also a no nonsense, ass whipping babe. This show nails it. I highly recommend it.


                
Season 1: Great
Season 2: Better
Season 3: Amazing
Season 4: Fantastic
Season 5: Amazing
Season 6: Great
Season 7: Amazing
Season 8: BadThis is probably one of my favorite TV comedies, its weird callbacks and jocks may drive off some viewers at first, but drive in and you'll find an instant cult classic. Of them all, Season 3 would have to be my favorite, I don't know why but people think that the Archer Vice change wasn't a good idea, but I think it absolutely was. It shook it up so it didn't stay the same for too long. Season 8 could be described by one word: Boring. I was only able to get to episode 2 before having to take a break and watch the good Archer episodes. This may seem like a lot to you, but I have binge-watched an entire season in one sitting, that shows how boring it is. All in all, this would have gotten a ten if it wasn't for Season 8.


                
Having only seen bits and pieces of Archer, I was very skeptical to give it shot; but having accidentally forgotten to cancel my Netflix trial account I decided to give the show a three episode trial; and I am glad that I have; I am not a guy that is easily brought to laughter, for me, visual content has to be matched with brilliant witting to give me chuckle; but this show had me literally laughing out loud.Sterling Archer is neurotic, superficial, obnoxious, narcissistic, and dealing, like most men, with awkward mommy issues. However for each of his flaws there is a grandiose compensation in raw talent. His superb combat skills are only outmatched by his wit. His command of the English language, as well as Russian, is borderline educational for the viewers.But not just him, each character has so much personality that you just have to love them. From an insane scientist, that uses his coworkers as lab rats, to a pot smoking secretary, all characters bring something unique to the show.This show is a gem, a huge leap forward for the American animation in Japanese dominated market. The writers, the animators, and the voice actors are all just brilliant. And with great enthusiasm I just want more Archer.


                
Max Prodanov and barry-j-kelly don't know what funny is. Archer, in my humble opinion, is one of the funniest shows to hit TV, ever. However, this humor isn't for everyone, like Max and Barry whom both lack any sense of wit, and are probably both wrinkly old farts with a complete lack of ability to take this show in its context. Archer is the Mount Olympus of witty, vulgar, and walk-the-line comedy. If you like South Park, you will love this show (at least the 1st season, the 2nd is great but pales in comparison to the 1st). The character Archer, codenamed Duchess, is a confused adult in a child's body. His dysfunction is a pure result of his overly wealthy and scandalous mother's own problems in which she passed to her son. Lacking his own sense of security and individuality, Archer's character reflects his insecurities in combination with his good looks and physical abilities to become one of the funniest animated characters on television (Possibly 2nd only to Cartman).


                
Cartoons are for kids. Or are they? Archer definitely falls into the latter and that's a good thing. This is a half hour animated series with a lot of sexual innuendo and a touch of violence here and there about a super-spy with the suave looks of James Bond and the air-headed lack of deductive reasoning of "The Pink Panther's" Inspector Clouseau. What makes the Sterling Archer character so funny is the fact that he really believes he's a lot smarter than he actually is. He's a clueless wonder in a black turtleneck. While the other main characters are great (sexy spy/former love interest Lana, steel hearted mother/head of Isis Malory, numbers-man/nerd extraordinaire Cyril), it's the secondary characters in this show that make me laugh out loud, particularly "any way the wind blows" ball buster Pam and the hilariously demented head scientist, Krieger. What makes this show truly amusing is clever writing, excellent graphics, and wonderful voice work. Every new episode is funny and I hope FX will keep re-newing this animated comedy for years to come.


                
This show is hilarious, mainly because of the characters. Archer is a narcissistic prick who never takes anything seriously, so it usually leads to a lot of irrelevant ridiculous conversations happening in the middle of gunfight. Lana is his ex girlfriend and partner, and absolutely hates his guts. He spends all of his time trying to annoy her. Despite being renowned as a world class spy, he's often drunk, not paying attention, or paying copious amounts of ISIS funds on personal splurges. The only reason he's even employed is because his mother owns ISIS, a completely immoral, manipulative rich old woman with a drinking problem. Then there's Pam, the fat dorky HR chick who drag races with the yakuza and fights in underground fight clubs. And Cyril, the nerdy accountant, Carol, the masochistic billionaire secretary who's practically psychotic. And Krieger, the perverted, possibly necrofeliac tech guy with his own virtual Japanese hologram girlfriend.And as if that wasn't enough there's also Barry, the psychotic Cyborg, the head of the KGB with a love affair with Archers Mother, Space Pirates, somolian pirates, flamboyantly gay hit men, a shitload of danger zone references, and a pet ocelot.Also in the latest season, dubbed "Archer Vice", the entire team switches over to the dark side of espionage, with hilarious and dysfunctional results. This latest season deserves a 9, but i probably would have given the show overall an 8 had it not been the only one of its kind. It does make it into my top 5 favorite cartoons, with Family Guy, Metalocalypse and Superjail. I'm loving the latest episodes, and i'm extremely disappointed when they end, mainly because they're just not long enough, its like a snack that just makes you hungrier. I could go for another few hours of archer at least.


                
Archer is an amazing TV show. It is truly hilarious but it loses its touch during the later seasons when they have new settings each season, it doesn't feel the same, which can be refreshing but also makes the show not feel the same. 9/10
This show Archer is hilarious I love the relationship between the characters. It seems they are all dysfunctional people that can't stop having sex with each other. I also, love the sexist, racist and stupid jokes. I love the episode of the ocelot and Archer on the train and he yells at the ocelot. I love the fact that Katya and Archer kept falling in love. And I love the whole crazy Barry skits! This show is also hilarious with Aisha Tyler voicing Lana Kane always has me laughing at the fake hatred for Archer and how its actually her trying to hide her emotions that she is in love with Archer and the same thing happens with Archer to Lana.
"Archer" is a cartoon with no redeeming social values...none. It features dialog peppered with obscenities, there is quite a bit of sex and sexual situations, the 'heroes' have absolutely moral compass and there are drugs, drugs, drugs galore. So, it clearly is a great little cartoon to watch...just don't let your kids, your mother or your preacher know you enjoy this show. And, there is plenty to enjoy-- mostly because the characters are funny, strange and like nothing you've ever seen. As for the stories, initially they are about a strange agency which does spying...for money. In other words, they are like mercenaries of the spy world. And, when that doesn't work out well (mostly because all their agents are idiots and have questionable sanity), they resort to selling cocaine. All in all, one of the most morally reprehensible yet funny cartoons you can watch. Just don't say I didn't warn you!


                
If someone had told me I would lust after a cartoon KGB agent, I would have said they were dreaming, but Katya had me with her first purr. And I was hooked into one of the most addictive and funny programs I've ever seen.Key to it all is H. Jon Benjamin's voice as Sterling Archer, the most dangerous secret agent in the world. Somehow this series has created a full-blown character who is unbelievably real and familiar. Archer is even more vivid than any of the Bonds I've seen, even Sean Connery. That is truly amazing.It's goofy fun that makes use of every spy trope there is. Archer is a consummate lover and master spy who takes crazy risks and works for his mother voiced by Jessica Walter (who has made an uncannily wise choice in taking up the role).So far not one of the episodes has failed to made me laugh out loud. That's saying quite a lot.


                
When I first saw commercials for Archer when it came out, I honestly didn't have much interest in watching the show. I started watching based on the recommendations of a few friends, and I was hooked. I pretty much blew through all 6 seasons in a week. It's stupid, and a lot of times weirdly dirty but at the same time there is also some really smart humor in there that just takes you by surprise. I don't watch a lot of cartoonish humor but the animation on this show is realistic, so you forget that it is a cartoon (with the exception of Archer being seriously injured in basically every episode). Not for recommended for those easily offended, but if you have a good sense of humor, you will enjoy this show.
Hands down one of the most innovative ideas for a show in the post 9/11 era.To begin, it's hard to ignore that the war in Iraq / Afghanistan has taken military culture into the mainstream through news / media, but an overt byproduct of post 9/11 culture among many 20- 30's men is the rebirth of male dominated delusions of wartime grandeur; and specifically that of the personification and dream of a world-class super spy. Archer delivers the ultimate satirical representation of our own concept of a super-spy, and takes it a step further by picking apart different facets that comprise our understanding of espionage. From the initial obvious comparison of the main character to say a "James Bond" type, Archer takes the traditional thought of the type of man committed to honor and integrity and breaks down the true stereotypes of the type of secret agent/military man who, either by experience or predisposition, is incapable of actually living his or her life with that type of integrity on a daily basis. While well intended, Archer personifies the extreme social byproducts that surround the culture of espionage. It also references mainstream characters, movies, and shows that have contributed to the perception of spies or would influence the type of person that would fantasize about becoming a super spy. Additionally, the show brilliantly ties in professionally void characters that in reality would play a significant role in the business of espionage; from Pam in HR, to Cyril in accounting, the support network that makes up the business is also fair game and as the show progresses, the characters and their importance to the value of the show progress as well.Overall, Archer is amazing. I highly suggest watching each season in order as it will provide a more enjoyable viewing experience as the viewer may pick up on progression in the show and it may flow easier.


                
Love it, the jokes, the puns, the dry wit. The rotoscope animation is awesome, reminds me of a similar effect done in the "A Scanner Darkly" movie. The character dynamics are pretty good. The changing themes each season also refresh the show. Definitely watchable as light entertainment, don't take it to serious. enjoy the ride that is Archer!


                
The seventh season of this hilarious cartoon comedy began and ended with a mystery and image. Archer, voiced by iconic voice actor H. Jon Benjamin, floats in a pool with gunshot wounds bleeding out. The entire season is a flashback to how the group of bumbling spies now turned private detectives got into this situation. Archer and the gang had lost out of their secret spy agency once called ISIS, for obvious reasons, in the sixth season when they were dissolved and forced to work for the CIA. This introduced the character Slater voiced by Christian Slater who reappears in this season for a cameo episode. For the most part, the Figgis Agency lead by Cyril Figgis, voiced by Chris Parnell, because he is the only one with a detective license. They mostly work for Veronica Deane and her agent or lawyer Alan Shapiro, voiced by Patton Oswalt. Archer with his immeasurable charm and machismo woos Deane much to the chagrin of his baby's mother Lana Kane, voiced by the very funny Aisha Tyler. Lana gets jealous and flirts with the director, which makes Archer jealous. There are plenty of fun moments throughout this season like many of the previous ones where their arguments go on while they are in a shootout, high-speed chase, or hostage situation.After season 8: The comedic cartoon series about the hard-drinking and wild shooting secret agent jumps back into a different era for its eighth season of FXX. Archer (H. Jon Benjamin) is in a coma and experiences a strong dream that transports him back to 1949. He's a hard-drinking private detective who is still coping with PTSD after the World War II. The investigation of his partner Woodhouse's murder brings him to the nightclub dreamland owned by Mother (Jessica Walter). He falls for the singer Lana Kane (Aisha Tyler) and is unaware of the secret experiments going on beneath conducted by Doctor Krieger (Lucky Yates). Archer become ensnared in a strange circumstance where a wealthy heiress Cheryl Tunt (Judy Greer) wants to fake her kidnapping and it is investigated by two detectives Pam Poovey (Amber Nash) and Cyril Figgis (Chris Parnell). With the gang all in different roles, they maneuver around Los Angeles scheming and stealing from one another. Krieger's experiment on Dutch (Dave Willis) get out of control and the cyborg becomes a wild killing machine after being injured by Archer. Lana's band including Ray Gillette (Adam Reed), Cliff (Wyatt Cenac), Floyd (Keegan Michael-Key) and Verl (Wendell Pierce) are constantly getting into to trouble and wind up in prison.Check out more of this review and others at swilliky.com
Archer is my favorite new comedy, and follows only south park as my favorite TV comedy ever. Think of an animated James Bond that is incredibly dumb but raunchy. The episodes are only 20 minutes each, so the seasons are easy to get through. Each episode is fast moving, and the situations are just as ridiculous as the one liners that result from them. Don't be fooled, Archer is low brow humor. Some people will think it will be just to much, which is understandable. I personally find the slapstick humor to fit perfectly with how the animations are set up within each situation. The first 3 seasons are especially funny. I would rate those seasons a 10/10. The few seasons after that got a little repetitive but was still funny. The characters are all unique and add to the show in their own way. Its very rare that I enjoy every character in a show, but they all make me laugh. They keep getting crazier and crazier! There are very few dull moments and the humor is constant during from start to end.If you want a good laugh, add Archer to the top of your watch list. 8/10


                
This is one of the funniest TV Shows I've ever seen. It's almost as subversive as South Park. True, season one is not that funny, but it picks up after that and then just get's better and better. Once you are familiar with all the characters it's just outright hilarious all the way through. The pacing, the in-jokes, the unpredictable plot is just very well done. I don't think you even need to be familiar with the James Bond franchise to appreciate the humour.Everyone has their favourite character apparently, or at least one that comes up with the best one-liners. I was very happy for Dr. Krieger to get more air time in the later instalments, but after the end of season 6 Cheryl Tunt is my absolute favourite. Everything she says is just so spot on. Give it a try and at least make it till the end of the second season to determine if it's your kind of humour.
Written extremely well. H.jons Voice is comedy gold. Always has been. The running gags are a plenty, and always funny.And the list of guest spots is in the hundreds. You'll either love it or hate it. And it's a treasure trove of useful and useless trivia. As well as a conspiracy history masterclass


                
After being introduced to Archer, an animated comedy that is definitely aimed for adults and not children, I have found myself a TV series where I can actually have a good laugh. It's rapid fire raunchy humour may not be for everyone, but it's certainly something that is right up my alley.Archer centers on Secret Agent Stirling Archer code name Dutchess (voiced by H. Jon Benjamin). Archer is highly proficient in espionage, firearms, unarmed combat and loves the thrill of the high life through his pursuits of sex with lots of women, alcohol, gambling, designer clothing and fast cars which is frequently seen as his downfall and often sees him in trouble. While Archer is a more than capable agent, the truth of the matter is that he is grossly negligent, reckless, very impulsive, and extremely self centered and egotistical. Archer's high success rate is mostly through sheer dumb luck. Archer works for ISIS also known as the International Secret Intelligence Service which deals with global espionage. He answers to his micromanaging, domineering boss Malory Archer who also happens to be his emotionally-distant mother. Archer must also contend with fellow ISIS agent and ex-girlfriend Lana Kane (voiced by Aisha Tyler) who is also very competent and deadly but is frustrated at being treated as the #2 agent behind Archer. Archer also works with fellow ISIS employees including gay intelligence analyst/field agent Ray Gillette (voiced by Adam Reed), comptroller Cyril Figgis (voiced by Chris Parnell), gossip mongering HR Director Pam Poovey (voiced by Amber Nash), secretary Cheryl Tunt (voiced by Judy Greer), and researcher Dr. Krieger (voiced by Lucky Yates).Archer is more of a comically anachronistic version of the spy genre which mixes various decades of pop culture throughout the series and there is no set time era to the series. The humour throughout the series is non-stop. And just because it's animated doesn't mean that it's for kids. It's definitely aimed at an adult audience who love their humour to be juvenile and raunchy, and it's a definite treat.Archer is hilariously awesome and I'm glad I discovered this show through a friend who showed it to me. I'm hooked now, and Archer has been added to my shows to watch.9/10.


                
I was never much of a fan of animated film nor television. Since South Park I do try some series from time to time though. I have tried BoJack (loved it) then I've tried Rick and Morty (not so much) and then I've tried Archer. I was a bit disoriented at first. The characters are a bit overboard and the humor is very specific so it took a while for me to get into it. Now I am in love with the show. It is a comedy show, so let's talk about the comedy in it. As I said, the humor is very original, mostly in it's absurdity and randomness but also in it's speed and the way it is cleverly put together. Don't expect any warm family show, all the characters hate each other and do horrible stuff to each other, often accompanied by racial or sexual orientation related puns and insults. If you like people doing drugs, alcohol and/or sex on TV and don't get insulted easily, Archer shall welcome you with his warm embrace.


                
I like these jokes, plot and that deep of Archer character. Really - show-makers can be proud of what they done. Every one wants to Archer: drinking all the time, looking great and fresh, banging girls and bad guys. That's a good reflection of our age. And relations with mother - hope to find more and more psychological keys to Archer's past.Not all of my friends did like this cartoon but most of them did. I even red some books that were mentioned. I advice this show to those who like original humor. Hope to find more and more seasons of it. Don't stop, you're doing great!


                
