Hayao Miyazaki has no equal when it comes to using hand-drawn animation as a form of storytelling, yet often he is being compared to Walt Disney.  That is just so unfair, because it becomes apparent by watching Miyazaki's films that he is the superior artist.  He really has a gift of thrilling both grownups and children, and Laputa is indeed one awesome ride.But where can I begin to describe a movie so magical and breathtaking! Miyazaki's works have never cease to amaze me.  Laputa is an adventure of a grand scale and I wonder how a film can be so packed with details and imagination.  Ask yourself this question: if you are a kid dreaming of an adventure so grand in scope and so magical, what would it be like?  The answer would be to strap yourself in some seat and watch Laputa, because it's truly a childhood fantasy come true.  Every minute of the movie is rich and engrossing ... from the train chase to the amazing air-flying sequences... and to the wonderous sight of the floating castle itself.  Not to mention the excellent score by Joe Hisaishi!  Everything you ever possibly want from an adventure movie is here.


                
Have you ever wished that you could escape your dull and stressful life at school or work and go on a magical adventure of your own, with one of your closest friends at your side, facing all sorts of dangers and villains, and unraveling the mystery of a lost civilization that's just waiting for someone to discover all its secrets? Even if you're not quite that much of a fantasy-lover, have you ever wished you could simply experience what it's like to be a kid again, and not have a care in the world, for just a couple of hours? This is exactly what Miyazaki's "Castle in the Sky" is all about. Pazu, a young but very brave and ambitious engineer, lives a rustic life in a mining town until one day, a girl named Sheeta falls down from the sky like an angel and takes him on a journey to a place far beyond the clouds, while all the while they have pirates and military units hot on their trail. Simply put, it is just the incredible adventure that every kid dreams of at one point or another, and I can't help but feel my worries melt away every time I see it.As it is one of Miyazaki's older works and takes much place in the everyday world, the film is not as visually spectacular or deep in its storyline as Spirited Away, Howl's Moving Castle, or even Princess Mononoke. Still, I find it difficult to say that any of these films are superior over the other, because all three of those films are, at some point or another, mystical to the point of being enigmatic, if not perplexing, especially for the youngest of viewers."Castle in the Sky", on the other hand, doesn't try so much to be an allegory of any kind, and it's not a coming-of-age story either; it is instead quite possibly one of the best depictions of the inside of a child's mind I've ever seen. Not only is the artwork beautiful, but the use of perspective from the kids' eyes is just amazing; whether it's the panning up of the "camera" to see the enormous trees or clouds overhead, or the incredible sense of height from looking down at the ground or ocean while hundreds of feet in the air, I just can't help but FEEL like I'm there with Pazu and Sheeta, just a kid in another world, far far away from reality.Even the kids themselves don't have a complex relationship that suggests a need for hope like Ashitaka/San or Chihiro/Haku; Sheeta is Pazu's angel, having literally fallen into his life from the sky one day, the absolutely perfect person for him right from the very start. As the film progresses, more and more of their true adventurous childhood spirit comes out through their kind words and beautifully realistic facial expressions. Not only are they an adorable reminder of who I used to be, but their endearing friendship never lets up throughout the whole film, only growing stronger all the way to the last frame. For that reason, I've fallen in love with the two of them more than I have with any other Miyazaki couple.At the same time, "Castle in the Sky" is such an easily accessible film because no matter what kind of casual moviegoer you may be, you'll be sure to find your fix here. Mystery, action, drama, comedy, suspense, sci-fi, romance, even some western...it's all here, just about everything people go to the movies for (except maybe horror). This why I can easily recommend it as a first Miyazaki film; it's perfect for those who have no expectations from having already seen the incredible otherworldliness of some of his more recent works.Even the ending song of the film, when translated into English, conveys the sense of longing for the discovery of some kind of lost civilization, and some kind of soul-mate, that could not be found in our mundane lives. "The reason I long for the many lights is that you are there in one of them...The earth spins, carrying you, carrying us both who'll surely meet." Miyazaki has always provided poetic lyrics to make ending songs out of Joe Hiasashi's gorgeous scores, but this is the only one I've seen that's both a touching love song and an inspirational dream. I have found myself near tears just listening to it."Castle in the Sky" may not be Miyazaki's most developed, spectacular, or meaningful work, but it's absolutely perfect for what it really was meant to be: a true vision of childhood fantasy, and a wonderful escape from reality for any adults who wish they could have the same wonderful sense of imagination they had when they were just carefree little kids. Sit back, relax, and love it for what it is.


                
I have seen just about all of Miyazaki's films, and they are all beautiful and captivating. But this one rises above the rest. This movie totally impressed me!I fell in love with Pazu and Sheeta, and their sweet, caring friendship. They were what made the movie for me. Of course, the animation is also superb and the music captures the feelings in the film perfectly. But the characters are the shining point in this movie: they are so well developed and full of personality.Now, let me clarify: I'm really talking about the Japanese version of the movie (with English subs). While the English dub is good (mostly), it simply pales in comparison to the original language version. The voices are better, the dialogue, everything. So I suggest seeing (and hearing) the movie the way it originally was.


                
This is one of the best animated family films of all time. Moreover, virtually all of the serious rivals for this title came from the same creative mind of Hiyao Miyazaki and his Studio Ghibli. Specifically, other great films include "My Neighbor Totoro" and "Kikki's Delivery Service." Spirited Away is quite good, but a bit too creepy for typical family fare - better for teenagers and adult. The one thing that sets "Laputa: Castle in the Sky" apart from other films by Miyazaki is that it is far more of a tension-filled adventure ride.Why is this film so good? Because it's a complete package: the animation is very well done, and the story is truly engaging and compelling.Most Japanese anime is imaginative, but decidedly dark or cynical or violent; and the animation itself is often jerky, stylized, and juvenile. None of these problems plague Castle in the Sky. It has imagination to burn, and the characters are well drawn, if slightly exaggerated versions of realistic people. (None of those trench-coat wearing posers) There is plenty of adventure, but not blood and gore. The animation is smooth, detailed, and cinematic ally composed - not a lot of flat shots. The backgrounds are wonderful.The voice acting in the dubbed English version is first rate, particularly the two leads, Pazo (James Van der Beek) and Sheeta (Anna Paquin). The sound engineering is great, too. Use your studio sound, if you've got it.One aspect that I particularly enjoyed is that much of the back story is left unexplained. Laputa was once inhabited, and is now abandoned. Why? We never know. We know as much as we need to know, and then we just have to accept the rest, which is easy to do because the invented world is so fully realized. Indeed, it is fair to say that the world is more fully realized than most of the minor characters, who are for the most part one-dimensional stock characters (e.g., gruff general, silly sidekick, kooky old miner, etc.) Highly recommended for people aged 6 to 60!


                
It's always difficult to put a stamp on any film as being 'the best,' whether of all time, a certain genre, or what have you, but I believe a strong argument could be made that in fact, Laputa is the greatest animated film ever made. It is in my mind the masterwork of Hayao Miyazaki, the most talented of Japan's animated directors, and it best captures his strengths as a director, storyteller, and designer, as well as encapsulating all of his favorite underlying themes. The version I'm reviewing is the 2003 American dub (I know, sacrilege for a hard-core anime fan to not watch it in its native language); there is at least one other English language dub out there, I have it on VHS (I have no idea from what source), and that version is the single best dub I have ever encountered of any film. But I thought it better to concentrate on the version people can actually find.Laputa tells the story of a boy named Pazu (voiced by James Van Der Beek here), who's growing up in a mining town when one day a young girl named Sheeta (Anna Paquin) literally drops from the sky. It seems she is being pursued by a sinister government agent, Colonel Muska (Mark Hamill), who is more interested in the magical crystal that hangs around her neck. To keep things lively, there's also a wickedly funny pirate gang after the crystal, led by the aging but still boisterous Dola (Cloris Leachman). The plot revolves around the crystal's ability to reveal the location of the fabled flying city of Laputa, a potential treasure trove of scientific knowledge and hidden treasure. It's all very much in keeping with a fairy-tale setting, but Miyazaki knows exactly how far to take the story, and the plot is peppered with 'gosh-wow' moments and threaded with his customary morality and warnings about abusing the power of nature.The design work on Laputa, nearly twenty years later, is still revolutionary. Flying machines of all sorts abound, utterly impossible but so meticulously designed that you instantly accept them without blinking. The world is set somewhere around the start of the twentieth century, with telegraphs and ancient motorcars alongside those wonderful impossible flying machines. But it is the city itself that is sheer brilliance in execution; Laputa is both the Garden of Eden and the Fire of Heaven itself, and in that juxtaposition lies its appeal, its power, and its danger.Besides being a thoughtfully designed and beautifully rendered film, Laputa is blessed with a wonderful sense of cinematography. From sweeping flying shots to high speed chases on tiny one-man flyers to ships submerging into the clouds as if they were water, Laputa displays a scope that most films <U+0096> even with the magic of CGI <U+0096> can only daydream about. Though we only see a small fraction of this world, its simple elegance extends beyond the borders of the frame and we have no trouble believing in it. The film also contains one of my favorite, if not the most exciting, action sequences ever: a guardian robot that fell to Earth is accidentally reactivated and wreaks havoc on the fortress it is kept in, all the while trying to protect Sheeta (who was the one who woke it up). Meanwhile, Pazu and the pirates swoop in on their little flying machines to snatch her, literally, from the jaws of destruction. From the horrific sight of the robot incinerating the countryside to the exhilarating last-second rescue, the entire sequence is a masterpiece of timing and camera angles and knowing exactly how far to take the audience.It helps that Laputa has an amazing score. Composer Joe Hisaishi captures the wondrous beauty of this world, the dewy innocence, the exciting action, and the creepy otherworldliness of the flying city and its bizarre robot guardians. Though he re-recorded it for this DVD release (which IMO is not an improvement over his original score), adding pieces here and there, the score matches the visuals perfectly, a rare total union of sound and vision.This isn't a bad dub. I'm inordinately fond of the older English dub, and this one over-explains things just a tad in spots, but I was almost shocked how closely these voices matched those (and those matched the Japanese pretty well). Dola in particular is hard to get right, but Leachman is spot on as the fiery old pirate woman (her sons aren't quite as good as the original). Paquin does a good job as Sheeta, and Mark Hamill, while I knew it was him early, is more than talented enough to do Muska (I liked the other English dub of Muska a little more, but Hamill's good). Much of the film rests on Pazu's shoulders, and Van Der Beek is wonderful. Listening to him made me think this crew must have had access to the other English dub, because VDB matches up very closely with the original Pazu. Although again watching a dub is grounds for excommunication among the otaku faithful, as much as I love this film, I don't think you're sacrificing a great deal simply watching this particular Anglicized version. John Lassiter of Pixar introduces it up front, and my suspicion is that he, like so many others, simply love this film so much that they tried very hard to ensure its high quality.Miyazaki has had success in America in recent years with Spirited Away and Mononoke (one of his few films I didn't care for), but to me Laputa is still his crowning achievement. Anyone familiar with his later work will almost certainly enjoy this earlier work, and again, this film is a master at the top of his form hitting on every cylinder. I'd pay big money to be able to see this on a large screen; while that will probably never happen, it's good to know that at least this classic has been preserved on DVD.
This is one of my all time favorite movies, PERIOD. I can't think of another movie that combines so many nice movie qualities like this one does. This flick has it all: Action, Adventure, Science Fiction, Good vs. Bad and even some Romance (without even an innocent "peck" on the cheek between the Pazu and Sheeta). Maybe best of all, you don't have to be in Mensa to "get it" and enjoy the movie like you do with some of Miyazaki's other movies (I don't know about you, but I watch movies to take a break from thinking). This is just a flat-out enjoyable movie that everyone will like, so do yourself a favor and go buy it. The only sour note is the American Dubbing. I found Vander-Geek to be just plain annoying. But all is not lost, the original Japanese version is on the two-disc set and it rocks! Who cares if you can't understand spoken Japanese? If you can read at a second-grade level then watch the original Japanese recording with English subtitles. You won't regret it.


                
I first saw this film when I was about seven years old and was completely enchanted by it then but for years was unable to find out what the film was called. now i am twenty one and stumbled upon the film by accident about two weeks ago and bought a copy. although my memory of the film was a little hazy I was in no way disappointed by what I saw. the animation in this film is superb conjuring up an entire world that is so believable and so well animated that you are drawn in to the film by that alone. But this film also has a plot that will enchant and entertain adults and children alike. with a floating island, a mad general, a friendly pirate granny and a well constructed love story this film will not let you down I would recommend this film to any one.


                
Hayao Miyazaki name became prominent with Spitied Away, however what is often overlooked are director's first film efforts. Who remembers that Spielberg directed Duel or George Lucas directed THX 1138? I remember seeing fragments of this movie - almost certainly the last 45 minutes in late 80s and what stuck with me was the visual lushness of the design and animation. So when I found a copy in a well known store for £9 I couldn't resist but buy it. The odd thing is that the last 45 minutes of the movie do not tally with my memory of it (memory is funny that way).Viewing this movie now with all the gained knowledge of artists portfolios is how very like Jean 'Moebius' Giraud some of the artwork is. I can only assume some influence here.When Pazu catches a falling girl (Sheeta) his adventure really begins - the quest for Laputa - a reference to Jonathan Swift's overlooked portion of Gulliver's Travels. With healthy references to Jules Verne it's a basic good vs. bad chase movie with the final portion having the heroes end up on Laputa.This is the portion that is strongest in my memory - the 'pastoral' ecological aspect of Laputa returned to nature - the multitude of robots covered in moss beneath the giant tree. This is, in my opinion, the highlight of the movie - the views of the surface of Laputa, as opposed to the mechanised underground.Although this is the dichotomy of this movie - to show that even technology cannot overcome nature - the irony of the last robot tending the garden and animals. The ending of the movie Silent Running is almost exactly the same.It is incredibly stylish, I would not say 'slick' - very beautiful and organic and a tremendous amount of detail in the buildings, airships and the design and look of just about everything.Myazaki is a true master of this kind of Japnanese anime. Buy this movie and treasure it.
By now you've probably heard a bit about the new Disney dub of Miyazaki's classic film, Laputa: Castle In The Sky. During late summer of 1998, Disney released "Kiki's Delivery Service" on video which included a preview of the Laputa dub saying it was due out in "1999". It's obviously way past that year now, but the dub has been finally completed. And it's not "Laputa: Castle In The Sky", just "Castle In The Sky" for the dub, since Laputa is not such a nice word in Spanish (even though they use the word Laputa many times throughout the dub). You've also probably heard that world renowned composer, Joe Hisaishi, who scored the movie originally, went back to rescore the excellent music with new arrangements. Laputa came out before My Neighbor Totoro and after Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind, which began Studio Ghibli and it's long string of hits. And in my opinion, I think it's one of Miyazaki's best films with a powerful lesson tuckered inside this two hour and four minute gem. Laputa: Castle in the Sky is a film for all ages and I urge everyone to see it.
For those unfamiliar with Castle in the Sky's story, it begins right at the start and doesn't stop for the next two hours. The storytelling is so flawless and masterfully crafted, you see Miyazaki's true vision. And believe me, it's one fantastic one. The film begins with Sheeta, a girl with one helluva past as she is being held captive by the government on an airship. Sheeta holds the key to Laputa, the castle in the sky and a long lost civilization. The key to Laputa is a sacred pendant she has which is sought by many, namely the government, the military and the air pirate group, the Dola gang (who Sheeta and Pazu later befriend). Soon, the pirates attack the ship and she escapes during the raid. She falls a few thousand feet, but the fall is soft and thanks to her pendant. As she floats down from the sky, Pazu, an orphan boy who survives by working in the mines, sees Sheeta and catches her. The two become fast friends, but thanks to her pendant, the two get caught up in one huge thrill ride as the Dola gang and government try to capture Sheeta. One action sequence after another, we learn all of the character's motives and identities as we build to the emotional and action packed climax which will surely please all with it's fantastic animation and wonderful dialogue. Plus somewhat twisty surprise. I think this film is simply remarkable and does hold for the two hour and four minute run time. The story is wonderful, as we peak into Hayao Miyazaki's animation which has no limits. The setting of the film is a combo of many time periods. It does seem to take place at the end of the 1800s, but it is some alternante universe which has advanced technology and weapons. Laputa is also surprisingly a funny film. The film has tons of hilarious moments, almost equal to the drama and action the film holds. I think the funniest part is a fight scene where Pazu's boss faces off against a pirate, and soon after a riot breaks out. It's funny as we see the men compare their strength and the music fits right in with it perfectly.Now let's talk about how the dub rates. An excellent cast give some great performances to bring these characters to life. Teen heartthrob James Van Der Beek plays the hero Pazu, who has a much more mature voice then in the Japanese version, where in the original he sounded more childlike. Either way, I think his voice is a nice fit with Pazu. Anna Paquin, the young Oscar winner from "The Piano", plays Sheeta. This is also a nice performance, but the voice is a bit uneven, she doesn't stay true to one accent. At times she sounds as American as apple pie, but at other times she sounds like someone from New Zealand. The performance I most enjoyed however was of Coris Leachman, who played Mama Dola. Not only is this an excellent performance, but the voice and emotion she gives the character really brings it to life. If there was ever a live action Laputa movie (G-d forbid), she would be the one to play her, you can just imagine her in the role (well, somewhat). Luke Skywalker himself, Mark Hamill is Muska, and this is another top rate Hamill performance. You may be familiar with Hamill from a long line of voice work after he did the original Star Wars movies, but he renders Muska to full evil. His voice sounds like his regular voice and mix of the Joker, who he played for many episodes on the animated Batman series. Rounding out the cast is voice character actor Jim Cummings, who does a great, gruff job as the general and Andy Dick and Mandy Patakin as members of the Dola gang.
Now let me talk about what really makes this dub special, Joe Hisaishi's newly arranged music! For those who have never heard of him, Mr. Hisaishi does the music and like all of Miyazaki's films, the music is very memorable. Each of his scores has it's own personas which fits the particular film perfectly. Now, these new arrangements he has done are more "American like", which I think was the goal of the new recordings. Don't worry, the classic tunes of the Japanese version are still here in great form. The score, to me, sounds to be arranged like this is a Hollywood blockbuster. It has more power, it has more emphasis, it's clearer and deeper. The film's prologue, the first seconds where we are introduced to the airships, has some new music (I am not sure, but I believe when we first saw the ships there was no music at all). But a majority of the music has new backdrops and more background music to enjoy. Things seem very enhanced. In a powerful scene, the music is more stronger then in the original versions. In a calm scene, it's more calmer. Overall, I think many of you will be pleased with the new arrangements an mixes, I highly did myself, and personally think it helps improve the film. I prefer the new score over the old one, and I hope Disney will release or license the music rights to a full blown soundtrack.Another plus side to the dub is that the story remains faithful, and much of the original Japanese lines are intact. In Kiki, I'm sure a few lines where changed, and this is the same way, lines have been changed. But a majority are close or exactly the original lines and dialogue Miyazaki has written. I was afraid some excellent lines would be butchered, but they were there intact. Some new lines have been added as well which help out. But I am not sure whether to consider this a good thing or a bad thing, Disney DID NOT translate the ending song, it was in Japanese. I was mortified when they did completely new songs for the Kiki dub, but with this version it's the original song... in Japanese. So I guess it's good it's still the original, but bad since a majority of people seeing this dub speak English.There is a big down side to this dub, and it deals with how the voices match the character's lips. Of course in any dub it won't be perfect, but I think in Kiki and Mononoke the dubbing of lines to match were much better executed (and Disney had a little bit more time with this one...). Some of the time everything matches perfect, some of the time it doesn't completley match, and in a rare case, someone says something and the lips don't move at all (there's a scene where Sheeta chuckles and her mouth doesn't move one bit).
As far as things about the film itself, these are my thoughts. I thought the most amazing part of Laputa was the animation. From the opening sequence to the ending, the animation is so lush and detailed, you just have to watch in awe. You see the true nature of each character, true detail to their face with extreme close ups and action. You have to give a ton of credit for the effort that these animators put into this film. Everything is so well done and beautifully hand drawn, it's like a moving piece of art. And to think, this was done in the mid 1980's. The animation is quite different from Disney, Ghibli has it's own distinctive flare which is very different, but very good. And after all these years, the colors look as vibrant as ever. Laputa also has tons of action sequences, lots of plane dogfights plus a few on ground. These sequences are so well done and so intriguing, it's scary that they are comparable to a big budget action film. And the finale is just something you MUST see. The sound effects are pure and classic and fit explosions, guns firing and everything else well. And like all Miyazaki films, each one focuses on a different theme (i.g. Kiki: Confidence). This one has a great a lesson on greed and power. People don't realize how greed can take over you, and how having too much power isn't good. People are obsessed with power, and are greedy, and the main villian, Muska, greatly shows this.
All in all, Laputa: Castle In The Sky was a great film to begin with, and is now improved for the most part. I am glad a more mainstream audience now have the chance to see this classic animated film in all it's glory. With a great voice cast who put a lot into the film with the excellent redone musical score from Joe Hisaishi, Disney has done a nice job on this dub and is quite worthy. Though I think the voices matched the mouths better in the Kiki and Princess Mononoke Disney dubs, Castle In The Sky is still a great dub and is worth the long delays because now more can expierence a fantastic film.


                
I first saw this back in the early 90s on UK TV, i did like it then but i missed the chance to tape it, many years passed but the film always stuck with me and i lost hope of seeing it TV again, the main thing that stuck with me was the end, the hole castle part really touched me, its easy to watch, has a great story, great music, the list goes on and on, its OK me saying how good it is but everyone will take there own best bits away with them once they have seen it, yes the animation is top notch and beautiful to watch, it does show its age in a very few parts but that has now become part of it beauty, i am so glad it has came out on DVD as it is one of my top 10 films of all time. Buy it or rent it just see it, best viewing is at night alone with drink and food in reach so you don't have to stop the film.Enjoy


                
Laputa: castle in the sky is the bomb. The message is as strong as his newer works and more pure, fantastic and flying pirates how could it be any better! The art is totally amazing and the soundtrack, which is reused many times after this, (im not sure if this was the first time i heard it) and evokes in me the most emotional sentimental response of any movie soundtrack. Sheeta, the female lead in this movie is totally awesome and the boy, Pazu is also a great role-model--he lives on his own! The plot is classic Miyazaki. I won't give it away, but the end is really great. I rank this as one of Miyazaki's three best with Nausicaa and Spirited Away. Also you may want to check out Howl's Moving Castle when it comes out (sometime next year i hope) If you like Miyazaki check this one out as it readily available in the USA. Enjoy, Piper A


                
Listening to the soundtrack at the moment, the images come back with a vividness that makes my longing for a dry eye very strong (in order to be able to type this). I've seen it twice thus far, and I should be ashamed for having seen it *only* twice.I've seen all Miyazaki & Studio Ghibli films, and they are invariably nothing less than masterpieces (except maybe for Nausicaa which was, even in the non-cut up version too premature compared to the nec-plus-ultra manga). Still, their strength sometimes becomes their weakness, as they tend to get too naive/positive (Chihiro), or, with more nuance, a bit too explicit/moralist (Mononoke). At least, compared to for example the other Ghibli master Takahata (Grave of the Fireflies / Only Yesterday / Raccoon Wars). But not this one.In Laputa, Miyazaki pours all the brilliant storytelling that tellers of tales have gathered and perfected over the ages, combined with a bit of morale, but nicely interwoven with not only a completely transcendental atmosphere, but also with the humor and amusement of for example Totoro. Every single main character is perfectly portrayed with their doubts and fears and their qualities that help them overcome difficulties. The pacing is so perfect that I know of nothing except a black hole that would be able to exert such a gravitational pull on your whole being. The story sets out as an action flic with mysteries hinted at, but when the girl falls from the sky, unconscious, floating with the stone, and the main theme kicks in, you get a glimpse of the grand mystery you're about to uncover, but the story then settles and gradually, over a number of carefully selected scenes of action and serene beauty, builds to an unforgettable climax of melancholy, hope, beauty - like, following days of sombre gloom, finally seeing the horizon on a clear morning, knowing the path walked, seeing the distance ahead, but smiling at the mere fact of being able to catch a glimpse of it.It is so like an exploding white light in your skull that if by the time the credits start rolling you have kept your eyes dry and your mind numb, you should see a therapist.Despite the fact that technically-image-wise some more recent Miyazakis might be more overwhelming, this to me remains his undisputed masterpiece. If you take a fraction of a second to realise that this was made back in 1986, you can only come to the conclusion that Hayao Miyazaki is a genius like a star that appears only once every 200 years. This of course has been suggested before, but to me this is his only film that can, on its own, fully illustrate that simple fact. If you miss this during your lifetime, you'll die with a huge gap - which would be a pity, as the coffin costs the same.


                
As someone who loves great films, I felt bad about not having seen most of Miyazaki's masterpieces. I have yet to see any of them that I would give a score lower than three and a half stars and this is no exception as it's easily a four star movie. I really do think it's great that this film uses both celebrity voices and voice actors, as well as Mark Hamill who's actually both! The animation may not be as good as "Spirited Away", but it's still gorgeous to look at. I have been watching one movie a day since last December and decided to view this as my 300th movie overall.It's because I bought a fairly expensive copy of it. I had heard this set a record for most Tweets about a single subject or something like that. Whatever the record, this was great to watch. It was actually pretty rare that Miyazaki movies had a story with an actual villain in it. They rarely have black and white morality. This film, however, was a great exception and I admit to liking the idea of a more traditional story from him. I've also never seen anything from him that was an outright action movie. Yes, this had great drama, but it certainly had tons of action and explosions! I guess it's kind of weird being a fan of traditional anime like "Dragonball Z", but this appears to obviously be something more cultured. I just think they're both great in their own way and their genres well. I guess this is the closest Miyazaki ever came to a typical action movie. Needless to say, it still has the great emotion that makes his film a masterpiece. The characters are still pretty morally ambiguous. The air pirates seem evil at first, but you definitely lighten up to them as time goes on. It was great to recognize Jim Cummings' voice, especially since I actually met the guy at a con! I love the designs of the robots. I was really impressed at how bad I felt for the original one. Robots are common in anime, but this was a truly emotional take on them. I really did feel sorry for this poor guy as he kept getting injured trying to help Sheeta. You briefly see some magic creatures that almost look like pokemon. It's great to see how such a great artist influenced all kinds of different anime. It takes a little while to get really good, but it's still flawless. This is for kids, adults, and anyone. ****


                
Hayao Miyazaki's Castle in the Sky is a true fantasy masterpiece as well as very well done, and very entertaining. The movie tells the story about a boy named Pazu (voiced by James Van Der Beek) who finds a girl named Sheeta (voiced by Anna Paquin)floating down from the sky with some mysterious crystal on her necklace, and then it comes on to a race against time to find the legendary Laputa (aka the castle in the sky) against pirates and foreign agents in order to get to it to prove that it is real before any one else does. The animation for this film is just excellent, as well as the writing, acting, and the story-line to the film. Miyazki directs this film with adventurous passion, and excellence that he fulfills his effort to direct the best animated Japanese film since Grave of the Fireflies (1988). There is also a great supporting voice cast which includes Oscar winner Cloris Leachman as the leader of the pirates Dola, and the original Luke Skywalker Mark Hamill as Muska one of the foreign agents who wants to use the power of the floating castle for evil purposes. But in the end it is one of the best movies ever made and as well as being s film that I consider to be a Miyazaki classic.
Castle in the Sky (full title Laputa: Castle in the Sky) is another in the extraordinary works in the cannon of Hayao Miyazaki, who is arguably the master of fantasy in animation, worldwide. It's plot should be able to read through easily, at least for anyone who's seen the main conventional point of either the Dark Crystal or Lord of the Rings (probably the former is a little more accurate). A princess has to get to a location with a sacred object- in this case an rock-amulet- and take it to the main power source on Laputa, a secret castle that can barely be said to exist except in rumor. She goes on an adventure with another curious party, a boy, and the two of them have to contend with pirates and a nefarious man in a suit along the way. The twists are turned on a familiar premise at every step, however, because Miyazaki lets his imagination and influences spring out all over the place. We get vines and clouds and Superman-inspired robots! What Castle in the Sky promises is what it delivers full-throttle; it's action and excitement for a family audience (and it's not to sound patronizing; dudes in their 20s and gals in their 30s will love this as much as the little ones who sought out Spirited Away and Totoro so), and humor in bits and pieces as well (maybe not as much as Totoro, or skewed in a surreal way like Mononoke, but it's still there in a light tone with the pirates). And the design overall should capture everyone's fancy; from the Goliath ship to the little details of the robots to the expanse and crevices of Laputa, to what looks like it MUST have been special visual FX animation, it's all mind-boggling and mind-blowing at the same measure. It might not be Miyazaki's ultimate triumph, but it's still great film-making, a triumph of imagination to deliver on a tale of good vs. evil.


                
I know Anime. I've been into it long before it became a national phenomenon; i loved Ranma before most people knew what Dragonball Z even was. And just so you know I'm not bragging about my, let me say this: out of all the animes I've seen, Castle in the Sky is by far one of the best. It's obvious people say Spirited Away is the best, but I really disagree. Most people only know that movie because it one an Acedmy Award; this isn't an exaggeration - I've shown Princess Mononoke and Castle in the Sky to people who'd only ever seen Spirited Away, and they agree that the latter two are the superior of the three. Personally, I'd never thought that anything could compare to Princess Mononoke, until I finally saw Castle in the Sky. I still think that the prior is the better of the two, but Castle in the Sky is easily on par with it; in many ways, Castle has major elements that Mononoke was missing. In either case, if you've only seen Spirited Away, and think that that is Miyazaki's best film, be prepared to have your earth shaken.


                
breathtaking, this is without doubt the best anime cartoon ever made. i first saw castle in the sky in the late 80s as a child and it left a lasting impression. years went by and i forgot the title of the film, and only by chance browsing on the internet i found this masterpiece again. after reading other peoples reviews and analysis I'm not surprised it has such acclaim and touched so many because it does leave an impression. a true fantasy adventure, a must see for all children and adults. its best not giving the story away so i would say watch this movie will a clear and open mind. if you have kids treat them to this i promise you they will love it. there's not much to say about this piece of art but if you've not seen it watch it and enjoy.


                
I first saw Miyazaki's Castle in the Sky in Japanese Class during a hiatus between test and lesson, and I was blown away. I had seen spirited away, so I was somewhat familiar with Miyazaki's work, but this is a masterpiece. The animation is simple but fantastic and magical -a cinematic experience of divine wonderment is created before your trembling eyes. The storyline is complex, but it is centered around the relationship between Sheeta and Pazu. Through the exploration of Laputa, the magical, almost unreal castle in the sky, they find love, happiness, and each other. Prepare to delve into this, the most visually stunning masterwork of the greatest animation director of our feeble and changing time. Face wonder, excitement, romance, and above all else, a backdrop that will inspire even the most weak-hearted, uncreative, and destitute. A+++!!!!


                
Castle in the sky is probably Miyazaki's second best film (after Spirited Away). It is the film that was my introduction to Anime after I saw a earlier English language dub in the 80's. I had the common sense to tape it back then and still have it (although it is somewhat over-watched).
The Disney dub is at least as good as the 80's one (the music sounds richer and some of the voices are better, although Padsu's voice is a little jarring after the voice from the 80's version).As for the plot, Laputa has everything. Robots, airships, levitation stones, flying islands, pirates and Mark Hamill as a bad-guy. Who could ask for more.All in all, I give it a 10.


                
Lapyuta (Castle in the Sky), more than any of Hayao Miyazaki's movies, brings the joy of storytelling to the audience.  It is the kind of movie that makes one feel like a kid again;  it's just magical.  It's a crime that it took this long for it to be released in the states, but now that it's here check it out!  And stick with the original language;  the dub changed my impressions of the characters somewhat, which is something that should be avoided at all costs in a translation of a movie (or book, whatever.)I give it a ten/ten.


                
Animated films can become a lot of things (especially nowadays with updated technology and a newfound respect for the medium), including romantic, life changing, groundbreaking, political, or sometimes just flatout surreal in scale. No longer are animated films just cartoons for kids to watch and enjoy, that stereotype is long gone. However, epic is not a word you can use to describe animated films, because they just don't happen often. Animated movies with the ability to become compared to the likes of Lawrence of Arabia, Gone with the Wind, Ben-Hur, Seven Samurai and other epic films past and present are extremely rare to find. However if there is a man that can weave a blockbuster animated tale, it would be the Japanese answer to America's Walt Disney. Castle in the Sky is epic in scale, with a massive adventure full of lush scenery, incredible action, memorable characters, and a nice dosage of humor. If there is an epic cartoon, it would be this underrated masterpiece.Castle in the Sky follows two kids that met under curious circumstances (Sheeta and Pazu) racing against pirates, the army, and mysterious agents in pursuit of a mythical castle located somewhere in the skies above the clouds. Sheeta is aided by a mysterious necklace given to her by her parents when she was younger. All the competition has their differing reasons on why they want to find the castle, ranging from gold to unleashing God-like powers. The film works mainly because the story is very unique, very original, and quite unpredictable. Written by Hayao Miyazaki, this film is the best evidence that his mind is among the most creative in film-making within the past century.The world displayed here is among the most gorgeous in the history of animation. There are massive airships the size of cities, caves that can look like the bowels of outer space, entire worlds that just float high midair and just entire towns built on the mountainside, leading to some unique and detailed architecture. No computer-work here, as this movie proves that hand-drawn animation's personal touch can be as magical as the best visual effects coming from any computer. The variety in colors and images here trounces those of Miyazaki's more popular works, like Spirited Away and My Neighbor Totoro.The epicness can be mainly traced to the consistent amount of peril and action throughout the two hours of pure movie magic. The opening sequence sets the tone for the rest of the film, while a humorous yet impressive train chase half an hour later provides some of the best thrills ever seen in an animated movie. Every so often humor breaks off the epic taint in the production, but it never dwells or outstays its welcome. Steampunk is a tough sell, since it's a historical and contextual contradiction. But in Castle in the Sky, Miyazaki gives the viewers time to adapt and witness the technological advancements and mannerisms of the characters in the film so you don't become too distracted by the unrealistic nature of it all.Miyazaki is the current Walt Disney, because not only does he avoid sequels (Pixar is unfortunately dwelling in this path) but he does his best to deliver a different animated experience every time he releases something new. Like Walt Disney himself, he can seamlessly blend humor, heart, and suspense all in one. He has the pacing, patience, and abilities of any decent Hollywood director, but with film you can do so much more. You can create shots that real-life cameras could never accomplish; and with animation you can create visuals that not a single CGI machine could ever duplicate. This is perhaps the main reason why Miyazaki avoids too much computer animation and avoids filming real-life altogether. When mentioning great directors like Spielberg, Scorsese, Peter Jackson, and David Fincher, Miyazaki is more than worthy to be mentioned in the sentence.Bottom Line: Castle in the Sky is a flawless work of art that spins audiences into a beautiful world full of steampunk goodness and lush scenery that's obviously influenced by the underrated landscape of Japan. Within the confides of this beautiful world (that travels by sea, land, and air) lies a wonderful story full of humor, heart, action, suspense, and an underlying message that's present in almost all Miyazaki movies. Pixar obviously has taken notes from the works on Japanese Walt Disney, as this movie has scenes and moments that can be compared to those of Finding Nemo, Toy Story, and even Up. If you enjoy excellent animated movies, you cannot miss this gem, as it's entertaining, thrilling, and mystical from the first second to the last.


                
A Perfect 10! A very underrated Miyazaki classic that never gets the recognition that it deserves. It's a wonderful story about a little girl named Sheeta who is found mysteriously floating down from the sky, her new found friend Pazu, an ambitious worker looking for adventure. Through the journey, they encounter the crooked government, good hearted pirates...and oh yeah...a floating mystical world in the sky! There's not much more to say; the animation is beautiful for the time, and the story is absolutely amazing.However, contrary to its appearance, the film truly appeals to both adults as well as children. I strongly recommend this film to anyone aging from 6 to 100. It will warm your heart and make you want to rewind to the beginning and watch it all over again. Long live Miyazaki!


                
Miazaki, only great ideas have come out of your head ever since you started some of the best anime films of all time especially this one. This was the first work of yours i have ever seen which may hold the answer to why I like it the best. The characters Pazu, Sheetah, dola were all developed I especially liked the view on colonel Muska in how he was your friend and your enemy at the same time.The idea of a castle floating in the sky is just amazing, Miazaki I'm sure has one of the most creative minds in the world. I especially liked the background of laputa in which Pazu's father saw it which inspired young Pazu and sheetah to find it although Sheetah was already the Queen or Princess of Laputa. This was definitely my favorite Anime of all time.
This is my all time favorite movie, I watched it a lot as a child and went back to watch it a couple weeks ago. It holds up and will most likely forever remain as my favorite movie of all time. The animation is excellent and don't even get me started on the music. The music is astounding and perfectly sets the tone for each scene. Overall a definite 10/10


                
I feel like the studio and Director would be a give away that this would be good. I don't know what to fully talk about as everything about this show is amazing from the story to the animation to the dub. Even the comedy doesn't get in the way of the great story that lies within this show. Only one or two things bother me but they aren't that big, like when Pazu jumps off his house and ends up breaking through bricks into his basement with no broken bones or nothing. Of course, these problems are minor and don't happen all that much.Miyazaki seems to always have a moral to his stories, this is no different. I think the moral is that any civilization can fall if they think they are to powerful. Laputa, a place that seemed like it was a perfect place had power, wealth, and even a sense of magic. They had something special but even they ended up falling. The story line is full of spoilers if I try to explain even more but there is a beautiful story that is as mysterious as it is sad and thoughtful.The animation is so beautiful and stands up even to this day. All hand done with so much detail and the painting of the backgrounds<U+0085> I could just go on. If you seen others by Miyazaki, you know his style and he never falters. This is one of those times where I just feel speechless to how wonderful his style of art is, the colors just pop even though at times they do end up taking very small short cuts. I also didn't really notice any times where the characters would just stop moving for a very long time with only their mouths moving. He would have them moving even slightly and it would feel realistic. There are even small things like how a character would eat from the dainty way Sheeta eats to the mess that Dola's sons make. One thing I did notice (And it's a slight spoiler I guess) is that his characters sometimes look better with short hair then with long hair. Not telling you what that means but you will find out. The opening is much different then the actual show, feeling more like it was done in a rather old style, highly detailed, even more so then the animation and like they were from detailed renders.The music is so beautiful, with amazing orchestral sounds that you could just fall asleep to. I love everything about Studio Ghibi's work and the music is one of those that I wish I had all the soundtracks. They do not let much go past them that isn't quality controlled. I could listen to it for days without it getting boring. The English dub is spot on, I'm extremely happy it didn't turn into a flop like one of their first tries for English translation.If you have not seen this yet, you have to see it soon. It's a must watch.
