I first saw this film when I was about 8 years old on TV in the UK (where it was called "Laupta: The Flying Island"). I absolutely loved it, and was heartbroken when it was repeated a while later and I missed it. I was enchanted by the story and characters, but most of all by the haunting and beautiful music. It would have been the original English dubbed version which I saw - sometimes erroneously referred to as the "Streamline Dub" (the dub was actually by Ghibli themselves and only distributed by Streamline) which is sadly unavailable except as part of a ridiculously expensive laser disc box-set.Unfortunately I feel that the release has been partly spoiled by Disney. The voice acting is OK but the dialogue doesn't have the same raw energy that the "streamline" dub or the original Japanese had, and I think James Van Der Beek sounds too old to play the lead. They have made some pointless alterations, such as changing the main character's name from "Pazu" to "Patzu", and added some dialogue. But worst of all I feel that they have ruined many scenes with intrusive music - the opening scene of the airships for example was originally silent but has been spoiled thanks to Disney's moronic requirement that there be music playing whenever anyone is not speaking, which I find annoying in many Disney films.This film still blows away most recent animated films, and I cannot recommend it highly enough. The plot is simple yet captivating and the film shows a flair which is sadly missing from most modern mass-market, homogenized animation.


                
Hayao Miyazaki's screenplay here is just excellent. The story is imaginative and at times quite moving, plus there are many funny moments to be had along the way. The characters are however overly silly and only ever lightly developed, but everything else about the script works so well that it easy to forgive its shortcomings. The music is rather charming and the animation itself is great too. Some of the violence does not quite work, but there are so many other scenes that simply radiate with beauty. The running time of over two hours is a bit lengthy, but watching it is by all means time well spent. If not quite the masterpiece that 'Spirited Away' is, this one comes pretty close.


                
First time I viewed this Miyazakian work, I viewed it in the long lost 1986 English dub as I managed to dreg up a VHS from the nether regions of forgotten items. I'm not normally an admirer of dubbings, rather preferring to listen to the film in its truest context, and multi-tasking in the duality required to watch the film. The new dub is not particularly successful however. Optimistic and buoyed by the 86 version, Disney lost the plot. Replacing quintessential humanism and character traits, with big names, for the big return. However, in which ever context you view this film, it is (in a time when the word is so flippantly used) an epic. The humanism and raw emotion coupled with 1930s-esque styled adventure movies provides a sheer hotpot of entertainment ripe for any occasion. The film more than entertains, yet doesn't bare the hallmarks of overrated, nonsensical, unnecessary fight scenes, opting for calmer, yet still thrilling, "chase" and "action" sequences. The plot is encapsulating, checking all the quotas for the Miyazakian masterpiece checklist. Miyazaki is a master of charting adolescent journeying. The emotional growth his characters go through is superbly done, as not to seem condescending or patronising, all the while being simple believable and simply magical.Reviews often delve into the content of the film, revealing spoilers, but merely look at the support for Miyazaki's films on this website alone!!! This doesn't arise from techno-nerds, neo-skaters and all the social sects of pubescent society wishing to carry the cool card by the knowledge of foreign anime. This film is simply stunning. An encapsulating roller-coaster of a journey, with genuine feelings and genuine people (for cartoons). Miyazaki's ratings come from his attention to plot, first and foremost. This is why he's successful, because his movies carry a message but are engrossing and entertaining.This may not be the most helpful review as to the films plot line, but let it be known, once watched you will be addicted. If you've never seen a Miyazaki film before, this is a prime tester, with Nausicaa and Mononoke somewhat on the "heavy" side, and whilst Spirited Away is as close to perfection as cinema can be, it is a dish best served til later, to fully appreciate. Laputa is a film for any mood.Yet, the thing that always stands out for me, is the score. The final moments at the end of the film, when the theme Kimi o Nosete begins, is truly exquisite. Yes, it is 80s in its composition, yet coupled with the emotive nature of the film, never fails to jerk a nerve. Superb story-telling. Superb film.


                
I had the opportunity to view this film in my watchlist when GKIDS was distributing this film to select cinemas across the US, including one approximate to my home. I took my parents to see it, and we had anything but regrets. To start with, the story sent a very powerful message against abuse of power, which in our world seems highly relevant. It presents, again, highly successful sci-fi elements that are intriguing on paper, but are especially wondrous in animated depiction. Speaking of which, the animation is of that kind of quality that seems not to age, which I'm sure had left many in 1986 speechless. The chaotic action scenes, the epic drama, and the comedy are all simultaneously explored highly successfully by what represents S tier Japanese animation. Some of the cast isn't too complex, but those that aren't are still very fun to watch that it didn't take away from the ones who were, namely Muska and Dola (who I couldn't tell until about an hour in who was the villain). The music is pretty brilliant as well, fitting in with every environment and enhancing my personal immersion. What it comes down to is that this film is only now receiving the admiration it deserves, as well as Miyazaki's other movies prior to My Neighbor Totoro. If you are an anime otaku, you WILL enjoy this film. If you're curious, don't at all give it a second thought. Once again, Hayao Miyazaki, I must bow before you to show that I view you as a gift to animation.
This movie is probably the the second best Mayazaki film, the first is Nausicaa, the only reason why is probably because of the two leads voice actors, not that there's anything too wrong with them, their not annoying, its just i couldn't match the voices with the characters, in nausiccaa the voices are perfect. but other than that this movie is probably better than some Disney films, i actually thought it was Disney when i saw it as a little kid. The soundtrack is amazing, the art used for this film is something out of a dream, in fact the plot seems like something out of dream as well, that is what a cartoon movie is supposed to do. Despite not liking the 2 leads voices i like their characters, i like the pirates, and all the townspeople, but i love the villain played by Mark Hamill, who I'm not kidding actually uses his iconic joker laugh in this movie, every time he showed up on screen i felt the tension increase, probably one of the best cartoon villains ever. The movie can be slow a few times, but it not that big of a deal, but when the action starts, your heart starts pumping faster. i prefer this film and nausiccaa to all of mayazakis other work only because here he had bloodless carnage and didn't use too much gratuitous violence or creepy images yet, i know those are his trademarks but i find them sometimes unnecessary, and i think this movie can prove that


                
This is the first film to be made by Japan's Studio Ghibli and as one would expect from that studio it is an excellent film. The animation is of a very high standard and Joe Hisaishi's music fits the movie very well.The film follows the adventures of Sheeta and Pazu as they search for the titular Laputa. In the opening scenes airborne pirates attack an airship that a young girl (Sheeta) is travelling on as a prisoner of Muska, who appears to be an agent of the government. During the confusion Sheeta manages to escape but while fleeing slips and falls from the airship. As she falls the crystal on her pendant starts to glow and instead of plummeting to her death she slowly drifts to earth where she is caught be a Pazu, a boy about her age.The two of them soon end up on the run from both the pirates and the military. When captured by Muska Pazu is let go and told to forget about Sheeta but can't. When he gets home and finds the pirates already there he joins forces with them as they want Sheeta as she can help them find Laputa, which they believe to be full of treasure. Meanwhile Sheeta says a spell which she was taught as a child and her pendent glows and points a beam of light towards Laputa. It also awakens a giant robot, which had fallen from the sky some time before, it proceeds to escape from the castle basement in which it is stored and help free Sheeta. She is then reunited with Pazu and the pirates and they race against Muska to get to Laputa.That is just a brief summary, I don't wish to say how it ends. The film is exciting though out and should be ideal both for children and who want an exciting story that is well told without excessive violence. Some scenes may be a little frightening for younger children but for the most part it is just exciting. As with most of Hayao Miyazaki's films there are plenty of thrilling flying sequences as well as a chase involving a train and a car on an elevated railway line.The only parts I wasn't so keen on were a couple of scenes that seemed somewhat cartoony such as when two characters flexed their muscles and burst of of their shirts in a way that reminded me of "The Incredible Hulk", that said I'm sure it would amuse younger viewers so I can't really hold it against the film. I think it says something about the quality of the animation and the story that such a detail would stand out, after all it is an animated film.I watched the film in Japanese with English subtitles so can't comment on the quality of the English dub.
As the Hollywood oil tanker continues to sail our cultural seas, spilling Hogwaarts students, aristocratic archaeologists and Charlie's Angels like so much poisonous crude oil, a thought occurs to me... 'why not watch a Miyazaki movie and pretend "Agent Cody Banks Goes To Hades" isn't about to be green lit for $80 million'Laputa is a feast in every way. Very rarely are children's characters so subtly and satisfyingly created on film. The relationship between the two leads, Pazu and Sheeta, is at the heart of this stunning fantasy-adventure, but also seeking the lost floating city (for different reasons) are colourful pirates and government agents who complete an excellent and ambiguous character dynamic.The film sits somewhere between Nausicaa and Totoro in terms of Miyazakis themes. It has the epic (and environmental) feel of the former with the latter's more personal focus on children's relationships and how honest friendship can ease the difficulties inherent in growing up. Sound sickly? Well it isn't. Miyazaki has almost supernatural judgment in these matters.For anyone looking for a film they can watch with the kids, you'll find this hard to beat. Nobody can bridge the generation gap like Miyazaki. Frankly, hardly anybody working today can make movies like Miyazaki.


                
It almost sounds demeaning to call this one of the most enjoyable animated films I've ever seen; it is, in fact, one of the most enjoyable films of any kind I've ever seen. Anyone familiar with the work of Miyazaki will find a lot of familiar territory here: the rural setting, the preoccupation with aircraft, the mythic themes. What separates this (along with the hilarious "Porco Rosso") is its playful brand of movie-serial cliffhanger action. There's much more to smile at here than in its more serious cousins such as Mononoke and Nausicaa. It's one of the handful of films that one can point to when trying to demonstrate the heights of which animation is capable.


                
If you are looking into alternative film genre's, then this is as good a place as any to delve into Japanese Anime. The director has been involved in the some of the best animation to come from the East and this 1986 film has now become available on DVD, following Disney's decision to purchase distribution rights.It contains excellent Japanese-style animation,with an accessible family orientated story.The film combines elements as diverse as War of the Worlds, WW1 & 2, The Day The Earth Stood Still, The Industrial Revolution, magic and Fantasy. These themes in the wrong hands could make a terible mess, but are handled to create a plausible, alternative world. The story can seem a little kiddie like in places- it is a family film- but it does not detract from the enjoyment.The newly dubbed English translation has Anna Paquin (Rogue of X-men), James Van Der Beek ( Dawsons Creek! and Rules Of Attraction) as well as Mark "Skywalker" Hamill doing the honours.Do yourself a favour and check out a copy. Also look out for "Spirited Away", "Princess Mononoke","Ghost In The Shell" and "Akira" for other top of the range Manga/Anime.


                
For me it is one of the best Miyazaki's movies. It's more relatable with today's modern world than any other "not for kids" movie. The colors are just stunning and I just can't describe how much I loved the story. Yes Kurosawa is great but Miyazaki should be included in top 10 directors of all time because he has more than 7 ( at least) amazing movies.


                
You know what, they just don't make adventure films like these anymore. I never get that sense of wonderment, awe or anything that stimulates my cerebral cortex that holds my imagination. There's only one person I can rely on, Hayao Miyazaki. A young boy encounters a mysterious girl who has fallen from the sky. He is then entangled in a fantastical adventure to which they must travel to the mythical floating castle of Laputa in order to prevent its true power falling into the wrong hands. Straight off the bat, the animation is stunning. Yet again, every frame just looks like a piece of art. Elegant, ethereal and energetic. The attention to detail never fails to astound me. It evokes pure imagination and creativity that appeals to both mature and younger audiences. Sky pirates, floating islands, sentient ancient guardians and a small dosage of magic. That is the beauty of animation, and Japanese studios know this best. There are no limits to one's creativity and artistic integrity. Miyazaki co-founding Studio Ghibli allowed him to explore his range of concepts and give him freedom to his work. The script contained both heartfelt emotion and sporadic comedic moments that will bring both smiles and character investment. Our main protagonists were adorable, I ship them! Plenty of action and perilous tasks that heightened the tension. Laputa itself was just beautiful, it's clear that many fantasy films and video games took elements from the design of Laputa. The pacing was practically perfect, it's just a shame the ending was incredibly rushed! I literally shouted "Noooo! You were so close to getting a 10/10!". But alas, Laputa is Miyazaki's adventure animation that showcases his best talents. Oh, and the musical score...damn, t'was good.


                
Tenkuu no Shiro Laputa aka Castle in the Sky is tied as my favorite Miyazaki movie. The story of Castle in the Sky is about, you guessed it; a castle in the sky. There's a legend about a floating island castle, called "Laputa" that contains all the riches a person can ever dream of having. The main male character, Panzo believes that the castle exists, and dreams of one day following his deceased father's footsteps, and finding the castle for himself. The only problem is, he doesn't know where the castle is. Then there's the main female character, Sheeta whom Panzo finds falling/floating down from the sky with a shining sky blue necklace that has some sort of relationship to Laputa's location. Panzo and Sheeta begin a friendship, perhaps love relationship and they decide to go on a journey to find Laputa together. But they run into trouble with, and clowny pirates, the greedy army along with some mysterious men led by an even more mysterious man named, Muska.
The stupid army was really funny, as were the pirates. Panzo and Sheeta are your average Miyazaki main characters, absolutely tragic and lovable! Honestly there's nothing to dislike about this anime and so much to love. It's truly a heart-pounding adventure story about friendship, loyalty, greed, and people's connection to nature. The anime starts off innocently and happily, but it quickly becomes darker as the evil ambitions of the antagonists make themselves known. The characters, good and evil, are all fully developed and interesting to watch.


                
There are not many filmmakers like Hayou Miyazaki, especially here in the United States. The Japanese animation director and head of Studio Ghibli films has become a household in both the U.S and Japan for crafting motion pictures bound to push the boundaries of imagination since his directorial debut in the late 70s with 'The Castle of Cagliostro', a film that didn't see the light of day in the U.S until a little over a decade later. Castle in The Sky is a breathtaking adventure that dares to explore the indefinite world of heart and imagination, and what comes about Miyazaki's craftmanship is an journey that is by no means a tear-jerker, but an ultimately moving picture with an appeal for both kids, teens, and adults. Whether you are watching the original Japanese version or the English dub, the magic of Miyazaki's directorial hand shines like gold and transcends the picture into something more than your average family-friendly fairy tale. The film follows young teen Pazu (voiced by James Van Deek), an mechanical engineer who witnesses a young girl Sheeta (voiced by Anna Paquin) floating from the sky by the power of a glowing crystal she wears around your neck. When the two find themselves in a crash course between league of pirates lead by the dubious Dola (voiced by Cloris Leachman) and an army lead by a shady general (voiced by Jim Cummings) and the equally shady Muska (voiced by Mark Hamill), each of whom are after Sheeta to claim the crystal; the two youngster set out on a race to a secret temple floating thousands of feet in the sky. Together, they must learn the secret hidden within the mysterious castle. What Hayou Miyazaki proves is that he is not a filmmaker who takes ambition to granted. Every inch of storytelling he carries is poured into the picture with no amount of ambition squander in the slightest. And the magic of his efforts shine through nearly every frame. Blending elements of high-classed fantasy and science-fiction with a potent touch of human drama, this beautifully animated film hits the right notes from beginning to end, and the excitement upheld in every scene following the introduction of our young characters dares to leaves us gripped. When young protagonist Paza and his newly found friend Sheeta unexpectedly find themselves cross paths with a group of shady individuals and corrupt army officials, tension almost immediately takes hold and set the story in a sleek, solidly-paced motion. And as the story strolls along, an absorbing humanity within the two characters grows; and that combined with the voiced performances by James Van Deek and Anna Paquin are the leading aspects of the character's winning over the hearts of audiences. Although the story is nothing necessarily revolutionary, Miyazaki proves capable of crafting a plot with complex layers mixed with biblical symbolism which is more than likely to fly over children's heads; and that is only part of the whimsical magic lying within the director's grandeur.Castle in The Sky is a spellbinding journey of spectacular proportions, and definitely what earns the title of an outstanding achievement in Japanese animation. Whether you are a child, teenager, or an adult, there is something truly magical to be experienced in this adventure, something that many animated pictures are less than likely to uphold. For what Miyazaki accomplishes here, this is not far from the heights of a blistering masterpiece.


                
This is one of my favorite film by Studio Ghibli. The unique world can only be created by Hayao Miyazaki. The first moment that a girl slowly falls from the sky, in the fantastic sound, audience will be glued to the story. Especially I like the picture of the castle in the sky which spreads after diving into the eye of a storm. I've never seen such an attractive world. The beauty of the picture is one point worthy of note.The story line is quite simple, but suggestively tells something important to us. Varieties of interpretation can be considered. So this animation film is able to entertain not only children but also adults, all generations. I cannot find the worlds but excellent.


                
While originally released in 1986 in Japan, an English version of this film was not widely available until 2003, which caused Castle in the Sky to become somewhat of a black sheep in the Studio Ghibli collection. Don't let this discourage you, however - Castle in the Sky is a fantastic, classic movie that manages to elaborately intertwine the themes of nature, technology, loyalty, and friendship into an epic adventure that still holds strong today.With fast-paced action and beautiful animation, Castle in the Sky is an incredible film-watching experience for any Studio Ghibli lover or fantasy/fiction enthusiast.


                
With the success of Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind, Hayao Miyazaki and Isao Takahata were able to found Studio Ghibli, and this was their first official feature film. And what a great film it was and still is, having withstood the test of time remarkable well. Inspired by Jonathan Swift's novel Gulliver's Travels, it's a tale about a world that has fallen into ruin after a golden age - a common theme with Miyazaki - and the miracles of yesterday have become legends and myths. Including Laputa, the eponymous castle in the sky. Yet there are still those that search for it.In a lot of ways, this is a very good introduction into films directed by Miyazaki. It's a relatively simple story, yet it keeps you hooked from the very first scene. It's very kid-friendly, but has deeper themes and even a few dark scenes. The characters are both memorable and identifiable. Pretty much all of them are the kind of people you would like to know and have along on an adventure - with the exception of one or two, but we'll get to them in a moment. And it has flying machines, industrial revolution -inspired populations, gorgeous animation, hauntingly beautiful music, great action scenes, all that good stuff.Yet I would still rank this amongst my least favourite Miyazaki films. (And yeah, I'm still giving this a nine out of ten. The man's that good.) The reason for that is the fact I think the villain's a bit weak. The character design isn't all that interesting, he comes off more pathetic than menacing and he's quite honestly a bit creepy in a way that doesn't match the tone the film is going for. Bad vibes, is all I'm saying. Still, his voice actor does a good job and he has a few good scenes, so I can deal with him. The side villains are a bit on the same boat, but they have less screen time, so they end up on the positive side.But as my rating should indicate, I think this is a very good film. Fun, engaging, beautiful - the perfect kid's film that adults can enjoy as well. Studio Ghibli couldn't have started its career with a better film.


                
After the huge success of Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind, it's writer and director, Hayao Miyazaki, would go on to establish the now famous Studio Ghibli with fellow animator Isao Takahata in 1985. One year after it's establishment, Miyazaki would direct the first movie officially released under the Studio Ghibli name, known as Laputa: Castle in the Sky (simply renamed Castle in the Sky in later releases). Also written by Miyazaki, Castle in the Sky is a wonderfully made movie, filled to the brim with fun action scenes and hilarious jokes. According to Castle in the Sky's backstory, human civilization built huge cities floating above the clouds before a catastrophe destroyed all but one city, Laputa. Viewed mostly as a legend by civilization down on the ground, nobody is quite sure if it is real or a hoax. One such person is Pazu, a young boy whose father had searched for Laputa himself. One day, Pazu is heading to work when he discovers a strange blue light falling slowly from the sky. Upon investigating, Pazu finds the most unexpected of things: a young girl.Pazu soon discovers that the girl's name is Sheeta, and she has apparent ties to Laputa, which Pazu has his own fascination with. As the two grow closer as friends, a man by the name of Muska and a group of air- pirates, led by a woman named Dola, both of whom were chasing Sheeta in the film's opening sequence, resume their chase for Sheeta, more specifically the necklace she wears around her neck. As Pazu and Sheeta attempt to escape these two groups, they are sucked into a grand adventure that unleashes the secrets of Laputa itself. Miyazaki's tale in Castle in the Sky is a very whimsical adventure full of adventure and excitement. Like his previous movie, Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind, Miyazaki includes themes of environmentalism and war, but they aren't nearly as obvious as they were in Nausicaa. The real strength of Castle in the Sky, however, is the dialogue itself. The screenplay has a good mix of seriousness and humor that works extremely well throughout the entire movie. Although the pacing seems inconsistent, the story and dialogue itself is superb. The voice talent is good overall. James Van Der Meek is a delightful voice for Pazu, although he may seem to old for the character. Anna Paquin voices Sheeta, who is just OK overall. She almost seems to jump back and forth between an attempted American accent and her native Canadian accent, which can seem a bit obnoxious at times. The two actors create amazing chemistry between their two characters though, which is absolutely charming. Also in the cast is Cloris Leachman as a great Dola, and Mark Hamill as Muska, who arguably steals the show with his amazing performance as the primary antagonist.As Studio Ghibli's first feature film, Castle in the Sky is a huge success. Miyazaki's original story is action packed and humorous, allowing it to be enjoyed by viewers of all ages. The voice talent is solid, particularly Mark Hamill's menacing villain, and the animation is beautiful. The movie may have flaws within its pacing and certain elements of its voice cast, but overall, Castle in the Sky is a solid Miyazaki movie. With two fantastic movies under his belt, Hayao Miyazaki started his career with a bang, and Castle in the Sky was just the beginning.


                
Another in my mini-series of Studio Ghibli films and one I have loved for many years, since I first saw it in fact. I think it is because there is an element of science fiction in this one that doesn't seem to feature a lot in many of the other films I've seen from this studio. If I have one criticism, it's that it's a little too long, but then again it's always interesting and the story does move along at a reasonable pace, so it's not all bad. I'll give you more of my thoughts after this brief summary.A girl, Sheeta, has been taken from her home and is being transported by the army and some mysterious men in dark glasses. When their airship is attacked by pirates she retrieves a mysterious stone from one of the men and jumps from the craft. As she approaches land a light comes from the stone and her fall is slowed. She is seen by a boy, Pazu, who catches her and takes her home with him. Pazu's father had snapped a photo of a mysterious castle in the sky, Laputa, and the following day Sheeta tells him her story and how she has a link to this place. The pirates have tracked her, they are looking for her in the village and a chase ensues. Eventually she is captured, not by the pirates, but by the army! A giant robot, help from the pirates, all kinds of flying machines later and Pazu has her free, but can they find Laputa before the army can, and will it be what they expect when they get there? Well, I guess I can't tell you that here or the Spoiler Police will be sending me aloft in an airship (& no parachute) again.I watched this film in the original Japanese (with subtitles) although I believe there is a dubbed version available for those that fear the written word on the screen. It's beautifully animated and stands up well 25 years later. The performances are all good and so honourable mentions must go to the voice talents of; Mayumi Tanaka as Pazu and Keiko Yokozawa as Sheeta. They both gave their characters a lot of life and urgency that was well reflected in the visuals.I love the plot of this film; it starts quite big and just gets bigger! You think you have an idea where it's going, but then it takes a turn and what they come up with is even better than anything I could have thought of! I must admit I would maybe have changed a couple of things, but over all it's quite an excellent piece of work. It's all excellently done, if a little long, and I think the filmmakers stuck to what they do best; telling a good story. You may be able to guess by now, but this one comes pretty highly RECOMMENDED from me.My score: 8.6/10.IMDb Score: 8.1/10 (based on 30,528 votes at the time of going to press).Rotten Tomatoes 'Tomatometer' Score: 94/100 (based on 17 reviews counted at the time of going to press). Rotten Tomatoes 'Audience' Score: 89/100 (based on 72,627 user ratings counted at the time of going to press).


                
Disney leaped to animation superiority in 1939 and then stayed there for decades. Warner Bros made a spirited showing but they, and everyone else, were demonstrably lower down the scale. But in the later years of the 20th century Studio Ghibli made a definite play to be an alternate line of animation features - not a competitor, for the Japanese movies were - and continue to be - resolutely un-Disneylike in every possible way.Castle In The Sky from 1986, one of the early Studio Ghibli films, is a case in point. It tells the story of two waifs who are looking for the legendary floating city of Laputa while being pursued by two opposing groups.I can't praise this film highly enough. It is always exciting, and visually stunning with an astonishing level of visual imagination. This is impossible to describe, but the two things it called to mind are the general feel of Jean "Moebius" Giraud's unfamiliar worlds (there is a sequence with a railway chase where the railway tracks run on trestles halfway down a cavernous ravine where dwellings are cantilevered out of the canyon walls), crossed with organic/non-organic hybridisation: the nearest thing I can suggest is the impact of HR Giger's Alien and Species design, although the visual aspect is nothing like that.This film is exciting, involving, and a feast for the eyes. I enjoyed it greatly.
Laputa is another fun Miyazaki film. It has great animation, a plot that kept me watching, and interesting characters, as well as a good soundtrack.The film stars a little girl named Sheeta, she is in pursuit by the Military and a gang of pirates who are after her powerful crystal. After she escapes the two groups, she comes across a young boy named Patsu. The two quickly become friends, as Sheeta notices a picture of a castle called "Laputa". Patsu explains that he wants to prove it exists, because it will prove that his father wasn't lying about it.The pirates and the Military catch up to them and the young duo escapes into some mines nearby and discover that Sheeta's crystal is made of a mineral that the people of Laputa use, this excites Patsu and the two decide to go looking for Laputa, and they decide to return the crystal there.The military, along with our main Villain Mooscow, catch the two and blackmail Sheeta saying if she doesn't help them find Laputa, they may kill Patsu. She agrees and a confused, angry and sad Patsu leaves to return home as he comes across the pirates, the leader of the Pirates is convinced that Patsu sold Sheeta to the military but he claims thats not the case, he decides to team up with the pirates to save Sheeta.Thats all of the story I will sum up, but I have more to say about the movie itself. The characters are likable and well rounded, and some of the characters do a good job in making me mad. The film's plot is easy to follow and has plenty of twists that make it another brilliant Miyazaki film
The way I discovered Miyazaki's movies was with a bit of surprise and curiosity, something that itself is best depicted in his movies. It was "Howl's Castle" that caught my attention while switching channels one Sunday. You can almost always see a sublime English influence in his work- characters with an innocent curiosity exploring a world of immense power and intractable magic. It is intriguing and immersing - a world that I hadn't seen since having read "Alice in the Wonderland" in my childhood for the first time. Music and art-direction is crafted very carefully to give an effect rarely achieved by cinema.Castle-in-the-sky is probably one of the best of his works. We revisit Swift's "Laputa" from the Gulliver's Travels in the movie – a place far into the unknown that has had a history of the sort of power and intelligence that is unmatched by the modern civilization. The characters of the movie Sheeta and Pazu both find themselves onto an inevitable voyage to Laputa. Their rather exploratory journey to Laputa is full of hurdles and discoveries. As they run into air-pirates, plane-crashes and magical revelations we become a part of their joy, worries, inquisitiveness and amazement.If you're thinking Harry Potter, then you're absolutely mistaken. This might just be the opposite end of the spectrum. The visual effects of the movie are not meant to transcend the limits of the real world by letting you be in a fantasy world of magic and wizardry but instead in a rather unique way to meditate on our being and might in this world, in a way the Gulliver's travel did. That all of it can be achieved through animation is something only Miyazaki can be credited to.One thing that Miyazaki does very well is to not let somewhat sentimental moments in the movie become too sappy or theatrical. The story might have had a tendency to become that way but script kept it entertaining with jokes and "quirkiness" of its characters at times. The dubbing artists did a wonderful job in making this movie appear seamlessly "English". It would remain rather incomprehensible to me how movies from Far East can be enjoyed without any conscious attempt to overcome cultural boundaries.


                
In some ways, this is a classic tale. A lost princess meets a village boy, a ruthless baddie searches for power, friends who help the good guys overcome the odds, and a happy ending. But it is so much more three-dimensional and original than that. There are also enchanted rocks, robots, military fortresses, and a devastating weapon that destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah! Studio Ghibli again weaves the mundane with the magical and throws in the usual mix of interesting characters for the journey. The main characters are innocent youngsters but that's what makes it heartwarming. The themes of friendship, love and nature are beautifully illustrated here too.I don't know how much the new Disney version has altered the dialogue, but certainly at times it did seem inappropriately saccharine or blunt. Also I should say I really liked the main theme (used in the end music too).


                
It is an awesome movie, should definitely be in top#250 movies of all time


                
The film that officially introduced the world to what would become the greatest animation studio of all time, and it lives up to that honor. All these years later in what now seems to be the twilight era of Studio Ghibli, classic after classic under their belts, Castle in the Sky still manages to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with its best. Hayao Miyazaki's intention with this film was to show off what the studio was capable of, as well as to act as its mission statement - to create animated features of the utmost quality filled with magic, heart, adventure, depth, and purity of artistic intent. It succeeds with flying colors.It's a notable film in Miyazaki's filmography not only for being his first under the Ghibli banner, but also in that it is perhaps his most traditional work during his time with the studio. It employs many classical storytelling techniques that he would later largely abandon as his voice as an auteur deepened: a solid three-act structure, the MacGuffin plot device, as well as a purely villainous antagonist. This was likely a conscious decision with the intent of laying a sturdy, accessible foundation upon which to build the studio's name, and it's by no means a criticism of the film. Quite the contrary, these tried-and-true techniques are employed in absolutely masterful fashion to create what is a clear contender for the studio's strongest and most narratively satisfying action/adventure film. It also lays the groundwork for what would become many of Ghibli's core themes: coming of age, friendship, awe of the natural world, and rich, morally layered characters who are often not all they may seem at first glance.Though it may not have quite the same level of experimentation, uniqueness, and artistic virtuosity as some of Miyazaki's later works, it remains one of his seminal films, as well as one of his most tightly-scripted, well-paced, and purely fun. A classic in its own right.4.5/5


                
I have seen plenty of animated movies since the late 80s, but very few stand up to this film's originality and adventurousness. And why stop at animated movies? I mean, "Avatar" is fine and everything, but I'll take this. Miyazaki has a unique gift for storytelling (and characters). Watching movies like this with my kids has been a gift.


                
