Count me among the proud minority who think this movie is drek.I love old movies. And I like Jimmy Stewart a whole lot. But this thing is just awful. And the fact that we are barraged incessantly with it, and that people rush to gush over it, just makes it all the more unbearable.My big problem with the whole thing is that I vociferously *reject* the movie's main premise, the moral premise that it is somehow good and right and wonderful to live only for others. George Bailey is a *doormat*; he never pursues the life he really wants, instead suppressing his desires in order to serve every other yahoo in town. He's a fool, and the only ending I would consider truly happy for him would be if he were to decide to close his pitiful, practically non-profit business, and go off and make something of his life. I'm sorry, but having a lot of people be grateful to you for being a willing doormat is just not making something of your life.I'm sorry, I just can't like a movie that takes altruism so far as to say that the only value of your life is how you helped others.


                
Where can I start? Jimmy Stewart,who was a great serious actor in the Anthony Mann Westerns and the Hitchcock thrillers, here is nothing else than an idiot. And then, who can really see him as a high school boy when he was almost forty years old when he made this movie? Please!! And then when he is bankrupted by Lionel Barrymore and about to do away with himself, an angel comes to stop him and to show him how much the world owes to him ("A Chistmas Carol" updated, how nice!) and all of a sudden the whole town flows into his house to pay his debts and save the day. How nice of them too! Of course that could only happen in America, the earthly paradise where everybody loves their neighbour and life is beautiful. And they all lived happy ever after. One of the worst much-loved classics of all time.
Of all the male stars of Hollywood's studio-dominated 'classic' era, James Stewart was the hammiest. He almost always shouts when a whisper would do; instead of striking an impressive pose, he's always squirming about, arms flailing. He's the melodramatic version of Jerry Lewis.His way-over-the-top performance in "It's a Wonderful Life" lingers like the taste of lettuce fried in lard atop a peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwich on a moldy McDonalds burger roll.But then there's the story itself. It's notable that Capra waited until the Depression was largely over before putting together this dreadful lie about it (which is what this film is really about). Apparently the banks didn't spend years foreclosing homes and farms? No one was displaced, we all held together in the small towns we grew up in? Family's weren't shattered and careers not ruined? It's wonderful baloney to serve with peanut-butter and fried lettuce.It's deplorable that American's think of this as a "Christmas classic." Christmas should be about joy, not self-centered delusion. The truth is, the world would have been the stronger is Stewart's character had never been born. The people in it need to find real reasons for living, not Capra's pandering.


                
A good reason for banning Christmas! It's not enough that saintly Jimmy Stewart hogs 90mins of screen time without once showing a genuinely human emotion ( other than the rampant self-pity of suicidal Jimmy ) but I've also got to face a blundering angel sweet enough to be everybody's favourite grandfather ( retch ), a sweet wife who should have clobbered the mad drunk with a book on coming out of the library and a lovingly inadequate drunken Uncle. I'm sure my ire wouldn't be as great if it were not for the obscenely holy reputation this film has but right now I'd cheerfully burn every copy of this 'evil' movie! Can't wait for an angel to show me what the world would be like without it, although I can't imagine that one ever hearing a bell again!


                
I like a good slushy feel good film as next as the next man, but this takes it one stage too far. The original concept is an intriguing one and needs to be more fully explored in another film, as it isn't done justice in this movie.How often do people just give money away purely out of the goodness of their own hearts? If a bank ran out of money, or had it 'stolen' by some ridiculously over-the-top pantomime villain, people would not react in a cheery manner. EXCEPT that this is Christmas, and everybody loves each other.The set is impressive, some of the acting is good, the children are only marginally annoying but the fairy tale ending pushes the boundaries of reality too far. You may argue that in a movie with angels and genuinely nice Americans reality has been pretty much thrown out of the window, but the fantastical plot elements detract from a story that otherwise could have been thought-provoking and morally uplifting.Starts off good, turns bad and then gets very ugly in the final scenes. 3 out of 10. (Bah Humbug).
Stewart plays the saintly George Bailey who, on the brink of committing suicide, gets sent an angel to sort things out in order for the angel to earn his wings. Hilariously parodied by more contemporary films and series, not excluding Married With Children, the idea and execution, let's be honest here, is trite and cloying. Stagy performances and a dragging screenplay is really all that there is for the viewer to mercilessly swallow while the lengthy running time of the film brutally tests one's patience. Had the director shaved off 30 minutes or so from the excruciatingly melodramatic and repetitive second act, the movie would have been far less exhausting, though the silly what-ifs the story puts forth wouldn't have been any less clunky and witless. Despite the technical achievement, which is impressive for its day and age, this is one of those classics the popularity of which simply lacks credibility. Perhaps Grandma and Gramps are still able to look kindly on this overblown, saccharine monstrosity, but anyone under 60 shouldn't be subjected to it.


                
I like a lot of director Capra's films - but not this one.This is among one of the most vile floods of slush ever to be photographed. The characters are simpering when they aren't whining. James Stewart give us the worst, most over-wrought performance of his career - high-school student do better. The camera work looks expensive - and dull. The editing is perfunctory. There's no effort to use film to tell the story.The story itself is a banal rip-off from "The Christmas Carol" - but the worst part of it is that Stewart's character spends his every moment visiting the 'alternate universe' (that would have happened had he never been born) trying to convince everyone that he really was born, and there is no 'alternate universe' - which makes no sense whatsoever, and completely blows any chance at insightful or revelatory alternate character development, and reduces his final submission to fate to a rather cheap, histrionic "gee, I'm sorry; let's try it again, OK?" The raw cynicism that went into the making of this film - kept alive by generations of movie-reviewers as a kind of shared in-joke ("hey, let's face it, most Amereicans are just dumb" - would be frightening if it hadn't sold so well - which is the really scaring thing about it.


                
People like this because it, I am forced to assume, reminds them of a time past and x-mas the way they like to think it should be. And those are good things. But those attributes have nothing to do with an honest criticism of the film.Few here actually rate it for what it really is. And that is a collection of some of the poorest writing and acting in all of film making. Even Stewart, not a great actor but one who is often accused of being a great actor since he is endearing just like this movie is, is at his worst here.If people really looked at this flick without the romantic viewpoint and with true objectivity they would see it for what it really is; A complete a waste of film.Life may be wonderful, but this movie is sappy garbage.


                
Seriously: Where to begin on all the problems with this movie? Doesn't matter. Let's start with the fact that you get to see God. No mortals get to see God! Not even the prophets and the disciples, with the exception of Moses. But Moses only saw him from behind, in one of the most beautiful stories in the entire bible. What's more, why is God a matte painting of a galaxy with a flash light blinking behind it with every syllable of his white male 30-year old voice? It's even stupider than Celcil B. Demille's flame throwing spiral in "The Ten Commandments". Then there's the characters. George Bailey, no matter how well acted, is the most annoying person I have ever had the displeasure of watching. His screaming and voice are enough to make anyone jump for the earplugs. His stupidity isn't all that sympathetic either. Mary isn't well-developed, and as for Mr. Potter? Since when do brilliant Christmas stories have more cartoonish villains than Dr. Doom or "Silence of the Lamb"'s Buffalo Bill? Then there are a lot of fundamentally disturbing messages in the film. I do grant that, though obvious, the message that every person does something in their life is worth hearing, even though it was spectacularly over done here. (I've always wondered about the brother. There must have been ten other kids around when he started drowning. Why didn't any of them save him? And why didn't anyone marry the girl, dooming her to the worst fate possible of Old maid?). First, there is no doubt that Christianity is fundamentally real. There's no need for faith, because God exists as a galaxy, and he'll send down an angel if you're a good little boy. Also, suburbia is the best thing ever. There is nothing worse than a living urban city with, oh my god, Negroes. Capitalism is evil. It is more important to be nice to a bunch of people in some tiny town than to go out and do something in the world. Dumb people are more honest than educated ones. It is horrifyingly unthinkable to be annoyed by one Christmas carol played over and over and over. Comedic relief doesn't have to be funny. Two hour films don't have to have anything interesting.There are other things too. The writing just isn't that good. None of the stories are relevant to the plot, and even the timing is heavily off, all of the good stuff thrown into a few minutes at the very end. Face it. As heartwarming as this film is, it's not that good.
I've been collecting (& watching) old films for over 20 years, and have over 700 in my collection.  Call me "Ebeneezer Scrooge", but I think that "Wonderful Life" is one of THE WORST films I've ever seen!!!! (I'm not kidding).People today are amazed that it got such lousy reviews when it premiered; I feel that audiences THEN could see what a bad film it is!What's wrong with it?  First, the pacing.  The first half of the film (where all the "bad stuff" happens) is MUCH too long; it goes on FOREVER.  The part after his suicide attempt is much too short, and doesn't dispel the "depressing-ness" of the beginning.  Plus, the scene where the clerk hits young Stewart on the ear is an extremely brutal (& violent) scene for that era; it STILL bothers me!If you want to see GOOD Capra, check out "Arsenic & Old Lace", "Lost Horizon", "Lady For a Day", "You can't take it with you".....in fact, any film BUT this one!It may be a "Wonderful Life".....but, it's a lousy movie!


                
I realize that there is approximately four other people on the planet who think like I do and can agree that this film is terrible.  Everybody loves it for some reason, but I have absolutely hated it ever since I watched it for the first time.'It's a Wonderful Life' is so boring.  Now I've sat through some pretty dull films before, but this is unheard of.  The thing is, I can usually get into the older movies.  I just can't get into this one.  I first saw this film a couple of years ago in school, and have unfortunately, been forced to watch it a few more times just because everybody in the entire world thinks that it is wonderful.  I wouldn't normally comment on a film that is so bad, but being that it IS bad and entirely overrated, I am forced to voice my opinion.The cast is terrible.  I've never seen James Stewart in anything else and I don't plan to.  He starts off good, everything's fine, but as time progresses, he becomes so annoying that I want to jump up and turn the TV off.  What can I say about Donna Reed except that she is a horrible actress who manages to contribute very little to this horrible picture.  Well, that's about it for the cast, I suppose.  Minor role players such as Lionel Barrymore, Thomas Mitchell, and Henry Travers are equally unimpressive.The writing and the script itself are mind-numbingly stupid.  'It's a Wonderful Life' is supposedly the tale of a depressed man who gets the chance to see what life would have been like if he had never been born. Okay, so how long exactly is it supposed to take to get to the damn point? The movie drags on and on and finally after about four hours (it seemed like that long to me), George Bailey meets Clarence, his angel, and is whisked away to the life where he doesn't exist.  So, basically the film tries to make a point and, I guess, finally does.  There's a couple of people out there who think that 'It's a Wonderful Life' is NOT a Christmas movie.  Well, they're right.  Why is everyone under the impression that this movie is a Christmas movie?  It's clearly not.'It's a Wonderful Life', a terrible movie if there ever was one, currently appears on the Top 250 list.  It's also managed to jump onto just about everyone else's favorites list, but I don't know how.  Its nominations for Best Picture, Best Actor, and Best Director, among others, is unbelievable and ridiculous.  The film is boring, slow-paced, and has no point to it for about the whole 130 minutes.  Frank Capra and this movie are overrated and I wouldn't recommend it to anyone.  Avoid at all cause.


                
A lot of people love the happy ending of the movie. When I watched it, I did too. Yeah, when Harry says "A toast to my big brother George: The richest man in town," I cried. I'm tearing up right now just thinking about it. But, darn it, all the happiness of the last few minutes of the movie doesn't cancel out all the misery contained in the rest of the movie. Another reviewer here called the movie "nauseating" and that is exactly what I would call it. This movie was so depressing that I was literally nauseated by it. At the end of the movie, I just wished George Bailey had followed his dreams and traveled around the world (and, if I remember right, become an architect). So what if Bedford Falls becomes Pottersville? Also, correct me if I'm wrong but I thought life insurance policies didn't cover suicide. George Bailey would never have been worth more dead than alive. I know this is a classic but I strongly dislike it. It's okay for a drama to be sad but I hate movies that are depressing. I had the same problem with Fritz Lang's SCARLET STREET. And I'd say IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE is worse because SCARLET STREET is a film noir. You expect films noir to be depressing. But I heard so much about IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE's happy ending and I just wasn't prepared for so much misery.I think I should add that I didn't write this review to agitate or incense anyone. And I'm not denying that this movie deserves its classic status. But this is honestly how I felt about it.


                
I HATE THIS MOVIE.George Bailey stupidly sacrifices his entire future - and any chance at some kind of life - by staying in his home town (he wants to get out of there asap) to run a faltering business which he hates anyway.Why should we respect this dumbbell just because he throws away his freedom for others? He does it out of guilt since "the meanest man in town", Mr. Potter, will take over if George leaves the city. It's also hard to believe in blundering George after he makes bone-headed mistakes like letting his goofy uncle transport $8,000 cash to the bank. This is clearly George's screw-up, but he yells at his uncle, "Somebody's going to jail - well, it's not going to be me!". It should be you, George.Not nearly as 'magical' a movie as claimed by its many fans. See it, wallow in it, then decide if you want to embrace it, or dump it..... I dumped it.


                
There is simply too much sediment associated with this awful film. Because "It's a Wonderful life" is looped 24 hours a day for three weeks prior and post Christmas people feel obligated to give this awful movie a high rating. Due to this films close association with Christmas I can only assume that people would feel guilty to call this film what it really is, BAD. Personally I feel that "It's a Wonderful life" has not stood up to the test of time and is a tacky film fit for the 40's and only the 40's. The acting is not incredibly impressive since the roles are practically made from character cookie cutters, the cinematography is simple and is not even creative for its time, and the plot is not creative or interesting since sci-fi had already covered time travel and "what if" situations by 1946. Therefore I feel that people should stop defending this garbage called a movie, in the name of religion and tradition. Due to situations like this not enough pressure is put on the movie industry to create decent films. This is why movies like Home alone, and the ring become large grossing movies.


                
When thinking of `It's A Wonderful Life', only one word races to my mind<U+0085> BORING!!! This movie is all about trauma and tribulation, and I don't know about you, but that doesn't get the average American in the Christmas Spirit.	It's all about this average family man whom one-day questions: What would life be like had I never been born? His guardian takes him on a journey through the duration of the film and grants him his wish. He begins to see the way things would be if he never existed. He had attempted suicide in the past, and the Angel begins to show him that the world would be different with out this man. 	The only really good part about this movie is that the Angel gets his wings for doing such a great job on his mission to show the man his value.	Overall this movie is just not that great. Christmas movies were meant to bring holiday cheer and this film does the exact opposite! I give this movie a 1 and I don't recommend that anyone watch it<U+0085> ever!!! Also, it takes on stressed out person to ever question their existence, and an insecure one at that, and how is this supposed to get you into the holiday mood? It definitely doesn't cheer me up; its kin of makes me depressed actually. So don't waist your time with lame and un-happy movies such as this. Just so drink some cocoa and sit by the tree to get into the holiday spirit.


                
The unique combo of the worst director+ actors+ screenplay+ script made this horrible movie for those who don't know what do to with their time. This was made for all the lame cripples that have truly extra extra extra 2 hours in their poor life. Honestly even today's adult movie stars (they prohibited me from using the right word) acts more real than the leads in this movie. I could understand that people didn't knew how to make a movie back in those days but I swear this one came being worst of them all.I mean Casablanca, or watch The ten commandments or 12 angry men -- they got some class. In every aspect this is pathetic piece of sh!t.


                
Although my opinion is not the general consensus, I think this is a horrible film. Clarence taunts Bailey, rather than providing a supportive ear (for instance, when Clarence is in the water crying, "help, help"), and when he is in the bar also. I sat through this film once, because somebody else wanted me to watch it with them. I slept through a good portion of it as well, and it was probably better that I did. I don't feel that I missed much, by not watching the film in it's entirety. This could have been a great film if Clarence had been more empathic with Bailey, rather than mocking, laughing at, and talking moralistically to him.


                
So the premise is that one person's life affects dozens of people, far more than we could ever imagine and that all of us have value and purpose, and there are some religious aspects thrown in. I do agree that we affect people even when we don't think we do and even when we don't even want to.I used to love this movie as a kid but I don't love it anymore as an adult. I don't respect George anymore because in my honest opinion, I think there should be a balance between helping other people and following your dreams. Making yourself a martyr at the cost of your life is not altruistic. At least not to me.Also the movie seems to imply that if the right people don't show up to encourage people that people will give up. Like George is shown that Mary would have become a spinster without him being born. I believe that we should always be our best friends, because someone can't always be there to encourage us.We really carry ourselves through life even though we may have family and friends in our lives, but we really do carry ourselves through life and we just can't give up on ourselves and our own lives just because the right person didn't show up to encourage us. Its great when others encourage us but all of us have been through horrible periods in our lives when no one was there.Sometimes you have to be your own best friend. I don't believe that another human can be everyone's martyr and they show that its okay with the character of George Bailey. Sure its wonderful to help people but to be a martyr? I don't think so. No way. Also its implied that rich people are evil.Why couldn't they have shown another rich person that was nice and decent, to balance out the point of view? Its not wrong to want to be wealthy and a lot of wealthy people contribute to charities. I mean look at Oprah Winfrey, Bill Gates, and others like them. The wealthy contribute far more to charities than any income bracket. Not all of them are evil. There are good wealthy people too.
George wants to help everybody at his own expense. But us we see at the end he didn't change much with his sacrifice! Even worse! Drug dealer, a jealous poisoner, escapes punishment because of his intervention. And other ugly scumbags he had been given homes to became bums and drunks. I'm all for Potter in all this. He is a selector, a fighter for better future.The Trump!


                
