BEWARE OF BOGUS REVIEWS. SOME REVIEWERS HAVE ONLY ONE REVIEW TO THEIR NAME. NOW WHEN ITS A POSITIVE REVIEW THAT TELLS ME THEY WERE INVOLVED WITH THE MOVIE. IF ITS A NEGATIVE REVIEW THEN THEY MIGHT HAVE A GRUDGE AGAINST THE FILM . NOW I HAVE REVIEWED OVER 200 HOLIDAY FILMS. I HAVE NO AGENDA. I AM HONEST ABOUT THESE FILMS"It's a Wonderful Life" is one of the most beloved pictures of all time. The film core idea however has been stolen several times in less worthwhile television films. In fact the film was remade in 1977 for television with Marlo Thomas. That film however not only not have Jimmy Stewart it also lacked the Capra touch.However this is the classic movie that everyone loves and for a good reason "It's the best film ever to capture the Christmas Spirit". In this film George Bailey is at the end of his rope is contemplating suicide. The man is played by Mr Stewart. After a life of dreaming of leaving Bedford Falls and never able to do so. He wants to see the world and be an explorer. After a rough day at work he finds himself about to jump of a bridge but at the last moment an angel does a few tricks that prevents George from suicide. When Angel tells George "that he is there to rescue him" George laughs. Finally the angel shows George what his presence has meant to not only his family but to the people of Bedford Falls.This film has does not have one false moment. The casting is perfect. The story moves along at a brisk pace. The child actors are just as good as the adults. If you buy the DVD or Blu-Ray Set the colorized version should be avoided. This film plays better in black and white!


                
To be honest before I watch It's a Wonderful Life, I really don't like James Stewart. I watched him in Vertigo, Rear Window, and other Hitchcock's movie, and I don't like him at all, I think he was so typical and 1 dimensional. After I watched him in this movie, I start to like him, especially when he acted in the last part. Well I guest I just hate Hitchcock as a director, not Stewart as an actor. Back to the movie, at first I don't like it because Stewart looks so older when he was playing as teenager Bailey -.-". After half of the movie I don't really care, I guess I am such a sucker for Christmas family movie, the golden part of this movie is the last part after Bailey met the angel, Stewart showed that he is good actor in this part. In the end this is good family movie if you like Christmas film.
I had heard of It's a Wonderful Life for years, however had never watched it. This Christmas I sat down to watch it and was taken aback by the phenomenal film. The acting was spot on and the filming was perfect despite how old the movie is. This film made me sad, mad, and happy all at the same time. The actors show emotion well enough to make the viewers feel the same way. Throughout the movie you question why you would want to see such a story, however the end scene brings it all full circle. It's a great movie to watch during Christmas to give you that warm fuzzy feeling inside. This movie fortifies faith in human generosity and is the best feel good movie I have ever seen. A must watch for all!


                
This was James Stewart's third (and final) collaboration with Capra, following on from pre-war films You cant take it with you and Mr Smith goes to Washington. Later in life he claimed it was his favourite work.James Stewart, born in 1908, often portrayed the everyday middle class American, usually a character struggling with adverse circumstances to win through, in many ways the reality of his own early life. After studying at Princeton, Stewart tried to establish a career on the stage. Coinciding with the height of the Depression there was little work, and he later claimed only to have had employment for 3 months between 1932 and 1934. Signed by a talent scout to MGM in 1935, he moved to Los Angeles and stated his film career, working with a series of stars including Jean Arthur, Marlene Deitrich and Katherine Hepburn. World War II brought an interruption: Stewart, a skilled pilot, was eventually enlisted in the air corps. Resisting official attempts to use him merely as a recruiting prop, Stewart was ultimately transferred to an operations squadron, becoming commanding officer and flying bombing missions over Germany. He was awarded the DFC and the Croix de Guerre. His return to Hollywood saw a further 4 decades of films, including noted collaborations with Alfred Hitchcock in the 1950s.It's a Wonderful Life was his first film in five years: in it he plays the part of George Bailey, a man living in Bedford Falls, a small town in America, but yearning to get away and fulfil big ambitions. Using a plot device, the audience sees George's past life up to the point, on Christmas Eve, when he tries to commit suicide by jumping off a bridge. Using a similar device, George then sees what the world would look like if his attempt were to succeed.The film was not a huge commercial success at the time, but has since come to be regarded as a masterpiece of storytelling. Traditionally associated with Christmas, which forms its backdrop, the film has a wider scope. George makes constant choices of self sacrifice which enable those around him to prosper. This prosperity is more emotional than financial, and a key message is perhaps the value of relationships above money. This self sacrifice is not without cost, but George uniquely gets to see what would have happened if he hadn't existed at all.The film also examines differing approaches to business and looks at their results. On the one side is the Building and Loan Company, a financial institution run not on a financial basis, but on the idea of mutual support. On the other Mr Potter, who owns most of the rest of Bedford Falls and who wants to end the Building and Loan so he can complete his financial exploitation.Whilst the film clearly includes many elements which can be regarded as fantasy (changing the past and future, angels descending to earth) it keeps one foot firmly on the ground, offering an ultimately happy ending which only the most jaded viewer will be able to resist.
Despite the age of this movie, the story of the movie is an incredibly marvelous one. The story of how one often underestimates his/her own life especially under sickening burdens.The flow is quite a slow on the start, up to three-quarter parts of the movie. But it picks up at about the last half-hour and builds up a fast paced yet long and detailed finale.There are also things to compensate, regarding the age of the production, such as the color, the spoken accent which sounds quite stupid for the current times. But besides those, I think the story is a strong one that it helps the movie overcome those obstacles.


                
This is a very good movie. Period. A "classic", I don't think so. This is a movie whose actual quality has been exceeded by its hype--though NOT because the producers or actors hyped it (like the typical overblown and over-hyped Hollywood film). In fact, when it was released it was not particularly successful (especially compared to other Frank Capra flicks).No, instead it reached legendary status for TWO reasons alone. It was a public domain video (hence NO ROYALTIES REQUIRED FOR SHOWING IT) AND its setting for the movie's conclusion was the holiday season. These two factors worked together to BLITZ the American public from the 1980s to the late 90s (until its copyright status was restored). I remember these dark days, when It's A Wonderful Life was literally shown on half a dozen channels at the same time!! Not even GREAT movies should be shown that much! As a result, many began proclaiming it a classic while some others got awfully tired of seeing it--which is a shame because it's a very good film.


                
Review Date 2/19/2018PLEASE BEWARE OF SOME REVIEWERS THAT ONLY HAVE ONLY ONE REVIEW. I HAVE OVER 400 REVIEWS OF "CHRISTMAS RELATED FILMS & SPECIALS" WHEN ITS A POSITIVE THERE IS A GOOD CHANCE THEY WERE INVOLVED WITH THE PRODUCTION. NOW I HAVE NO AGENDA! I REVIEW MOVIES & SPECIALS AS A WAY TO KEEP TRACK OF WHAT I HAVE SEEN! I HAVE DISCOVERED MANY GEMS IN MY QUEST TO SEE AS MANY " C H R I S T M A S " MOVIES AS I CAN.Now Someone keeps reporting my reviews. I guess they are jealous because I do tell the truth. I want to point out that I never make snide remarks about actors weight or real life sexual orientation. If there acting is terrible or limited "I talk about that". If a story is bad "I will mention that" So why am I being "picked on"? IMDB? When one of my reviews gets deleted IMDB will not even tell me what someone found offensive. Well on to this review."It's a Wonderful Life" was first seen in 1946. In the 1970's the copyright of the film was thought to have lapsed. So for "Around 20 Years" the film was seen almost everyday on any given television channel during December. It was this exposure that made America fall in love with the film. While thought to be in public domain the film was "Colorized" for the first time around 1985. In the 1990's the films copyright was somehow reinstated and re-colorized. Paramount now holds the copyright and they had Legacy films do a new colorized version of the film. The latest can bee seen in the current Paramount Home Video Dvd or Blu-Ray editions. Now I am not for colorizing films. Even if they are done well I still prefer seeing the film in its intended version. Now "It's a Wonderful Life" loses something in color. Since it has a "fantasy vibe" to it at times the color just ruins the emotions. I think the colorization should have had an "oversatution" in the part where George Bailey has an alternate reality of "Bedford Falls". What we get is not a shift in tone that the Black and White film seems to capture all so easily.Now this film is a true classic and should be seen by all every holiday season. You don't have to celebrate Christmas in order to enjoy the film. In this film George Bailey is a man who always dreamed of leaving Bedford Falls but for some reason he never can. One night out of years of fighting MR Potter George finds himself at the end of his rope and is about to jump off a bridge. An angel saves him and tries to convince how he does have "A Wonderful Life". Jimmy Stewart and the entire cast give Star Studded Performances. Keep in mind this film is still being copied in some form or another in 2-3 Hallmark films every year. IF your going to steel ... steel from the best. See the Original Black and White Version B/W 10 Stars
Color 4 Stars


                
I just saw it recent;y for the first time ever.And I'm very amazed on how well done this movie was made.It takes place from 1910s-1946.Jimmy Stewart portrays a man who wanted to follow his dreams but always ended up being a failure. He feels as if his life is falling apart. On X-Mas eve he thinks the world would be better off without him.When all seemed hopeless. A man named Clarence who is said to be a guardian Angel will help him change his way of thinking.Unlike other holiday movies, this one is one of those feel good movies and has a great moral to it. That every person who fails deserves a second chance.I think every person should know what this movie is. If you haven't seen it yet, do so, cause this is a must see classic. And it be a perfect movie for the whole family to watch.There's nothing too offending in the movie. No swearing, some drinking scenes, non-brutal fights, and I think it's perfectly fine for the kids to watch. Just to let you know that this movie is long and has some long scenes too.


                
For many this is a Christmas classic, watched every year and much beloved. For me, I've never seen it before. Heard of it; seen short clips of it; but never have I sat down and watched it straight through from beginning to end. Having now done that I can understand why it's such a beloved movie to so many people. It isn't necessarily a Christmas/holiday movie. The basic message would work at any time of the year; it just happens to be set (in its climax anyway) on Christmas Eve. And the message it presents is an important one that everyone needs to hear from time to time, in a world where it's so easy to feel discouraged: every person's life counts. Everyone makes a difference. That's the point here, and it's well made. The movie revolves around George Bailey (James Stewart.) George starts out as a kid with big dreams of escaping his hum-drum (to him) home town of Bedfork Park and seeing the world. But it never works out. He ends up running the small savings & loan operation his father started, while his brother and his friends all seem to go on to bigger and better things - becoming heroes; becoming famous; becoming rich. George has a good life. He's married to a woman he loves (Donna Reed) and he has great kids and a lot of friends, but it just isn't what he always wanted. It's not completely satisfying for him. Eventually it all falls apart when the local ruthless banker (Lionel Barrymore) comes up with a way of bringing him down. With everything apparently out of control, George decides to kill himself, only to be rescued by the angel Clarence (Henry Travers) who shows him what Bedford Park would be like if he had never existed - and it's not pretty.The story isn't complicated. It's simple and straightforward. Everybody does a good job in it. Personally, I thought there was perhaps a little too much emphasis on George's life and what brought him to the brink of suicide, and maybe not quite enough emphasis on George being confronted by the consequences of his non-existence. (And, in the alternative timeline, Bert the cop opening fire on George in the street seemed a bit - shall we say - excessive; not to mention dangerous!) Perhaps the opening, with God and the angels talking to each other as stars and other heavenly bodies was a bit too cute, but it's all within the expected standards of 1946. It is a nice movie, and it does have a nice message. Your life does make a difference to a lot of people - probably more than you know, so be satisfied with it and rejoice in what you have. I can easily understand why so many consider it a classic. (8/10)


                
I just saw IAWL for the first time last night. While it's not the best movie I have ever seen, it is very good and worth watching at least once. It is allegorical and thus shouldn't be held to exacting standards, as some reviews have done, in my opinion. The movie gets you to think about how your life impacts others and how we should treat one another better. For that I think it succeeds quite nicely. I think Jimmy Stewart did an excellent job of portraying George Bailey. He is fundamentally a good person, but like all of us, is given to bouts of anger and emotion, and lashes out against the people he loves. He quickly realizes his errors and apologizes for them. He is frustrated by his responsibilities and obligations intruding on his dreams, but he does the right thing in the end. We can all related to this and learn a few things by his example.


                
The drama fantasy It's a Wonderful Life is directed by Frank Capra and stars James Stewart, Donna Reed, and Lionel Barrymore and it takes place in a modern day small town.The film starts off with angels talking about how a man, George Bailey (Stewart), needs help to make his life better. The angels decide to send a second class angel, Clarence, to go and help him. But before sending him they give him all the important details of his life. The first one that is shown was when George Bailey was a child and saved his brother's life and stopped the shopkeeper he worked for from selling poison tablets. Then it showed when George Bailey was older and how he dreamed of traveling the world but at any chance he got he had to do some sort of work for the loan shop he was in charge of. He fell in love with a young woman named Mary Hatch (Donna Reed) but struggled to gain her as his wife. This film is excellent and has a morale that everyone needs to hear, a timeless classic.Frank Capra directed this film brilliantly. It was truly sentimental and he made it so you could feel the emotions of George Bailey. There were quite a few classic moments that he created in this film such as when George asks Mary is she wants for him to lasso the moon for her. Capra truly created an excellent film.The writing of this film was pure bliss. There are not that many films out there that have a sense of purity such as this one and that is intended for all audiences. There were many ups and downs on this ride and it left you completely satisfied.The acting by the whole cast was remarkable. James Stewart gave a great performance as George Bailey never being able to get what he really wants and being extremely stressed by all the tasks that he has to do. Donna Reed was great as the love interest, providing much support for Stewart's character to grow off of. Lionel Barrymore was great as the big business man in town trying to buy up everything and keeping Bailey down. Excellent performances for an excellent film.Overall I give this film a strong 9/10, it is truly a timeless classic from the legendary Frank Capra. I recommend this to absolutely everyone young and old, it is a truly heartwarming story that has already gone down in film history.


                
There's a reason this is considered not only one of the best Christmas films of all time, but also one of the best films of all time, period: Its themes, of how each of our lives touches so many others, have resonated with audiences for over 70 years now, and it seems they'll only continue to resonate for generations to come.Much of the film chronicles the life of George Bailey (fabulously played by Jimmy Stewart) and all the ways he helped people/had a positive impact of their lives from very early on - often without even realizing it:He saved his younger brother Harry from falling through the ice when they were young boys.He prevented the drug store owner, Mr. Gower, from accidentally giving another kid poisoned capsules.He kept the Bailey Building and Loan aloft even after the death of his father.He married Mary Hatch (Donna Reed) and she didn't become an "old maid" as the film suggests she might have otherwise.and numerous others. All while staying in the quaint little town of Bedford Falls, without being able to go out exploring as he had wanted to since he was a young boy.Then, on Christmas Eve, shortly after the end of the Second World War, some money belonging to the Bailey family accidentally ends up in the clutches of the cold banker, Mr. Potter, and George is left at the end of his rope. He nearly drowns himself, but is stopped by Clarance the Angel (in human form), who has been sent to help him. Clarence even shows George just how terrible life in Bedford Falls (or rather Pottersville) would be if he'd never existed. Realizing his would be mistake, George begs to exist again. And he does.Giddily restored, George runs straight home to Mary and their four children, greeted by all the friends and family he's had over his wonderful life. And Clarence even earns his wings as a result of helping George.As it takes place around Christmas, it is often considered a "Christmas film", but its themes are again largely year-round and as such the film can still be watched and enjoyed almost any time of year.A wonderful film, indeed! And a wonderful 8 of 10 stars for this classic!
I just watched the film "The Bishop's Wife" and could not help feeling the same way about it as "It's A Wonderful Life".If you have enjoyed this film and are craving more in the same vein, you might want to consider "The Bishop's Wife".While it is not the same film and has a different plot certainly, it shares many of the same production values and has the same sort of feel-good factor about it."The Bishop's Wife" is very much a Christmas film, with a lovely St. Bernard Dog that steals a couple of scenes. Another warm, fuzzy family film that was made only a year later than "It's A Wonderful Life".


                
It's obvious why when every time a "Greatest Ever Movies" type programme comes on, It's A Wonderful Life is always in the top 5. It's the perfect Christmas movie. James Stewart is a fantastic actor and one of the greatest central characters of film history. He plays a hard working, kind family man who, after some depressing chain of events wishes he was never born. His guardian angel pays him a visit and shows him what life would have been like had he not existed. The build up to this event is a little long but that's what makes the film so successful and helps us to feel Stewart's pain. It's a heart-warming, feel good tale which should be enjoyed by generation after generation!Thanks for reading!


                
This film is a classic. James Stewart is brilliant and the story is great. A film is definitely recommended


                
When I was little I used to hate it because it was boring but when I got older I appreciate this movie for being brilliant and emotional


                
I seem to be one of only a small number of people who haven't seen this film, which for many has become a staple Christmas movie.
I watched a decent colorized version of a film that was originally released in black and white back in 1946.
The colorization technology on recent restoration of old films is very good and I couldn't tell I was watching an old black and white film.
I digress. Why has the film gained cult like status?
It stars James Stewart in the star role as a character George Bailey who has done good deeds throughout his life but now doubts his contribution to the world around him, making him contemplate suicide on Christmas Eve.
A trainee angel, Clarence literally saves him and in a parallel time line makes George realise what life would have been like without his interventions.
George part owns a loan company which faces financial problems and the possible imprisonment of George unless $8000 can be found to pay off the shortfall.
George saves his brother's life for example in 1919. His brother as an adult is awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor for his bravery in the Second World War.
We see the actions of a greedy man Mr. Potter throughout the film. The opposite to George in helping the local towns population in owning their own homes. He comes across as an evil banker. Charging high rents for poor properties.
In the angel Clarence's parallel timeline the local town Bedford Hills is renamed Pottersville.
There is also a second story in the film. The angel Clarence is 'second class' and as yet has no wings. Saving George just may earn him his wings and elevate him to a 'normal' angel level.
In the end George's fate is saved as the townfolk raise the cash and Potter, who attempts to have George jailed sees his warrant ripped up.
A feel good film with some excellent performances.
Stewart revelled in this kind of role throughout his film career.
The history of the film reveals copyright issues. Colorization issues as discussed and a top Christmas film that could really be watched at other times of the year.
4.5/5
The movie is called " It's a wonderful life " and stars one of Hollywood's favorites. Frank Capra chose James Steward to play George Bailey, a young idealistic young man who believes he is destined to travel the world and make a fortune. It's a great dream, but unfortunately will never happen. Instead, George is forced into an obscure existence, as he admires his father so much it dooms him to replace the old man in Bedford Falls. The Bailey family establishes a tiny savings and loan and attempts to compete with the richest man in town, Mr. Potter played to the hilt by Lionel Barrymore. Things are bad enough when Mr. Bailey dies, just as George is about to go to college, but then he is forced to replacing him as head of the S & L. Years go by and Mr. Potter takes advantage of the 1930's depression and his domination of the town is nearly complete. The second world war descends on the town and directly after a economic calamity caused by George's uncle Billy (Thomas Mitchell) threatens the family business by accidentally losing $8,000. Facing bankruptcy, George panics and believes he is going to be arrested. Knowing this will destroy his family, ruin his reputation and send him to prison, George opts to commit suicide. Praying for a miracle, George is hoping his insurance policy will save his family. However, an instant before he jumps into the frigid, frozen winter waters of the river, George is startled to see a strange little man jumping in first. That is when George's life enters the world of the "What if." The stranger (Henry Travers) turns out to be an angel named Clarence, who shows him what life would be had he never been born. In this alternative world George watches with astonishment as all those he knew are changed forever by his absence. Potter is in fact the richest and most powerful man who indeed owns the town. George on the other hand becomes a total stranger and terrorizes his own wife (Donna Reed), mother (Beulah Bondi) and children. He is subsequently run out of town by his former friends Ward Bond and Frank Faylen and neighbors. Repeated yearly as one of the finest Christmas films of all time, the movie has indeed become a family Classic. One of Jimmy Steward's all time favorites. ****


                
Ever since Capra's 'It's a Wonderful Life' became a huge success, there have been numerous films that have borrowed its story. Though it starts off a little slow and some of the scenes seem rushed, the pace gradually picks up in the second hour. The small town is well structured and one does get the feel of it. The appearance of an angel is a little awkward but one gets used to it because of a charming Henry Travers. 'It's a Wonderful Life' tends to be melodramatic and loud at times but the lead performances somehow make up for the faults. Stewart is wonderful as an ambitious and good-hearted dreamer who loses everything and then finds his way back. Donna Reed is brilliantly subtle as the caring and supportive wife. This does not rank among my favourite Capra films but it is a good enough watch.


                
A glance at the calendar tells me that we are now safely into February - Christmas and New Years have retreated back to wherever it is that they go to.... and the large balance of the year lies before us until they will intrude again. The smell of holiday ham and homemade pumpkin pie has been extinguished like a used up candle and the strains of Yule melodies have fled the air. Just the perfect time to take a look at "It's A Wonderful Life' from a different perspective and at an angle which is free from the traditional Christmas messages of redemption and human charity that the movie is usually seen to offer. What I am talking about here is...lechery.....lechery and lasciviousness pure and simple. I am referring to sexual degradation not only in the speculative chimera of Pottersville but also in that great American expository small-town oasis of Bedford Falls. If Frank Capra bothered to read the reviews of "It's A Wonderful Life" at the time the picture was first released at Christmastime in 1946--there is little doubt in my mind that he would have been at least slightly disturbed by the assessments made that his new movie was nothing more than just a slight variation from his past efforts. His penchant for fashioning heartwarming films that championed the individualism and strong character of the "little man" against the vagaries and injustice of the "system" had, after all, given rise to the pejorative term "Capra-corn". By 1946, however, it appears that Capra was working hard, if not to change his modus operandi, then to at least "spice it up a bit". That is part of the reason he gave us a view into the "dark side" of American society by highlighting the filth and sordidness of Pottersville. What few people remark on, however, is that dribs and drabbles of the parallel universe represented by the cesspool of Pottersville can be whiffed every now and then in Bedford Falls itself. You don't believe me? Well let me give you an example.Do you remember the scene in the movie where George Bailey is standing on a street corner shooting the breeze with his pals, Ernie the cab driver and Bert the cop? Yes --another nice sunny day in Bedford Falls. Then Violet Bick strolls by. She is accosted by George who has the impertinence to remark: "Say Vi that is some dress you got on there." Violet puts her hand on hip and protests: "This old thing--I only wear this when I don't care what I look like." She then shimmies across the street.... the camera following her receding wiggle for almost a good half block. Capra provides some cover for this ogling by having a middle aged bank clerk type pass by and then crank his head around to closely inspect her saunter. He, in turn, is almost flattened by an automobile that is crossing the intersection in the other direction (the sex as death ethos). But this exercise in venality is not finished. The camera then switches back to George and the boys still staring at Violet....... who at this point must be nearing the edge of the horizon. Ernie pipes up: "How would you like to.....?" George cuts him off by blurting, "Yes!" The trance is broken and Bert stumbles away commenting that he has to go home and see what his wife is doing. Sly and sick Ernie then sarcastically cracks "family man". This is a scene fraught with sexual tension, voyeurism with masochistic tendencies and it is occurring in real time in broad daylight on a street corner in Bedford Falls. O.K.--want another example? One without that sexpot Violet Bick---who some reviewers have painted as the "Mary Magdalene" to George Bailey's suffering "Jesus". Well how about that virgins of virgins--little eighteen year old Mary Hatch? Everyone has witnessed the famous high school dance/pool scene where George and Mary end up soaking wet. The next scene shows them walking home in the dark--George is wearing an over-sized football uniform in lieu of his wet duds and Mary sports nothing more than a robe. This sweet couple gets right down to business by breaking out the windows in a neighborhood house. Then George tries to put a move on Mary at the instigation of a peeping-tom yelling from a nearby porch. Mary jumps out of her robe in the ensuing mêlée and is left shaking and naked in a nearby hydrangea bush. The use of the hydrangea represents, of course, only the most demented form of erotic symbolism. I always send my kids out of the room in anticipation of this scene.I could go on and give more examples --but I think you get the point. Even "old Annie" the house-maid is not immune from this carnival of lust and immorality.Please don't misunderstand me- here. I am not condemning the whole picture. I do indeed accept that "It's A Wonderful Life" is the "American Christmas Carol". It echoes the central idea of the Dicken's tale that we are all responsible for each other and it also adds to that idea the very American conception that "no man is a failure who has friends." Wonderful stuff really. But be aware when admiring the glitter of this holiday gold that it also contains the base alloy of sex and sin. Or put another way--it's o.k. to enjoy the rustic pleasures of walking across a beautiful, green farm pasture ----- just be careful to hold your nose and watch your step along the way.


                
It's a Wonderful Life is considered one of the best movies of all time, and also one of the most beloved Christmas movies in American cinema, even though it was a box office failure when it was released and received some negative reviews, and it won just the Academy Award for Technical Achievements, despite being nominated for five more. What I like about this movie is that it isn't a classic Christmas movie: the movie isn't about how things get better overnight for the main character just because he/she 'believes in Christmas', or some idiocy like that. Christmas just plays a small, but great role in the final part of the movie, which is, ultimately, about life.The movie starts with God and Joseph, explaining to the angel Clarence (Henry Travers) that he has to go to Earth and save George Bailey (James Stewart), who's contemplating suicide. God then begins to show Clarence George's most relevant moments in life, from childhood till the present. Most of the movie is actually spent showing us that George always wanted to travel but decided to stay in his hometown and save his late father's business, and that he's always been a good person, who's always thought more of the others than himself and has led a good life. But when he finds out he can't pay a debt, he wishes he'd never been born – and Clarence shows him what would have become of his town, had he never been born.As I've said before, It's a Wonderful Life is about life. When you're young you have your dreams and ambitions, and you're sure that you'll end up living an ideal life, just like the one you've always planned. But life just happens and you often can't control it, and one day you discover you're a completely different person from the one you wanted to be. Some of us can't stand this and eventually come to a breaking point: George in this movie wanted to end it all and thought everyone would have been better off without him, not realising he had done so much and that even the problems that seem insurmountable can be resolved, with help from friends and family.Because of its simple but timeless story, this movie has aged beautifully. Add to that the great acting and dialogues, the good sense of humour, the complex characters, the great cinematography – and you get a truly wonderful movie. It's impossible not to see and feel that George Bailey represents all of us, and it's easy to share his joys and sorrows as if they were our own. Ultimately, this is a movie that truly sums up what Christmas – but also all our lives – should be about: being a good person, because it pays off and because the richest people are those surrounded by family and friends, not the ones that have lots of money. It might be a naive and idealistic message, but it works amazingly for this time of the year.Rating: 8/10 Read more reviews at http://passpopcorn.com/


                
* Contains spoilers * This is the movie that has that "I wish I never been born" thing, where an angel shows him how his life would have been if he hadn't been born, and before seeing this movie today, I had seen it re-done a thousand times in various (mostly lame/gross) stuff, even in "Married with children" (which was a bit funny, and quite the opposite of this movie). So when I found out that this was were it came from (unless I'm mistaken), I must admit that I felt a little grossified. But after all, I liked the movie, and the small grossification was blown out of the water by the ending. Although it was happy, preachy and so on, it impressed me and sent chills down my spine and gave me a bit of a lump in my throat. Overall, this pushed the movie up to be among the best of the old movies I've seen and I'll be a little generous and give it an 8 out of 10.
I have two competing trains of thought about this movie.  One is the obvious praise/adoration/no-holiday-season-complete-without that all of the other reviews have said.  The other is much darker.Does anyone else see that the point of the movie is divine intervention from holiday suicide?  Does anyone see this as a bad thing?  Let's examine the facts.  1.  George is unhappy with life.  2.  He gets in financial difficulty.  3.  Because he sees no way out, he decides to commit suicide. 4.  Divine powers intervene and save George from killing himself at the last minute.Does this happen in real life?  Ya, all but #4, which never occurs.  I hate to say it but this movie that we all love should be avoided by depressed people.  It is probably indirectly responsible for thousands of suicides. People aren't thinking clearly when they are depressed and seeing divine intervention save someone at the last second, if and only if they are good enough, is probably enough to push people over the edge.  That stupid 'Touched by an Angel' TV show is just as bad.People have a hard enough time distinguishing truth from reality without suggesting to the weak-minded that some supernatural entity is going to come along and solve all of their problems.All that having been said, I still love this movie.


                
I have loved looking at this movie. It gets better with time. A good moral message. The days of good story lines are gone. This movie gives you the warm hometown feelings that are needed at the Holiday Season time of year.I have loved looking at this movie. It gets better with time. A good moral message. The days of good story lines are gone. This movie gives you the warm hometown feelings that are needed at the Holiday Season time of year.I have loved looking at this movie. It gets better with time. A good moral message. The days of good story lines are gone. This movie gives you the warm hometown feelings that are needed at the Holiday Season time of year.I have loved looking at this movie. It gets better with time. A good moral message. The days of good story lines are gone. This movie gives you the warm hometown feelings that are needed at the Holiday Season time of year.


                
Truly one of the best movies I've ever seen. I had to watch this movie for my schoolwork, but before I had to watch it I never knew this movie was such a big inspiration for filmmakers these days. After seeing the movie I finally understood what all the fuss was about. It's quite a simple movie, and in black and white, but still really incredible to watch. And I'm so glad I did! You get sucked into the story and walk out of the cinema with a great feeling. Needless to say, It's a feel good movie you just have to see. And I believe every film fan should have seen this movie at least once! So to everybody who is reading this as research and hasn't seen the movie yet....Watch It!!!


                
