I was incredibly excited when Rome first came out. I cleared my schedule and set down before the almighty TV and watched excitedly. I was hooked instantly: the production crew went above and beyond the call of duty and boy! what a result! This show is truly beautiful.Then the sex started.And kept on going.And going...And as far as I know, it's still going. The show, which started off so promisingly, quickly degraded itself into cheap porn. It left nothing to the imagination, providing High-Definition detail of every wrinkle of skin on the copious number or penises we were obliged with.It is too bad that a show that clearly was worked on so diligently is really just cheap porn (without even the pizza guy) clothed in the shabby tatters of "plot" and "history". A delight for history buffs my arse. Only a history buff on the cultural delight of copulation would be delighted by this rubbish. A true history buff would be disappointed by the minimal cultural details.The costumes are wonderful; what a pity they are worn so frequently.And I'm sure that those shots of the beautiful countryside would be breathtaking, but my breath was already taken by the soldier "relieving himself" with that nubile shepherdess against the tree. (At least we didn't have to watch him doing the deed to the *sheep*) You might like the show. Obviously there are many people out there who do. I, however, did not. In my opinion, this show relied on cheap sex and fake blood (though it is mighty convincing-looking blood) and barely nods its head at the plot. If this is your thing, tune into the SPICE network or Playboy. At least there you'll be sure to run into some bewildered Pizza Guy with a large...hot...spicy...melt-in-your-mouth...delicious and well-oiled.........pizza.


                
I have been interested in Greek and Roman history since I went to school. I was looking forward to a serious production. I had no preconceptions and did not know which era of the long history of Rome would be addressed.This had the potential to be an amazing series given all the plotting and political intrigue that went on in ancient Rome over many centuries. Instead it is reduced to the level of a soap opera.This series is just plain awful. Where to start - poor acting, poor dialog, sex every few minutes, nudity, jerky plot, no introduction as to who the protagonists are and their back story? This along with Spartacus is not wholesome family entertainment.I gave up on this dross after one episode.


                
This is total drivel from beginning to end, cringeworthy tripe thats you people should be ashamed of liking. The acting is atrocious bar one or two performances, the two leads in particular are about as convincing as Stallone would be if he tried Shakespeare.Did anyone actually listen to the dialogue or were you all looking at the fancy costumes? It was like watching Eastenders in fancy dress!Forget the dodgy accents, you can put up with that if the script is good, but is was awful stilted unispired rubbish. With ridiculous colloquialisms thrown in, like "cack"! The two main characters couldn't act to save their lives, it was painful to watch them attempt to inject emotion into their performances, it was so bad I laughed out loud many a time.Total crap.


                
THIS is pornography and it's awful because I was expecting the history of Rome, not a long drawn out sexual soap opera about Julius Caesar. Within 5 minutes I was shown full frontal nudity, and it was disgusting because it wasn't rated on the box of what it was. I check this out at the public library in my town and had I known what it was I would not have. What is more appalling is that it was also available to children and I believe that's illegal. Surely it cannot be that resellers of pornography follow one law and the public libraries of the United States of America make their own law. Both libraries said it wasn't their job to check IDs of minors and it was up to the parents to make sure their children did not check out pornography at the library. That simply doesn't wash. That statement won't stand up in any court room from those who break child protection laws. I'm doing a survey to see if all libraries are like this and suggest anyone in their hometown ask the same questions because it ought to be addressed. Generally, pornography is followed by explicit violence and when one wants to know why America's youth is so violent one must question the practices of their public library. You would not believe the attitude from the librarians stating it wasn't their problem. But it is their problem if they're breaking the law.


                
I absolutely love period shows, even Spartacus Blood and Sand, even though it was full of sex scenes! Rome has tried to emulate a period drama but the dialogue is ridiculous! Women nagging and abusing their husbands and getting away with it like modern day English people is not what I would expect in Cesar's day! The dialogue is very distracting and just plain wrong with many references to products that had not been invented at the time! The costumes are terrible and again, distracting! Seeing obvious machine sewn clothes that don't fit the time period in a show that brags about the costumes is disappointing! Shows should take a leaf out of "Outlander" the series and see how "good shows" are produced in all aspects of production! I watched 3 episodes of Rome and although like a lot of the actors, thought they were disadvantaged by the terrible script and plot! It's not difficult to write a script based on actual events but whoever wrote this script lost the plot from the beginning! Rome is just plain ridiculous but tries to suck people in with sex scenes, which obviously works looking at some of the "good" reviews!


                
