I just think you should know what you are watching especially if you have a family. This is full nudity, full action fornication, close-up, genuine XXX adult p0rn every 5 minutes throughout this entire HBO ROME video. It spends more time on the p0rn than they do the story of Rome. The core video is just a boring soap opera using historical names, interlaced with VERY adult video every few minutes. There is no historical value or movie entertainment value on this HBO video.WARNING: This is NOT a family video! There is no historical or entertainment merit in this video! This HBO ROME is filled with XXX full nudity, full action sex throughout the entire video. They take historical events, add their own soap opera dialogue and then interlace graphic sex every 5 minutes throughout this entire HBO Rome video.I recommend the Hist Channel's "ROME: The rise and fall of an Empire" instead of this HBO version of "Rome" if you are truly interested in ancient Roman history as I am. You won't find it on this HBO version of Rome.As an alternative suggestion, the History Channel's Rome video is based on well-researched, accurate historical facts presented in a chronological order as you have often seen shown on the history channel. They also recreate ancient Rome using fully recreated period attire and locations; including a narrative filled with information and recreations of historical events. The History Channel's DVD set is very nicely done and with their usual high quality production if you are truly interested in the history of ancient Rome. It is also less expensive. You can let your children watch the History Channel's video set... But NOT this HBO version.However, if you like full XXX total nudity and full action p0rn sex on the screen, then this HBO series is for you. I'm not shocked by p0rn and I've seen a few in my time, so I caution you, this HBO ROME video isn't some momentary flash of nudity nor some prudish comment. This is a full action fornication, full lewd nudity p0rn just 2 feet from the camera lens throughout the entire video series. This is no exaggeration. They have a new sex scene every 5 minutes. This is the kind of p0rn you see at the adult book stores with the infamous "Stormy"... except this is higher quality production which has a soap opera story to go with it. In keeping with modern p0rn, the girls are all trimmed up nicely with preference to fair with plastic surgery upgrades rather than the authentic, unshaven hairy, raven haired Italian girls of ancient Rome. So much for authenticity...I wanted to see a historical video on Rome... and I guarantee this HBO p0rn version is not it. Even if it did not have the p0rn, it is nothing more than a slow, boring soap opera. It isn't even a good movie. It just slowly drags from one scene to the next about daily events on the road with the Roman army or political discord at the Roman Senate... interlaced with the XXX scenes.This HBO video is presented in a soap opera style so it is not a history lesson. Basically, they created a soap opera scenario about Julius Caesar and the other historical figures of ancient Rome interacting and (literally) lathered it up with HBO sex to attract viewers and recoup the money they spent on the production. They would never have added the lewd scenes if the video itself was of any quality because they would have been concerned about losing their family audience. But the scenes with Caesar, Pompey, Brutus, Anthony, etc., are all just boring soap dialogue of events without historical or entertainment value<U+0085> so the only way they could have sold this video or kept an audience interest is by catering to those who enjoy raw sex and then package it in a Roman wrapper for marketing.When you see all of these rave reviews from other reviewers, consider their ages and gender and what they really liked about this video. I'm sure a lot of these reviewers are young males under 25... and who knows how young some of these commenters are? But there is no doubt this video series will really be a big hit with males of any age and a few females who are into this type of video. Just consider the source of those reviews.When I first read the reviews (before I watched the video), I thought it was probably just a few nude scenes and people were overreacting. I figured a few nude scenes wouldn't be a big deal, but that is not the case with this video. Those reviewers warning of p0rn were NOT exaggerating! If anything, they were understating it. It is as bad as they describe and worse! These reviews remind me of those old comments the guys used to make about reading PB magazine for the articles... (and claimed they didn't look at the centerfold). I don't know who they were trying to convince other than to justify why they bought it.I am, however, grateful that I had also bought the history channel's "Rome: The Rise and Fall of an Empire". I bought it at the same time I bought this HBO p0rn version of "Rome". I'm glad I had the other to watch when I found out just how bad this HBO video on Rome turned out to be.


                
