There are many good things about this series. The cinematography, costumes and attention to detail are high among them. Great care has been taken over many aspects of the program giving it an edge that the great Roman films of the past comprehensively lack. The politics of the time are well presented with generally powerful characters usually but not always well acted. The licences taken with historical events are forgivable and they retain well the core thrust. Watching with the "All roads lead to Rome" subtitles on the DVD is worthwhile as it brings many otherwise obscure points to the fore and helps to make the reaction of some of the characters naturally understandable. The production team and cast should be rightly pleased with what they have done. They have set a new standard for historical dramas of the ancient world.Watching the extras on the DVD, one cannot but be struck by the pride that they take in the plot line about Veranus and Pullo. That's a great pity. It is frankly ridiculous. The whole thins is reminiscent of the the contrivances that George McDonald Fraser took to place Flashman at the centre of world events. It has the same degree of incredulity - yes, I know this is drama but it still totally ludicrous. However, Flashman makes no pretence to be anything other than a comic novel but Rome takes itself seriously. Huge mistake. A truly awful plot structure and one that is totally unnecessary. Populism gone mad. The program would have been so much better without this central thread.Leaving this aside, there is plenty of drama in Roman politics of those times. Anyone who has read I Claudius and its sequel will be well aware of that. This story line was generally fairly well done even allowing for its artistic licence. The power struggle between ideas. The literal cut and thrust of Roman politics has so much to teach us today. The extraordinary emergence of Octavian as emperor is a truly great platform that could be used in this way. The series got off to a great start, but as it goes on it becomes frankly tedious. What a tragedy, what a missed opportunity, what a disappointment. Thankfully there is no third series despite plenty of fantastic potential with the history of the succeeding few decades.


                
I know my review is like 10 years after the show, but I've just bought the DVD, and I kinda wish I didn't!I won't talk about the unnecessary and pointless nudity, I got used to it with the most recent shows now. I've noticed that it was a low budget production from the start, you can see it from the clothes, the jewelry and of course the setting itself, the buildings were far bigger and more glamorous. On the other hand, there were a lot of actors that I liked, the directing was good and the story wasn't bad, so I kept watching it. It's not 100% historically accurate, but so are all the historical based shows nowadays, I watched it then as an ordinary TV show "inspired" by true events. However, we must respect a minimum of accuracy. So when I've reached episodes 7 and 8 of the first season that were in Egypt, I started laughing out loud for the following reasons: There was a mosque in the background (you can see it when Mumbay arrived Egypt in episode 7). So Egyptians believed in a religion that appeared 500 years later ??!!I've actually understood the language spoken by the Egyptians in the episodes (I'm Egyptian btw), it was modern Egyptian, which is mainly Arabic!!! The Arabs didn't invade Egypt until late 400 or early 500 AD, and it took us centuries to use Arabic in our language!! there are a lot of books on ancient Egyptian language used at that time, why not applying it like any other decent show or movie did??? Better yet, just make them speak English like the rest!of course the costumes are not right (Arabic style, really??), the desert was only used for cemeteries and not even to imprison a princess like Cleopatra. We were a rural society, and we still are. We hate the desert, and we still do. Egypt was a great and civilized nation at the time, why is it looking like it's comprised of a couple of nomad tribes? American (or English) stereotypes much, even in historical shows??Last, but not least, with all my due respect to the actress, she's ugly to be Cleopatra. And Cleopatra wasn't so juvenile like that, she was known to be mature comparing to her age.I'll continue watching the show (I wrote this review in the middle of ep. 8, couldn't resist!!) as I bought the DVD
