I don't usually watch TV series - though my friend at the local DVD rental outlet says that they're very popular with customers and himself even admitted that, of late, he isn't watching anything else! Anyway, I knew of the furor surrounding this particular series - its quality, scope and realism (down to the coarse language and its graphic display of sex and violence) but, going through it myself now, I can't help feeling slightly let down: the impressively grimy look and combat sequences (not that there are many) are all-too-clearly derived from GLADIATOR (2000) and the outburst of historical epics which came in its wake; as for the baffling over-emphasis on the rather embarrassing lewd content - which I find highly distracting and, worse, entirely superfluous, though it gradually got considerably toned down - the series' creators seem to have looked to SATYRICON (1969) or even CALIGULA (1979) for inspiration! Considering that the narrative follows well-known events - Julius Caesar's rise to power and his eventual downfall - it's padded with an endless array of subplots which aren't exactly compelling and mainly serve to bog down the military maneuvers and political intrigues (which, to me, are its most intriguing elements)! While the acting in general is surprisingly strong, the main characters seem only to alternate between the unsympathetic and the obnoxious (with Titus Pullo, Atia and, most bafflingly, Mark Anthony coming off the worst)! Still, the lack of invention where direction is concerned certainly emerges as one of the most disappointing aspects to it (despite the involvement of competent film-makers such as John Milius and Michael Apted)! All in all, therefore, an interesting production - for various reasons, a TV milestone no doubt - but it doesn't make me want to go out and check all the other current TV series that are all the rage either...


                
The production values are very high! And everything looks great. It looks authentic! At least it gives people an idea how life was in Rome! After reading several reviews on IMDb I was expecting a lot! But I have to say I am a bit disappointed! I did like most of the characters, like Lucius Vorenus and Titus Pullo! But there was not much happening! For some reason the story wasn't interesting enough for me! I have seen I, Claudius and loved it! The difference between these two are obvious! I, Claudius was very low budget and seemed more like a play! But in I, Claudius you got more insight of how the politics worked! There was more intrigue and more danger! In "Rome" there is some intrigue but not enough to keep the story compelling! I am glad they added a plot concerning Lucius Vorenus,because that made "Rome" far more interesting! (I have seen some scenes from the second season concerning Vorenus and Pullo and they were great.) From what I have seen the second season will be much better and interesting!


                
Well finally campers!! For awhile I was beginning to believe this series was going to be just another boob fest reminiscent of the unenlightened years of yore, (seems light years ago doesn't it!!?) and that Rome would deny any eye-candy for the rest of us! Silly me, I have to learn patience! My boys at HBO never fail to come through with equal time, and Rome thankfully now is no exception. If you saw Episode 15, you already know it was worth the wait! If you didn't see it, hold on to your togas, and watch and enjoy yourself! But not too much!! Lets just hope we get more of the good stuff, and not make it simply a one week wonder! I hate when the producers get weak in the knees, but we have our little fingers crossed don't we. Oh as for the rest of the show (as if you naughties really cared!!!) I'll just say its decent. Much of the history lesson is skewed, but who cares about silly history!! This is entertainment right? If I wanted history, I would have paid more attention in high school instead of staring at Mr. XX's bleep. I better stop. Enjoy Rome, and someone thank HBO already for keeping ALL of the troops happy, again.


                
The BBC has a lot to live up to having adapted Robert Graves's novels 'I, Claudius' and 'Claudius the God' into a memorable series in the 1970's starring some wonderful actors.Rome's production values were superior to the BBC in the 1970's, but the acting, alas, was not always so good. In the 1970's acting on the BBC was excellent, but the sets were cardboard. In 2005, it might be harsh to say that the situation was reversed, but it certainly did seem like that at first. In particular, the guy who played Julius Caesar didn't manage to convey a strong presence until he was on the verge of assassination, although Kenneth Cranham, as Pompey, was brilliant from the start.The first episode had a couple of scenes of totally pointless female nudity but this did not feature so prominently later on, so I imagine that the intention may have been to engage male viewers, who'd tuned in specifically to see some pre-Christian morals on display. Polly Walker, however, recovered from that (beautiful) indiscretion and managed to portray the snobbish, self-serving, selfish anti-heroine (the name of the character escapes me)whom you can't help but like, with vigour and aplomb. 'Desperate Housewives' have nothing on her.Turning to the presentation of pagan Roman society, I have to say that I was extremely impressed by what I saw. I think we are fairly certain that Roman society was cruel and competitive, and social compassion was rare. Relationships were patriachal and men dominated society, although rich widows did have some autonomy. Thankfully, we've come a long way since then, and Christianity, for all the wrong-doing which has been done in the name of God, has clearly made life more tolerable in the West (as perhaps other religions have done elsewhere). What was fascinating about Rome, however, was the meticulous attention given to a society which gave us many legal concepts which are still familiar, and some moral ones, such as stoicism, attachment to personal privacy and loyalty to family and military formation, which may have influenced subsequent developments. This lived side by side with corruption, greed for wealth, power and status, rampant crime and a vicious class system. Rome managed to portray all of that and still get on with the story about the last year's of the Republic. The plot about the 2 soldiers which acts as dramatic counterpoint to the high politics, until one of the characters gets involved with Caesar,works well, and allows us to study the polarities in Roman society and mores without heavy-handedness.Anyhow, it's certainly worth watching but unfortunately, you couldn't show it to a 10 year old whose imagination is stirred by those times.


                
I actually am rating this higher than I should. I enjoyed both Spartacus and this series. They are very different on performance levels and action. While "Rome" is a much more mature series, there isn't much action, at least not compared to Spartacus. Reading the history of this time, Rome is actually very tame, when in actuality, Spartacus has more validity. These Romans and peasants were brutal, pornographic, cruel and disgusting and that's the good part of them. So considering some of the comments on the entertaining part, Spartacus is more real to life. Everything you watched actually happened. Crucifixion happened daily, male to male sex was common, as were the forced slavery and all of the debauchery. As disgusting as it is to listen to or hear about, Spartacus was more in line with true events and the cause for Civil war. I found no love or even likeness towards any of the Romans other than their ability to learn and ultimately teach many in living a more modern/comfortable lifestyle. IMO.


                
