The ingredients do not necessarily suggest a successful TV-series. There's extreme, relentless, at times mind numbing violence, graphically depicted; barely a single sympathetic character is in sight; there is not the slightest hint of anything humoristic (well, except for Ian McNeices delicious newsreader); and as always actual historical fact is twisted and turned into something that may be suitable for entertainment purposes but rather (over)stretches credulity at times <U+0096> one wonders why, because it's not as if these people actually were a dull bunch leading uneventful lives. Yet "Rome" is strangely haunting and compelling. Often it does a good job of transporting the viewer to a world unencumbered by Christian sensitivities, particularly in its love of bloodsports, its dealings with slaves, and its relaxed attitude to sex and public nudity. Full frontal male nudity is not eschewed, still the final frontier in film-making. Also, and more importantly, "Rome" conveys the constant sense of tension, intrigue and threat dominating the lives of those in power. Finally, a fairly good job was done of giving a realistic impression of the city itself in those final decades before the birth of Christ. It is, however, weird and rather silly that the characters speak English but throw in occasional Latin. Typically, many of the main dramatic historical events are not shown, but only told in flashback. For instance, we do not witness Mark Antony's finest hour, his eulogy at Caesar's funeral, that swayed Roman public opinion against the assassins. Several decisive battles, including that of Actium, are also conveniently skipped.The story is told from the vantage point of two soldiers, one eventually rising through the ranks, the other only finding a settled existence towards the end. Both are, though in name only, based on historical characters. Gruff and dutiful Lucius Vorenus is haunted by personal tragedy. He struggles with his role as a father and his allegiance to a loosing party, that of Mark Antony; struggles that at one point will land him as the leader of a band of hired assassins. His unlikely friend Titus Pullo leads an aimless existence that never manages to be carefree and that only gains some focus whenever some fighting is to be done. The plot has been constructed around the far-out premise that the whole birth of the Roman Empire pivoted on the actions of these two men, rather than those of Julius Caesar and his ilk. The idea has been woven into the story so tightly and cleverly that it is surprisingly easy to suspend disbelief.The first season is the more consistent and compelling of the two, dealing with the battle between Julius Caesar and Magnus Pompey. The strife between the families of Caesar and Brutus is exemplified by their two matrons Atia and Servilia, both in their way as vicious and devious a schemer as you're ever likely to see. The development of the relationship between Vorenus and Niobe is believable and quite touching. The second season then depicts the power struggle between Mark Antony and Gaius Octavian, and introduces the exotic element of Egypt, where Cleopatra's court appears to be some kind of whorehouse and the Queen herself a scantily dressed upmarket prostitute. Halfway through this season the story start to get ragged, and some plot lines hang by a precariously thin thread (the way Vorenus discovers his daughter's betrayal is like something out of an uninspired Miss Marple episode). A Jewish subplot is randomly tacked on and feels like a cumbersome invention to burden the story with irrelevant premonitions of Christ. Furthermore, it doesn't help that a substantial number of the more interesting characters, notably Cicero, Servilia and Brutus, are killed off. The "Xena, Warrior Princess"- act of Gaia in the battle of the Collegia is probably the low point of the series. Fortunately, things are pulled together for the final episodes, where the story is satisfyingly wrapped up and the viewer is indeed left, in Octavian's words, with the sense of having traveled a long road.History buffs will find ample cause to be annoyed nonetheless. Many events are fabricated, characters are missing (where are Octavia's husband Claudius Marcellus, Atia's husband Lucius Phillippus and Marc Anthony's wife Fulvia?), people weren't really in the places where we see them at the moment we see them there (Caesar wasn't killed in the Senate, Cicero wasn't killed at home), and several details of costume and ritual are anachronistic or invented. Alexandria is shown as some rustic backwater rather than the dazzling metropolis it was. Characters are sometimes almost insultingly distorted. Cicero wasn't the abject hypocrite and coward he's been made into by the makers of the series. He delivered the Philippics against Antony himself, and was a figure of great power and huge popularity. Atia gets even worse treatment: described by Tacitus as one of the most admired and devout matrons of Rome, who couldn't bear crude language and was deeply serious, she is turned into a foul-mouthed, violent she-devil. Generally speaking it is a pity that most of the characters are rather flat and stereotyped. It sometime makes it hard to believe when they do change, as when the cynical libertine Mark Antony suddenly waxes philosophical after loosing the battle of Actium. Easily the most complex, fascinating and moving character in the series is that of Brutus, played with consummate skill and total conviction by Tobias Menzies. It is a great pity that the scriptwriters did not retain for him his dignified suicidal death, but instead have him madly confront an entire legion on his own, and die a death mirroring that of Caesar <U+0096> the symbolism is very trite. Such concerns may seem academic, but in this TV-dominated age its only too likely that many will think that after watching "Rome" they actually know something of Roman history. Not so <U+0096> but they will have been splendidly entertained.
I should point out that I've watched only the first season (episodes 1–12), which purports to chronicle the period of history between Caesar’s conquest of Gaul, and his eventual assassination.In addition to the mass of historical inaccuracies, my main disappointment was that, as the season progresses, the family lives of the fictional characters Vorenus and Pullo gain increasing screen time, at the expense of the major historical players (Caesar, Pompey, Antony, Brutus, Cleopatra,....), whose political inter-dependency, posturing, ambitions, and so forth, could have been more deeply and intelligently explored. Instead, petty (and unhistorical) romances and rivalries take center stage, giving much of the production a tawdry, soap opera-like feel.These gripes aside, the series is nonetheless a watchable romp. The storyline, despite its flaws, is pacey and engaging enough. The production values (sets, costumes) and cinematography are lavish, and provide an authentic backdrop. There is some witty dialog, when Bruno Heller is writing.Overall, the acting is first rate. The always charismatic Ciaran Hinds is particularly impressive; his portrayal of Caesar (in capturing Caesar’s misplaced assumption of his own invincibility) is the easily the best I have seen. James Purefoy is a little over-the-top as a jaunty, playboy Antony. However, as with Kenneth Cranham’s Pompey, more screen time would have allowed greater opportunity for detailed character development. Despite being miscast, Polly Walker uses her beauty and presence to great effect. It was a treat to see Cracker’s Lorcan Cranitch, albeit only in a minor role. The rest of the cast perform very creditably, given the available material.There’s a lot of nudity and violence, albeit understandably, but it arguably makes Rome unsuitable for younger viewers. Pedants and historians seeking an accurate, in-depth portrayal of events and characters will likely be disappointed.All things considered, I enjoyed the first season, but I think the IMDb rating of 9.3 is unmerited. I would give it 7 or 8. With a little more attention to the material, and its presentation, Rome could have been unreservedly great.
Much of HBO's "Rome" is quite inaccurate. Aside from the leaving out of many strategic movements (specifically during the civil war), a battle in which Caesar was badly defeated, only to come back around at Pharsalus, sadly, this is the best Ancient Roman movie/mini-series out so far. Both versions of "Spartacus" are laughably inaccurate, the many dud TV "Julius Caesar" shows are long forgotten in public memory, and "Gladiator" may have been action-packed and good to look at, but was in the end just a Hollywood action flick."Rome" is perhaps the most accurate looking, realistic feeling depiction of the end of the Republic Rome and of Pompeius and Caesar. Being a history expert myself, I can't help but concentrate on the historical inaccuracies, but was well pleased with the accuracies they've taken.Accuracies: - The (only) battle scene in the beginning follows suit with Roman battle style of staying in formation rather than wandering around like barbarians as in "Gladiator" - The streets of Rome look properly filthy and crowded, but with a definite "Roman" feel to them - The use of Caesar's proper name "Gaius", and his full name "Gaius Julius Caesar" rather than dwelling upon the "Julius Caesar" which has so plagued modern depictions of him (the equivalent of calling a modern-day 3 named person by their last two names only: Earl Jones, Love Hewitt, Dallas Howard, Day Lewis, etc) - The accurate depiction of Caesar not as benevolent, but rather cool and calculating--always thinking of his own benefit and the people first - The proper unfolding of the assassination scene (as in leaving out the cliché "et tu, Brute?" line, and such) - The portrayal of Antonius as a vicious bruteInaccuracies: - Significant lack of key players in the Optimates (the good men opposing Caesar) such as Bibulus, Titus Labienus, Lentulus Crus and Lentulus Spinther, Lucius Domitius Ahenobarbus, etc - Portrayal of Cato as an old man (he was only in his 40s at the time) - The "dumbing down" of the conflict between Caesar and the Optimates (giving the audience the idea that they warred because Pompeius was jealous of Caesar gaining the love of the people. In actuality, it ran far deeper and far terribly more complex than that--but not too complex for dramatic depiction) - Confusion of Servilia and her relationship with Caesar and Atia, confusion of Brutus's relationship with Caesar (he was never his close friend---he in fact hated him at some times) - The depiction of Cleopatra as some sort of opium junky - Confusion of Marcus Tullius Cicero's role in the Optimates and Caesar - Legion confusion (Titus Pullo and Lucius Vorenus were never in the Thirteenth Legion after the Gallic Wars ended, and the Thirteenth was never Caesar's favorite---that distinction went to the Tenth) - Octavian's true name is Gaius Octavius---Octavian is not a real Roman name, perhaps bearing resemblance to "Octavianus", which is the name Octavius much later adopted as part of his adopted name "Gaius Julius Caesar Octavianus" and later Augustus - Octavius was much younger during this period of time than depicted---he was 18 when Caesar died, only 13 during the endpoint of the Gallic wars - Lack of mention of Marcus Crassus (Caesar's friend, who died only a year before the show starts), and complete lack of mention of Gaius Marius and Lucius Cornelius Sulla (save for a barely caught mention of "the last dictator"), both of whom had a tremendous impact on Roman society at the time---indeed, they feared Caesar's dictatorship specifically because they feared he might proscribe, as Sulla did - Leaves out Caesars march on the Spains before following Pompeius to Greece - Pompeius left Greece with some of his comrades, the Lentuli Crus and Spinther, etc - Pompeius had an adult son with him during the Civil war, and even at Pharsalus - At no point after Julia's death did Caesar attempt to have Pompeius re-marry into his family - Atia had a husband during this time--Lucius Marcius Philippus - The treasury was never emptied at any time---this was of catastrophic cost to Pompeius, as Lentulus Crus forgot to empty the treasury as they all fled Rome, thus leaving its wealth to Caesar's use, while Pompeius was forced to squeeze his provinces in the East and sell much of his wealth in Italy to fund the war - Caesar's eagle(s) were never stolen - Absolutely no mention whatsoever of Caesar's mother Aurelia, who died a month or so after Julia's death - Cato left for Africa before Pharsalus - The final battle with Vercingetorix was not a traditional battle as depicted in the first episode, but a massive siege assault on Alesia, in which Caesar was nearly defeated were it not for his luck, his men's hardiness, and the enemy's collective confusion and disconnection - Metellus Scipio was not with Pompeius as he fled to Greece---he was in Syria, and pulled up the two legions stationed there to meet Pompeius, reaching them before Pharsalus - After Pompeius's death, the civil war did not die down--there was still resistance to be put down in Africa, mostly, as well as other Eastern regions - Vercingetorix would never have allowed Romans to touch him when he surrendered to Caesar - Vercingetorix and Caesar had actually had a history together before Alesia, and had known each other by name. Thus, the introduction of Vercingetorix to Caesar was unnecessary - Marcus Cicero's brother Quintus was strongly for Caesar, thus the two would have quarreled fiercely, along with Cicero's son and wife on his side, and Quintus's son and wife on his
I am a little bit less enthusiastic about these series than the majority of the viewers in IMDb who seem to be really enthusiastic. To be sure, this is one of the best series on TV based on old history but this maybe tells more about TV series until now. I am writing this after having completed the viewing of the second season, and my rating would be 8.5 for the first season and 7 for the second.On the good side I would mention the effort made on reconstructing the life and landscape of ancient Rome, even if some limits of the budget may be seen especially in the dimensions of the set. The day-to-day life and the morals are however splendidly caught and the first episode in the first series shine on these. Then we get a little accustomed and nothing significantly new shows up. I also liked the script which makes of many of the historic characters real people, does seldom fall into rhetoric, does not hesitate to take distance from some of the classical approaches in literature and theater, and succeeds to stay credible and interesting for most of the time. The pair Titus and Lucius who run their parallel story of friendship in parallel to the intrigues of famous historical figures is greatly acted, human, and moving. All looks like a god soap opera set in ancient times, and I am using this term in a very positive way, because good soap operas catch the attention and make the viewers care about the fate of the heroes.On the bad side I would mention the repeated use of modern day slang, which breaks the convention and hurts credibility. Whatever the directors or script authors believe, repeated use of four letters words does not fit well in a movie about ancient Rome, and having Mark Anthony call Cleopatra 'baby' is hard to take either. There are also some continuity problems like the change of the actor playing Octavanus, as well as some side conflicts especially in the second season that seem more designed to fill in time, and are less connected to the rest.I am curious if there will be a third season. The final seems to leave this opportunity open, and there certainly are enough events and screen-worth stories in the history of Rome. I would certainly follow and watch them.


                
I've watched all this series and was very impressed. The sets were excellent and the acting superb. I've read several of the comments about the historical inaccuracy and I didn't think it was very inaccurate at all and I've studied Roman history all my life. One bit did annoy me though. Julius Caesar was famously in command of the tenth legion, not the thirteenth as in the series. Also for a series with so many British actors in it where was the two invasions of Britain that Caesar did in 55 and 54 bce? Very strange! That aside, it was a fantastically done series and series two is much anticipated. More battle scenes next time please. The big battle that led to the defeat of Pompey was very notable in its absence.


                
This is one of HBO's better historical dramas, miles above the vulgar-for-its-own-sake Deadwood. This series does not simply play epater le bourgeoisie so that it can appear gritty or "real." This is Deadwood's greatest failing and it is not echoed in Rome. When vulgarity is called for, it is used in an organic way, it springs from the historical record as well as the characters themselves. And the interplay of these characters is rich and wicked. It may not seem exciting all the time, but that is a good thing. There are scenes of thoughtful encounter as well as brawls and delicious bloodletting. Sex is shown straightforwardly and without a lot of superfluous yatter. Rome has the feel of a society that "gets on with it," which is one of the things which separated Rome from Athens and the more poetic and learned (but just as bloody-minded) Greeks. All in all this series is worthy of our attention for its excellent production values, good scripts, and accomplished actors. While I had to finally give up on Deadwood, Rome holds my attention much better. Its stage is so much broader (history, after all, plays across it in very human terms), the stakes are so much greater, and the juvenile need to shock the middle classes is not found in the dialogue or action. Definitely worth a look for those who have HBO. A new season begins sometime this summer (2006).


                
Starting off I was unsure what to make of this series but half way through I became a fan. Full of sex, violence and vulgarity this series has it all. The major historical figures of Caesar, Mark Anthony, Cleopatra, Cicero, Cato, Octavian, Pompey and Agrippa are all depicted in this series and we are shown how Senate politics operates. The story revolves around the characters of Vorenus and Pullo very different people and living in a city constantly in the grip of destruction. Attia is by far a domineering person, played by Polly Walker. Her story was well fleshed out and the most fascinating of all them combined. Throughout the series a feud between herself and Servilia was acted out and this tortuous relationship corresponded with all the major events of the story. The assassination of Caesar was the peak of the series and sadly it began to flatten in the following season. That scene was particularly dramatic. Caesar lay dying on the floor after being set upon by the Senators. It shows the treachery of the plotters and the utter surprise of Caesar fending off his own people. It is a great series.
"Rome" is a Rosencrantz & Guildenstern version of the events everyone knows about, if not from school then at least from Asterix comics. Starting with Caesar's capture of Vercingetorix and continuing to his assassination in the Senate (first season) and from there until Octavian finally manages to crush his enemies (second season). "Rome" owes much to "I, Claudius".All our fave villains are there: Caesar, Mark Anthony, Pompey, Cicero, Cleopatra, Brutus, Cato and, of course, Lucius Vorenus and Titus Pullo. Come again? Caesar mentions these two soldiers once in his history of the Gallic war but apart from that nothing is known of them. Lucius and Titus are bros and the series' main characters. Much of the story is told from their perspective, and they not just witness but sometimes even change history.The first season is a feast and big fun, though sometimes not quite as good as possible. Nakedness could be more frequent so as to stand out less as "scenes". Sets go to great lengths in recreating accurate detail, but the senate for example feels styro foamy. Photography and acting are solid. Octavians mother is "Rome's" Joan Collins, although I prefer that incredible bitch from "I, Claudius", also the acting is a bit better there. What makes the first season so satisfying to watch is the nice mix of everything, and the hints of daring you notice on the side of the producers with the depiction of violence, backstabbing and sex.Another parallel to "I, Claudius" is that they sort of lose it in the second half, or second season, respectively. The writers were apparently (read it somewhere) advised before the filming of season two started that the series would be cancelled. Thus they speeded up the pace of the plot, cramming 14 years in where the first season had only eight, and it shows. Story lines and people get shallower and lose rhythm and interest considerably. The older Octavian is a different actor, not to the advantage of the character. It's still not bad, I'd rate it a 5, but compared with the excellent first season I find it pretty sad they did not go on in the original spirit. The series was initially even planned to continue to Palestine until the time of Herod. Then we would have probably known who really fathered Jesus. Dang! In any case, if you haven't watched "Rome" yet, do get it already. Great for a weekend binge, particularly season one.
I have just finished watching the complete season one and I am very impressed by several aspects of this production. First of all the richness of the material whether clothes, buildings or works of art. It is a rich reconstruction of what Rome looked like, or what we imagine Rome looked like. The female characters are very devious, they reach satanic heights or rather depths, especially the members of the nobility. The senators are very caste-conscious as the soldiers are also. The scene in the arena was frightfully violent and the way Roman justice carried very questionable.It was probably correct though concerning the depiction of patron-client relationships. The character I found most endearing is Verrinus the loyal career military man and upholder of staunch Republican virtue until initiated by Caesar to the intricacies of the corrupt power policies of his reign-not that the supposed republican virtue meant anything to anybody except the aristocrats which used it as a self-perpetuating instrument for the maintenance of their personal and familial rule over the city and the provinces.A fine series.


                
Why it took HBO to deliver an historically mindful, yet Shakespearean version of the immediate and fatal transition from Roman Republic to Empire, I know not.As one views the sacred "I, Claudius", one presumes this cinematic tale; Indeed, "Rome" could have been written by Graves...it has more-than-adequate Gravitas (please do not groan).Were this epic done for dramatic purposes only, the finale would have been a battle between the 2 invented protagonists...however, this was enacted with a view to both history and Shakespeare...and it must be commended.Enjoyable, informative, HONEST*...this is a treasure.*honest in this case, means true to not only the subject matter, but honest in capturing the spirit of the times. ** For more enjoyable information about this tale, please see "legions of Hell", by C.J.Cherryh, and for a more immersive (and wholly enjoyable)texture of the religious beliefs and superstitions of the era, please see Gene Wolfe's "Soldier of the Mist" series.
To say in brief what the next paragraphs describe in a more detailed way, this TV series is in most parts well-done.I am since 25 years in the filed of maritime archeology, with focus on ancient Roman ships. In fact, I reconstruct them, and a book was published in the USA with part of my works. Now, having such a focus, makes me naturally very interested about any movie which talks about ancient Rome. Usually, most of the movies, even those published recently, are lacking authenticity.So, when I watched this series, I was not expecting much. But the more I was surprised, the more episodes I saw. And I gain quite a respect of those who are behind this series.The characters of the series are in most cases well-modeled. It is a pleasure to see them acting throughout all parts of the series. Two of the main characters, two common persons - by name Lucius Vorenus (plaid by Kevin McKidd) and Titus Pullo (Ray Stevenson) - make me suspecting the makers of the series where reading the comics of Uderzo "Asterix and Obelix", but at the same time, these two simple minds could also make a couple like Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy. Not in the openly humoristic way like the originals, but in a much more ironic and black-humoristic way. In fact, the entire series don't lacks large traces of a deep, very black humor, not too openly visible but quite hidden. These two simple minds with all their naivety at the begin walk through the Roman history, meet one Roman VIP after the other, and are part of major events on all locations of the Roman empire during the time frame of that series. And these two actors really sell their characters: both are realistic, and able to fit the spirit of that era as the series tries to sell to us.The idea to have these two main characters, simple and also partially naive but with Fortuna always strongly on their side, walking through the events and having them interacting with major persons of that time is a good idea. They have their own lifes, and their own spice: some of the things they are used to do might look strange to us today, but they fit perfectly into the screenplay.The series follows more or less the historic events from around BC 50 to BC 31. In some parts, the series let the historical events happen slightly different from the original events, that might have been intentionally to avoid unnecessary details or to tell the story of this series better, who knows. The ancient Rome comes alive on your TV, not as detailed and authentic as I as a professional would like, but good enough to make the entire series outstanding among other productions. The ancient ships the first season of this series shows, looked more like fantasy ships than the real ancient ships, and that is something I can judge. But the second season tried to correct that and had now finally ships which looked a bit more authentic. Not enough, many things still wrong with their ship reconstructions, but most 3D model developers don't know much about ancient ships but just about the 3D modeling. And most watchers wouldn't care if the things two thousand years ago really looked like those shown in the series, or not.The series draws a picture of the ancient Roman society like it was totally barbarian and corrupted, without much feelings for others. I doubt that this image is correct, the real ancient Rome would have been still different from what this series sells. But I guess, in another two thousand years, persons will put together all things of our time which went through the mass media: Christian priests having sex with children, politicians having sex with female employees, Seveso poison, corrupt medical companies producing lots of Contergan problems, and all such. I guess, loud headlines echo longer through the ages than the quiet, normal things.Nevertheless, the picture of the Roman society drawn by the series is rich of flavors and colors and spices. And very different from today's societies. Also, remarkable is the decision of HBO to add partially nude elements to this series, a mixture, which in my eyes works very well for this content.My final opinion is, that this series is very remarkable in the way what it shows, and how it shows. The characters are interesting to watch, and it is obvious, that a lot of background work was invested to make all the characters quite realistic. I also sense that the actors might have had lots of fun doing this series. The comments of the actors, and some activities, make me think that the developers of these characters had a deep sense for a very fine, hidden, black humor. The reconstructions in many ways were quite believable, in some cases some homework was not done and the reconstructions were just fantasy rather than authentic. I decided to give eight of ten points in my evaluation for this series.It is a pity HBO might not continue this series after 2007, but if they would, I could imagine this series could become one of those TV productions which could write history, and not just play history. Hopefully HBO will reconsider their position.


                
Sorry, but the "historical accuracy" of this ROME is a joke. Just enjoy it as great fun I am tired of reading from the poorly-educated how "accurate" the history is here. At least Graves based his Claudius books on Roman historians.And for real accuracy you need to read Coleen McCullogh's superb series MASTERS OF ROME on the Roman Civil War that precedes the last years of the Republic.... or Thornton Wilder's IDES OF MARCH which beautifully uses real characters like the poet Catullus, writing vicious diatribes at Caesar and lovesick poems to his "Lesbia," the brilliant and promiscuous aristocrat Clodia Pulcher. At least these two writers had earned literary license and knew how to use it.Clodia probably did have sex with her brother, unlike the prudish family of the even more prudish Octavian who certainly never slept with Octavia. That makes Atia's character a ludicrous character as is Servila. Servila was Caesar's mistress and there were rumours that Brutus was his son which made his murder of Caesar all the more dramatically interesting. And Brutus had a hideous acne condition that was much commented upon that would make an interesting characterization.Caesar was rumoured to be "every wife's husband and every soldier's wife" so there was a fertile area there unplowed by ROME. Some think Antony was his lover... but Atia sure wasn't and there were no mutual murder attempts between aristocratic Roman female rivals in the Republic. They had their little ways, but not the gross caricature shown in ROME.Octavian himself was such a prude that as Augustus he exiled his own daughter, Julia, to a island off Italy for promiscuity.Antony's rivalry with Octavian is real, but Antony was a real soldier and Octavian's squeamishness had him sick in bed for many of the battles that ensued in the early years. He was a great schemer and knew how to build step by step and find good subordinates while Antony was given to headstrong impulsiveness. THAT part ROME has right.The producers know how little their audience knows of Roman history so they feel free to throw them red meat, at the expense of history, largely because they don't know the history well enough to take advantage of the REAL excesses they blunder by.Here is an obvious mistake in plot regarding the fictional but interesting Vorenus--- Caesar elevated Vorenus to the Senatorial class... which causes a huge stink among the aristocrats. It is all fictional, but it is a nice touch. It is a huge move upward for a plebian. And Vorenus throws it all away in order to head the Aventine mob that runs the docks and the cattle market??? He throws away the purple striped toga of a Roman Senator? Not in a million years.And Caesar wasn't murdered in the Senate House. (Shakespeare got it wrong too.) He was murdered in Pompey's Theater where the Roman Senate had to spend some years while the Senate House was rebuilt after a mob practically destroyed it. That's why he died at the feet of Pompey's statue.As for Atia being showered in bull's blood. That is two centuries too early. Mithraism didn't take hold in Rome till the Second Century AD... about the same time as Christianity.So enjoy Rome... it is great fun... but accurate? Not hardly, though the sets are great, benefiting from Pompeii and Herculaneum and a lot of touches like the amulets and the slave placards as Kamiya properly notes


                
After a long anticipated Season 2 premier of "Rome" it was some what disappointing and weak compare to the first season. "Rome" is probably among the most accurate historical depiction ever made for TV or feature film. The first season was just amazing and the production, acting, script, direction just got better with every episode. However, this season premier of second season "Passover" just seemed weak compare to the first season. For example, any of you who has ever read "Julius Caesar" or know the story remember the famous speech by Mark Antony to the people who speaks after "Brutus" speech and reasoning why the killed Caesar. That scene was just a long shot of the people around Caesar body while it was getting burned and then it follows to another scene when Brutus and his mother and Cassius are having a debate with Antony to leave the City. Why they eliminated one of the most powerful and important parts of the story just doesn't make any sense?..This show has proved itself to be an intelligent and thought provoking show and not just blood and mayhem like "Gladiator" and yet after all this long wait it was just so empty.Rome has also shown to be very shy of action when it comes to the some of the fight scenes and blood, one in particular when Pullo was thrown in the arena to be killed and Lucius Vorenus came to his aid. That scene had one of the bloodiest scenes in any TV production and great fighting scenes and yet this season when Lucius Vorenus came to find the man who stole his children Erastes, we only heard the sounds of men getting killed, we saw nothing else, we didn't even see Pullo was there with Vorenus until the end covered with blood, and I am not a big fan of violence but for this scene and due to knowing how terrible Erastes and his men were again I think it was necessary to have some fight scenes included compare to Mark Antony's cutting Quintus Pompey's throat which was not that important or necessary.I don't know why this show doesn't get the marketing and the publicity as shows like "Sopranos" do for HBO, it is certainly far superior in every aspect and yet only a small group of people are avid fans of this show and are the ones who speak to their friends about it. I only hope HBO doesn't end up canceling it due some ratings issues because more people need to know that "Rome" is among the best or the best show on Cable that has come along after 10 years of planning and it has the potential to go to 10 or more seasons.


                
By making it so interesting and colorful, they've figured out a way to educate us about history so that we actually enjoy it! Who wudda evah thunk it? My history is so shaky that when battles and confrontations occurred, I was actually wondering - "Who's going to win?" and "What battle? - When?" I did remember the Rubicon and that Caesar went to Egypt. (Now, that couldn't be a spoiler - could it?) I, particularly, liked much of the historical accuracy. Not about who said what to whom, but about how weapon were used and the tactics employed. I noted that they were careful about not showing stirrups which were unknown to the Romans.With what we know about the period - It cudda happened dat way! I would love to see something about the Germania Campaign leading up to Arminius and the Battle of Teutoburg Forest. Just think about the intrigue and twists of fate which could lead to the unimaginable!


                
HBO's Rome is about as faithful an account of the early empire as we have seen on TV or on film. The focus on the two soldiers gives viewers insight into the daily lives of plebeians (on their way up, mostly), and the focus on Julius Caesar, Atia, and Octavian (et al) give us a look at royalty--the uppermost crust of society. I could sit here and nitpick all day at the show's oversights and mistakes--Cicero being too young, Julius not being bald (Suetonius writes that he had a sort of "combover"), and so on--but these are really rather minor inaccuracies, of little consequence. The largest inaccuracy, if it could be called that, is the show's inability to account for the true greatness of Rome. Even JC's triumph seems too small, despite what must have been a huge HBO budget. Some of the war scenes are too small to be effective; Kurosawa this is not. But given the show's strengths, which are considerable, I can overlook these. Much the same (that its world somehow seems too small) could be said of BBC's great I, Claudius. It may, in the end, be impossible to even begin to capture the great scale of Rome.Having addressed what I think are some of the show's weaknesses, my overall impression of the show is very favorable. The production values are high, and the set designers, costumers, military experts and others shine brightly throughout. We get something of the "feel" of Rome in Caesar's day. The acting is brilliant across the board (we have some good heroes to root for and villains to root against), and the writing is generally strong, often witty (Polus: "She'd better f*ck like Helen with her a** on fire!") and sometimes even moving. The often graphic violence and sex are necessary for realism, but they also have an undeniable sensational appeal. (Just try to turn your head when Atia is disrobed or when a fight leads to a decapitation.) For us in the early twenty-first century it is interesting to see a superpower that is not "Christian" (as much of the current West is, at least in name) yet which shares some of the same ills--political power struggles and corruption, invading forces, etc.)--we face today. Rome's empire stretched across Europe and well into Asia and Africa, but it did not last forever. Now, given this irresistible picture of Rome in a time of crisis, what lessons will we learn, if any?


                
I think they did a good job with the political aspect of roman society in these 2 seasons but the battles were kinda lame. The battle of pharslus was a huge battle for Ceasar and they don't even show it or explain how he really won. Plus they don't even mention the battle against sextus Pompey the son of Pompey the great and the siege of Alesia . And the battle of Philipii was also wrong because they're were two battles the 1st battle Antony and Octavian lost and Cassius had his slave kill him cause he thought Brutus was being captured by opposing cavalry but instead it was Brutus's cavalry that were coming to his aid . So checkout my YouTube channel generalsantucci1st


                
I enjoyed watching this series very much, willing to overlook any historical inaccuracies despite my being one for giving the correct story. Then along came the episode Caesarion, which I think was a big let down. Why was Caesar's time in Egypt portrayed as a joke, and why did the director and writer portray Cleopatra as her enemies would have wanted her to be: the stereotype image that was created about her by them - and worse? And why is it that the only positive complete writings about the story of Caesar and Cleopatra - and Cleopatra in particular - have been written by women? Go figure. You can read my review of that episode if you wish on the web page containing the episode titles. Otherwise I thought a few of the more accurate historical depictions very well constructed, especially Caesar's assassination, which is the best recreation I've ever see. Ciaran Hinds death scene was one of the most believable, with no over-acting, or "Et tu Brute"s; very moving.I really enjoyed watching Ciaran Hinds, James Purefoy and Kenneth Cranham as Caesar, Marc Antony and Gnaeus Quintus Pompey. I think they did an excellent job in portraying those men as the people they probably truly were. As for some of the other historical figures, I think they were completely fictionalized, especially Servilia, Octavia and Atia. That I willingly overlooked as the actresses playing them were very good at breathing life into them.I'm looking forward to what the second season has to present. Hopefully this series has encouraged many people who have never looked into Roman history to start to read up on it now.


                
What can I say about Rome. Although I am sure the top television and film critics would disagree, I feel that Rome satisfies every aspect of my personality. There is brutal yet justifiable violence, sexuality, suspense and ultimately compassion for the characters. If ever I watch a film or a show and I find myself feeling emotionally involved in the story, then I know the directors, producers and actors have done a fine job. Rome focuses on two men in particular, Titus Pullo and Lucius Verinos. In real life they were centurions under Ceasar during the Gaulic wars who were sworn enemies until Vorenos came to the aid of a surrounded Pullo. In the tale they start off as brothers in arms during the Roman campaign against Gaul. As Ceasar becomes more interested in taking power for himself he returns to Rome after a nine year absence and challenges the senators for control of the empire. While obviously the show is mainly fictitious, the overlying plot is surprisingly based on the real events that led to Ceasar's imperical rule of Rome and ultimately his defeat from within. I give this show eight stars because when Vorenus rushes to the aid of Pullo during one fight scene I could not help but cheer out loud. Good job HBO, keep 'em coming.


                
While I could do without some of the sex - it begins to feel gratuitous - I have to say this series is excellent.For those of you out there going on about how it "misses" all the important points about Caesar's campaigns and life - the series is not about him - it's actually about Vorenus and Pullo. The only two characters in every episode. Why, why - when someone hears "Rome" do they immediately think Caesar to the exclusion of all else? As for the inaccuracies - it's fiction, people. This is HBO, not PBS or the History or National Geographic channels. How many of you trotted out all the inaccuracies of "A Lion in Winter"?


                
