HBO does it again. I got my start with the network back in 1990 with a sitcom called Dream On. From there, I have followed the yellow brick road through Sex and the City, Sopranos, Six Feet Under, Band of Brothers, From the Earth to the Moon and Deadwood (not to mention hours and hours of boxing, documentary specials and tons of movies).HBO now presents a miniseries about the Roman Empire, appropriately called "Rome". The story revolves around the time Julius Ceasar conquers Gaul, and the subsequent years following that (Ceasar's rise to dictator). The series delves into historical and archaeological records, with a dash of artistic licensing to create an environment that seems so real. For the most part the series is divided into 3 parts :1) Julius Caesar's rise to unanimous political power.2) The exploits (in the field and at home) of a Roman officer, Luscious Vorenus, and one of the soldiers under his command (whom becomes his friend), Titus Pollo.3) The various political and social interactions and manipulations of Caesars relatives, namely Atia and her two offspring, Octavian and Octavia.4) Post Caesarian Rome. The production of this series is quite breathtaking. It seems like they took into account so many of the variables ; costumes, jewelry, architecture, religious practices, mannerism, military units, social venues, politics, class structure,etc. to bring the empire back to life in the 21st century. They went as far as to train the extras portraying the Roman soldiers in boot camp fashion. All were to sleep in tents outside and were provided with no modern amenities.This series has something for everyone with a strong stomach and inclination towards the graphic. The show is going for authenticity. This is not Rome seen through the eyes of 21st century people, but rather through they eyes of 1st century BC Romans. It has action, graphic violence, sex, incest, betrayal, murder, Machiavellian scheming, politics, family bonding, war,etc. I just can't begin to describe just how authentic the show feels and how hypnotically captivating it is to watch (especially in High Definition). I can't help but feel that John Milius (as a writer and executive producer) has brought some of the same grit and grime from Conan (albeit with a more historic flavor). Also on the writing credits is work from Entourage, Sex and the City, Band of Brothers and Desperate Housewives.The acting core is quite good, consisting mostly on an English cast with theatrical experience. Their performances are quite good and contains many veterans and some newcomers (at least to me). Such standouts would include : Indira Varma (of Kama Sutra fame) who plays Luscious' wife Niobe, Kerry Condon (whom I first saw in Jet Li's Danny the Dog) as Atti's daughter Octavia, Kenneth Cranham (Jimmy from Layer Cake) as Pompey, Kevin McKidd (from Trainspotting and Dog Soldiers) as Luscious, Polly Walker as Atia and Ray Stevenson as Titus.To add to the authenticity, the series was shot at Cinecitta Studios in Rome. This gives the series an extra flavor. I highly recommend this series, but only for those that can stomach graphic sex, violence and a lot of the Queen's English. It is currently my favorite show, and wishing it could last 1000 years.-Celluloid Rehab


                
Created by Bruno Heller,Rome has become one of the greatest HBO mini series of all time and certainly one of the best about Rome.It's up there with the best of them and even(I never thought it was possible)gives I Claudius a run for it's money.Charting the rise and fall of the ever brutal and power hungry men and women who have their fingers dipped in the honey pot of power.From Caeser's triumph in Gaul,to his involvement and marriage to Egyption Queen Cleopatra,the various power struggles for control of the Senate and finally to the suicide of Cleopatra and Anthony in Egypt.Our way into this time of extreme violence and political upheaval comes in the form of two Roman soldiers.Legionary Titus Pullo(Ray Stevenson)and Centurion Lucius Vorenus(Kevin McKidd),they meet when they are tasked with recovering Caeser's personal Eagle(stolen from the camp in Gaul).At first they are an odd couple,Lucius uptight and stubborn,Titus headstrong and a joker.Before long though,both come to respect the other for their skills as a Roman soldier and soon form a bond of friendship,so strong and close that it's almost like they are brothers.The series follows their experiences of serving under Julius Caeser(Ciaran Hinds),journeys to Egypt and their time serving with Romes most revered and fearless soldier Mark Anthony(James Purefoy),as well as their own personal story arcs concerning the struggle to adjust from being soldiers to normal life in peacetime.Rome also looks at the struggles of being a Roman woman at the time.Expected to be decorative ornaments on the arms of those men in power as well as as the lengths they themselves go to in order for a male member to succeed to power be it murder,sex or flattery.And all this is never acknowledged by the men at all.We see these struggles in the form of Atia of the Julii(Polly Walker)the mother of the young boy Octavian(Simon Woods and Max Pirkis)who would later go onto become ruler of the senate,she's deeply in love with Anthony and devastated when he becomes the new flame of fiery girl Queen Cleopatra(Lyndsey Marshal),and the mother of Brutus and former flame of Caeser Servilia(Lindsay Duncan)who slithers in the background like a snake hatching plans and spouting venom.And Atia's innocent young daughter Octavia(Kerry Condon)who soon will enter into a world of vice.With excellent story lines,strong and well developed characters this is a frank look at the people,violence and decadence that formed a part of history we will never forget.With strong support from David Bamber as the intelligent and crafty Marcus Tullius Cicero,and Ian McNiece who is hysterical as Romes newsreader.The portrayal of Cleopatra may not be to everyones tastes but if you think about it is probably not far from the truth,she became Queen when she was just a teenager and had no elder members of her family to instruct her in the ways of being the ruler of Egypt.She only had loyal servants who's sole job was to do her bidding and admire and flatter her.The only teaching she got was most likely from Caeser.However there are many scenes where she shows her maturity and strength as a ruler in her dealings with Octavian.With a superb cast and stories,Rome is this generations I Claudius and is a worthy prequel to that classic series starring Derek Jacobi as Emperor Claudius.When I first saw I Claudius,I thought could top it,I was wrong,truly Rome is a must see.
A well presented and truthful portrayal of the exploits of Julius Ceasar (Season 1) and his successor, Octavian Ceasar (Season 2). An historical Masterpiece that has everything you could possibly want from a series based upon the Roman Empire... Blood, Action, Naked Women, Deception, Suspense, Thrills, etc. Fantastic acting, characters, set design, costumes and story lines. One of those series' to see before you die, a must watch for all! *Highly Recommend* NB: If you like this series also try the Spartacus series for more Roman inspired action. Not as truthful in its portrayal but similarly compelling and much more action!


                
This show was truly one of the great ones, still casting a shadow over many period dramas popping up here and there today like an idol or guideline of how it should be done. I love this show and was so saddened by the fact that it was canceled prematurely after only 2 glorious seasons. The story of ancient Rome and the death of it's great republic is told with great bravado by this series stellar cast. As I watched, I saw no pointless charecters sticking out like a soar thumb, no actors phoning it in and the chemistry between certain charecters was completely transcendent. I put it up there with Gladiator in terms of an excellent and entertaining depiction of Rome that has no other rivals quality wise. And even one better it really gives you a picture of a day in the life of romans, the makers of this show really did their homework. Who knew history could be so much fun! You can definitely tell looking back on this show that it was a major passion project of the great John Milius. As far as shows go this was one of HBO's finer moments but apparently due to the extremely large production they had to eventually pull the plug, shame on you HBO! This is a do not miss through and through.


                
I am often finding myself in awe at HBO's offerings and time and time again applaud their decision making when it comes to quality programming. This time is no different.'Rome' depicts the historic story of the late roman republic, following the time-lines of events such as Gaius Julias Ceaser's grasp of power from Pompey Magnus, his assassination and the young Augustus (Octavian) Ceaser's own continuous battle to secure the beginnings of the Roman Empire from threat of the dying Roman Republic and Brutus in particular. We are also treated to the lives of ordinary Romans such as Titus Pullo and Luscious Vereinus; two soldiers of the legendary 13th division who struggle adjusting to life outside of service and honour. Additionally, we find ourselves in the midst of treachary from those seeking the mistresses that are wealth and power, with Attia of the Julii a particularly conniving character. We finally bear witness to the ill fated demise of Anthony and Cleopatra at the behest of a rising Augustus Ceaser.What makes Rome special is not just the visuals. Sure, the budget of such an elaborate series would command greatness from many similar shows. But Rome seems more 'real'. I felt as though the reality of ancient Rome was perhaps quite accurately depicted, or at least I imagined it would have been. I was not only shown a well executed cinematographic expression here...this was a whole world imagined and thought out by well researched experts who gave birth to the stage of which greatness can be played.But this would remain a moot point should other areas fail, which they do not. The casting is near-perfect and you will both fall in love and despise each character in equal measure. Attia in particular is one of the latter. Her evil seems mostly misguided and it remains very difficult to completely detest this woman, especially once seeing her vulnerabilities. From Luscious Vereinus' struggle to adapt to normality after years on the battlefield to Mark Anthony's reluctance to allow pride befall his own life - the characters and the writing in particular triumph over and over. And the cast simply support this, with incredible showings from Brutus, Titus Pullo and Gaius Julias Ceaser in particular. The dialogue and writing is dynamic and well thought out. Riveting sub-plots fill any voids left by the ever progressing storyline. Intelligently written, you are left challenged in every measure.I thoroughly enjoyed Rome. Not only did it well support the history on an accuracy level, but it explored the city itself, giving the viewer glimpses of one of the greatest civilisations to walk the earth. A true 'EPIC' series that never fails to surprise and delight. Yet another victory for those at HBO who risk all at ensuring quality programming.


                
The history depicted in 'Rome' may not fully match the known details but given a little dramatic license it is close enough. Over the course of two seasons we see Roman history from the rise of Gaius Julius Caesar to the deaths of Antony and Cleopatra. Much of what we see is shown by looking at events as they impact on two soldiers; officer Lucius Vorenus and rough and ready Legionary Titus Pullo. Over the course of the two seasons this pair manage to be involved in just about every major event of the era! There is also a focus on the household of Julius Caesar's niece, Atia of the Julii, as she schemes to maintain a dominant position in Roman society.This is definitely not a series for the easily offended. We don't get too much in the way of pitched battles, that would have been too expensive, but there is a lot of fairly brutal violence during frequent more small scale skirmishes. There is also quite a lot of sex and nudity, both male and female, as well as language that may offend some viewers. If all this doesn't bother you though this is a gripping series that is exciting and packed with interesting characters. The, mostly British, cast that includes plenty of familiar actors does a really good job; most notably Kevin McKidd and Ray Stevenson as Vorenus and Pullu, Polly Walker as Atia and James Purefoy as Mark Antony. Ciarán Hinds is also really good as Julius Caesar until his death at the end of the first season and Lyndsey Marshal is memorable as Cleopatra despite only appearing in five episodes. It is a shame that it only lasted two seasons, and because of this the second season does feel a little rushed as the creators pack in so much history that was intended to be spread over a longer time. Overall I'd heartily recommend this to anybody who likes things like 'Game of Thrones'; this may be more grounded in reality but it contains many of the elements that make that show so gripping and popular.
Rome is like a guide to politics. It's like a sociology textbook. And it should be what all writers, actors, and directors strive to surpass.Rome is human nature according to the events during what is, in many respects, one of most defining stages of the Western state today. It shows the cowardice, the bravery, the cunning, the hypocrisy, the lot. All the tasty stuff is right here.And oh how they act it out. Almost every actor in Rome is a testament to the brilliance of the show's casting team. And they give outstanding performances. Rome has very subtle and on-point acting. Rome has plenty of scenes where I am in awe of how great a job the actors are doing.Purefoy, Pirkis, McKidd, Stevenson, Walker, Varma are stupendous. Aside from Lost, I haven't seen a cast so passionate, so organic, and so magnetic. This is how you cast a show, people.Writing-wise, S1 of Rome is near-perfect - original, powerful, unforgettable. S2 is a little more generic. They had to cram 4 seasons worth of material into one, and rushed it, and it kinda shows. However, it's still very decent. Overall, Rome is almost always a sublimely written show. I'd say The Wire is a close relative of Rome. Rome is a marvelous depiction of the societal race for power.In terms of character lines, Rome stands a Titan. The words "superior to perhaps all the shows I've ever watched" come to mind. Rome's one-liners and dialogues are astoundingly good.The direction in Rome is outstanding most of the time. Many scenes are breathtakingly epic.Jeff Beal's score is brilliant. This man has my eternal respect for his musical contribution to Rome and Carnivale.Rome skillfully captures that which Nietzsche called "the Roman energy and vitality".Thirteenth never fails.


                
Revel in the marvel of epic storytelling. The glorious production design leaves us in no doubt we are in an Ancient Rome, the likes of which we have never seen before and nor (for various reasons) are we likely to again. Kevin Mckidd (Lucius Vorenus) and Ray Stevenson (Titus Pollo) in their central roles are not always right on the money, but their deep friendship is wholly convincing and inspires us to warmly invest in them. James Purefoy (Mark Anthony) is another matter, while he certainly looks the part, frequent actorly over-emphasis and mis-placed theatrics remind the viewer that they are watching an 'actor' as opposed to Mark Anthony. No-one seems more aware of this fact than James Purefoy himself. Having said this, it is not to an extent that he ruins the series by any means and in fairness he proves to be enjoyable viewing on occasion. His later scenes with Cleopatra are very engaging. While I may have pedantic reservations on a tiny number of the cast, I'd like to champion Polly Walker (Atia), Ciarán Hinds (Julius Caeser), Kerry Condon (Octavia), Lindsay Duncan (Servila), and Tobias Menzies (Brutus) all of whom excell at the highest level amongst a giant cast that is largely outstanding. Much has been written of the language, nudity and violence featured in the show. All I'll say is that the truth is likely far more shocking than imagined here and by creating a world that is both exotic and identifiable, the show's creators have given us a version of Ancient Rome that feels infinitely more real than any that has preceded it.The BBC and HBO should be applauded because 'Rome' is truly an ambitious work of art that should be cherished for all time.


                
Season 1 was absolutely the best series of any show I've ever seen. No exaggeration. Amazing actors, amazing story, amazing scenery... then came the second half of season 2. I've never posted on here before but this really got to me and I had to vent.Max Pirkis, the guy who did an INCREDIBLE job playing young Octavian, was replaced by Simon Woods to the detriment of the show, the character, the story, everything. I couldn't watch him without cringing. I felt like I was watching a guy reading cue cards and counting his steps to the next camera angle. So poorly cast and so half-heartedly played. He might have gotten away with it if he wasn't surrounded by such strong actors but even in the scenes with the other weak actors like Agrippa and Duro, (both of who also provided teeth gnashingly bad oratories) he stands out as the worst of the bunch. When he's standing next to Atia or Antony, it's just sad. I don't know if this was a personal choice as to how to portray the character, bad direction or if the actor was simply chosen due to his slight resemblance to the original Octavian but it seriously ruined the 2nd half of the long awaited season 2 for me. Sounds petty, I realize that, but gems like this come along too rarely. Sad to see an otherwise flawless performance dragged down by one or two bad actors.


                
When you decide to see the inner history of the Eternal city, this is the film you should see. The H.B.O. series is wonderful and nearly authentic, right down to the guttural approach the director has taken. The story is taken from the first century B.C. and contains the last years of the mighty Julius Ceasar on the Gaulic frontier, with his right hand man, Mark Anthony (James Purefoy). The authentic setting of most of the scenes are striking and lend believability to the film. Another aspect which makes this series acceptable is that the rank and file soldier are also given life. Here we have a common soldier, Centurian named Lucius Vorenus (Kevin McKidd and his irritating side kick Titus Pullo, (Ray Stevenson) returning from the wars and hoping for a bit of normal living. Ian McNeice is the Roman Marketplace Newsreader, informing the citizenry of the events of the day. The upper autocracy is represented by young Max Pirkis, who plays Octivius, nephew of Julius Ceasar. The dialog is interesting, the acting is acceptable and the occasional nudity is acceptable. My only peeve is that female nudity is subtle, sexual and well placed. Male nudity on the other hand is clumsy, ham handed and subjects ill chosen. In this option of Roman history, the historical Cleoptra is not chosen for her beauty, but for wild diversity. The ending of the series is unexpected and worthy of the entire effort of the actors involved. Great drama, great scenes equals great entertainment. ****


                
For a number of years HBO have been bringing out a good selection of TV specials. BAND OF BROTHERS, INTO THE WEST, DEADWOOD are all brilliant series and now ROME joins them. One of the things that always puzzles me is how do we know which movies we want to go and see? I mean, we see the trailer and most are hit and miss but some you see or something you read makes you want to really go and see the movie or rent the DVD. Why? Are the trailer makers or the blurb writers good at their job or is it because they spark something within us that we want to see it? I cannot answer that question but all I know is that when ROME first came out, and just having read a blurb in some magazine, I know I wanted to see it. Now the same feeling came over me when I read in the same Mago a blurb about 3:10 to Yuma which turned out to be hugely disappointing. This Christmas I got the first "season" of ROME and hoped I was not going to be disappointed. I wasn't. In a Roman epic you expect large set-piece battles and grand vistas but in ROME you get neither. Instead you are involved in a series of characters which get involved in the events which are happening to the Empire. For those expecting sex and violence in the Roman epics there is a lot of that and for those wanted the political machinations of the time (as in Spartucus) there is also plenty of that. Overall a quite brilliant series and I'm looking forward to the second part, when it comes down in price. 9/10


                
It looks like lots of other people have already reviewed this, but I'll add what I can. This is, simply, the most realistic portrayal on screen of what the Greco-Roman world, to the best of our knowledge, probably looked like. Other outstanding portrayals, in my cannon, are Fellini's Satyricon, and Oliver Stone's Alexander, although both have considerable flaws. All other versions (all the old Hollywood epics and even Ridley Scott's Gladiator) really seemed to have something missing. It wasn't until I watched this show that I realized what it was. . . .respect, to put it bluntly. The makers of ROME approach the stories of people who lived almost 2,000 years ago as if their lives were just as immediate and vital as anything going on today. They aren't pages from textbooks and dry scholar's treatises. . .they are living, breathing human beings whose values, however alien they may appear to us, are brought to life by a thoughtful script and a gorgeous cinematic vision. We understand them, and see the roots of our own world in theirs. The world we see is alien, violent, and yet imminently familiar. Stern moral values clash with moral decadence, honor is pitted against blind ambition, and Democracy fails against convenient autocracy. You'll recall from watching Star Wars that the "quick and easy" path is the one that, ultimately, led from a Republic to an "evil" Empire. Here is the original story. It's 52 B.C. and Julius Caesar has finally broken Celtics resistance in Gaul (France) at the battle of Alesia. In Rome, the center of a new and sprawling Empire, Republican democracy has long been weakened by class conflict and civil war. . .the Plebeians (common people), are under-represented, and look to Caesar as a champion of popular liberty. The Senate, meanwhile, composed mostly of members of the aristocracy, is keen to keep the populace in check, and the body, led by the staunch traditionalist Cato, seeks to provoke the most powerful man in Rome, Pompey Magnus, into open conflict with his fellow Consul, Caesar. The Senate demands that Caesar return to Rome to face charges of treason, and this, of course, provokes him into crossing the Rubicon and setting off a chain of civil wars that will eventually bring to power his nephew and adopted heir, Gaius Octavian, who will establish the Julio-Claudian Dynasty and commence the reign of the Caesars and autocracy over a new "Empire". All of this is well known in history, but the trick is that the writers and actors bring a new, fresh vitality to it; we really believe that the characters are experiencing these events for the first time, and have no idea how they will unfold. That is what keeps the drama at a fever pitch. Memorable characters include Polly Walker as Atia, the scheming great-niece of Julius Caesar, torn between her love of her son Octavian and her lover Marc Antony, whose paths collide violently in Season II. Also memorable is Lindsay Duncan as Servilia, portrayed here for the first time on screen (I have idea why. . .she was Caesar's lover, yet the mother of his eventual murderer . .the drama is almost too great to pass up!) Tobias Menzies as Brutus is the most conflicted, poignant, and tragic Brutus I have ever seen (Menzies plays him much better than Shakespeare wrote him, no small compliment) Max Pirkis is eerily precocious as the bookworm Octavian. In Season II he transforms into a heartless, ultimately lonely young man who finds himself alone at the pinnacle of power . . not unlike the real Augustus, I imagine. The events of history are seen through the eyes of two soldiers, Lucius Vorenus and Titus Pullo (mentioned in Caesar's Gallic Wars) whose melodramatic lives intersect with events in Roman history in surprising ways. These story lines provide insight into the lives of ordinary Roman citizens in a way that has never been explored before on screen, and gives the viewer a much better understanding of Roman life than if only the lives of the important political players were chronicled. There are some weak points, of course. Season I is very strong but II delves into mindless mafia subplots involving Vorenus and Pullo that we don't' really care about. . .because they're just not very involving. The show, while very progressive in some respects continues the Hollywood tradition of portraying Cleopatra as a idiotic sexpot who slept with everything that moved. . .when most historians agree that she was a cultured, intelligent, and ultimately tragic woman who happened to be Queen of Egypt at a very bad time for such a person. Her story is not well served here, which is unfortunate, since so much else is. Oh, well. You can't have everything.Overall, this is the best series on Ancient Rome (or Ancient anything, for that matter) to come along in a while. Consider watching it followed by I, Claudius (also a BBC production) for maximum effect.
I took one point off because I find so much explicit sex and nudity to be unnecessary. I recently finally finished watching it on DVD.In any series like this there will be creative license. As long as they get the important historical stuff mostly right that's the main thing. There are little accuracies too, like painting the town red for a Triumph. Lots of backstabbing and double-dealing - so true.I like the acting, the plot, the look. Most of all I like the way it tries to give a feel for everyday life in Rome. Not cleaned up. There's humor too, like when the newsreader (love that guy) does ads for merchants in between announcing the big political news.Some viewers object to the British accents and expressions. Well, it is a translation, and the Romans had expressions, vernacular and curse words - what would actually be really weird and inaccurate would be to purge all of that and have them speak in some ludicrous "How art thou Lucius Septimus" baloney Latin-speak. The reason British actors are used in these is because they are Europeans and in a weird way dramas based on European history sound more authentic with European accents.


                
Why only 2 seasons of 12 and 10 episodes respectively??? Probably because it deals with the turbulent period between 52 to 30 BC and is therefore somewhat limited.Mmmmmm not exactly, as they have missed some events.The first season was hadn't much to show until the 6th episode. From 7th onwards, to the excellent final episode of the second cycle, the action is immense.Quote one by one the points of my review:1. Great atmosphere with remarkable scenery and costumes.2. Subdued to hypnotizing Hinds in the role of Julius Caesar, which disappointed me.3. Excellent Purefoy in the role of Mark Antony. Role career for me. Bravo! Great interpretation between paranoia and reality.4. Awesome and mature Octavian Augustus. In fact I hated him and that's a credit to the actor who portrayed him! Well done here too!5. For the 2 protagonists what is there to say??? Heroes of the complex everyday Roman routine and of course war heroes. 6. Women of the series very good in their roles, ie passions, hatreds, intrigues, SEX, SEX, SEX again! Well Done!7. They spoil the joy in 2-3 points regarding quotes and historical battles.7a. Missing:'' And you son Brutus?'' ''You won Cleopatra'' '' Too many Caesars''. Pity ...7b. Regarding the battlefields, there is nothing remarkable. They should show the battle Farsala and the Battle of Actium.7c. Caesarion murdered in Alexandria and is not living ...Finally, above all, there are the remarkable interpretations of actors who really steal the show comfortably from the penny effects.It is also noteworthy, how they manage to put the 2 heroes in every major event of this historical period of Roman history, in which signs and wonders occur, without altering the historical data except from only one case (Caesarion).Fiction and history are masterly combined.A modern masterpiece!
From the get go, you have to be aware of one thing: This is as accurate as possible, but takes liberties in telling history as it happened. You might have read other reviews talking about "accents", but it's the language that will bother you, never mind the British accents! Because of course, Romans were not talking English back then. If you are a purist and can not take this, than do not bother watching the show at all, you'll only be spitting fire.But if you can accept that, than the show will be very much to your liking. From the superb sets to the amazing costume designers, to the great cinematography all the way through to the "script" (again based mostly on events that occurred), that is being portrayed very exquisite by quite a lot of fine actors. Some even putting on fake accents (as you can only tell by watching behind the scenes stuff, that reveal how they normally talk).HBO has done it again of course. And while they are allowed to go all out (literally in this case, since this was shot in Italy, massive sets were built, though tragically were burnt down as a friend told me, by accident too) and show blood, violence and sex, they do so in moderate fashion. Especially compared to the Spartacus show. It does concentrate on human stories. And while some are more free than others (Pullo and his friend are real historical figures mentioned by Caesar himself, but have been made bigger in the show than in "reality"), it is as intriguing as a show can be. And both men and women have some very strong roles in it.I cannot recommend this high enough. If you happen to have the Blu Ray version, than do yourself a favor and treat yourself with the "All roads" feature that will pop up facts during the course of the episodes. The audio commentaries also seem to very interesting


                
This is another HBO epic. It is not quite on par with other HBO offerings such as Band of Brothers, but it is still very well done. Rome follows the exploits of two soldiers in the Roman legion, as well as two upper class families, and the goings on of various senators including Julius Caeser himself. Although this 12 part epic drags sometimes, as long epics tend to do, this really is well-acted. The characters seem to realize that they won't live forever and therefore their motto is "Eat, drink and be merry, for tomorrow we die". Did the Romans actually live like this? I don't know, but after viewing this, I believe it is possible this could be an accurate portrayal. The upper class go about their lives with their slaves in the background being ignored unless call on. And of course, there are all kinds of alliances made and broken. This is a interesting look at an old culture. The times it drags are forgivable, because the political intrigue picks right back up. Not the greatest HBO offering,but pretty darn good.


                
It is hard to give out spoilers when most of the information is in Wikipedia. However<U+0085> HBO's "ROME" was very educational as well as intriguing. I was captivated by the interpretation of the times. Clothing, lifestyles, and thoughts of the day were relatable to today's images. Although we get the high-level aspect of the rise of Caesar, we also get the low to high-level rise of Pullo and Vereinus. Both are a sort of R2-D2/C3-PO team going through the wars and civil unrest. This is the middle class and common person the view we can relate to. I would have appreciated better, more telling battle scenes. We don't get to really see Caesars conquests (like Gladiator/Braveheart). However, the violence in the gladiator arena and common street scenes more than make up for the Roman blood lust lovers. It is one of the best mini-series on TV, albeit an HBO program. Yet, does well to be smart yet entertaining. A Tragedy well told.


                
HBO takes risks, thank goodness, and this series ROME is a fine example of how far a television project can go toward the movie industry and still maintain interest when broken into weekly installments. There may be a number of quibbles from Latin scholars and historians as to the veracity of it all, but ROME is not a documentary: ROME is a novel played out in Grand Guignol fashion with a sterling cast and a creative production crew.The action takes place in 52 BC and allows us to understand the power struggles and changes of influence between Pompey Magnus (Kenneth Cranham) who leads the Senate, and Julius Caesar (Ciaran Hinds). Caesar has returned from his Gallic wars supported by his soldiers such as Lucius Vorenus (Kevin McKidd) and his somewhat unfaithful wife Niobe (Indira Varma) and Lucius' best friend (and philosophically polar opposite) Titus Pullo (Ray Stevenson). But the populace and Senate have formed other ideas during Caesar's prolonged absence at war and all manner of intrigues surface, are planned, and are plotted.There is a generous (some would say excessive) amount of violence and sex spattered about, but then when in Rome.... Some of the supporting cast are particularly fine: Polly Walker is more beautiful (and more evil) than ever as Atia and other small roles are graciously filled with superb actors.The distractions from the series include the ever-present town crier who periodically catches us up on the history as a media newspaper person in toga. And the opening credits are animated graffiti that become silly and tiresome. But the overall production values are first class and the color of the cinematography is some of the finest seen on television. It is a long song, but it can be taken in digestible pieces. Well worth viewing for a different view of Rome in all its squalid splendor. Grady Harp


                
I think the acting is great and I love the old Stories of the Roman Empire. I have only watched the first season by I don't think the historical inaccuracies I keep hearing about are anything Major. The worst one I saw was that Julius Ceaser had no time in the first season to adopt this nephew, Octavian, who later becomes Augustus and Leads the Roman Empire on his own.All and I enjoy shows like this and Spartacus. I think HBO makes the best Series Game of Throwns, Deadwood, Boardwalk empire. also Starz does well with Spartacus and ShoTime with Weeds, and Dexter.Sorry about the spoilers I hope this helps.
I love this series because I love history and this follows history way better than the ABC series Empire. The actress playing Cleopatra is fantastic. She not only physically resembles some of drawings and busts of Cleopatra. She portrays Cleopatra as she was charming,intelligent,ambitious,attractive but not beautiful. I appreciate the fact that the series deals with a fictional Roman family whose destinies are entwined with the Julio-Claudian dynasty. The sets and costumes are top grade. I hope this series will be extended all the way down to the Emperor Nero the last emperor of the Julio-Claudian house. This series compares well to the series Augustus and I,Claudius and a definite improvement over the 1999 miniseries Cleopatra which was a horrible mess! Watch this series and read the writings of Suetonius and Plutarch on the side.


                
It is one of the best HBO productions I have ever seen. Set in the time of Julius Caesar's reign, it focuses on two soldiers from the 13th legion, Pullo and Vorenus. The story is fantastically crafted with realistic sets and background. Nothing ever goes unattended, including props! Everything has been used to maximize the realistic portrayal of ancient Rome. It is fabulously shot and the actors themselves are quite realistic. When watching it, it seems like it was shot back in ancient times. I recommend all to watch it, especially those who have a keen interest in ancient civilizations or Rome in particular. This show actually helped me two tests at school! Just plain astounding!


                
Wonderful casts and interesting take on the story of the Roman Empire. I like the fact that it is told from the common man's perspective. I hope the new season will be just as good as the first. I especially enjoyed all of the politics and the personal lives of the soldiers especially Vorenus. His story is the best. Pullo is good but I am glad that the writers have been smart enough to see that the Vorenus character is one that most people can identify with. The other characters are also very well done, including Brutus, Marc Anthony and Octavian and Octavia. It will be interesting to see what they do with Octavian since he owes his life to Vorenus and Pullo both of whom are in dire need of a friend.


                
I just bought the season one DVD and watched the first two episodes. I am now officially hooked. I particularly like Kevin McKidd and James Purefoy as Vorenus and Marc Antony, respectively. This series is so rich in detail, it's as if you're watching a movie. The acting is superb and I really appreciate the "in your face" depiction of battles and bedroom scenes. "Rome" depicts the ancient city in all of its glory, debauchery, and intrigue. Those Romans sure knew how to connive to get ahead!!! The costumes and sets appear to be very realistic. Rome is not shown just as a beautiful city of marble and stone. The show also takes you into the back streets and alleys where many of the common people lived. All of the characters have their flaws, which again is true to life. I know they are currently filming season two and I can only hope for a season three. Kudos to HBO for this fine drama.


                
This series of 12 episodes gives you an excellent idea of life in the Old Rome. Also a great deal of military and political accidents are given here in a great and almost actual way. There are some Historical faults in the series, but they don't spoil the fun of watching it. If you like battles / political arguments / the ordinary live of the Old Romans, than you should certainly watch this series. If you have seen one, you want to see them all.You are living the live of Julius Caesar, Lucius Vorenus and all the other people who are playing in this series..Just watch it and enjoy !!


                
"How many women have you had who didn't cry or you didn't have to pay?"The HBO/BBC series "Rome" has just started screening here and hugely enjoyable it is. My only quibble is that they should have spoken Latin instead of English, because then I could have moaned about why I couldn't have a series like that to enliven my Latin lessons at high school. My partner noticed that the plants in Atia's atrium would not have been known to the Romans as philodendrons are native to rain forests, mostly in America. I guess they had to get something wrong to satisfy the armchair pedants like us. I don't find the the language used, or the sex and violence shocking or inappropriate. I just wish they could do a similar series on ancient Greece, the Olympics and those Greek vices that even shocked and appalled the Romans. The character with the most interesting name is Erastes Fulmen (or: Thunderbolt Male Arse F***er). The totty award so far is for Ray Stevenson as Titus Pullo, who draws a mean cock picture on his cell wall - hopefully from life.


                
