Westworld has quickly and unexpectedly become one of my favorite shows of all time. It's a show that manages to make the viewer ask questions about human existence and human morality. I was really excited to watch this show because of the premise alone: There's a theme park filled with robots called 'hosts' that are made to resemble humans in almost every way; visitors to the theme park enter a western themed world where they can do whatever they want, including raping and murdering the hosts. At the beginning, I wasn't sure where the show was headed, but it intrigued me. After a few episodes, some questions were answered and as I began to see the direction the show was taking, I fell in love with it. The show presents the perspective of many different characters who each have their own opinion on what is right and wrong regarding the use of the hosts. And there's always mystery in the plot that'll keep you wondering about the people, their motives and whether or not they should be considered an immoral person based on their actions. Westworld challenges us to think about what makes someone a conscious human being and what exactly makes us real and separates us from the hosts.


                
It's a beautifully layered story about the dawn of Artificial Intelligence, where the androids are becoming more & more emotional as they gain consciousness, and humans are becoming more homicidal as they lose their humanity. In a theme park world, where human actions are devoid of any consequences, as machines evolve by self-learning, they are becoming more enlightened than their creators. Bringing together huge names like Michael Crichton, Jonathan Nolan and Anthony Hopkins, along with a multi-million dollar budget, this show, just after a 9 episode run, looks promising enough to be the best TV show ever. Could it break the record-breaking following achieved by Game of Thrones, could it keep blowing away our mind even after a 5 season run like Breaking Bad...I can't wait to find out.


                
The premise for HBO's "Westworld" sounds like a bad situation comedy -- robot cowboys entertain the rich at a futuristic theme park. There are showdowns and shootouts, and hilarity ensues when the guests fall in love with the coy robot ladies.But "Westworld" is an arguably brilliant serial science fiction thriller, far transcending its gimmicky central plot contrivance. It is occasionally weighted down by some challenges with pacing, story structure and exposition. But I still loved it enough to get hooked on it immediately, and I'd give it a 9 out of 10.I think it's the smartest science fiction show I've seen in a long time. Its brilliance doesn't stem from its kitsch premise. (I haven't seen the original 1973 film based on Michael Crichton's screenplay, but I've seen it lampooned at least once.) It generally doesn't extend from the show's many twists and surprises, however well executed they are. Nor does it stem from the show's ambitious discussions of the nature of consciousness.Its brilliance, in my opinion, stems from its nuanced and surprisingly disturbing depiction of human evil. Of course there's the obvious -- the theme park exposes human depravity by allowing people to rob, rape and murder lifelike human surrogates with impunity. But there is far more that the show has to say. To get a sense of it, you have to watch the entire 10-episode season, and see several key character arcs reach completion. One of these arcs was so dark and cruelly contemplative that it's stayed with me long after I watched the final episode.The show is well made at every level. It's gorgeously shot, at locations throughout California, Utah and Arizona. The special effects are great. Anthony Hopkins is characteristically perfect as the park's patriarch, and Jeffrey Wright is terrific as his well meaning right hand. (That actor is starting to grow on me.) The entire cast is quite good -- even those in relatively minor roles, like the two hapless technicians (nicely portrayed by Leonardo Nam and Ptolemy Slocum) who become entangled in the events connected with the park's malfunctions.Ed Harris, however, consistently steals the show as "the Man in Black," a park guest who vacations as a brutal rapist and murderer (and who we learn has another agenda, as well). He's chilling. I never really saw Harris as an amazing actor before, despite seeing him in many roles, including his memorable turn in "A Beautiful Mind" (2001). But he was incredible here.I wanted to give this show a perfect 10, but even someone who loves it as much as I do can see the weaknesses of this first season. Overall, "Westworld" is sometimes too drawn out. I feel the plot moves forward rather slowly, and I think Season 1 would be perfect if only it were carefully edited down from ten to maybe seven episodes. I found myself getting a little frustrated by the the fifth episode, when we see two major characters follow arcs that seem redundant. (I'm being intentionally vague here to avoid spoilers.)The problem is compounded by the deliberately superficial nature of "Westworld's" setting. This is a theme park with stereotypical stock characters associated with Hollywood westerns. Accordingly, its inhabitants have overly stylized speech and behavior. Furthermore, these androids are programmed to follow the same "loops" repeatedly, as the same preconceived story "narratives" are reused to entertain new patrons of the park.It gets annoying. Yes, I know it makes perfect sense and is necessary in the context of the story. But it can be grating to someone who tunes in to see a science fiction show, and not a cheesy western. James Marsden is a decent enough actor, and he's well cast as "Westworld's" prototypical "good guy" cowboy. But seeing this character's shtick over and over was irritating. So, too, were the sassy ladies at the brothel and some other minor characters.Finally, I suggest that, for some viewers, "Westworld" may be hard to follow. I occasionally found it that way. There are twists that are wonderfully well crafted, gradually deciphered mysteries, and a very layered backstory. Finally, the show's discussions of things like consciousness, morality and artificial intelligence can sometimes border on the didactic. (It helps a hell of a lot, though, when the actor delivering the exposition is the priceless Hopkins.) It's a lot to take in. People tuning in should be prepared for some challenging, cerebral science fiction instead of easily digested, escapist fantasy.All in all, this show was superb. If you're a science fiction fan, you need to at least give it a try.


                
Westworld "These violent delights have violent ends And in their triumph die, like fire and powder Which, as they kiss, consume" William Shakespeare Romeo and JulietI've been trapped indoors lately. Haven't been able to get out of bed much for a while, and that has led me to binge watching quite a bit of television and reading a lot of books, mostly just to keep myself from feeling trapped inside my own head. Mostly it has worked. Sometimes it seems still not quite enough. It doesn't quite qualify as being truly ironic that I would end up binge watching a show with a strong undertow that involves being trapped in a kind of never ending loop. Westworld has a strong JJ Abrams stamp on it. Fans of Lost will recognize themes such as the opening of someone's eyes to start off the first few episodes and the dreamlike quality in which it is very difficult for the characters or the audience to know what is real and what is imagined. One of the lead characters, Delores, even says repeatedly "I am in a dream.". There is a definite anagogic feel to Westworld, just as there was to Lost. But Westworld's premise gives it much more room to play with the nature of reality, the nature of identity, and the sense that there must be something more to existence, something beyond us and greater than us. The original novel and cult hit movie, starring Yul Brynner, was Michael Crichton once again exploring technology gone terribly wrong. Like Jurassic Park it was set in a theme park, but in this case a theme park peopled by robots where the rich and privileged could go and play at being cowboys and gunslingers. In the original novel and film one of the robots, played by Brynner, the Man in the Black Hat, malfunctions and begins to kill the human beings. The film was fun and campy enough to be a cult hit, and was even followed by a sequel: Future World. But the television series takes the original idea into a much deeper and darker place. Here, they are no longer robots, but Hosts, and the Man in the Black Hat, played by the wonderful character actor Ed Harris, is a human being. There is a Kubrick like questioning of consciousness and the morality of what we do with the things that we create for our amusement. We are suddenly faced with the question of what it would be like to put even a machine through thousands of deaths and rapes and torture merely for our amusement. Even if we wiped the memory of all that suffering time and time again would some residue be left behind that we could not wipe? What might happen if we started to play God with intelligent creations merely for our amusement? What would happen if some of those creations began to remember and even question the roles we set out for them? Westworld struggles with very complex themes and the idea of being trapped, caught in a dreamlike loop, but it is also entertainment. There is violence and sex and much more adult themes than the original film. There is also a Sixth Sense kind of "Big Twist" to the storyline that works at times and falls a little flat at others. The acting, led by Harris, Anthony Hopkins, Thandie Newton, Evan Rachel Wood and Jeffrey Wright is flawless, but the intelligence of the story is sometimes sacrificed to the action and to too many story lines to make it all work perfectly. Don't get me wrong. Westworld is excellent. It is more than worth of binge watching. At its best it is creepy, dark and intelligent, and if you're a fan of Lost you will recognize that wonderful Abrams touch. It's not perfect. It's not as flawless as, say, Game of Thrones, Sense8, Rectify or even Lost (With the exception of course of that last season). It falls more closely into the Walking Dead or Penny Dreadful category, where the story sags ever so slightly at points and our willing suspension of disbelief is sometimes challenged to its limits. But it still pulls itself together when and where it matters most. I liked Westworld. I liked it a lot. I didn't quite love it. But maybe that's only because, like so many television viewers today, I'm so spoiled and because my expectations have been set almost impossibly high. Westworld, as I said, is well worth the watch. It's well worth binge watching. It's not quite the best show on TV. But it does come pretty close. It does come pretty damn close. And maybe that should be enough.
As the advancements of man made technology continue to build steam, and the human race has, as well as its Darwinian principles has not had the time to catch up, it leaves us with a growing disparity between what we can do and what we can handle. Westworld catches us in a not so distant, nor difficult to imagine future. One where the bored elites of society have begun to pay handsomely to be whisked away to a time and place, mirroring the American Wild West, where they can seek to indulge in behaviors that would be illegal, immoral, and dangerous if not done in this context. This Westworld is filled with beautiful, homicidal, and uninhibited beings for the paying customers to interact with. These beings are laboratory made and programmed to serve out any number of actions within the parameters of their certain ingrained story lines. Consisting of parts "Jurassic Park", "Total Recall", "Bladerunner", and then even a little "Truman Show"... these beings begin to think beyond their programming and start to wonder about "what's out there?" and "why are things this way?", all leading to the impending events that are sure to follow. Great premise. Great actors. Great possibilities. Great fun. Enjoy...


                
This review is based on the first episode. I had high hopes for this as I love the original and the overall concept is a very fertile ground for some excellent action/existential storytelling. The pilot suffers from a few issues. Firstly there is next to no context given in terms of the side of the "guests". The original did this well with the opening infomercial, then focused on the two guests as they made their way in, being excited, discussing the possibilities, then settling into it. This lets the audience to relate perfectly to the story, because we can see through their eyes and enjoy the discoveries as they do. The TV show does the opposite - it focuses entirely on the behind-the-scenes in a way that is unengaging and frustrating, and gives no perspective from guests. Without that all important context, all the sci-fi, ecology, commercial aspects and the whole "point" just seem to fade away into redundancy. The behind the scenes stuff tries far too hard to impress, but loses credibility in equal measures. They clearly spent all the budget on effects that should have gone into better casting. The overall number of people who seem to be monitoring or working on things is less than your average village bakery! Its absurd, and ends up looking far too theatrical. Lastly, the acting, particularly from one Brit scientist, is distractingly bad. There are some nice little ideas, the nods to Source Code (waking over and over on a train, Jeffrey Wright playing practically the same character as in that film), Prometheus (meeting your maker etc) and Truman Show are nice touches, but I'm reminded of how much more engaging those films are than this convoluted, under-developed mess.


                
Wow, I just watched the premiere of Westworld and I can tell you that this show is going to be so mind blowing. First of all, the director is Jonathan Nolan who also directed Person of Interest. I'm not really a fan of Person of Interest but still, this shows that he has experience with TV shows. The music is really great and I am addicted to the intro music at the moment. It is actually such a simple song but also so well composed. And boy oh boy, the actors!! Are my eyes deceiving me or am I seeing Ed Harris and Anthony Hopkins in a show! If you haven't heard these names, well, I can tell you that their acting is stunning. I haven't actually seen many TV shows that contained experienced actors like them. The scenario of the show is actually from a 1973 movie also called "Westworld" but the characters and events happening in the show are different. The storytelling, well it is what makes this show amazing. It is not always linear and you can get confused, but I can tell you that, this is a style that no one has ever used in a show. This, can be a new era for TV shows and the new era will contain a different storytelling style, more experienced actors and great climaxes.


                
Season 1 was perfect. Season 2 was flawed, in both its writing and directing.Notable high points in season 1 were a sense of mystery and airtight character development. Anthony Hopkins elevates the caliber of his scenes, simply by his presence. Honestly you could watch season 1 over and over, and enjoy it like it was your first time.Glaring low points in season 2 were big battle choreography (the smaller fights were well done) and character development. However, the quality of the show is still high. Had season 1 not set an impossibly high standard, season 2 would have rated better.Some claim this series fell from grace like True Detective. The drop in quality was not that severe with Westworld, but still noticeable. True Detective season 2 was unwatchable, Westworld season 2 was simply dumbed-down.9/10 because season 1 was just that good and season 2 colors in the backstory.


                
There are many reasons why I might decide to watch a film, television show or series. The director is a common one, as are particular actors. As an aspiring writer, I have a few writers for who I would watch a political broadcast if they wrote it. Top of the list is Joss Whedon. Yep, I'm a huge Buffy Dan, I admit it. Firefly is one of the best single seasons ever written and his web series, Dr. Horrible's singalong blog is brilliant also. Another who pulls me back every time is Aaron Sorkin. The Newsroom is fantastic television, as is The West Wing. I think I may have found another writer, duo actually, to add to my must watch list. I am not a great fan of remakes. Many a modern remake is a pointless cash grab, showing very little creative endeavour or imagination. Especially when the original is a classic film. Carrie? Ben Hur?! Robocop! On television they have tried Lethal Weapon, Rush Hour and - admittedly not at all bad - Limitless. So I was quite perturbed when I heard that the classic Westworld was being remade for television. What?! The Michael Critchon classic? Yul Brynner recast?! No, no, and no again! They can't - and should not - do it! To say I was not looking forward to a remake is an understatement. Then I saw the trailer. Okay, it looked interesting. J. J. Abrams? Hmm. Jonathan Nolan? I may have to take a look. My interest was definitely piqued. In the UK the first episode aired on 4th October. I watched it on replay, not having checked out any of the buzz post show. I was blown away from the opening credits. In a era of brilliant television, to create a fantastic credit sequence might seem frivolous, but the credit sequence is so good it sets the precedent for the rest show. And what a show! Less than ten minutes into the opening episode all ideas of this being a straightforward rehash of the 1973 film are blown away. We are offered the androids as protagonist, as the soul of the story. The antagonist are human. Or maybe both, the first episode leaves this element tantalisingly ambiguous. What we do learn is, just like in the original film, the technology is becoming problematic. In the Michael Critchon film we were introduced to a futuristic theme park, Westworld, where affluent people could come to play out their fantasies in variously theme regions. There is a Roman world, a Medieval world and - most famously - a Westworld. We are taken through this new amazing theme park by Josh Brolin's John, who is returning to the park with a newcomer, Richard Benjamin's Peter. it all initially goes as it should, the two friends, having decided to visit the West themed section, acting out various western fantasies and scenarios; quickdraw shootouts, a robbery, lovely ladies. When something goes wrong and the robots beginning to turn, John is fatally made aware of the faulty systems, leaving Peter running for his life. In the modern version when some of the androids begin glitching the Westworld team want to know why. The androids that glitch seem to be having memories, some type of recall. Though not dangerous, we learn that the scope of the world is such to recall the recently upgraded androids would dramatically affect the 'stories' in play throughout the landscape. Unlike the original, Jonathan and his writing partner, co-showrunner and wife, Lisa Joy Nolan, decide just to keep Westworld western. Whether this is just for the initial first season or not only time will tell. Truth be told, such is the scope and intricacies of the plot and its various strands, that to spread across three possible 'worlds' would not only be difficult to follow but possibly foolhardy. Those Nolans definitely know what they are doing. This being a HBO production, the bar was always going to be high. HBO have been at the forefront of unmissable television for the past decade. Such is their pull, they are able to attract actors who normally work predominantly in film onto the small screen. Westworld is no different, with Anthony Hopkins, Thandie Newton, Ed Harris and James Marsden all integral parts of the show, suffice to say the acting is first rate. The show looks amazing. The dusty western setting contrasting with the clean, clinical settings of the technicians and android areas. I like the score, mysterious and haunting and I love Evan Rachel Wood's central performance as Dolores, the unknowing central protagonist, who takes us back to the question poised in the book that inspired Blade Runner all those years back; 'do androids dream of electric sheep?' . I'm going to keep watching to find out.
The show sets in the near future, an extremely realistic amusement theme park which is inhabited with lifelike androids that are virtually impossible to differentiate from human beings. The idea itself is simply breathtaking, though its borrowed from Michael Crichton's original Westworld (1973) . Excellent acting and the soundtrack by GOT-man Ramin Djawadi perfectly matched to the intriguing events. TV show simply doesn't get any better than this. I've never been really a fan of westerns but this sci-fiction/western combo is a whole new genre itself. Like always HBO delivers in the drama department and they have invested around a hundred million dollars on this and I really hope they get there moneys worth because this series deserves it for sure.


                
I read a couple of the reviews and I was wondering what these individuals expected.. too much sex and violence?.. what did they honestly think a wild west fully immersive theme park for the rich populated by androids would offer? homesteading? gold panning? surely it is a place for them to live out their fantasies be they wholesome or depraved.. by the way not all the 'guests' are on a tour of evil, which is clearly shown as part of the narrative... as a species we happily go paintballing, if we were shooting robots we'd most likely want to fire something a little more powerful at them.. the pilot has a couple of decent plot twists which were unexpected and I thought the production values were high. Are there questions about A.I sentience, evolution, morality etc.. yes, but I would have thought that is part of the appeal of a sci-fi based series, to make you think of the what ifs and why nots.. overall I found the opening episode very promising and I expect the rest of the series to throw us a few more curveballs as to what we think is truly going on while dishing out plenty of action along the way.


                
If I can only use one sentence to describe WW season one: this is one of THE best story I've ever seen. Without any biases, almost everything about WW is perfect, the storyline, the acting, the BGM, the editing, the space for different interpretations, etc. The way they are telling the story is quite confusing, that's true. But I don't think it's a bad thing. One of WW's ultimate goal is to set people thinking about the very existence of ourselves. And breaking down the timelines could help, for sometimes we, in reality, are lost in time and the only way for us to figure that out is to confront ourselves.WW obviously has many shining aspects. The most crafted and brilliant one IMO is the reference. All those Shakespeare quotes, the Creation of Adam, and a bunch of other things, are really encouraging people to ask some fundamental questions like what is mind, what is existence, what's the difference between me and a host and so on.The acting is also great. Evan Rachel Wood is absolutely brilliant in WW. Her micro expressions are very convincing. And she killed it in the scene where she was supposed to turn down her emotion but still trying to cry. The cast are very strong. In general, they did a very good job.And for those who are into mind-blowing storylines, WW will definitely be a wonderful journey to experience. If you are somewhat slow on understanding the plot, that's fine. It happens to most of us. Google some explanations and you will be even more surprised by this magnificent work. However, I'm only talking about season one.


                
Take a little Westworld (1973) and take Jurassic Park both written by Michael Crichton who also directed Westworld. My main worry was that it would be a Westworld re-do but it is not.Loved the reference in the first episode by the manager of the resort, Theresa Cullen (played by Sidse Babett Knudsen) that I think will explain the show best:To summarize it: The wealthy guests expect to have a good time for the time they have paid for. The investors expect one thing, which although unsaid we can expect that to be profit and dividends. The bigger question left unanswered is what is the real motive of the attraction for the company?Does Dr. Robert Ford, played by Sir Anthony Hopkins, who is the creative force behind the technology know the main motive of the attraction?Loved how a fly on the robot can be interpreted to be a literal symbol for those marked with a bug. That might be making it to obvious for some.Not sure how The Man in Black, played by Ed Harris, will be significant, but he it seems like he has been there a long time and might be getting bored. Will he be a significant factor in the future when control of the the attraction starts to break down?Is it the AI that is actually evolving? And is it from the little mistakes of the creator?
I have long been a fan of the Westworld movie, so was eagerly awaiting the TV series but can't deny a certain amount of apprehension as well.Luckily I needn't have worried - the show is thoughtful and gripping but also suggests a deeper view of the theme park than allowed in the original film. This is where the show is excelling so far - we are seeing the world from the perspective of the androids rather than just the guests and are able to develop a deeper connection with them.The show manages to play with some of the preconceptions you may have if you have seen the film (man in black) and also proffers up some interesting thoughts. Specifically when you realise that the robots have feelings and are scared or distraught at the things the guests are doing, but are forced to experience it over and over.The best part of the show for me is that they *don't* spell everything out for you. You can choose to look at it from a more philosophical perspective (or as an allegory for slavery or the state of the human psyche), but you are not being forced to acknowledge this by the writing. Having a show treat the viewer as someone who has some intelligence is a refreshing experience!To sum up, the first two episodes have been enjoyable and hugely promising for the rest of the series. I don't mind admitting I am hooked and already eagerly awaiting the next episode.
Watching sci-fi television it's easy to forget what sci-fi is capable of; it's not all shooting aliens and traveling to alternate dimensions and planet hopping.Westworld is that other kind of sci-fi, the type that is focused on using technology and the future world to explore who we are as people. The series is about what it means to be sentient. It's about the choices we make. It's even about religion and, increasingly as it goes on, a series about playing god.What makes the series great is it doesn't spell all this out for you. It begins by showing you a very complex system, and then shows anomalies within that system that may be nothing more than glitches. Every time you see a robot seem human, you get a technological explanation that undercuts that view. For the most part, it is up to you to decide what this series is saying about sentience, although sometimes the series has stated some concepts more explicitly, which I found less satisfying.The characters are fascinating, particularly Thandie Newton as a robot hooker who manages to put together a lot of the pieces of her particular world. While conceptually brilliant a narratively compelling, there are a few things to take issue with. First off, Westworld is not a very good amusement park. It seems to be essentially a playground for rich white men who want to shoot and/or have sex with robots. On the Daily Show a black correspondent said if he went to Westworld he wouldn't want to fulfill black stereotypes by shooting people, he's want to manage a bank. That joke pointed out one of the problems with this design; it's actually far more limited than current massively multiplayer online games, which allow people to not only shoot people but also to barter and sell property and run businesses. If you actually think about Westworld as a business, you realize it's vision is limited, its overhead is so huge that there is no way business executives could pay enough to keep it running, and many of its maintenance systems and procedures are absolutely terrible.But none of that matters, because the central themes of humanity are so compelling that I watch the show compulsively even though I always feel a little depressed by the tragic and hopeless nature of it all.Flying spaceships and shooting aliens is lots of fun, but if you want to see sci-fi TV at its finest, watch Westworld.


                
mind blowing, incredible, mesmerizing. All words that describe this work of art. At first i was blown by the concept. a futuristic world in which there is sort of a "the purge" vibe, it sounded interesting. But this TV show exceeded my expectations. Most of the characters get a deep construction and evolution, but the most subtle but yet most important is ford's transformation throughout the season. The dialogues are rich, intriguing, full of philosophical and existential questions that could also be applied to human's vision of god. this was the perfect show with the perfect ending. No cliffhanger, no unanswered questions just plain and simple brutality. a slow but steady construction of characters that develop beautifully as the show progresses. my only concern is how do you top it off? why would you try to give more to something that it is already perfect the way it is? if you are looking for a fun interesting mind blowing but at the same time intellectual piece of television because this show manages to be visually and intellectually stimulating


                
This is a movie that respects your IQ. It is logical, it makes sense and even while it uses topics and themes found in similar works, it does this well enough.I won't spoil it. I guess you know what it is about. What I can tell you is that if you're tired of predictable, boring, lazy writing in a movie ... if you're tired of being "shocked" with clichés that you see from a mile coming, see this movie. It has a "Stranger Things" feel to it and honestly, while it is far from perfect, especially the pacing, it is the best TV show around.It becomes more enjoyable if you think about it.On a basic level, it deals with topics like morality and trans-humanism. On a more advanced level it deals with topics like system theory, chaos theory and causality. In any case, it is enjoyable.


                
Been keeping an eye on this for a few months and watching the trailer as well as some early review. I have grown to not trust the usual feedback from "professional critics", as they rarely report on anything I care about. I loved the original Westworld with Yul Brenner (it was a trailblazing idea in its day, but admittedly looks really cheesy when you see the excerpts now). The book was not a book, but the script in book form. A very similar idea was written for a different entertainment genre in 1981, "Dream Park" by Larry Niven and Stephen Barnes, which was a lot of fun to read and puts you in the mind of Westworld from the get go.Having just watch the premier it's worth noting there is a lot of violence from the very start; not surprising for an HBO series, but it does serve the plot. Some mild nudity in the premier, but again all plot related. It looks like a good, deep story, and it is hard to know which characters are the guests and which are the "hosts" until the robots get killed or malfunction. The human guests are supposedly not able to be harmed, so the robots are the ones getting killed all the time. Looks like a fun place to take a vacation, but it will get really spooky soon. Already spooky for some of the hosts.I guess my biggest concern after viewing episode one is they are revealing a lot of plots lines I thought should take a long time to discover, so I hope they aren't revealing too much too fast or they'll run out of interesting plot mechanics. I also would like to see more of the park guests in their pre-park life so we can see their normal selves and see what kind of creatures they turn into when they enter a world without consequences. Some of the trailer shows what appears to be guests before they enter the park, so we'll see.Cast includes Anthony Hopkins, Ed Harris, Evan Rachel Wood, James Marsden, Jeffrey Wright, and Luke Hemsworth (older brother of Chris Hemsworth and Liam Hemsworth) among others.


                
HBO has been putting out a lot of bad content lately, don't get me started on the True Detectives season 2. So I went into this one skeptical of what I would get as HBO really has been hit or miss with TV series. This first episode starts out with a twist and seems to really roll out smoothly from there. The acting is top notch with actors playing roles well suited for them. While the general concept itself has been done before, I can not recall it being done in such a graphic way. It reminds me of a very twisted Humans show on the BBC if you are familiar with it. Being on HBO has let the show be much darker and frankly creepier than what you get on the BBC, however I did have a sense that they were holding back on some of it. While the writing of the show was well above average I was left with a sense that they were not allowed to really show you how twisted their thought was for this series as they didn't want to turn people off with it being too demented. Although in some sense you almost wish they would have gone for it. As usual being on HBO the production level was out of this world. Unlike a lot of series that have a hard time getting good production value due to budget constraints West World looks top notch. You never have a sense they are skimping on the budget. The characters are interesting and well thought out and the world created will get your scifi mind running. The 1st episode definitely got the show on my Sunday viewing list. The show is going head to head with Humans in it's concept and I was a fan of Humans not just for the concept but the story alone with it. West World has the advantage of an adult rating but can they develop a greater story, that will decide this shows fate. But as of now, it's worth the watch.
Westworld whispers of Blade Runner and Jurassic park in a Western setting....There's a lot of very familiar sci fi cultural icons on offer in this series. Its a revamp of an older film, a sci fi thriller, written by Michael Crichton. Its not surprising then to see elements found in the novel Jurassic Park, also by Crichton. Crichton is very good at questioning the implications of scientific endeavour. The unanticipated outcomes, that were either overlooked or not seen. Which, in turn, begs caution and care when meddling with the fabric of life. This notion and the consideration of what it means to be sentient, to be human, as found in films like Blade Runner, are finely crafted threads that run through this series. As the simulated humans, who occupy Westworld, are brought, by subtle degree, closer and closer to humanity by their designers, they begin to evolve. The potential for the randomness but also the predictability found in human behaviour increases incrementally. This, in turn, quietly ratchets up the tension and draws tighter the threads that hold this series together. The question is, when will those threads, start to unravel?This is, thus far, a highly polished production that, refreshingly, is intelligent. Sure there's exposition but its not the key driver. This is a series that asks questions and wants you to consider the outcomes if not find answers. The standard of acting is, for the most part, top shelf. So many well known, as well as lesser known, actors, help to add depth to this production. Thus far I'm enjoying Westworld and plan to make it one of my, "go to", series. Nine out of ten from me.


                
.. well I've become less offended by the bias in the internet over the years, but people claiming they score the show 1 star because its closing a 10 because they want to balance the score? Really? The same people that tell you there are plot holes and the story makes no sense suggest you to watch the movie from 1973?Seriously, I rate it a 9 because its not perfect, nothing is, even BB and GoT aren't.. but it's close.First of all, I agree that technicality can be a blessing in disguise and I also agree that in recent years, movies, series, everything with huge mainstream budget is overachieving in this department and in many cases overshadowing certain weaknesses and not so strong areas regarding story-telling, bad acting or overall blandness.But that doesn't mean it can't enhance experience and accessibility.Well Westworld from a technical and artistic standpoint is top-notch.The score paces you through various emotions in an instant, performs IMO always to the current mood of the scene, is relentless in that, but yet still subtle and not too urging to derail you from other aspects of the viewing. And yet its still there, crawling into your memory and guiding you through scenes and narratives (hehe^^).Visuals from camera over costumes to cgi is IMO always on point. Stunning at times and still put in meaningful terms and not over boarding and too flashy, so that you can take it for granted while you want to focus on story or dialogue. I caught myself sometimes while highly appreciating the design-choices they made with the cgi, like how they incorporated the industrial nature of the hosts within time where industrial development already started without getting to steampunky or ridiculous. Everything is based on a concept which is totally believable, which science is currently getting a knack of but smartly exaggerated.Acting is strong. Wood, Hopkins and Harris are delivering big time. They drag you into their world, Wood is showing a variety of (scripted!) emotions in an instance without looking like trying hard. I will get into character work next, but need to say before, that, giving the nature of Dolores or other Hosts being on the brink of true self-awareness, they are very compelling under hard to act like circumstances.Well a few reviewers criticized the lack of character development and find it hard to engage with the mains. They mark out the lack of actual decision making and not showing progress as a character to make it hard to identify with the protagonists. Guess what, you're supposed to. Mainly they are Androids with scripted behavior without own decisions apart from small improvising. The humans in this show are supposed to be the antagonists, you wont symphatise with them easily either. And its very compelling and complex to showcase the slow development of a self aware mind over decades like this show does.Westworld creates its intrigue from the audacity of mankind being bored by itself, which itches and bites at times and is nowhere near an easy pickup. And it does it a beautiful way without being beautiful.I agree with there being plot holes. There are no big omg-moment-reveals which weren't foreshadowed or unpredictable. Nolans writing is not new to anyone anymore. But they way things unfold are exceptionally well done. And please remind yourself that season 1 was the prologue. Development in character is picking up from now on.I haven't watched something this beautiful and menacing since.. well I'm not sure when I watched something like this. I'd like to compare my experience after watching Westworld to what happened when I read my first Murakami-Book.Something is different now
It pays homage to the original classic , and it opens a new world it self with each character to tell its own story weather android or real, each place to give its own detail , with each fantasy providing something deep , the show is dark and also has humor . I always dreamed of a world like west world since i saw the movie , and this series brings new chapter and more amusement to me brings out the question how you will treat a fake a robot if you were in the world like this it reveals the person what he really is in a fake world. Its just the start of the show with 2 episodes ,but i believe some thing darker and mysterious is yet to be revealed Ps: the score of the show is superb it keeps on ringing in my head


                
I'm two episodes in and I can't wait to see number 3 and so on. Westworld has so many ideas and concepts thrown at you that if forces you to think and keep up. This is what sci-fi is supposed to be thought provoking and challenging. I have no idea where this show is going but I'm along for the ride and on board. the acting, directing and writing are all top-notch. The design and look of the show is mind boggling. Even the music is perfect in setting the tone of dread and confusion. I am so excited that TV has embraced intelligence sci-f, I hope this show stays on its axis and delivers in the future.


                
After Maeve has Bernard revived. When the two of them are talking you can see the main headings,on the device Bernard is holding, in yellow there's Escape then Train then Mainland. Right before Maeve broke the device Bernard says when you get to the Mainland. That means when Maeve got off the train to find her "daughter" see went off script and for the first time a host made an independent decision. All the actions of Deloris/Wyatt were programmed by Ford. It's not hate, violence or lust that motivates the first independent action by a host it's the strongest emotion of all love. When Maeve makes the first ever off script independent decision ever by a host it's because of love for her "daughter".


                
The first character I fell in love with: Dolores Abernathy. In those first few minutes when she is creepily staring at nothing while answering the questions asked to her I was sold. I knew there was something more to her and I still can't wait to see more.The character I never expected to love as much as I do now: Bernard Lowe. He is nerdy and has a love for what he does. I originally thought he would be boring but after awhile I noticed how much he was paying attention to every little thing. He interests me. The character I used to hate but don't anymore: Theresa Cullen. When she was first introduced I thought she would be super bland and boring. She's not totally in the clear yet, but after her conversation with Lee I appreciated her a little more.The character I would totally smooch: Teddy Flood. I mean he is very nice to look at. Or Hector Escaton. Both are fine choices. The character I'd want to be like: Bernard Lowe. He is just so fascinated with the robots and I love that. He's just really nerdy about his robots and I appreciate that. The character I'd slap: The man in Black. Mainly for Dolores. But he deserves more than a slap for that. A pairing that I love: Maeve Millay and Hector Escaton. they had one hell of a sassy conversation and I'm on bored for seeing them together again. A pairing I despise: None so far.Overall I was surprised by how much I actually like Westworld. I'm eager for next weeks episode.
