I'm very disappointed and this rating reflects my disappointment. It could have been so much better, easily. First, it's as if there's no obstacles the characters couldn't overcome by snapping their fingers. It's just too easy for the Joker and Batman to do all what they do. It seems the writers didn't want to be bothered by realism and it's one of the main reasons I didn't feel involved or excited at all. Batman pulls out technological rabbits out of his hat to move the plot forward - it's contrived and not entertaining. The Joker sets bombs anywhere he wants without facing any obstacles. His team of super terrorists can fill a whole hospital with explosives in a few minutes after it has been evacuated - or was it before? Anyway we don't see them setting up anything, everything is done off-screen and it goes into action without any kind of dramatic buildup. How did his gang do this or that? Doesn't matter cause there's an explosion coming soon. *YAWN* The Joker starts with a small gang but in only a few days or so it seems he builds a big organization capable of operating rapidly without flaws - a group we are told made up of many schizos and psychos from Arkham Asylum, as if they had all been released all of a sudden to join him and moreover in doing so became hyperobedient and hypercompetent robbers / explosive experts / terrorists / etc. Yeah. Right. As if running a criminal organization made up of Arkham inmates would be a piece of cake. It would have been so much more REALISTIC and ENTERTAINING to see the Joker having to deal with nutty and sometimes incompetent henchmen and we the viewers doubting whether or not he would succeed and yet pulling it off and laughing all the way up to the last confrontation. Instead he surfs on the action, survives all kinds of explosions and crashes and moves around as if Gotham City was butter and he a hot knife. *YAWN* Second, the style & editing of the movie was mediocre at best. You would think the Joker's first meeting with the mob would have something of a tension. Here we are introduced to Batman's no.1 enemy and he tells them they have to kill the Dark Knight. But the way it was shot the scene was cold, he simply goes in, makes a few enemies and leaves. And next The Joker invites himself to Bruce Wayne's party to kidnap Harvey Dent and he simply comes in, Voilà!, without facing any obstacles, there's no buildup, no dramatic crescendo, the pace stays the same, we get lots of quick shots, a constantly moving camera and even one or two 360 degrees around Joker and Rachel as if this was some kind of music video. There's nothing, no tension. And it went downhill from there, like a typical dumb action movie. Explosion, car chase, car chase, explosion, fight, car chase, explosion. Can't you guys come up with something original? And those action scenes aren't even well made. *YAWN* Why? After all you had an ace, The Joker, he should have had some cool crazy ideas to cause mayhem... but he didn't. He lacked the charisma that should be in such a character. Not that Ledger is bad but the character he plays has nothing special. He's cold, predictable and not funny. In Tim Burton's movie the man isn't just some psycho killer, you know early in the movie he's going to do his crimes with style and that he has surprises in his bag. He's a bit silly but you don't know what to expect from him - he's fun to watch. In TDK he neither has style nor surprises, HE JUST BLOWS THINGS UP WITH DETONATORS and he's not even having fun. Bbbooorrriiiinnnggg.I think a lot of people don't see all the big flaws of the movie because they like the characters and the themes. I like Batman, the lone vigilante fighting crime in his city and his struggle to retain his morality while confronting the worst criminals, I like Harvey Dent's character and the Joker trying to turn Dent into a madman like him to ruin his crusade against crime and I liked the Joker trying to corrupt the people of Gotham and turn them into murderers ...BUT THE MOVIE STINKS I really wanted TDK to be good, good at least like half of Batman Begins is, I wanted to leave the theater with a big smile on my face but I left the theater feeling cheated because I wanted to see a cool movie and I didn't, I saw a lame piece of crap. There was no climax, no great scenes, no drama, no tension, no substance, only over the top action scenes we have already seen elsewhere. This movie itself isn't a 1 out of 10 but I'm so disappointed by it that it deserves its 1
Okay, so they built a good villain in the Joker, but the plot was just a bit too unbelievable to hold together. I'm not going to add any spoilers here, but if you want a big-budget, action- adventure escape that totally relies on the rendering farms that had to handle all the special effects... and don't mind plot-holes the Hindenburg could fly through, this film is for you. IMHO, this film doesn't deserve all the hype. Look at reviews from people who "hated it" and see why. Once the hype has died down and people get over their brainwash to overrate this over-produced Hollywood crap, we should see ratings more in line with the film's true value. I didn't walk out, but that was because I had such high expectations. I'd hope to see this rated a '4', maybe even as high as a '6' by the average public. I'm rating this a '1' to try to offset the obvious shills and excessive hype. This is, by no means, "the best film of the summer"... but in its favor, it does give better balance to the darkness of Batman. If it weren't for the growing trend in bucking the old "feel-good Hollywood ending" routine... if it weren't becoming cliché to kill off "good guys" and create characters with seeming hearts of gold, who turn half-evil, I'd say this film had something unique; but that whole scenario is now a formula for making a film armchair critics will say has "depth"... pffff... Save your time and money and rent an old classic favorite that you somehow never managed to see. Or go have a picnic with your loved ones. The alternative is two-and-a-half hours you won't get back; don't waste it to further enrich Warner Bros.


                
Wow. Once again my faith in the rational persons ability to discriminate between depth and breadth, is verified, in that I have none.The film was long. Not deep. I think there is a misunderstanding. The film had the veneer of an epic film. It had all the right elements to be an epic comic-book adaptation to screen. Yet it faltered, mainly because everyone was so wrapped up in the idea of Ledger giving a career defining performance, they couldn't see past it. It's almost as if they accepted the brilliance of his performance before they entered the theatre, off of the back of the hype and the critics reviews, and all that was left was to actually watch it and be able to validate this belief.Disregarding Heath Ledgers untimely death, can you really say that he was a better Joker than Jack Nicholsons? I for one, cannot. Others have already said it; he had no back story. A character without a past and a motive - especially when they are a killer - is just not one that is appropriate to a story about good and evil. The things we like about villains is that we can relate to the reasons they do the things they do, whilst asking ourselves whether their reasons are justified. We get into a dialogue, and we ourselves get to decide who we side with - the good or the bad. This villain left me feeling flat and unfulfilled because he had no real motive, - making it impossible to choose which argument, good or bad, I sided with - and left me feeling like I was a voyeur, watching a guy kill loads of people.Everyone has been raving about the script, which I thought was plain dreadful at points. Others have raised the questions here. What was with his voice? He would make a great nursery nurse. The poignant moment on the boat when the sailor said something to the effect of "They haven't pushed the button yet, because we are still alive" was just plain embarrassing. The fact that Batman kept leaving in the middle of a conversation became irritating instead of cool and enigmatic. Why can't he just hear someone out. And at the end when batman runs home like Charlie, I was nearly dying in laughter. I could hear the music 'I've got a golden ticket'. There were other embarrassing script moments, but because the film was so bad, I can't even be bothered to mention them. The phone device for one was utter...The rhetoric of the characters in their oratorical moments was again, limp. It was as if the writer had started a sadistic, flowing evil speech, but had not had the tools with which to really elaborate. Because he had decided to keep the Jokers background exclusive, the speeches were neither funny or scary. They were punctured and lacked conviction.The fact that this is the number one movie is embarrassing. IMDb should take it off out of principle. If this wins an Oscar, I will never watch a Hollywood movie again.
I am deeply shocked<U+0085>. I am really shocked that this film made it all the way to the top. It's OK with me that it is a huge success at the box office. I can cope with it that many, many people do not have the same taste as me. Even though it is a little sad because I think this somewhat strange taste of the comic buffs will influence the movies in the future even more. There are interesting articles about the influence of the bloggers and hardcore fans on producers and directors. What really shocks me here is that many, many acclaimed critics fail to see how bad this movie is. They write about hidden stories, meanings and messages. The war in Iraq, the war against terrorism, a reflection of American society and so on. They write about hilarious performances of the actors. They write about stunning visual effects. Some of them may even write about the tremendous script. Fortunately so far I did not read anything about the scriptwriting. So I try to begin with that issue. Well, the script is so down, down, deep down below that I don't even know where I shall begin. I guess the guys who are more in the comic stuff will tell you that Jonathan Nolan really did a good job in adopting the stories and the mood of the comic books. But for me this is no reason to write a story that lacks everything and is so brain dead that I'm gasping for air. The plot is annoying and predictable. The characters are written really poorly. First of all Harvey Dent. His turning into a fallen Angel is so incredibly incredible. It may result from the way that the brains of the comic buffs work. 9 Pictures or less per page. I that time you can turn from a white hero into a black devil. But this is a movie. And no 9c trash book. To say it clear <U+0096> and you may have noticed <U+0096> I am no comic fan. But I like for instance Sin City very much. It is a very good adaptation into a now medium. And it is visually very interesting. Visuals. As I said Sin City is visually very interesting. The dark Knight is not. Totally not. Almost two decades before we saw TerminatorII. Oh my god, this was something new. And Two Face <U+0096> Aaron Eckhart looked a little like the wrecked Arni back then. Don't get me wrong the make up apartment did a very good job. It is just so sad that we already saw it all before. (Just like the inspection of the new weapons<U+0085> Is this a scene of one of the Bond Movies?) Or take the Matrix (Part1) about one decade before. Visually the dark knight is not one tick better or more interesting. Maybe on the same level. Sin City was something new. The dark Knight shows us common techniques in a slightly higher perfection. The directing is average. Not outstanding. It must have been a logistic masterpiece, OK. But we have seen it before. The acting. I can't even say if the actors are bad. I think it is the story that is so poor. The Joker is good. Heath Ledger is good. Not brilliant or something like that. It is solid work. And he is the only character that is somewhat interesting and not full of pathetic crap. Well to draw the conclusion again. I can live with it that this movie is that successful at the box office. I can not live with the super high praising comments of professional critics. For action entertainment this movie is too long. At least one hour is simply annoying. (Again the writing.) So, who ever has some bucks left go see this movie and see what brain damaged means.
There were just too many subplots, too much violence, and it was at least a half hour too long. They should have taken some of the time they spent planning CGI effects and used it to seal some of the plot holes: 1. A witness pulls a gun out while he's on the witness stand? Excuse me?? This is some mythic land where the courthouses don't have metal detectors? 2. There's a terrorist threat against a hospital, so they evacuate every patient--*except* the one who's been in all the papers.3. The police are transporting a high-profile prisoner, with dozens of vehicles escorting him and SWAT teams all over the place--but one trailer truck starts chasing them and they're all helpless.4. The silliest thing of all--Batman's constant whispering. It's supposed to make him sound menacing, but he just sounds like he has laryngitis. It's like the old Superman TV show where people magically have no idea who he is as long as he keeps his glasses on.I know I'm way in the minority on this one, but I have to say this was the ugliest, stupidest movie I've ever seen. I would have walked out if I weren't trapped at the end of an aisle. You couldn't pay me enough to sit through it again.
How can a film like this be ever compared to a film like the godfather is laughable, i am a big comic book and superhero fan i particularly like this genre but i did not like the way this was handled whatsoever..the following points highlight my case why batman is nothing but a okay film.. 1- CONCEPTION AND CREATION everyone knows that one of the most exciting things about villains is there creation, and how they became they way they are, i believe the original batman films which Tim Burton directed handled this brilliantly, but look at Spiderman 2 which has a great villain. There was no flashback even to the creation of the joker character we must believe he has been there all along, as well as Two Face whos original coming of being i liked better in batman forever, not to say i like tommy lee Jones character portrayal any better than this 1.2-VIOLENCE this film had left a bitter taste after viewing i am a fan of violent films but it can be seen the way this was edited to ensure the upper catorgory of a pg-13 12a(uk) over here left the film looking a feeling like something was missing. Instead of showing the conseqeunce of for example a bullet in the head the camera would cut away leaving it for the audience imagination, another example of not showing violence and actually changing the tone of the film was robocop the R rated version when compared against the X rated version which seems lighter in tone.3-BATMAN now Batman played by Bale one of my favourite actors opted for a stupid gruff sounding voice which didn't work, also the suit castes were terrible and i mean truly bad, batmans suit made him look like a more well equipped navy seal or something, not the true mysticism that is batman which is lost in this film. There is no reference to bats whatsoever throughout the duration. Another letdown was the fight sequences which even though Bale did a lot himself did not look smooth, or good on the big screen.4-PLOT/PACINGthe plot has to many twists and turns and leaves some of the less cerebral most likely lost(not myself of course). The pacing is bad as there is one key action sequence in the middle of the film which did blow me away but the film never lived up to that particular sequence which is a shame, less morality and preachyness more ACTION! and on that note a spoiler which i do warn before hand, the ending i must say i disliked a lot, for lack of realism, depth and completion as it is left very much open of what happens to the joker character, my 2 cents please reply if you have maybe a differing opinion to mine, Spiderman 2 is one of the greatest comic book translations to films, as in the earlier batmans, (including returns) but this should never be uttered in the same sentence as a film like the Godfather, which i believe to be one of the greatest of all time, the greatest which i do believe is Once upon A time in America.
There is nothing special about this movie. Period. Nothiing special. It tries on so many levels to be this big mega movie, and in financial terms, it was, but you know what? It's still not good, no matter how many fans it has, no matter how much money it pulls in. Those are just figures and numbers, and they're quite boring in the long run. Let's go over a few reasons why it was not good. First off, the story bites off way more than is necessary. We have Bruce Wayne in this ridiculous attempt to win back a woman he'll never have the chance to be with. The woman he is in love with prances around like a little school girl, and really has no business being in the story to begin with. She is just there to make both Batman and Harvey Dent rival each other. I'm so sure that the writers could have come up with a better plan to pit the two against each other than that. Then, there's the Joker...the most ridiculous part of the story. Ridiculous because of the lengths and the means that the filmmakers took to bring a new kind of villain. It's not entertaining, it's not disturbing, it's just sick. This movie was not fun. It was not entertaining. It was a product for the mindless audiences who were going to buy into it anyway, and especially because of the death of Heath edger. Let's talk a little about that. This film had success that rode the curtail of Ledgers death. The studio deliberately used the poor suffering of a human being to push a film into exhibition. That's really sad, and you know what else? It's all this film will ever be...the last film of Heath Ledger, and America went to see it because he died before it's release. sad. Really sad. I didn't like it, and I bet others will not like me for that very reason. Even more sad still.
Yes, Joker was really great, but overall this movie was a total letdown.A few totally stupid things that killed this movie for me.*Spoilers* Joker blows up a freaking HOSPITAL in BROAD freaking DAYLIGHT and makes his escape in an ultra fast SCHOOL BUS, which no cop seems able to stop, even though they've been warned that Joker will, you know, blow up a hospital. You see, this is totally believable because the cops apparently set up a perimeter two freaking miles away, just to be safe. It's not like they could have used a helicopter or something for surveillance. That would just make too much sense (sarcasm).Batman falls several stories to the ground, not once, but TWICE and gets up without so much as a broken bone, but hey, that's okay because his super duper special armor, (which is so strong that a dog can chew through it) protected him from the fall. That's totally realistic! Right? What's that you say? The metal roof of the Taxi totally cushioned his fall. Well, that's even BETTER! How wonderfully realistic. If I ever have to jump out of a burning building it's nice to know that a kevlar vest and a strategically placed car will break my fall.Police Commissioner Gordon pretends to be dead so that Joker will chase after Harvey Dent instead of his family (huh?) and Joker proceeds to kill six innocent people in the middle of downtown Chicago, uh, Gotham City, but this is okay, because by drawing the Joker out, the police are protecting the public from harm. No reason to clear the streets of pedestrians and traffic and stuff while transporting Harvey Dent as bait for a sicko maniac killer.Joker manages to keep a pencil perfectly balanced on a table while a large gangster stomps across the floor to fight him. Cool, but stupid.Joker burns a pyramid of money, because you see, money is not important to him. What's important to him is blowing and burning stuff up, which is exactly why he robs banks for a living. Makes perfect sense, no?Batman speaks with an annoying rasp which hides his Bruce Wayne voice because as everyone knows, Christopher Nolan wants this to be a REALISTIC depiction of Batman, which is why we have sonar cell phones in this movie and magic armor and explosive laced Bat Mobiles that turn into motorcycles which do gravity defying 360 turns on walls.Other complaints: There was no Wayne Manor in this film. No Bat cave. Chicago looks a bit too bright and modern to be Gotham City. Seriously, what is Gotham City without, you know, Gothic architecture? The girl playing Rachel Dawes is completely ugly, but for some reason Bruce Wayne is so obsessed with her that he decides to have sex with the whole Gotham City ballet, just so she can't go on a date with Harvey Dent.I know lots of people got drawn into the hype of seeing Heath Ledger's last great performance, but besides Joker, there is no redeeming value in this film. There's no iconic battles. No real hero to root for (seriously, you will hate Batman in this movie).Christopher Nolan gets a special mention for trying to inject at least some intelligence into a summer blockbuster, but there was just one too many stupid things to justify the price of admission. If you haven't seen this film, just wait for it on DVD.
This was one of the worst movies ever made. Never before have I witnessed a more confusing and convoluted mess. There were about ten subplots, but there was no main plot. The Joker existed to run amok and to represent the "honest villain", that is, he didn't mess around and play games like most villains, and he didn't do it for money, he just killed and wreaked havoc for the heck of it... okay, that's fine. But in having the Joker purposely ruin all the other subplots involving other bad guys, it basically made all the energy in having to keep up with the subplots involving these other people come to nothing. It was very tiresome realizing that everything you witnessed, after two hours of non-story action and hammy performances, really didn't mean a thing, kind of like when a movie shows that "it's all a dream". It might as well have been a dream. Because in this complete mess of a film, nothing mattered. The Joker had no purpose - which was intentional. But since the rest of the movie had too much purpose, or rather, tried too hard to have all the purpose in the world - it all came together like a big explosion... then, nothing. Just ruins. And two and a half hours of my life wasted. As for Heath Ledger, he wasn't terrific. He wasn't amazing. He was horrible. Weak. Sounded like a nerd. And he claims to have studied from "A Clockwork Orange" (please!), but he seemed more like he was doing a Johnny Depp impression, being silly and androgynous. It's just such a mess of a film. Horrible, simply horrible. And the reason I haven't mentioned Batman himself, is that he was so nothing, that there isn't anything to say about him. The main character seems more like a Vin Diseal character, and not a comic book hero. I understand trying to make the franchise more serious after being ruined by Joel Schumaker, but this film doesn't resemble a comic book in any way at all. It could have been a cop film, only the main cop had pointy ears, and the main villain had really bad makeup.
OK now i was a big fan of Batman Begins, i really liked it but it wasn't really my favourite movie ever and the same can be said for The Dark Knight.First of all, whilst the joker was an interesting character and very well written, to be honest i don't see what everyone is raving about. Yes Heath was amazing, but it gets me thinking was this due to the script? Or heath's ability to understand and become a phycopath? If it really is the second, should we applaud it?Did it live up too all the Hype? Is Heath the only reason people went to see it? Is it the best film of the year? The answer to all these is of course..........no, and i don't understand why everyone is treating it like a god "omg it was so amazing, best movie of the year", you see people this type of person is called a "Hype Hound"(by the way, thats copy written =]), a person who bases there sole judgement on the hype surrounding a film, and the first few reviews. Thats not to say there aren't some true fans who really did love the movie, but I'm sick of the pretenders giving it tens when they didn't even like it "Conformity is for those who cant think of there own free will, free will is for those who break through conformity"Anyways guys my final words is, a great movie but not the greatest. Will Heath win an Oscar? Yes. Will it win Best Picture? Well lets just see


                
The buzz from the entire media, and the general public made it sound like this was the second coming of Star Wars. Well it wasn't. A matter of fact, this way over hyped pile of garbage is one of the worse movies i have seen in years. Where to begin. Lets start with the so called great acting. You must be kidding me. Ledger does not deserve an Oscar nomination for this. If anything, Jack Nicholson does a far better job playing the Joker. Christian Bale basically mumbles through most of his Bat man parts, and isn't much better when he isn't. Plot is stupid as heck. They make the Joker sound like some super human beast from another world. A dozen officers with machine guns would of killed him off in 2 seconds. But i guess that would of ruined the story line. Any way you analyze this movie. Its just plain old bad.


                
I know this review will get a bunch of unhelpful votes but somebody has to tell the truth here! The Dark Knight is wildly overrated and is the most overrated movie of all time. Forget Titanic, Boondock Saints and King Kong(2005). This movie surpasses them when it comes to sheer hype. For the record I love Batman Begins. I thought it was a fresh beginning on a series that was rendered ineffective by that lunatic Joel Schumacher. Christian Bale fared well as both Batman and Bruce Wayne and the rest of the cast did a great job also. But this movie.... Everything that made Batman Begins so great is absent from this pretentious slop. Most of the cast look like they'd rather be somewhere else. Let me break it down this way with what stinks about this movie.The plot: Idiotic beyond belief. Joker(Heath Ledger) plans to kill city officials while playing childish games with Batman. Most of the time he's killing the people he's aligned with making him the most moronic villain in superhero movie history. Batman joins forces with Commissioner Gordon to stop him.The acting: Christian Bale is wooden in both roles(Batman and Bruce Wayne). He spends most of the movie looking like he's stoned out of his mind. And what is up with that voice? In Batman Begins he sounded cool like one of the gangsters from those old 1940s flicks. Here he sounds like Dirty Harry with strep throat. Aaron Eckhart is flat as both Harvey Dent and Two-Face. While his Two-Face was better than Tommy Lee's Two-Face looking good by default is never good. Michael Caine, Gary Oldman and Morgan Freeman sleepwalk through this whole movie. Maggie Gyllenhaal is quite awful as Rachel Dawes. Katie Holme's Rachel Dawes was a strong willed lawyer that fought for what's right. Maggie's Rachel Dawes needs to grow up and find some better priorities. I agree that she is a step up from Katie Holmes but she plays Rachel Dawes like some silly high school girl with a pathetic crush on Bruce Wayne. The fact that we are asked to feel sympathy for her when The Joker captures her is a bit of a stretch. Her getting roasted made my day though lol!Now for the talk of the town: Heath Ledger as Joker. Heath Ledger's performance was okay but to say that he was better than Jack Nicholson's Joker is hilarious to say the least. Jack Nicholson's Joker had style, a plan and was pretty funny as well as unpredictable. Of course he was silly but he was fun. Heath Ledger's Joker is predictable with no back story and had no real plan. Just random acts of chaos. Ra's Al Ghul had a plan, The Joker of Batman 1989 had a plan, The Penguin of Batman Returns had a plan. This weirdo had nothing but bluff. Plus he's has no fun with what he does and spends most of the time ridiculously philosophizing like those corny emo-goth kids that smoke copious amounts of cigarettes while yapping about the misery of their lives. You complete me? That's about as cheesy as the Tumbler turning into a crappy motorcycle. Speaking of Emo-Goth kids that exactly what this Joker is. Only people actually find him cool instead of pathetic.Action sequences: predictable to a fault. Car chase and fights scenes plus they are quite unrealistic. People get punched, kicked, shot, bitten by dogs and knocked around by explosions and walk away without bumps, bruises, cuts or blood. Now, Im not a gore hound but if you get shot or bitten by a dog, I would expect to see some blood. Not in the Dark Knight though. Pacing: The movie builds up a pace to slow it down after wards and with all the action on the screen the movie still finds time to be boring. Plus at 2 hours and 32 minutes this movie feels longer than it needs to be. Various subplots that never connect best describe most of this movie.Conclusion: The Dark Knight is the most overrated, most hypocritical, most pretentious piece of garbage in the history of cinema. The only people that would like this are the fanboys and I cant believe that people are trouncing Tim Burton's Batman movies to foam at the mouth like rabid dog groupies over this overcooked sequel. You pseudo-intellectual snobs don't seem to realize that those movies were great for the time they were made in and they were fun. Tim Burton made the type of Batman movie he wanted to make without trying to please these shills. I must have seen the Tim Burton Batman movies more times than I can count and still have a ball watching them till this day. I saw this dreck three times and still couldn't get into it. Its not even fun. Its a plodding mess that gets more hype than it deserves. Matter of fact, I'll tell how much I didn't like it. For months I had The Dark Knight on my computer for free via z-share and when my computer suffered from a virus that force me to erase the whole thing, this was the only movie through z-share that I never tried to get back. That should tell you everything you need to know about my feelings on this movie. Two Thumbs down.
Although suffering from a muddled plot, ill-defined characters, a typically uncharismatic performance by Christian Bale, and a lack of energy, The Dark Knight proved to be on of 2008's greatest commercial and critical successes.The fact that this film is in the Top Ten list tells me two things: 1) Most of the people who rated this highly are either 10-year-olds or adults with the attention span of 10-year-olds. I do not mean to offend all 10-year-olds, because there are some rare exceptions. But, you can catch my drift.2) People who rated this highly have not seen many of the other, better films on this list. They have nothing to compare The Dark Knight to.Anyway, I just hope this film's current standing sinks down far below the 250 mark.


                
It's not often I find a movie plain unwatchable, but that was the case with the Dark Knight. The reason is plain and simple: almost every dialog feels "fake" as only 1 person speaks per camera point. Like with cheap soaps where they can only take care of the sound of one person, or where the stars don't physically meet that much. The lack of chemistry and realness resulting from monologues shot in series an then cut to dialogs, is bewildering. Staggering low-quality. I honestly found it unwatchable because of that, and what's even more bewildering is that this seemingly cheap or ill-produced production is considered a master piece by so many. I feel like the little child in The Emperor's New Clothes. What's going on here? Has everyone turned blind? Shockingly bad.


                
I don't want to waste more time on writing the review for this stupid movie, as I have already wasted my precious time watching it! This movies is over-hyped. c'on, IMDb gives it 9.2?? I mean are you serious?? lol........really this is the biggest joke ever, that an awful movie like this gets 9.2??!!! Direction is mediocre. The 'hissing' voice of batman is annoying. It was supposed to sound intimidating and macho, but it sounds as if he is having laryngitis, instead.Joker?? Was he really the joker (who never laughs??). A joker is a character, who is supposed to be full of surprises and tricks, and most important the one who 'laughs' in paradoxical situations. Unfortunately, this joker was not even close to the actual joker character.It seems, as if joker controls the whole city, but how and when, God knows? I can't go without mentioning that 'hyper sonar' machine, that can see every single person in the city. This time the director really jumped out of his briefs!! You evacuate all the hospitals in the city, except for the person for whom you are doing the evacuation!! lol........who was the writer?? I guess he didn't reach school higher than 2nd grade.I have so much to say about this stupid movie, but again, as I have already promised that even reviewing this stupid movie is wastage of time, so in the end, this is the worst movie I have ever seen, which paradoxically gets the best rating.
This movie has proved again, that cartoon means junk, and whatever you do starting from a cartoon, it will still be junk. At least now someone else in Hollywood realized this, and made a real good parody of the cartoon genre. An extra joke is, that all this was masked as a serious superhero cartoon movie. Just some of the best hidden jokes I've found behind the cliché story:1. Batman kills at least a dozen of cops during the car chase, and makes some million $ worth of damage in the road, buildings. etc., but he is still the good guy. Sure.2. All the citizens in Gotham are totally stupid. First of all, they don't realize, that the only person, who has enough money to buy those hi-tech gadgets is Bruce Wayne, and nobody realizes, who Batman is. Second, it doesn't matter, that Batman's mask is covering only a small part of his face (his forehead and nose), they still don't realize, who is "hiding" behind the mask By the way, did you notice, that there is a face recognition software running on one of the monitors in Batman's hideout? The very same happened in the previous Batman franchise - looks like folks in Gotham didn't get any smarter in the past decades.3. Looking at the height of the pile, I guess that the amount of cash Joker is burning is more than there is in circulation in the whole world.4. All the mobs are stupid enough to keep their money in cash, so if they want to make a transfer, they have to hire a dozens of trucks. They haven't ever heard about electronic money. If they are so stupid, then how they can run a syndicate?5. Some billion worth of hi-tech gadgets is hiding in the basement of Wayne company. For years in nobody's mind turned up the idea to find a customer and make some money of it. They just wasted some million $ into it, and later they decided to hide it.6. The way the bat car and the bat bike moves is totally unrealistic. Also, such vehicles would be totally unpractical. For example, why are the wheels of the bat car in the front of the vehicle? Anyone can shot it with a simple pistol (these are rubber wheels), and game is over. The stupid design of the vehicle is proved in one scene, when Joker immobilizes the car (supposedly worths some million$ + the development costs, as this is a prototype) with a common RPG, which costs only a handful of dollars.7. When they bring down the chopper with the steel cables, the two guys must have know in advance, that exactly where (which street and what height) the chopper will go through. Keep in mind, that according to the plot, all these Joker sidekicks are mentally retarded people. And doesn't matter, that the chase is half a dozen mile long, they are just in the exact time at the exact place.8. Hey terrorists and wannabe terrorists! I have some good news for you! It looks like, that if you want to kill a major, then all you have to do is to get an uniform. (An uniform can be bought in any costume shop, you don't even have to beat policemen and take away from them like in the movie.) Then you can approach the major to point blank distance - the only problem is, that there are oracles in the police, too, who can predict the future, and jump between you and the major even before you pull the trigger.9. Blowing a building is an easy process. High explosives are strange artifacts, as you can move and properly plant hundred kilos within a couple of minutes into the designated places of a building. Also, when you blow up a building, you can stay 10 meters away from it, and you will suffer no damage from debris, rubble and/or air pressure.10. Ship crews are incredibly dumb. They can't realize that there are hundreds of gasoline in the engine room. Or even if they have found it, then they may have thought, that the captain is going to throw a surprise party for the whole crew, and in the barrels there is the stuff necessary for such party (vaseline).These are just some quick random things I can remember, I don't want to waste much time commenting this disaster. Let's not talk about obvious plot holes, pointless violence, superfluous subplots, and Bale acting like a wood - oh my god, why that deep voice when dressed as Batman?
It's hard to find what is wrong with a movie that seems so well crafted and put together. Well let's start by saying that the Dark Knight is very boring and messy.The plot is incoherent, with too many undeveloped subplots. The movie tries to be realistic but logic has no place anywhere. It tries to be dramatic but the drama is manufactured, out of place, and doesn't build up from anything. Lots of poor philosophical monologues going nowhere. The characters have nothing, nothing interesting about them. They're like puppets used to create some sort of politicised view of the world where everyone is miserable with no sense of humor, taking no pleasure from their actions whatever they are. And creating this dull vision of the world hidden behind a comic superhero, is what this movie is all about. All the rest comes as a consequence of this. Anything that happens has little or no effect. Batman is just as hollow as every one else. You could swap him with some other character and nothing would change. Action is just average. Random things happening out of nowhere, and no explanations is given on how they managed to do that. Some great effects here and there don't add much to the movie. I like violent movies but the violence in the DK is pretty much senseless as well as censored. Definitely not for young kids.The movie is not dark, is hollow. If you want a good dark movie then go to see the awesome 'The Crow'. You want to see a good batman movie then watch the Tim Burton's version. Flat with no substance, humor or soul, the Dark Knight doesn't leave you with any emotions whatsoever, no hope and not even hopelessness. Only a lame sense of depression.


                
I think the hype around this movie makes people completely overrate it. OK Heath does a great job at the joker but the movie itself has many flaws: 1. The balance between good and badguy is all out of sync. Batman fades into the background, he also has way less dialog than the joker. This makes the movie unbalanced. I think they re-cut the movie after Heaths death, to put him in the foreground.2. The movie is tooooo long, this story can be shorter with less redundant scenes, its like they couldn't choose what to put in, so they just put all of it in! This gave me and some of my friends several *yawn* moments near the end.3. Gotham city looks like a normal city. In "batman begins" it had a real comic feel but in this movie it doesn't, which is a shame really.4. The point of the movie, (i wont tell u what it is) but yes, this action movie tries to make a philosophical point. Of course this can be great, but in this movie it gets chewed over and over and over and then it gets forced down your throat.5. Lack of humor. An occasional sharp or funny dialog would have been great, however the dialogs arnt very good and they're never funny.6. The plot devices are really quite lame. I wont go into details but most of the plot devices are silly and inspirationless, even the comic manages to feel more realistic than that. Somehow the movie doesn't manage to convince the audience of its own logic, probably cause there is none.All in all its a fun movie, with great performance by Heath as the joker, however it is not the masterpiece people try to turn it into. It doesn't deserve a place in the top 250, and it is not the best movie of 2008. Of course, if you settle for mediocrity this is the movie for you!


                
This is the biggest ridicule after George W. not being able to spell the word 'nuclear' right. It is simply beyond my understanding how hundreds of thousands of people could have rated this film even worthy of attention. Batman, The Dark Knight is a piece of cake. With capital letters.OK, a huge fat turkey of a movie is not a new kid on the block. But no piece of trash has ever been so over-rated as this one is. I know that Heath Ledger's death came unexpected, and the guy was a solid actor, but you cannot praise something to the skies out of commiseration and loyalty. 'Cause however hard I am trying I am not able to find any other substantial reason why you would give Christopher Nolan's new embarrassment of an action flick six, seven, eight or nine points, let alone ten.This movie is lacking a consequent plot, a cohesion of the myriad of action scenes it has been broken down into and a common sense to know when enough is enough. Besides, I really don't know which film those who said the acting was brilliant had watched, but what I see is that Christian Bale, Maggie Gyllenhal and Gary Oldman all lack conviction and had the end of the day - and probably the collection of money - in mind when they stood in position in front of the blue screen. Oh, and quite often I really got confused; from time to time I needed to be reminded I was not watching the new James Bond movie or Terminator CXXXVIII (the gadget scene, the plane escape scene are truly pathetic, as is the concept of (re)introducing the character of Two-Face, the guy who did not read the instructions manual of the microwave oven).Since we are talking about a comic book adaptation I don't bother to mention how unrealistic action sequences are (try wiring a town hospital with all that security and CCTV cameras they got installed, or try buying - unnoticed - the oil reserves of a medium sized country to blow half of the city into the sky), but let me ask why nobody out of the immense crew that put this film together could pay attention to small details. Like when police forces storm the Hong Kong building to catch the bat-suit guy: 'Arigato, arigato!'- they wave each other up the stairs. Does this mean China needs to hire law enforcement personnel from Japan? OK, I am stopping there. I know I might already have made some enemies among comic book and action film lovers. This forgettable encounter with Batman however, reminds me again I am not one of them.
For a film to be 10/10, it really has to be almost perfect. I know it's all about opinions, but to get that rating it must be technically well made, you know, entertaining, good plot, special FX, acting, realism, etc. Oh and when I say realism I don't mean you cannot have superheroes or fantasy, but within the framework of the movie you have to follow its own rules. For example the Matrix was still realistic even though people could fly (it was set in a computer so it's possible). I liked the fact TDK was serious and dark, but that is where the positives end. The plot is ludicrous, as the Joker, who is a human being, is omnipresent, clairvoyant, a great hypnotist, invincible and has no human needs. I know this is a "comic book" movie, but when you set up a film in a normal America city, with normal physics and all that goes with it, you cannot then just make up a completely implausible story of events.The joker is beaten up, involved in car crashes, doesn't seem to sleep, yet is perfectly fine at all timesHas a vast amount of mindless, kamikaze, henchmen, who inexplicably do everything he says.The joker is able to accurately predict where everyone in Gotham will be at any time and able to somehow be in 20 places at once.No one notices the huge amounts of explosives placed in the hospital or the boats or any building in town for that matter. A man with a bomb and phone inside him is conveniently in the right place at the right time, somehow avoiding the police metal detectors or dying from his surgery.In the end the story is too unbelievable and too long as well. You don't care about anyone, as everything is too unrealistic. Therefore this film cannot ever be considered a 10/10, almost regardless of opinion. I quite liked the filming and the mood of the film, but it has too many flaws to be considered that good.I gave it a 1/10, which is too harsh, but I felt obligated to bring down the overall rating.
OK I waited a really long time to actually see this movie.. mostly because of the hype.. I wanted to see if after all the long drawn out hype of Heath Ledger's death... its #1 spot on the IMDb boards.. and all the back and forth conversations on whether it or not it was the greatest film of all time... it could actually live up to that standing.The simple answer is no.1. Writing 6/10There are a lot of points in this film where the dialogue feels really rushed and just awkward. I don't understand why batman begins (which in my opinion far exceeds this film) could do everything right with the screenplay and this one fail so badly. The standard plot devices are there good/evil good as evil.. downfall of the hero.. redemption .. blah blah blah... its all been done before.. and I might add done much better. One quick film which comes to mind.. "There will be blood" used a very similar thesis of the antihero but did in a much more intelligent and beautiful way. 2. Visuals 7/10Yes there are a lot of very impressive effects in this movie.. the tractor flipping being one.. and the whole opening sequence.. but again where have we not seen any of this before in a michael bay project or hell even the die hard movies? There is no signature to the cinematography and nothing which sets it apart from any other big budget Hollywood movie. Id say the most stand out moment of the entire thing was seeing harvey dent's face after the accident.3. Characters 2/10OK if hear a Batman talk like that again I swear im going to walk out of the theatre, What a horrible horrible disaster . Christian Bale sounded like he had one of his batarangs stuck in his throat. I don't know who decided on this plot device but it was a mistake. I don't remember any of this in Batman Begins and imo it really brought the project as a whole down. Heath Ledger was OK. Whenever an actor passes away prior to the release of his film of course there will be a strong tendency to have a biased opinion to how great he was. It really felt like he was overdoing it. If he took his acting down a notch I think his vision of the joker would have been much more believable. And possibly shooed him in for an Oscar nod. About the only really believable character in the film was Gary Oldman's "Jim Gordon" But than again anything he does his great.4. Overall 5/10A good action movie... But seriously overrated. 007 in a Bat Costume. PS#4 currently on the IMDb top100? Someone's getting paid.
Another example of an over-hyped movie, but now in extreme. To say this piece of junk should be regarded as the best movie of 2008 is ridiculous. Basicaly it is just another movie about a man in a bat-suit who duels for more than 2 hours with another badman with a painted smile, and in the process some quasi profound remarks are exchanged. No humor in sight to make the movie better digestible.Big budget, good actors and some clever make-up artists are no guarantee for a good movie. In this case it resulted in a very boring one.As for the so-called performance of the year by Ledger; he is (was) a very good actor but this one-dimensional role is far from being special, but I guess the Oscar will be his, Nil nisi bonum.Why this movie should be on par with, or far better than true masterpieces like the Godfather 1&2 and Vertigo is beyond belief.


                
As a guy who loves the Batman Character and used to own a chain of comics stores in the late 80's through the 90's I found the new Batman film to be abominable. The handling of the Batman character was the worst I have ever seen, and I say that being someone who hates all of the other Batman Movies (with the exception of Batman Begins). It was a classic modern tearing down of an iconoclastic hero that was less realistic than it's printed counterpart. The Batman character would never consider revealing his identity to appease the Joker, because he understands that you cannot appease pure evil. He would instead redouble his efforts to find the Joker, not eating or sleeping until he did. The Batman of the comics is a detective who uses classical detecting techniques, coupled with a healthy dose of bruised knuckles as he harasses the underworld to find his query. In other words he uses no shortcuts he works hard.Hollywood used the opportunity to make a political statement, having Batman build a machine that taps into every cell phone in Gotham City, allowing for the altruistic Lucius Foxx character to opine about this act of immorality. A none to subtle swipe at the Bush administration. Then you have Harvey Dent (Two Face) who as the DA of Gotham, is described by Batman as "the best of us all" killing two dirty cops, and to save the fragile collective psyche of Gotham City, Batman takes the blame for the deaths of the cops. Why it would not make more since to simply reveal to the public that Harvey Dent went Coo Coo after the death of the women he loved, as a result of another act of murder perpetrated by the Joker, with the help of the aforementioned dirty cops and the trauma of being disfigured, is beyond me. Save that it fits into the paradigm of liberal thought that the people are to be protected from the grim reality of the world. Better to tear down the real hero of the saga and have him chased by the police. Keep in mind that the film establishes that the villains of Gotham know from experience that Batman will not cross the line and kill the worst of them. but we are supposed to believe that the public of Gotham will swallow that Batman would kill two innocent cops. WOW!Batman is a character who is truly good, and he has been tarnished by this film. In a world where Superman in his last film was reduced to a peeping tom hero with a babies mama. Psychopaths like Marvels Wolverine and the Punisher are hailed as modern heroes. A world where so many young people leave the theater declaring how cool Heath Ledger is as the Joker and not how scary the character is, I find that world tragic. As one of our old comic shop patrons used to say:"Give me the days when a hero had a letter on his chest, a magic word, a cape and a pet or side kick. A hero that fought the bad guys because he was good and they were bad and they needed their a$$e$ kicked. Let justice be done.
"Batman: The Dark Knight" is a tacky, trashy, mindless, ultra violent piece of garbage. It will bore anyone with a mature mind. "The Dark Knight" consists of one sadistic, pointlessly violent scene after another. There is no point to these scenes except to extract money from the pockets of teenage boys who have had no experience of real life. "The Dark Knight" is a drug. It pushes violence and sadism. That's it. That's what you get for your ten bucks."The Dark Knight" is a sick product of a sick system. What's the difference between a blockbuster death-fest like this, and an act of actual terrorism? How many deaths do films like this contribute to? How much suffering? Pointless, ugly, violent, sadistic movies peddle violence as the drug of choice to mindless consumer hoards who lack discrimination, life experience, wisdom or balance.Teenage boys who spend all their time playing video games and having no experience of three-dimensional reality see a movie like this and conclude that the world is like this: cool criminals torture passive victims and meet no resistance. Hey, Thanks, Hollywood, for flushing your refuse into young male minds. Ka-ching. How much more violent and sadistic will such films have to be in the future to make that cash register sing? Let's up the ante.The Plot? Heath Ledger puts on a ridiculous series of ticks, costumes and make-up and tries really hard to get taken seriously as a master criminal / master actor. There is no real performance there because there is no real life there. In one scene, Ledger, a slight young man, murders a very large, muscular, professional criminal, and a black man <U+0096> white supremacists will like that part <U+0096> with a pencil. No. In real life that would not happen. Nor, in real life, would a man who shoots his every accomplice be able to do pull off any of the stunts ledger does in this film.The movie is utterly implausible. This won't matter to its fans, who talk only to other fans who worship films like this as they do. In their solipsistic, computer-generated echo chamber, "The Dark Knight" is the greatest film ever made. These fans have little contact with anyone not exactly like themselves, and can't see any flaws in their judgment. Though saturated in violence, these fans can't even see why a skinny guy like Ledger murdering a muscular, hardened criminal with a pencil is a silly, nasty, scene that exists only to up the sadism ante, not to have any relationship with reality. Though saturated in violence, these fans would panic at the merest contact with the real world, with the real violence occurring in places like Iraq, or federal prisons.Christian Bale is an interesting actor and was fun to watch in the previous batman. He's hardly on screen here. There is nothing interesting about the sets or costumes, and as for the special effects, how many chase scenes and big explosions have been on screen recently? Nothing new. Nothing interesting. The intelligent viewer will move along, or simply select a better film.


                
The Dark Knight is not a good movie, by any measure. I will now proceed to provide reasons for this statement, in the process of which SPOILERS will abound.In this film Batman (The Batman, as the characters refer to him) possesses superpowers rivaled only by Superman: he bends gun barrels using his bare hand (yes, only one hand) and falls from ridiculous heights, not deploying his cape, and lands without as much as a scratch to his body. The Batman is apparently not aware that it is not the fall that kills you, it is the quick acceleration at the end, and no matter the quality of the Batsuit, that acceleration cannot be reduced.On the other hand, his kevlar Batsuit which, evidently, is impervious to bullets of small hand guns fired at close range, is unable to withstand dog bites.The Joker, whose obvious insanity is the only light of the movie, is well-played by Ledger who flares with his eyes and mouth to give him an almost rabid portrayal, but other than being a dark menace to society, his odd manners and, at one time, drag outfit, provide comedic relief in the film.Apart from being just a regular killing maniac, he also possesses superpowers of his own: in the film, he is depicted with an apparent and sporadic invisibility to police forces. That they do not notice his deformed face without make-up in their own ranks during a salute may be pardonable, but when blowing up an apparently unsurveilled hospital on prior warning and then leaving, in full make-up, in a school bus (his escape vehicle of choice, also from bank raids), his failed apprehension seems unpardonable. Unless, of course, all the cops had their lunch break, as the sun indicates it is around noon.The plot is so thin at times, you expect it to crack at any moment. It is like there are many small plots, in all of which Batman, the purported main character, plays but a small role. Whatever the Joker has been doing all his life, before going on a murder spree, is pardonable to omit, but when he breaks into Bruce Wayne's penthouse (probably using his cloaking capabilities), the same locale that a few scenes later will be referred to as "the safest place in town" by the same person who was tossed out a window during this same brief encounter, it is an interesting question just how the maniac and his armed gang are persuaded to leave the party full of Gotham's economic elite, something they must have done without causing much further harm as it goes largely unnoticed by the other characters.Batman speaks with a deathly voice, that is so ghoulish it could scare off any foe, would he just make more use of it against his enemies, and not blather like that to his friends. That he finally tracks the Joker down, is not due to any superior detective skills, as he gets good help from prying on all of Gotham's mobile phones that he immorally and secretly has replaced with his own brand, all in one night's work. More ridiculous plot element is hard to come by.
