We've been subjected to enormous amounts of hype and marketing for the Dark Knight. We've seen Joker scavenger hunts and one of the largest viral campaigns in advertising history and it culminates with the actual release of the movie.Everything that's been said is pretty much spot on. This is the first time I can remember where a summer blockbuster film far surpasses the hype.For as much action as there is in this movie, it's the acting that makes it a great piece of work. Between all the punches, explosions and stunt-work is some great dialog work. All the actors have their moments.Bale's Batman is the definitive Batman because we see everything in this character finally on film. Martial arts skills, cunning, great tactical thinking, forensic application, technological genius to advance or improve Luscious Fox's inventions/technological breakthroughs, intimidating personality, and even a little swashbuckling. As for Heath, yes he gets credit for his performance as the Joker. But you have to also recognize Jonathan and Chris Nolan for the writing and treatment of the character. It's not just the fact that Ledger makes the Joker so menacing, but the Nolans have given the character this great manifesto that drives its actions. The Joker's stance on chaos, order, anarchy, the morality of the average modern human being make the character so interesting psychologically. The Nolans drafted a complex character and only a perfect performance could've pulled something like this off. That's how difficult of a role this was, and that's why Ledger's performance is so great.This isn't an action movie. It's a film that explores literary themes of the hero and villain, as well as order and anarchy. Yes, listen to the dialog because it's all in there.


                
I got to see The Dark Knight on Wednesday night, the reason though why I'm writing this movie comment this late is because I didn't wanna just jump and say this movie was awesome, I wanted to think it through, still today, I can't stop thinking about this movie! The Dark Knight lives up to it's hype and goes beyond it, this is the Batman movie that goes where no other Batman movie has gone before. It gave us a real sold story, we are finally told why the villains are the way they are, how all the injustice in the world can get underneath Batman's skin, how you have to believe that people still have faith in good on Earth. Heath Ledger, I absolutely loved Jack Nicolson's performance in the 1989 film, when I first read that Heath was signed onto The Dark Knight, I was like "What are they, kidding?", once you see The Dark Knight... Heath was incredible! I'm not going to compare Jack and Heath's performance, because they were two different versions of the Joker, but Heath's Joker was definitely the more scary and intense of the two nominations. You didn't know what he was going to do next, he was so crazy, he was also so charismatic to the point where you could relate to his character, and the worst part is not only that he's crazy, he's driving Gotham crazy and treating everyone like little puppets on strings that he can control, and guess what, he is doing it so well with a smile on his face. This was so much more than a Batman film, this was so much more than a comic book film, The Dark Knight truly delivers with drama, action, romance, horror, dark humor, the study of a psychopathic killer, a detective story. The force behind this epic movie is Christopher Nolan, who's previous film, Batman Begins, didn't really thrill me, but his incredible film making is truly shown in The Dark Knight, the shots that he got of Gotham City were absolutely fantastic and made you feel part of the city, part of the Batman story. One of the things that I absolutely loved about The Dark Knight is that normally with a comic book movie, you know it's not real, people don't dress up in costumes, and save the day, villains don't name themselves crazy names and dress in make up or crazy costumes, but The Dark Knight actually makes it seem incredibly real, like it could happen.Bruce Wayne is still learning how to be in his double life of Batman and himself, he has lost Rachel to the new district attorney, Harvey Dent, he's inspiring others who are dressing up as Batman and are trying to take on the villains of the city themselves. But things are much worse when the Joker waltzes into town, and he's going to bring Hell upon Gotham City. Constantly playing with Gotham's mind and trying to get Batman to reveal himself, Batman has never dealt with such a psychopathic genius before. The Joker has named himself as the "Classy Villain that Gotham needs", he also has brought a new thought into Batman's head of them actually being more alike than different, that Batman completes him, the Joker would be nothing without him. But Batman is relying on Harvey Dent, who is Gotham's "White Knight" trying to put all of Gotham's scum in jail. But when the Joker plays Batman and Commissioner Gordon, Harvey and Rachel find themselves in very horrific position and Harvey must discover if he will die a hero or live long enough to become a villain.All the performances are dead on in this movie, now everyone's going crazy over Heath Ledger's performance, but one performance I would also love to credit is Aaron Eckhart who plays Harvey Dent/Two Face, his performance was just as great as Heath's and made Two Face a human villain. You could understand his hatred and vengeance on what happened to him and why he became Two Face. I know that everyone is saying this but I truly mean when I say this is one of the best movies I have seen in a very long time. We had some great movies these past few years, but I think The Dark Knight is seriously something special, but I don't wanna build it up too much since some people go to the theater expecting my words to be the same as your own. In my opinion though this is not a great movie, I can't come up with a word describe how incredibly powerful this movie was, to be honest I would go above a 10 rating if I could; this is the Batman film that we have been waiting for. I've seen it twice in one weekend, I'm going to see it three times this upcoming week, I don't mind one bit. I can't wait for the sequel and I would just like to say RIP to Heath, wish he could have seen his breath taking performance as The Joker.10/10
Im just gonna start off by saying I LOVE this movie.Its one of my favorites of all time. I honestly cant think of too much wrong with this movie other than its a little long and Batmans by now infamous voice. But everything else is top notch. The acting,story,atmosphere,and actions scenes are all amazing. If you haven't seen this movie see it right now! I went into this not expecting to much but I came out blown away, I cant imagine any movie being much better. I'll just have to wait for The Dark Knight Rises to release to see if anything can be better. Until then, this stands as the best movie I've ever seen


                
I couldn't believe "The Dark knight" could live up to the hype. That's perhaps the biggest surprise. The secret, I believe, is a stunning, mature, intelligent script. That makes it the best superhero movie ever made. As if that wasn't enough, Heath Ledger. He, the newest of the tragic modern icons present us with a preview of something we'll never see. A fearless, extraordinary actor capable to fill up with humanity even the most grotesque of villains. His performance is a master class. Fortunately, Christian Bale's Batman is almost a supporting character. Bale is good but there is something around his mouth that stops him from being great. "The Dark Knight" is visually stunning, powerful and moving. What else could anyone want.


                
I saw the dark knight about three years ago when I was in the 8th grade. And I was blown away at how beautifully done it was, the camera work, the acting, the story, it all took me by surprise. It is to this day one of the best movies I have ever seen or will see. No other movie can impact you in such an intense way than The Dark Knight. It is a movie worth seeing due to the fact that the workers put so much time and effort into this one film and they did not want to waste money putting up garbage. So Christopher Nolan, thank you for not wasting our time, instead earning our time with this film. To this day I still am anxious to see the movie at home. I recommend it to anyone who likes action movies in general. To anyone who doesn't, don't waste your time write bad reviews about this film.


                
Christopher Nolan's second bundle of joy "The Dark Knight" EXCEEDED all  of my expectations!!! With the success of 2005's reboot of the Batman  franchise, they took what was already established and expanded it,  amped it up, and gave a deeper, darker and brooding story that is more  gripping and the suspense is likely to catch you of guard several times  throughout. Christian Bale delves more deeper into Batman, sworn to  fight evil and injustice, though also quite reluctant and uncertain if  his crusade can ever end and cleanse his inner turmoil from his  fractured soul due to the murder of his beloved parents. But with the  help of his trusted butler/ally Alfred (played superbly by Michael  Cane) grounds him, gives him moral support, and keeps him in check. But  the real star of the show is Heath Ledger as Batman's most deadly  enemy, The Joker. I can HONESTLY tell you that: as good as Jack  Nicholson was in Batman'89 he is CHILD'S PLAY compared to this Joker.  He is sadistic, psychotic, and downright SCARIER and PSYCHOLOGICALLY  disturbing than the previous incarnation of The Clown Prince of Crime  and Ledger gives it his all to do him justice. Along with the original  cast comes some fresh faces such as Aaron Eckhart, Maggie Gyllenhaal  and more. I must say though I liked Katie Holmes, Gyllenhaal gives a  much better performance and is a far cry from the "damsel-in-distress"  stereotype (though there's a little of it, THANKFULLY) that's common in  films. Bale and Gyllenhall have MUCH better chemistry this time around  more so than Holmes. Even better, the fight sequences are vastly  improved and feature more brutal and bone crushing combat than "Begins"  in addition to new technology at Batman's disposal.  Also worth mentioning is screenwriter Jonathan Nolan, who gives the  film an added frosting to an already delicious cake.  Simply put, The Dark Knight is totally more bad ass than "Begins." The  action is great, and the plot is more deeper and engrossing. I applaud  Christopher Nolan, Christian Bale, and especially Heath Ledger (who  sadly passed away earlier this year) and all those aboard for believing  in Mr. Nolan's talents for this second installment. Although some may  feel a bit of melancholy over Ledger's death, but as a final note I  will say this sincerely from my heart: Remember Heath Ledger and honor  him in your minds and hearts not only for his performances, but as a  human being and father to his daughter Matilda  Ledger. May we issue him best wishes for his family and friends and his  daughter for years to come. Remember . . . Honor him not only for this  role and past roles, but as an incredible individual and talented  actor.  Rest in peace. Heath Ledger: 4/4/1979-1/22/2008.


                
I used to leave a theatre after seeing a highly anticipated movie, specifically a sequel, and be so revved up about what I saw that I would declare that movie to be the best of a series. After each of the prequel "Star Wars" films, I rated that one the best, as good as any of the originals...for a time, until my opinion balanced out and I had a more well-rounded take. For that reason, I steer away from that mindset, and did for "Dark Knight".Though my opinion is solidifying already after having seen a Warner Bros. screening last night, "Dark Knight" ably stands on its own with or without "Batman Begins". At a two and a half hour runtime, it's definitely an epic of a movie, but one that never runs out of gas. A delightful addition to this experience was a healthy amount of IMAX footage, which significantly adds to the feel of being on a personal, and gruesome, tour of Gotham City.Christian Bale plays such a well rounded Batman and Bruce Wayne, qualities that none of those who have donned the cowl before him have pulled off. I still have to remember that Bale is British since he speaks with such a spot on American accent. Bale has a particular slurring lisp that serves him quite well, charmingly for Bruce Wayne and threateningly for Batman.Countering him is the late Heath Ledger, who plays such a scary and creepy Joker that I found it impossible to NOT have chills half the time I saw him on screen. What really separates this brand of Joker from Jack Nicholson's portrayal is true unpredictability. It's obvious that, to be a good guy and think like the Joker, it really takes a toll, and it sure isn't easy. How exactly does one take him down when he's woven his harebrained plot around multiple hostages, explosives, or disappearing parlor tricks?Initially, I was uneasy about how the character of Harvey Dent would be handled. In my mind, there was really only one faithful portrayal of him, and that could be found in the "Batman" animated series of the early 90s. As well as Tommy Lee Jones COULD have handled him in "Batman Forever", he certainly did not, though it still was a highlight of that movie. Aaron Eckhart ably assumes the mantle here, delivering a performance out of this world, easily on par with the Batman animated series.Be it known, this caped avenger stands for the good of Gotham City that the police force and its counterparts can't represent, the good that has no jurisdiction, no procedures...and no rules, save for one. I can only hope that we've seen just the prelude to the Dark Knight's upcoming legendary battles with the worst of Gotham City's dark underside."The Dark Knight" gets a solid 10 of 10 stars.


                
I must say I was excited for this movie since the instant BATMAN BEGINS appeared on screen at the end of the first film. It was always going to be good, and sadly, it was always going to be over-hyped by the advertising warhorses.It is rare though, that a movie can surpass all the hype and pass all expectations on the film. Nolan (The Prestige, Begins) delivers on more than the Joker we remember from the 'Old Days' of Burton and Nicholson. Instead we're given a psychopathic sadist who pleasures from sheer anarchy.All the hailing of Ledger's performance are grounded. Watching it will make you feel a different chill down your spine than you'd remember from any other film. It's impossible, quite literally to relate to The Joker. He gets inside your head with his stories of how he got his scars, makes you laugh at his sick jokes, then makes you instantly wonder why you're laughing.If Ledger wasn't enough to horrify you - wait for Harvey Dent. Brilliantly portrayed by Aaron Eckhart as Gotham's 'fallen White Knight' and Batman's direct counterpart. His transformation will put Tommy Lee Jones' portrayal look like children's breakfast cartoons. Gyllenhaal had perfect chemistry with both Bale and Eckhart, Michael Caine and Morgan Freeman both work well as Batman's 'conscience' and of course, Gary Oldman as Lieutenant Gordon were all solid.There are some major differences between The Dark Knight and Begins. Firstly, the music is extremely disconcerted compared with the 'majestic but unfinished' tones of Begins - but it suits the film's tone: Anarchy in every sense. There was a more solid singular villain (compared with the many in Begins) - but there was also a lot more henchmen in TDK. The martial art direction was faster and more efficient - as mentioned in the film, learning through experience.I was disappointed at the role of Scarecrow in this film, it just felt like a loose thread and wasn't quite closed up or explained, and the ending, while it wasn't what I expected (others have said that it was predictable, but for me it wasn't) was solid and suited the film well.All in all, this is a film that is quite close, if it isn't already, a masterpiece. Nolan has a great thing going and unlike previous 'Superhero' adaptations (Spiderman and Fantastic Four for example), there isn't campiness creeping in. In face, if Batman Begins was 10/10, The Dark Knight deserves a 12. Quite simply, the best possible sequel that could've been given.If you watch this (which I implore that you do), you certainly won't regret it. One of the best movies of 2008 (I'll wait till Quantum of Solace comes out before I pass judgement) - but certainly a film worth getting excited for. If you don't like it, then that's also fine - but keep in mind that you probably thought Meet The Spartans was a good movie, so the rest of us won't take it to heart.Stunning in every aspect, and exceeds all hype and expectation... Can't wait to watch it again, or for the Blu-Ray!
I thought Batman Begins was a very well conceived and put together  movie. We finally get Batman as a fully rendered character. We gain new  insight into his motivations and the variables he must contend with in  his role as protector of Gotham. We get to see Gary Oldman as an  honest-to-goodness good guy. And we get to see Liam Neeson conducting  perhaps his strangest facial hair experiment yet.  But after seeing The Dark Knight, Batman Begins will forevermore be  viewed (by me at least) as a handy little prologue to a FRICKIN'  MASTERPIECE of a superhero film.  To say it's the deepest mainstream comic adaptation ever produced would  be akin to calling the Nolan/Ledger Joker 'a bit eccentric'.  While watching it, I found myself thinking it was very long, which is  usually a sign that it's TOO long, and therefore boring. But that's not  actually the case here. The script is bulging with ideas, philosophical  musings, THEMES, which Christopher Nolan is not content to gloss over  in favour of cool set-pieces (as many comic adaptations are), but wants  to explore, wants to allow the characters to explore, at a logical  pace. So, what I guess I'm saying is, considering what it sets out to  do, the movie is long ENOUGH, while still constantly holding the  viewer's interest.  And that's not to say the thematic exploration comes at the EXPENSE of  big action, either. On the contrary, there is some truly awesome stuff  going on here. The chase with the truck, for example, is fantastic, and  there's some great hand-to-hand stuff too.  But what engages us most is the characters, and, while the script is  brilliant (the dialogue is sharp, and quite funny for the first  two-thirds, before the drama really kicks in), this mainly comes down  to the cast.  Christian Bale. Taller than Michael Keaton was. More menacing than Val  Kilmer was. Less like Adam West than George Clooney was. Solid and  committed as always. He gives the character LIFE, and actually makes us  feel for him. The word 'tortured' keeps coming to mind...and I suppose  it's pretty appropriate.  Heath Ledger. Y'know, I'd heard talk of an Oscar nomination, and  thought it sounded a bit dubious. A Batman villain? Winning an Oscar?  Is that what it's come to? Then I thought, is it because he didn't get  one for Brokeback? Or more dubious still...is it because he...died?  But...well...how can I put it...?   It seems a bit blasphemous to compare Jack Nicholson to Cesar Romero,  but after seeing Heath at work...Jack (who once seemed so awesome) just  looks...well...lame.  If you've seen it, you hopefully get what I mean. If you haven't...you  need to. You will discover the true definition of commitment.  Maggie Gyllenhaal. I didn't have any problem with Katie in the first  one (at the time), but I doubt she could have pulled off the more  emotional stuff Rachel goes through here. Seeing recasting was  necessary (does Tom have a problem with his wife being involved with  Batman? Too many bad memories perhaps? Why am I even talking about such  garbage here?) they could have done a butt-load worse than Maggie. She  rocks.  As does Aaron Eckhart. But I'm not giving ANYTHING away. Suffice it to  say my mind was blown...AGAIN. Makes Tommy Lee Jones look like...you  get the idea.  Michael Caine. Still one of my favourite actors. Alfred is the shiz.  Morgan Freeman. Morgan Freeman. AOK.  Gary Oldman. As in BB, no mania. No psychosis. No nervous tics.  Absolute subtlety. Manages to hold his own alongside Christian, Heath  and Aaron without resorting to parlour tricks. Sign of spectacular  talent. Go Gaz.  Eric Roberts! William Fichtner! Michael Jai White! Tiny Lister!  The whole thing is just a big bag of thoughtful, well-executed  entertainment. It's equal parts cerebral and visceral. Ideas and  action.  I've liked every Batman movie so far (okay, besides Batman & Robin),  but this one makes them all look pretty bloody ordinary.
I think the big question...or the question everyone actually cares about is this: Is Christopher Nolan's follow up to the critically acclaimed 2005 film "Batman Begins," The Dark Knight, as good as everyone is saying? Quite simply, yes, yes it is. There is no doubt about it, one of the most anticipated movies of the 21st century duly deserves every amount of praise lavished onto it. This is no ordinary superhero movie, this is a character and dialogue driven piece, not as action orientated as you might expect.I will not go into plot details, because there is a lot of it. However, a basic one sentence summary is: Batman now has to face his most cunning and psychotic enemy, someone with no real motives...The Joker. Now that that is out of the way, I will start off with the actors (and boy, is there a lot to talk about). Christian Bale has done a tremendous job as our beloved Caped Crusader, with him already blowing everyone else out of water with "Batman Begins." Bruce Wayne has a flawed personality that hangs on the balance between righteousness and criminal. His perception of justice causes an emotional and personal shift, whether he is a wealthy businessman who fights crime in a gadget-riddled suit or just a normal man who is sick of all the scum in Gotham City and decides to give the law-breakers a dose of their own medicine. Because of this, and Bale's tremendous acting, Bruce Wayne is justified, and we emphasise with Bale's flawed hero more than any of the other actors. If there ever was an excellent Batman, this is it. The theme of right and wrong is played well with his character here.Of course, I am sure you all want know if Heath Ledger was that good. And I can safely say that he most definitely was. Ledger's Joker is not only the best, but is now the greatest superhero film villain ever. His performance is truly terrifying, chilling, brilliant; any synonyms of the previous adjectives. Every scene he is in is stolen. The Joker truly is Batman's worst villain; cunning and psychotic, nothing quite matches his laugh and sinister makeup. If Ledger nabs the Oscar for Best Actor, I honestly will not be surprised. It is a true tragedy to see such a talented actor fall at such a young age...All the other actors cannot be forgotten, though. Aaron Eckhart has definitely proved himself previously ("Thankyou for Smoking") as someone to watch out for. Here, as Harvey Dent (and later Two Face) he is very powerful. All he wants is justice; to bring down every single criminal. Eckhart is the definitive Two Face. Maggie Gyllenhaal as Wayne and Dent's love interest, Rachel Dawes is much better than Katie Holmes. Gyllenhaal's performance has substance, I really cared for her and her future and she was terrific in every scene. Michael Caine can do no wrong, and as Alfred Pennyworth he provides some comical and emotional scenes. Morgan Freeman as Lucius Fox, although a limited role, does inject some sly humour and much needed morals into the story. Finally, Gary Oldman's Lt. James Gordon is riveting. He at least needs a Best Supporting Actor nomination for his performance as another crime-fighting hero who faces some challenging situations.Wally Pfister's cinematography is simply stunning. Gotham has never looked so good, so big and deep. His wide shots purvey a dirty aura and contribute to the feel of the film. Without it, it may not have been the same. Another Oscar worthy portion, THE MUSIC! With Hans Zimmer AND James Newton Howard at the helm, how could it go wrong? The score sets the mood in every scene, giving an epic and thrilling tone. During the action sequences it really ups the adrenaline. And on the topic of action, The Dark Knight succeeds in having the best fight sequences and car chases in a comic book adaptation yet. With no obvious or over-use of CGI, the explosions and accidents are the real deal. Thrilling, edge of your seat and violent, this is brutally awesome stuff.Nevertheless, none of this would be possible without Christopher Nolan, the man behind it all. Pairing up with the writer (and brother) Jonathon Nolan, the darkest Batman movie yet is the best, and the best so far this year. This does not feel like a comic book film, the dialogue and situations feel so realistic. And, it IS the script that drives this film. The dialogue is very, very well written and is the centre of the conflict and the movie.It may be bold to say this, but this is the best superhero film of all time. There are others that are magnificent ("Superman" and "X-Men" are two examples) but this is the most complex, the most dark and the most spectacular and epic of them all. See it for Bale, for Ledger, for the music, the action and for Nolan's flawless direction.5/5 and the best film of 2008 so far!!
I had the honor of watching TDK during a screening and was completely blown away! This isn't just the best Batman movie ever made, this is one of the best movie ever made. Everything in this film is excellent, not one piece of annoyance.Bale marvels as Bruce Wayne/Batman, Ledger has made The Joker in to an iconic movie villain. His performance belongs there at the top with Hopkins Lecter. The Joker has finally been portrait properly on film, he has earned his place between the big boys in movie villandom. This is the true Joker every Batman fan knows, loves and fears. Ledger deserves any and every movie award known to man for this brilliant display.Nolan has made his "I will always be remembered" movie, this is the crownjewel in his portfolio. Perfect directing, perfect story, perfect balance between action and drama, everything is perfect. Even if you hate Batman, you will love this film. If you don't, then something beez wrongz with youz!


                
(Synopsis) Bruce Wayne/Batman (Christian Bale) continues to eliminate crime in Gotham City with the help of Lt. Jim Gordon (Gary Oldman) and the new District Attorney, Harvey Dent (Aaron Eckhart). The Dark Knight wants to finally get rid of organized crime for good and be free of their corruption. Batman soon finds that a new psychopathic mastermind known as the Joker (Heath Ledger) has taken over organized crime. The Joker's plan is to terrify the citizens and throw the city into chaos, and kill Batman. Batman takes the fight with the Joker personal, which makes him confront his own beliefs. The Joker is the most dangerous criminal that Batman has encountered, and he will need all his strength and vigilance to defeat him.(My Comment) This film just blew me away. Christian Bale is a natural as Bruce Wayne/Batman, and Michael Caine fits the part of Alfred, the trusted butler. Heath Ledger's performance as the sadistic Joker was absolutely disturbing and scary yet simply amazing. I would not want to meet the Joker in a dark alley, and whatever you do, don't ask him how he got his smile, especially, when he has a knife in his hand. Ledger's performance has turned the Joker into a new iconic movie villain image. Between all the punches, mayhem, and explosions, there is some good sinister dialog. The movie not only has a lot of action, it also tells the story of the internal struggle that Bruce Wayne is having with being the Batman hero. Bruce Wayne wants to be himself and maintain the difference between himself and Batman. Bruce must decide to follow the code or do what has to be done without affecting his own morals. The movie explores the literary themes of Hero verses Villain, as well as Order verses Anarchy, and the Joker explains to Batman that to have one you must have the other, and because of that, they will always be connected. The movie is long, but it went by so fast. You will love the last 45 minutes, because of the non-stop action with Batman in his new sonic suit and his BatPod. With all the explosions, body count, and the dark mood of the movie, I don't think parents should take young children. (Warner Bros. Pictures, Run Time 2:32, Rated PG-13)(10/10)
Batman has always been my favourite superhero ever since the first time I heard about him because he his human with no powers, also he is much more questionable than any other superhero. The story of the film is about Batman, Lieutenant James Gordon, and new district attorney Harvey Dent beginning to succeed in rounding up the criminals that plague Gotham City. They are unexpectedly challenged when a mysterious criminal mastermind known as the Joker appears in Gotham. Batman's struggle against the Joker becomes deeply personal, forcing him to "confront everything he believes" and to improve his technology (which introduces the recreation of the Batcycle, known as the Batpod and the Batsuit was redesigned) to stop the madman's campaign of destruction. During the course of the film, a love triangle develops between Bruce Wayne, Dent and Rachel Dawes.There are now six Batman films and I must say that The Dark Knight is the best out of all of them. The title is good because that is what Batman actually is. It has been 3 years for the adventure to continue from Batman Begins but that entire wait was worth it. Gotham city is very Gothic looking and is very haunting and visionary. The whole movie is charged with pulse-pounding suspense, ingenious special effects and riveting performances from a first-rate cast especially from Heath Ledger who gave an Oscar nomination performance for best supporting-actor. It is a shame that he can't see his terrific work on-screen. The cinematography is excellent which is made so dark & sinister that really did suit the mood for the film. Usually sequels don't turn out to be better than the original but The Dark Knight is one of those rare sequels that surpasses the original like The Godfather 2. I also really liked the poster where the building is on fire in a Bat symbol & Batman is standing in front of it. Christopher Nolan is a brilliant director and his film Memento is one of my most favourite films. He hasn't made 10 movies yet and 3 of them are already on the IMDb top 250. Overall The Dark Knight is the kind of movie that will make the audience cheer in the end instead of throwing fruit & vegetables on the screen.
Well here it is, one of the most anticipated movies of the year so far. How was it? It was excellent. By far the best Batman film ever made and of course it will be one of the most memorable action films for a long while.Everyone was waiting to see how well Heath Ledger performed as The Joker in this film. He definitely deserves an Oscar in his honor. The character was so dark and creepy that it sent chills up my back. Compared to Heath's other films like '10 Things I Hate About You' and even 'Brokeback Mountain' proves that this man could actually act, doesn't matter what character, he could do it.The film's storyline has many twists and all are rewarding, the story is developed constantly after each scene, making you wonder what's next. Excellent craft and flows well towards the conclusion.During the film on the scene with Batman against the Joker, Bike vs Truck. People thought this was the ending. No, it kept going which was awesome, the story kept getting darker and darker, I guess that's why they called it the 'Dark' Knight as well as the relation to Batman himself.The cast was great. With Christopher Nolan playing Batman, good performance, Heath Ledger played extremely well, Maggie was annoying at times, but still deserves to be praised. Michael Caine and Morgan Freeman had minor roles which satisfied the audiences. Aaron Eckhart starts with a minor role which slowly progresses and becomes evil which is quite surprising and entertaining to watch.Great directing made the movie enjoyable, they added more action this time which made the film feel powerful, lighting was done well especially showing Harvey/ Two Face's face in the many moods he displayed.Great explosions made it entertaining. Made you feel great that this is finally the best action to come in a long time.This movie deserves a 10/10 rating and credit on behalf of the great young actor Heath Ledger's life. (May he R.I.P) His performance made what this film is right now.I recommend this film for any action fan, especially a Batman fan. Or if your even a Heath Ledger fan. Go ahead right now and see this film. It's great!


                
The Dark Knight maintained the intensity and overall gunmetal grayish feel that sets this Batman apart. The film takes us to a Gotham City that has grown accustomed to the big bat's crime-fighting crusades, and the last remaining big time criminals have actually grown fearful of his wrath. They form an alliance to attempt to keep their illicit business activities alive but are feeling even more pressure from yet a different angle: the passionate and fearless new district attorney, Harvey Dent. Recognizing the crime group's looming extinction, a stranger enters their circle and offers what he thinks is the only solution: kill Batman.The bad guys don't know if they can trust this seemingly demented madman, and they later learn the hard way that they don't really have a choice, for the most disturbing part of the Joker's personality is his motive. He doesn't care about money or power. He just enjoys causing trouble and watching, with pleasure, from the sidelines, as the terrorized city scrambles in mayhem...which leads me to the real star of this film, Heath Ledger.Ledger's performance as the Joker is astounding and consuming. We come face-to-face with a villain bearing the coldness of a psychopath and a personality that remains as mysterious and inexplicable as the real reason for the scars on his face. He develops the air of the lone offender quite early on as he nonchalantly kills those who help him commit his crimes. Yet, he has no problem building an army of followers, and the viewers easily find that believable. As insane as he is, he's focused and quite determined. Ledger also brings the Joker's humor to the role, but he does it in a way that is unique to this interpretation...with subtlety and honesty. The very words and mannerisms that made me laugh also evoked feelings of sadness in its clarity. The evil is incredibly convincing.Although Batman is a character that is often marketed towards kids, this film is definitely not appropriate for young children. In addition to the dark images, the violence, both seen and implied, is sometimes unsettling, and Ledger's Joker is chilling even for adult viewers. Having said that, this is, by far, one of the best films I've ever seen, and it will easily find a place in my personal top ten. I am only disappointed that this Joker, the best villain in a film since Hannibal Lecter, will never be revealed to us again.
Let's open this review with the fact that Batman is THE BEST superhero ever, with no other even coming close to his levels. So when a sequel is made for an unforgettable movie like "Batman Begins" expectations are EXTREMELY high. I think that if you could describe this movie in a few words it would be "152 minutes of pure awesomeness." Christopher Nolan probably created the best ever comic book adaptation of a movie. The movie itself has been adapted in a much more realistic fashion than the comic book series. First of all this movie is PERFECT for people who like punches, drama, shooting and explosions. The movie has a complicated plot that keeps your eyes glued to the screen. It's anything BUT corny, since a few important characters die, and the ending isn't happy, but it's flawless. Christian Bale has proved himself one again as an amazing actor. Michael Cane (portrays Alfred Pennyworth) makes you fall in love with Batman's loyal butler. Now anyone that has seen the movie and is reading this review is probably wondering why I haven't mentioned the main reason why this movie is flawless. And yes, there is ONE main reason: Heath Ledger. Heath Ledger portrayed Batman's arch nemesis in this movie: the Joker. Now anyone who has a clue in comic books knows that the Joker is INCREDIBLE. Heath Ledger's acting in this movie has turned the Joker into a LEGEND. I have never seen such perfect and realistic acting than the portrayal of the Joker in this movie. The Joker is portrayed in a much more mature fashion than the comic books, and that's why it was so good. It's simply impossible to describe him: he's bold, insane, smart, twisted and he's so awesome in this film that at some points you love him even more than Batman. If I haven't mentioned it by now, this is without a doubt the best movie I have seen.Those who come with high expectations after seeing "Batman Begins" will not be disappointed. I advise that no one under the age of 11 watches this movie as Two-Face's appearance is rather frightening and the film contains intense action.
There is just one thing that differentiates a legend from ordinary man. It's his fight with inner demons to over come all his fear. That defines a legend. And this is what Batman stands for. Batman is not just another comic character but it's a complete saga of how you stand tall in spite of losing everything, walk fearlessly even when you are lonely and how you fight back against all odds and over shadow your own fear. Fear- the most dominated emotion, mankind has ever witnessed. Batman is no exception, he still has fear, he still gets scared of losing those who are close to him and he is still in doubts when it comes to decision. But what is interesting and inspirational about Batman is that he has the ability to use wisely the biggest and most dangerous weapons of all time perfectly- BRAIN! That's why he is my favourite comic character and this time, Batman is putting everything on the line to save the world from out of control freak- the Joker.A spell bounded performance by Heath Ledger as the Joker. Though, he is no more with us but his immortal act as joker is an Oscar winning performance and will always be remembered. Your heart comes out to mouth to see the horror Joker creates. In start, I was bit confused as his performance reminded me of Jack Nicholson from the first Batman movie but later, I realised that this is for real. He did not imitate Jack but showcased the true and horrible side of a real joker. The best part about Heath is that he displayed the flip side of a joker- FEARLESS. There are many times when we feel that some one could have done better with certain roles but not here. Here, Heath is perfect as a joker and from now on, I will call him Heath 'Joker' Ledger!The story is about a terror that has shaken the underworld of Gotham. The fear of Batman is getting in to criminal minds and all of them are now thinking where their money can be saved from Batman's reach. And that's where the Joker comes with a plan to these criminals- kill Batman. Now with his perverted mind, the Joker is behind Batman's life and what follows is a scary hell of a ride of hide n seek game of faith vs. courage. At one end, Joker has no fear and on the other, Batman has a responsibility of saving Gotham. Now the important question is that who will win and more than that at what cost?Apart from breaking box office records, this movie is also able to break the pattern of film making. Batman series is an action series. When you make an action movie you give the required pace in a movie by focusing on elaborating the action scenes but here, the director builds the movie with a mix of action as well as other emotional scenes. Step by step movie gives its audience action and emotion at the time when it's required but with an unexpected style. Dark, intense and a complete Batman style. The Batman movies are famous for its back ground music and The Dark Knight is no exception. Specially, when there is sound of a whistle in background of some intense scenes in the movie. I felt a rush in to my blood and boiling my brain. My eyes popped out while watching those scenes. To mention, Batman's grilling session with the Joker is a masterpiece. The scene was simply awesome mainly coz of background music. Harvey Dent's character could have been better post he becomes 2-faced. I was expecting his character to be more involved and longer in the series. Rachel Dawes is also a very strong influencing character in the movie. Her involvement in the movie is much focused than Katie Holmes in Batman Begins but the point I'm making here is the glam factor in this movie. She was not given that much footage in a glamorous way. Nevertheless, the plot did not allow audience to think that way either. Action scenes in this movie are well thought of and will chill the audiences' spinal chords. My favourite is the chase scene where Joker is trying best to catch Harvey Dent and how Batman comes in between. This is where Batman says 'asta la vista' and welcomes his new girl friend- his damn new bike! It's called Batpod! I can imagine how excited you will be when you know that Batman is now going to catch the Joker and Joker is happy that Batman has missed his shot. This is sheer delight to watch the creative involvement of special effects blended with brilliant cinematography. Unlike other Hollywood flicks, The Dark Knight is a lengthy movie of more than 2 ½ hrs of non-stop adrenaline but you won't mind spending that much time watching it. Many times we feel that some movies could've been shorter and some lengthier but with 'The Dark Knight' that's not the case. It's mainly because the movie ends up at the time when it is required to scroll the curtains down. I was so satisfied while coming out from the movie hall. Perfect ending!Well, The Dark Knight is just a beginning. Now I'm expecting the Penguin and the Riddler to come in to the picture and take this battle ahead. As I said earlier, I'm a big fan of Batman and after this movie, I'm mad about not just Batman, but each and every part of his movies, music and, The Joker!. Now, while I'm rushing straight to the nearest movie store to buy all original movies and soundtracks of Batman series, you go ahead and enjoy a fearless life just like the Joker or Batman- choice is yours!


                
Lets begin by stating that this movie should only be watched in IMAX. If you are a big Batman fanatic, spend a couple extra dollars and you'll get your money's worth. This is the best movie of 2008, no other film will come close.Christopher Nolan has made his masterpiece, with the help of his brother Jonathan creating the script. The perfect balance between superhero action and drama can be found here in The Dark Knight. The acting is top-notch. Not a single actor in this movie comes up short. Christian Bale portrays Batman better than he did in its predecessor. Aaron Eckhart impresses with his take of Harvey Dent. Maggie does a fantastic job playing the role of Rachel Dawes. Heath Ledger is Oscar worthy in his attempt at the infamous Batman rival, The Joker. Ledger's performance is just absolutely stunning. No words can describe how much he attracts the viewer and shines on the big screen.There is no reason why anyone should say this movie was bad. Those who gave this movie a poor rating should be ashamed of themselves for their lack of intelligence. Yes I said. LACK OF INTELLIGENGE! Even if your not a Batman fanatic, this film has a meaning and purpose. It will give you excitement and also something to ponder about for the rest of the day, night, morning, etc. No spoilers but its lengthy running time of 152 minutes beats the hell out of any other superhero comic book adaptation previously made and for years to come. Ledger's stunning acting portrayal of the Joker is good enough for you to spend the money. Do not wait for it to come out on DVD, WATCH IT IN IMAX!


                
I just saw The Dark Knight and it was even better than I expected and I expected it to be great. Most of this comment is about Heath Ledger so let me start by giving Christian Bale and the rest of the awesome cast, director,make-up,special effects team, writers, producers, and so on a huge thank you for doing such an amazing job in, and on this movie.Now for Ledger. People can say what they want about Heath getting too much praise just because he is no longer with us cause it just isn't true. Alive or gone, this was the performance of a lifetime. The make-up, the laugh, the mannerisms, every little thing he did was perfect. I have always had an image in my mind of how the joker was and this was finally it. I love Jack Nicholson because he is one of the best actors alive, but I am sorry Jack because Heath Ledger just out shined you and that is not easy to do.I was praying the entire movie that the joker would not be killed because it would have just been too symbolic and I would have lost it. I did cry at the end though. The ending when two face, the commissioner and batman are talking about life and death and how unfair and too soon it can be it really struck home and paralleled Heath Ledger's untimely passing.It is completely unfair that Heath's family and the world are going to miss out on such an amazing person with some of the rarest and rawest talent I have ever seen. I am a single mother and I can't even begin to imagine losing my daughter, so my heart goes out to Heath's family and his daughter. I am truly sorry that such an amazing man died so young.Dahr Prince
Heath Ledger's edgy portrayal of the Joker is a frightening and macabre vision of the Clown Prince of Crime. Sure his costume is the right colours, but shades of purple and green have never looked so muted like he's been dragged through the filth of alleys and gutters. His makeup is a halloween gone wrong: applied blood red over torture scars, smudged & cracked white wash, blacken sharks eyes of death, capped by a entangled toxic green weave of hair. While his lip smacks and tongue snakes, his many quotable psycho babble tirades on chaos and madness had this preview screening audience in silent shock and awe. As fans, we wait to finally hear the Joker's maniacal laughter...we are rewarded. But it is a chilling laugh that plays on our nerves with a subliminal shrilling echo that will haunt us long after the film. His facial twitches and deliberate gestures work to induce a hypnotic and mesmerizing hold on Gotham/audience. His weapon of choice (not the lint or veg peeler) is the knife, for both it's ability to inflict a visceral cold kill and likely because it was an instrument of his own twisted grinning origin. The lack of origin story is also effective as an open book for the imagination. The hand held cam scenes of Joker 1st POV filming his prey and the off cam torture is a stark reminder of the realty of terrorist footage. From the sick punch line of his disappearing pen trick to becoming a masochistic punching bag for The Batman, Joker can certainly dish out as well as he gets. The Joker casts pure fear into the minds of Gotham by testing the citizens beliefs and moral lines of good and evil. This Mad Dog of Chaos thrives in a world without rules, where even the Good of Gotham can succumb to corruption and conflict. Hence his handiwork in the transformation of Gotham's White Knight to Harvey Two Face Dent.The eerie background "music" is like a deaf tone barbed-wire noise that rings through Gotham's cityscapes as a harbinger of the Joker's evil to come.In all fairness Ledger cannot be compared to Nicholson. Its Apples and Oranges. Burton's 80's film delivered a comic book to screen, thug turned clown which was hammed up with the flair and suave that's stamped with Jack's vintage trademark. Ledger has redefined the role and delivered a nightmare Monster that won't let you awake or escape. All truly memorable screen villains are able to forever get into the mind of the protagonist and audience. It is with this performance that Ledger/Joker joins the ranks of the top three cerebral cinematic killers, namely Hopkins/Lecter, Spacey/Doe.This is a tour de force Oscar worthy performance that lives up to the hype (rare thing) and even raises the bar (even rarer). So kudos to Ledger/Nolan and TDK Team for unleashing the perfect villain for The Batman. And remember, the next time you're playing a card game your hand may come up with the Joker's signature calling card. RIP HL.
One couldn't help be sceptical of the hype surrounding The Dark Knight before having seen it, scepticism was certainly weighing on my mind as i walked into the cinema. I couldn't help thinking 'is this going to be as amazing as expected, or is the hype just an inevitable reaction to the death of Heath Ledger?' I can safely say to anyone still having not seen The Dark Knight; the hype would've been just as massive even if Ledger hadn't tragically overdosed during filming, The film is mind-blowingly amazing! The action sequences, The dialogue, the editing, the lighting, the costume, the score, the cinematography, The Ledger, The Bale, The Eckhart, The Freeman, The every-single-tiny-bit of cinema... is brilliant.There's not the slightest whiff of the child-friendly-cinema that tore Tim Burton's vision apart all those (not many) years ago. Eckhart's Dent/Two-Face, blows Tommy Lee Jones out of the metaphorical water, the only shame is that his performance will be overshadowed by Ledger's even better one, and indeed his tragic demise.Every insane laugh from Ledger's lips echoes with excellence, Jack Nicholson should be very very very proud. However, Ledger's delivery, commitment, presence and dress-wearing-ability far surpass the realms of merely paying homage to Nicholson's Joker. Nolan and Ledger really show Burton and Nicholson just how darkly immense the joker can be.Not to forget Bale, who brings his portrayal of Batman (and the barking voice it brings) to the next level, the depth and inner conflict create an excellent empathy effect on the audience and also create ridiculously good viewing.I could go on all day, going into every actors success, about how immense The Dark Knight is... but i think you probably get the message by now.As undoubtedly one of the most difficult films to bring to the public, a film so swamped with hype, tragedy, death and scandal; The Dark Knight could easily have been written off with the tragic death of Heath Ledger, we should thank God that it wasn't.
The highlight of this film is one man and one man only...the Late Heath Ledger...his Oscar-worthy performance marks the best work in his short lifetime...and not only him, but Christopher Nolan should also be commended in the way in which he developed the atmosphere of the film; the camera-work was excellent, the pace was gripping, the plot was thrilling and the acting was splendid. Background music also suited the atmosphere to the highest degree. All in all, a perfect film and magnificent acting...the film should have been named after the joker...Batman himself was not needed....such a Batman film will never again be produced, due to the unfortunate absence of Heath Ledger.10/10 rating...well done


                
Quite simply "Dark Knight" is the best superhero movie ever made (ok, KickAss is the only competitor, but strictly speaking, it isn't a "proper" superhero movie, so let's forget about that).Batman is tough, Batman is loved, Batman is weak, Batman is hated. Batman has human characteristics. Batman's enemies have human characteristics. This is the first and main reason Dark Knight succeeds. It isn't "just" a superhero movie. It's also a study of character, of good and of "dark" and of perception of "society." I mean, it does this so well I sometimes think the superhero content is just a scapegoat for the deeper thought in the movie even though I know at the same that it's not. Secondly, Batman doesn't do anything too unbelievable. Look at Superman, he's flying. Look at Spiderman, he's got webs coming out of his palms. Look at the Hulk he can get MASSIVE when he is angry. That's all cool and entertaining, but Batman is, imo, the superhero whom we can connect to the closest, because he doesn't have these "abilities" about him which are soooo unrealistic. So, both his inner and outer character are human like which makes the movie so much more enjoyable. The action? The action in Dark Knight is amazing! Batman's car is amazing! The special effects are amazing! It is a phenomenal piece of work crafting a movie where it looks and feels fantastic!I won't talk much about Heath Ledger's portrayal of the joker. It's definitely his best performance ever, and what better time to have it just before his death, peace be upon him. I hate a ball watching the guy act. He's just created an insanely unique persona. I loved it!Everything in Dark Knight works. It's got so much novelty to it. It's a rare piece of cinema where prima facie it's for kids, but ultimately, adults will end up enjoying it much more. Dark Knight isn't for kids anyway, they wont be able to comprehend the bigger picture in Dark Knight, which is what makes this movie so special. It's cool It's original It's awesomeI can't believe how it wasn't nominated for a Best Picture. Oscars were probably too stunned at how good a super hero movie could be. Did I mention I also love Gary Oldman, the guy plays a different person in every movie, I can never tell its him


                
And that word is Awefantaculous. I use that word because words like "awesome" and "fantastic" are thrown around way too much. This movie deserves better. Almost everything about it was perfect. I will try to give away as little about the plot as possible, because to take away anything from this experience would be disastrous. Let me just say that I was not in the least disappointed with the plot, it delivered in as many ways as seemingly possible. It improves on Begins in almost every way. What you have seen in the trailers doesn't compare to what the movie delivers. heard complaints about the run time, but that was absolutely no problem for me. Every minute of the movie was great, and I didn't think any of it was unnecessary at all. In fact the only real problem I had with the movie was the dread of knowing that the movie had to end some time. The movie was the perfect mix of the human side and the action side. It goes so much deeper than the battle against good and evil.The acting was at the top of the ranks. Christian Bale has once again proved that he is made for the role of Batman and Bruce Wayne. Maggie Gyllenhaal served as a great replacement for Katie Holmes as Rachel Dawes. Morgan Freeman and Michael Caine both played their roles just as good as before, which is all anyone can really ask, is it not? I think Gary Oldman was even better as Gordan than he was in Batman Begins. Harvey Dent was played really well by Aaron Eckhart, as well. But I guess in the end what people want to know is about is how the late Heath Ledger played the Joker, easily my favourite Batman villain, and maybe my favourite villain of all. Well, he was perfect. I feel that the role will go down in history as one of the greatest villainous portrayals of all time. Give him the Academy Award and any other awards that he could possibly qualify for. Hell, invent a new category just for him. He was The Joker. May he rest in peace.I loved the way the film was shot, whether it was the hotel scenes, the scenes of Gotham City and especially the action scenes in the movie, which I felt was another improvement made on Batman Begins. I guess you could say it was a lot more fun, since a common complaint about Begins was the lack of that. I thought the blue colour scheme of Gotham was really great. The movie also had some great wit throughout it, which rarely seemed cheesy or out of place. The score was really something as well. It is probably one of my favourite ones around. One of the best things about the film, for me, was just how dark the movie was. If Batman Begins pushed Batman and Robin to the back of your mind, then The Dark Knight will be the movie that pushes it out. The film was made to really let The Joker be what he was truly meant to be, without restraint. I am amazed that it got away with the PG-13 rating (even though I'm an Aussie, and don't have that rating system). The costumes and make-up in the movie were, big surprise, just great. I thought The Joker's makeup was really cool, because it didn't just take the easy way out and make it perfect throughout the movie. They went into detail with it. Batman's new suit was also pretty cool.I guess in the end, all I can really say that I loved this movie, and I think it would be hard for someone to be disappointed with it. Christopher Nolan really came through big time, and made a massive improvement over the already great Batman Begins. This is clearly a franchise that fits him like a glove. It is suspenseful, emotional, action packed and really everything else I think people could hope for. A problem with the movie is that after seeing it, you may just be a little spoiled. Because it is at a level of awefantaculousness that is pretty rarely seen in movies. Believe the hype. This is way more than a Batman movie or a summer blockbuster, it is just incredible.


                
In the world of Christopher Nolan's "The Dark Knight," Batman is to the Joker what Dirty Harry was to Scorpio. Like Eastwood's Harry Callahan, Bale's Batman isn't above smashing heads, cars, and civil rights, in his brute-force quest to bring justice to a lawless city; like Andy Robinson's psychopath, Ledger's gleefully nihilist Joker seems to enjoy having the stuffings beaten out of him almost as much as he delights in highjacking schoolbuses and committing murder, up close and personal.I've never been a huge fan of comic book superheroes. The Green Lantern was pretty cool, however I generally prefer guns to super powers, and have always thought there was something a little ridiculous about a man in tights and a cape who flaps around the city, fighting crime. Which is why I was not a fan of the previous Batman movies. However, with "Batman Begins" and "The Dark Knight," director Christopher Nolan has attempted to free the character from the albatross of campy convention, reinventing Batman as a kind of urban ninja. The previous films were all about style over substance, whereas Nolan has re-imagined everything from the batsuit to the batmobile in a way that makes them seem more practical, functional, and--most important--more believable. There's a gritty reality about this Batman. He gets hurt and has to stitch himself up, Rambo-like. He gets bitten by dogs, fer Chrissakes! Moreover, his gadgets don't spring magically from thin air, but are the result of meticulous engineering on the part of Lucius Fox (Morgan Freeman), who is Batman's answer to Bond's "Q". In fact, the Nolan/Bale Batman has more in common with James Bond than he does with his own prior incarnations in film and print. Nowhere is this more apparent than in the dazzling "Operation Skyhook" scene.With "Batman Begins" and "The Dark Knight," Nolan and his team have worked the minor miracle of making an utterly fantastic character seem plausible, which is no small accomplishment. In so doing, he has also brought a great deal more respectability to the genre. Truth be told, though, "The Dark Knight" isn't really a "genre" picture at all. Nolan goes about the film as if he's never seen a comic book before, the result of which is a breathtaking departure from every other superhero movie ever made. This isn't a superhero movie so much as it's a hyperkinetic crime thriller mixed with a psychological horror film: "Heat" meets "Silence of the Lambs," with a delicious dose of sly theatricality. Everything about this film is exceptional, from the cinematography and visual effects to the fine acting and the snappy, intelligent script. But as anybody knows who has already seen it, Heath Ledger owns this movie the way Al Pacino owned "Scarface." Ledger's Joker is a self-described "agent of chaos," out to prove that people aren't worth saving in his own giddily vicious way. During one of several mesmerizing exchanges with Batman, the Joker explains that he's not a monster, he's just "ahead of the curve." Ledger's performance is an elliptical masterpiece of existential rage and sardonic wit, alternately ferocious and funny. The brief but brilliant scene of the Joker, dressed in an ill-fitting nurse's outfit, fiddling with a malfunctioning detonator, was clearly an audience favorite if the applause and laughter were any indication.Can't say too much more about the film without spoiling it for those who haven't seen it. Suffice it to say, even if you're not a fan of superhero movies, "The Dark Knight" is what great movie-making is all about.So, why so serious? Get out and see it! Let's put a *smile* on that face...
