Dark, yes, complex, ambitious. Christopher Nolan and his co-writer Jonathan Nolan deserve a standing ovation. I don't usually go for loud movies filled with mindless gore and violence. "The Dark Knight" is certainly loud and violent but it's not mindless. It has depth and soul. Even the Joker, in an extraordinary creation by Heath Ledger, is deeply human. The natural petulance of Christian Bale makes his ego and alter ego the most fascinating and complex of all film superheroes. Part of the genius of this movie is that Batman himself, in screen time, is not really the lead. My attention was captivated by Heath Ledger and he determines and inspires the breathtaking atmosphere that envelopes Gotham as well as us. The aplomb of Christopher Nolan as a director is mind blowing and his secret, I believe, is his obvious respect for his audience. What he's done is to elevate a popular genre into Shakesperean proportions. Bravo!


                
This review is for you, if you have watched it, and are wondering if it was brilliant and flawless. Or was there a tiny little "hard to point your finger at" thing that was wrong with it?I am an avid Batman fan, who has been devouring the Frank Miller graphic novels that depict the grim and gritty side of the dark Knight. I have followed the tidbits and stories on Dark Knight for over a year. Batman Begins marked the beginning of one of the most amazing "ordinary superhero movie" ever witnessed. Four years later, as I stepped into the hall, and awaited the beginning of this new movie, the excitement was almost palpable.I was not disappointed. The movie had enough chills and sadistic pleasures to keep me hooked and unable to look away from the screen for the most parts. And yet, when the credits rolled, I had a queer feeling, as though something wasn't entirely right.A few hours after the sensory overload, when I could finally think,I realized one of its drawbacks was dwelling into too many story plots simultaneously. For instance, we follow the joker through a long, and sometimes cumbersome car chase, which except for that final brilliant (and much publicized) truck sequence, was nothing great. We have been lead to believe that the joker is a man who attacks psychologically, and is not physically strong. This is portrayed eloquently in the interrogation scene.As a result the car sequence became the sort of cliché they could not avoid despite the possibility of becoming the only boring sequences in an otherwise splendid movie. I remember because, I caught myself yawning.Also considering how Joker is the arch nemesis of Batman - the yang to the Dark Ying, the absolute bad guy, Two Face pales by comparison. No doubt, the make up and graphics are grotesque and excellently done. But we just are not able to believe that he is capable of the menace that Joker manages to exude.I just could not believe that Two-Face was that bad. The directors have somehow failed to bring the transition between his characters. If i remember the comic books, the disaster drove Two Face insane, making him dependent on the coin even for small decisions.The real trouble if you ask me, was bringing in a new villain in the last half hour of the movie. One that made the joker's final confrontation with Batman seem a little unsatisfying. I kept expecting them to show Joker one last time. He didn't die, did he? Yes, I do understand how Joker is the arch nemesis, and its Batman's great burden that he can never kill Joker, and they are back at it time and again...but Ledger is dead. We know he won't return. So we, as audience wanted an ultimatum. Not a dangling loose end and definitely not a dangling loose joker from a building top.Enough with the criticism. I am Batman fan. A son of batman, if you wanna call me (ref: Frank Miller). I loved the style. I loved the bat pod, the first robbery sequence, Joker's pencil disappearing trick, the flick of his tongue, the little line about Joker completing Batman, the other line about joker being the dog that chases the car and not knowing what to do if it catches the car...Dark Knight was about Heath Ledger. Sadly, we wanted more of him. It JUST WASN'T ENOUGH! Batman as always was his sporting best, the flight sequences were brilliant, Caine and Freeman had the best lines apart from Ledger. Aaron Eckhart did a great job as Harvey Dent, though I did feel that Two-Face lacked character. I expected the sort of chill Javier Bardem inspired in No country for old men, when he tosses the coin. Instead, Two-Face's tosses were merely just passably interesting. Oh, I must really commend the Nolan brothers for doing away with the only female lead, and in such a sudden and scary way. I almost couldn't believe it.Enough has been spoken about Ledger. I do not want to be repetitive. Clearly, his lines were the best. But more important was his body language and sequences, which were to say the least, eccentric. Kudos to Nolan for a good script, something that could give Ledger an opportunity for such a mind blowing performance. He sparkles in every scene, and we only wish there was much more of him.A word on Bale. As Batman, he is the best ever. As Bruce Wayne, he does excel in a few scenes. But were those scenes requiring Bruce Wayne driving around in his Lamborghini necessary at all? In the quest to make The Joker the most remarkable villain ever, some of the dilemmas that made Batman the Dark Knight are never questioned. Batman Begins did such a good job of bringing in the character. Why leave him like hanging like a prop actor in this one?Some of these sequences could no doubt be shortened. Batman could have been given some character and Two Face could've been the surprise element, AFTER a somewhat more definite end to JOKER, and the movie would have been a tad more awesome. I would have given it a 10. Instead I give it a 9. I dare not give it less than that...Background score was brilliant. The scenes involving Joker, just before he mutilates someone, or pops a psychological question, are well, horrifying. I was almost squirming in my seat.Over all a brilliant movie. A landmark Batman film, that ends on the right note, ready to jump headlong into the next phase of Batman's life. I only hope it doesn't take four more years! Long Live the Batman franchise. Long live Nolan fraternity. RIP ledger.
Well I wanted a Frank Miller style movie and I got one. Just got back from the Montpelier VT hosted premiere, presented by Senator Leahy and WB CEO Barry Meyer....Heath's haunting portrayal as the Joker was captivating; this is the wild, anarchist, and truly disturbed loon we've been waiting for. I'm glad they kept any concrete origin out and instead opted for explaining Joker's existence as a necessity to Gotham's order and control. From the Killing Joke' "Sometimes I remember it one way, sometimes another... if I'm going to have a past, I prefer it to be multiple choice!" He wails on Bats in one scene with cane and knife, using the strength of a madman, contrasting sharply with Batman showing restraint just when you really think he might lose it.The development of Two-Face played out well, showing his transition from strong public leader Dent to the duality driven, obsessive Two-Face, raging against free will. I'm proud to report he didn't rob the 2nd Gotham Bank at 2pm on the 2nd of February.Batman/Bruce give us what we expect from where Batman Begins leaves him; as a very very busy vigilante. It is nice how little change he goes through as Bruce, against how detached he must become, and how far he must fall as the Batman.Other than that, cool gadgetry from Wayne R&D of course, almost all of it believable. Sonic suit, cell phone hacking- a glimpse of ORACLE? wait till you see the bat-bike show up --- (eruption of cheers)Hardly any confusing effects, stunts or fights. Well choreographed and executed.
Cards (hardy har har) on the table: Going into "The Dark Knight" in IMAX I did not think Christopher Nolan was a great director, I was not too taken by "Batman Begins" (although it was refreshing after Burton and Schumacher reminded me of the lesser Batman comics I have read, and, bizarrely for non-comedies, of the 60's television series and the film version of that, except less fun), I did not think Heath Ledger was among the great actors of his generation, I did not think Christian Bale was the best actor alive, and I was not expecting anything more than an entertaining Batman movie, despite being reassured by everyone I trust about movies that it was much more.Having seen it, as intended with the scenes filmed specifically for IMAX intact and covering the entire IMAX screen vertically, I can safely say that "The Dark Knight" is without question the first time the Batman character and the many great comics based in Gotham City have been done justice on film. Nolan's version of Batman is not meant to be realistic, it is meant to be plausible, and everything here including Two-Face feels plausible. Still, the film has not forsaken its comic book roots. This is not the watered-down Batman of the 50's, this is the Batman conceived in the 30's and re-born in the 80's. Moments here, thanks to Ledger's astonishingly creepy and believable performance as the Joker (this is the original Joker. Bank robber with no motive, mass-murderer with not a hint of mercy, not the ludicrous clown Jack Nicholson horribly portrayed in Burton's 1989 effort), recall the great Batman book "Arkham Asylum". Others recall "The Killing Joke". As anyone who has read those books will testify, that is just about the highest praise I can give the portrayal of the Joker here.I do think that seeing this in IMAX enhances the experience, although it is a little annoying when the picture clarity goes from as clear as possible to clearly blown-up when the scene switches from those shot on IMAX cameras to those shot on regular film. One can really appreciate the sound design here as well, which is absolutely remarkable all the way through.This is, as far as I'm concerned, easily Nolan's best work as director. His handling of the film's pacing is absolutely stunning, and the action here is both filmed and edited much better than in "Begins". It is Nolan's work with actors that particularly impresses, with just about every moment of acting being superb here. Of course, Michael Caine and Morgan Freeman are phoning it in but they don't exactly need to be brilliant here. Bale, as well, displays little depth as Wayne, but embodies all his charm and makes for an excellent Batman (unless your perception of Batman is a wisecracking fool, then you might be disappointed). No, the acting I refer to here is the extraordinary performances by Ledger, Oldman, and Eckhart. Although Ledger will surely get all the attention (and he's certainly great here), I think that both Oldman and Eckhart stole the show a bit. Eckhart is better as Dent than Two-Face but the transformation is certainly not an easy task for any actor. Maggie Gyllenhaal is unquestionably better as Rachel Dawes than Katie Holmes was, and Nestor Carbonell, not an actor with much range, is really very good as the Mayor of Gotham City.Over and over again film versions of Batman have disappointed. Has "The Dark Knight" finally got it right? No doubt some will moan and complain about it not being distinctive or stylized enough, not capturing the spirit of the comics. Guess what? You have been reading the WRONG comics. The best Batman comics may not always strive for plausibility, but they are certainly far from the 'silly fun' some might expect from "The Dark Knight". What you will get here is a tense, dramatic crime thriller with some breathtaking action set-pieces, remarkable characterization. The Joker being given such a complex psychological profile is a stunning achievement, and Ledger is terrifying in the role. You really believe that he is dangerous and his sick social experiments are nerve-wracking to witness.I have one or two misgivings about "The Dark Knight". I don't know if I would have handled Rachel Dawes and Harvey Dent/Two-Face the way the Nolan brothers do in this screenplay, but virtually the rest of the film is pitch-perfect. The pace is astonishing (I could hardly believe the film was as long as it actually was), the acting is phenomenal, the visual look of the film is right, especially given the subtext Nolan is going for here (which you'll see when you've seen the film), the characters are rich, the drama is real, the action is spectacular, and finally- The Joker is given a definitive portrayal.Tim Burton once said, "Anyone who knows me knows I would never read a comic book". For shame, Mr. Burton. Maybe if you had you could have made something this good. "The Dark Knight" does the character of Batman justice, it does The Joker justice, and it does the great Batman comics justice. In two and a half hours "The Dark Knight" makes up for all the silly, offensive garbage adapted from comic books and graphic novels, and reveals just how much can be done with the characters and ideas in those books. This is finally a film that does justice to the Batman universe.


                
I stupidly avoided "The Dark Knight" for ten years because it rose on the Top 250 at the expenses of my all-time favorite "The Godfather". A ridiculous fans ratings war resulted with "The Shawshank Redemption" as number one. Another uproar was to start when Heath Ledger's testimonial film failed to garner a nomination for Best Picture, despite being one of the most acclaimed movies of the year, the snub of "WALL·E" didn't help either. So the Academy expanded the number of nominees to ten, an effort as laughable as laudable, since not many new movies of the caliber of "The Dark Knight" were made after.That's to establish how pivotal the film was and how much I anticipated it. But I needed to re-watch the first Batman movies. And my ecstatic reaction after "Batman Begins" convinced me that I had another thing coming with "The Dark Knight".Indeed, the film is not just a good sequel but so good it makes you totally forget about it being a sequel. It's a continuation in terms of the narrative but it accomplishes something that a few sequels actually do, not the first anyway: it deconstructs all the values Batman stands for. If his heroic quest brings up the worst possible psychopaths, what good can he be for "Gotham City"?The film destroys whatever the previous film built up in a sort of constructive chaos, just when you thought that it would 'consolidate' Batman's heroic status, it does the exact opposite. Why? Well, the script has a saying about 'how things working according to a plan' can be as debatable and questionable than so-called chaotic turns of events, so our expectations are contradicted for their own good. And for our fun... if "fun" can be applied to the film. I think it can. But let's get back to the question of heroism.The film dissects it as if it was some philosophical essay and the answers are provided of course by the two most memorable characters: the Joker (naturally) and Harvey Dent. It's fascinating how Bruce Wayne aka Batman becomes almost a peripheral character but the deeper we get in these two alternative arcs, the more it questions the existence of the iconic vigilante in Gotham City, and the more it does so, the more it justifies its status as one of the most fascinating and iconic comic-book character. It's one hell of a virtuous circle thanks to a remarkably written script and a magnificently executed action-movie. Speaking of the awards, contrarily to its predecessor, it garnered many Oscar nominations and grabbed every possible award for Best Supporting Actor. There's no doubt that today, the Best Picture nomination would have been a lock, but I think the Writing deserved a nod as well, and even Aaron Eckhart is unfairly underrated as "Two Face", perhaps not as flashy and creepy as the Joker, but as tormented and complex as Wayne. And I love how Nolan doesn't keep on zeroing on Batman, he handles the supporting cast as importantly as the hero, because they might say more about him than he would himself.The film, along with "Spider-Man II" and "Iron Man" were said to have revived the popularity of comic-book movies, but I don't know if they are as daring as "The Dark Knight" in their critical approach to the hero. It seems like today, whoever is in the poster must be admired, glorified, must stand for something immediately deemed as inspirational and empowering. "The Dark Knight" puts these so-called strength and power into an equation whose resolution is a triumph of intelligence-within-entertainment. Batman becomes a hero in the way he acknowledges that the general public isn't ready for his heroism and would benefit from a hero like Harvey Dent despite this latter having surrendered to the temptation of vileness.But even this vileness isn't your typical "mua-haha" trope, although it features a lot of it. Like heroism, vileness relies on a state of a mind starting with feeling such as deceptions and resentments, we all have "scars" behind our smile so to speak. And the Joker isn't much a villain to be defined by what he does, unlike the 'hero', but evil by the way he enlightens us about the darkest abysses of our soul. See, some people can be funny by saying funny things or making points in a funny way. The Joker makes points in an evil way, and that's why he's so mesmerizing, and that's why Heath Ledger's performance is one of a kind.Many things can be said about Ledger but I loved that line from the New York Daily New by Joe Neumaier: "It says something about the curious nature of film, that someone can be so alive onscreen, when we're all too aware that they've passed away, how we are mortal, and films are immortal." I guess this is why this film is immortal and why Ledger had left this world with a performance that enriched our lives, featuring a villain who drives not only the action or the (anti)heroes' arcs but becomes a philosophical force whose appeal rises above the movie.Now, I ended the my previous comment about "Batman Begins" with an unlikely connection with the adventures of Scrooge McDuck, I'll say in the same fashion about "The Dark Knight" that it reminded me of that "Simpsons" episode "Lisa the Iconoclast" when she refused to reveal the truth about Jebediah Springfield saying that the myth has brought up the good in everyone, and that's what Batman and Harvey Dent indirectly stated, and what the extraordinary "bomb" sequence has illustrated (and God, what a plan!). It also reminded me of that sacrifice of Rocky Sullivan in "Angels With Dirty faces", one I wouldn't spoil here.Destroying your legacy is perhaps the greatest mark of heroism, when great causes are worth fighting for them... and being fought. Seriously, what can you do when the greatest figure is disfigured and the mastermind out of his?


                
I feel regret of seeing this film lately.This movie is a mixture of incredible performances and absolute photography and incredible direction.If credits are to be given for this movie heath ledger is on first row.His performance was never before and never after.coming to batman,bale is as usually outstanding.Christopher Nolan handled the story with some emotions,some action in perfect way.He is absolute genius and a perfect director with wide knowledge on all movie aspects.This is master piece of Nolan's art.I am amazed with the jokers performance his body language his confidence and his attitude and the list goes on......heath ledger kept his soul on this movie and he provided life to the joker.if u still haven't seen this movie,then what the hell are you waiting for....


                
for weeks leading up to the film movie insiders have been claiming that not only is it the best batman movie but that heath ledger deserves a Oscar nod for his work as the joker here is my short take on the film sorry its 4am and i just got home. the film overall is about as good as its every going to get as a action film and as a film on its own i really do think as of what i have seen so far it deserves at least a Oscar nom for best film the acting alround is just top shelf stuff. i will say this the film felt abit long but it needed to be. OK on to the cast, batman from watching the trailers and stuff u expect the film to be all about the joker and i was worried that batman would be pushed into the back....this is not the case. the film overall doesn't follow one person it follows the story and i think thats what makes it such a good movie cause in the end the story is the important part. OK my one knock on the film heath ledgers joker was good but i didn't think it was Oscar good, i will say he holds his own with jack's joker....actually i think its better but i don't think is Oscar good. i liked the way they used him in the film he pops in does the damage and pops out and it really works best that way. now Aaron Eckhart's two face/dent makes tommy lee's a joke....but really aaron take on both dent and twoface were amazing the characters are taken to deep levels and it really gave the film a extra kick and props to the special effects guys it looked so real. bale i think carries the story well just like in begins while i do think ledger and eckhart take some thunder away from him the movie over all turns out better for it, and its not like he doesn't have his moments ether. Gyllenhaal replaces homes and honestly i would have rather homes im not saying she did a bad job i just think with home's work on thank you for smoking she would have been a better choice if they could of had her. or wanted her? finally the supports of freeman caine and oldmen work just as well as they did in the past and special note to chin han also made good use of his screen time overall its easy to say this is by far the best of the batman movies. if i had to compare it to anything its like saying batman begins is like a star war iv and D.K is like EP:v both are good but this one just takes it that next level up


                
Frank Miller's The Dark Knight was one of the greatest comic series ever made. I was a young comic book collector when it first came out and I remember buying 5 copies a couple of days after its release and then watching it sell out in a few weeks. The price for the first edition sky-rocketed after just a couple of months to over $100, as second and third runs were printed. What Miller did was nothing short of revolutionary. He depicted the Batman much the same way as the original 1930s Batman comics did - as a nearly maniacal, shadowy vigilante who sets forth to strike fear into the hearts of villains throughout Gotham. But he deepened the internal conflicts, the personal relationships, and the psychological aspects of the stories - especially the 2-3 episodes that dealt with the Joker. Miller's Joker was the flip-side of the Batman. An entirely sociopathic force for chaos and evil - and not entirely unlike the Batman at a deep structural level - driven by a similar kind of megalomania. The commonalities between the characters were just enough to shake Bruce Wayne to his core and to cause him to question everything he stood for.Take note - With Iron Man and this film, Comic Book Films Have finally begun to realize their full potential. Thankfully, The Dark Knight took aspects of Miller's version of the Joker and brought them to the screen faithfully - with adequate but not overbearing special effects, great acting talent, and a script worthy of Miller's work. The Joker, devastatingly played by Heath Ledger, is not the quirky Cesar Romero prankster, nor the slightly demonic Jack Nicholson Commodore of Crime, but rather Frank Miller's ingenious, amoral, homicidal maniac. And he is anything but funny. The Joker reigns terror down on Gotham through a series of increasingly murderous experiments designed to test his nihilistic hypothesis concerning human nature. The Batman is being hunted by a righteous new district attorney for his vigilante approach to justice, and it is becoming increasingly clear that crime has stepped up its skill and intelligence to meet him at his own level. Bruce Wayne, plagued by personal difficulties and the deep conflicts of his dual life considers hanging up his cloak just when Gotham needs him most. But something about the Joker gets way under his skin.The film even captures Miller's dark aesthetic of Gotham and the Batman consistently. Ledger is perfect, Bale is very good (though he was not given the depth afforded the Joker by the script, the story dictates that this will change in the next film), and the excellent, star-studded, supporting cast makes this blockbuster worth seeing by just about anybody. For those who know the story and bring great expectations to this film - you will be rewarded with catharsis. For those who don't - prepare to see something you would never expect from a comic book based film - intense psychological drama and powerfully realized characterization.For those who are just looking for a fun and entertaining action film - you will get more than you bargained for in The Dark Knight, but may find it too lengthy and dark for your tastes.


                
A new villain is in town and he's a homicidal clown known as The Joker. Batman must do everything in his power to stop him, while Harvey Dent takes the lime light as the new face of good.Not since The Matrix Reloaded have I been hyped to see a film. Where Reloaded failed to deliver on that hype, The Dark Knight soars with bright colours. Is it everything that a Batman fan wants it to be? Yes. Is it everything a film lover wants it to be? Yes. The Dark Knight takes you on a ride through action, suspense, humour and drama. It rests in a genre that makes you suspend a little reality. This is the comic book world, where there are green monsters, flying men in tights and teenagers swinging around in New York. Very bright, very over the top and very fun. The Dark Knight turns all of this on it's head and delivers a raw, realistic and genre defining film. Along with Iron Man, The Dark Knight sets a new standard for comic book adaptations.Without a doubt, every review the one will read will praise the chaotic energy that Heath Ledger gives in the role of The Joker. Can a role really live up to such hype? Yes, and this is it. Heath Ledger goes where many people do not. He becomes the character, he becomes the Joker. Nicholson played the part well, but Ledger embodies it. Every little quirk, from the flicker in the eyes, raising the eyebrows or using his tongue to wet his lips, draws you into the character. It's safe to say the Ledger does indeed steal the show from everyone and the film knows this too. It's a shame we will never see where Ledger career would have gone, because this role is juicy and Ledger nails it.That's not to say that everyone else isn't good either. Bale brings more tragedy into the heart of both Bruce Wayne and Batman. Even with the world around him crumbling down, he still stands for good. Michael Cain reaches more depths with simple looks in his eyes. Both Alfred and Fox have moral dilemmas in this film, both play them well. Oldman has more screen time here then he did in Begins and he takes the character of Gordon to new heights. We know him as a good cop that doesn't conform to the corruption, but here his range explodes into more emotional decision making. Aaron Eckhart has the most troubling task here. He must play two completely different roles, within the same character, and we have to believe the transformation. His anger and hate mixes well with his confusion in what to do after his 'accident'. Finally Gyllenhaal, replaces Holmes. The character finally has some more range, but Gyllenhaal doesn't get enough screen time to bring it to us. Again, it's sad to say but this is the weakest link. It may just simply be the character.Everything about this film hits the nail on the head. The acting is top notch, no longer are roles in comic book films cheesy or one dimensional. These character are psychotic, dangerous, funny, defenseless and everything more you can ask for. Back when these characters could never be taken seriously, now are awing us with their presence. The script is fabulous. Every line of dialogue spoken by The Joker is chilling, now times that by ten because Ledger somehow gives the lines more chills. The action sequences are entertaining. We have car chases, fight scenes, race against the clock bits and anything else The Joker can come up with. With ever scheme he tops himself in the absurdity and craziness. More action then it's predecessor, more drama, more villainous and more dark. This isn't your Adam West Batman. This is Nolan's Batman.Nolan has recreated what once was lost. When nipples and bad ice puns were where these characters were, now are set back in the right motion. Nolan has given us, not only the best Batman movie, but the best comic book movie. You don't need high theatrics to create a great comic book film, you need substance. The Dark Knight has boatloads of this. I found myself wanting more of the Joker, I was so enthralled by the character and the performance. I found myself in awe of where the film goes, in terms of plot and character development. I applaud Nolan for not making a happy go lucky film, but for given The Dark Knight his true colours. He's a tormented soul, the events in this film push him to the limit, to his breaking point.There are some minor setbacks though. I wasn't too thrilled with the bits in Hong Kong. Trims here and there could have saved the running time, which clocks in at 2 hours and 30 some odd minutes. As well as too many scene where the camera decides to spin around the characters a couple times, it gets a tad annoying.The Dark Knight will break barriers. Comic book films will be more serious, more character and plot driven then CGI laden. Heath Ledger will earn an Oscar nomination for his portrayal of a sick and twisted clown. People will want to see what happens in this world and the people in it. The Dark Knight does create a new world, a world of fear and excitement. Where in some cases you kind of secretly want to root for the bad guy. This is a world I applaud, this is a film that I applaud. This is a perfect example of what a film should be.


                
Watching the various Batman incarnations over the years, from the Adam West era, through the Superfriends, Tim Burton and Friends, and the very excellent Bruce Timm Batman: The Animated Series of the 1990s, we are faced with various versions of the Joker.The Animated Series Joker was voiced by Mark Hamill, and is considered by many fans to be the best Joker up to now. He certainly is creepy, and in the film spin-offs he does actually murder people explicitly on occasion, but though he is good it's hard to imagine him existing outside of the art deco alternate universe of Bruce Timm. He's just not unpredictable enough. He has steady henchmen who trust him enough to turn their backs on him.Jack Nicholson's Joker was well-received at the time, but he too suffered from a believability gap, in addition to being over the top and, while crazy, not quite creepy.Enter the Dark Knight's Heath Ledger: the freak make-up, the crazy, but disturbingly lucid philosophy, the complete lack of empathy for other people, and the scary practice of killing people for fun and without warning, his fondness for knives. I can actually imagine running into a character like this in a city somewhere. Certainly, not quite as complete, the real-life version wouldn't have the smarts to pull off so many grand schemes along with all the pure evil traits (you hope), but there are a small number of people out there who share some of the Joker's characteristics, and that's what makes Ledger's character so creepy, so scary.Every scene he is in, accompanied by music that would feel at home in any Hitchcock or horror film, is filled with a sense of tension and dread. What horror will he next bring upon the people standing before him? Who's next? Without a doubt the best Joker ever, Ledger's performance did not feel at all like a comic book superhero movie bad guy. I was thinking more like Hannibal Lechtur. Intelligent, lucid, menacing, and, I'm convinced, not really insane, but horribly sane, with a tendency to view life as pointless and thus amusing.Oh, yeah, the rest of the movie? That was good, too. Eckhart's Harvey Dent was also very satisfying, with no campiness to bring it down. His trajectory from ace prosecutor to criminal Two-Face is very well-done. Bale, Caine, Oldman, Freeman, and Gyllenhall are all well-cast. The action is better than Batman Begins, with the fistfight scenes in particular being easier on the eyes, with less spastic camera motion. The writing and direction is more along the lines of a crime drama or an action film than a comic book adaptation, and the story starts off with action and keeps you going for the whole 2.5 hours.Very dark, violent, and very well-done film all around.


                
I thought I would be disappointed after all the hype that surrounded the movie but I was glad that I was wrong. This movie rocks and by far the best movie in 2008. And I thought that Batman Begins was difficult to top! Heath Ledger gave the performance of his life. You really have to give credit to the man; he did came a long way from A Knight's Tale and 10 Things. His Joker was discomfiting, psychotic and confirms my suspicions about clowns! With his passing, it up the spooky scale a few notches. He held his own against the big wigs - well, I think he even surpassed a few of them. He has the best one-liners too! His lines spoke of chaos, death or the lack thereof. Art imitating life or vice versa. One wonders if he took his character a tad too far.To sum it all up, The Dark Knight has twists at every turn, exciting batmobile chases, cool new gadgets (and suit!), stellar performances, tight plots and witty script. This made for a very good summer movie.Go watch it or you'll be the last not to. And parting in the Joker's (now famous) line - "Why so serious?"


                
The simpler it was the better it became.The movie just showed me what I need to do in oder to become like him. That's how great the movie was. A real detective story minus the character's cape and horns. The movie's complex plot was a product good understanding of a simple story.I like the way Bruce Wayne was portrayed, a renewed man pretending to be a spoiled brat. This is just a good way to hide his true identity, by being what people expect him to be. Like the Art of War, when you are strong you pretend that you are weak. A true player of the system so he can continue with his work.The Joker in this movie is just great evidence of great acting. When you begin to see the character and not the actor, you begin to understand that Heath did a great job on the Joker. I remember the Joker not Heath.The movie's theme and music became my last-song-syndrome, great score by Hans Zimmer. The theme was really thought off and studied well, understood the need of the story.All I can say is this is what great movies are all about.


                
I finally watched it this evening and i have to say i was thoroughly entertained. no question about it. However, The Dark Knight falls short of greatness for several reasons. But if anything about the movie is great, then it has to be Heath Ledger's performance as the joker. I think he is the reason why some people are (wrongly) jumping on the bandwagon to label TDK as the greatest movie of all time. At best it might be the greatest superhero movie ever made but i wont pass any judgment on that particular point.I give this movie a 7 and that is mostly because of the entertainment it provided and ledger's joker. I can't possibly give it more than a 7 after seeing how unconvincing the Harvey Dent/Two-face character became towards the end. His transformation is hardly given enough time and as a result is totally unconvincing. As far as i can remember, it was not foreshadowed either, nor did his actions later on make any sense (e.g. why would he let Joker go free but decide to kill Maroni (the mob leader)? because according to Two-face, "the Joker is just a mad dog. I want whoever let him off the leash." lmao! give me a break!) Okay next up is the ferry subplot or whatever you might wanna call it. I've seen some people branding it as "useless". I beg to differ. I think the subplot/scene had great potential, only if the director/scriptwriter chose NOT to resort to the typical "good overcomes evil" thing which is prevalent in Hollywood and i guess in Disney and superhero movies in particular.First of all, although none of the ferries blew each other up, the point that the Joker was trying to prove was well-proved (at least to the audience). Because, think about it. The ferry voted and as much 400 people were FOR blowing the other ferry up while ONLY 150 people were against it. however, when it came to actually press the button of the detonator, nobody had the guts to do it. Fair enough, but how in the world does that prove the Joker wrong? If anything, it proves that not only "deep down, everyone is as ugly as him", but they are cowards also! Therefore, to pass it off as some kind of a "good vs evil" thing where good wins the day is a futile attempt. And last but not least, the idea of all of Gotham's notorious thugs and criminals suddenly becoming moral beings with no intention of survival was laughable.You see, this is where the Joker should have had his "moral" victory over Batman. The people in the ferries should have killed each other. And in that way, some kind of a balance would have been established and The Dark Knight would have truly become a "dark" film, because as we know, in the end Batman does not let the Joker win by taking all the blame on himself. And that brings me to the next point.The ending was forced and didn't make much sense. So the highly principled DA of Gotham goes nuts after his fiancé's death and after losing half his face and then, ACTUALLY KILLED a mob leader and corrupt cops? And Batman takes the blame for this? lol WHY ON EARTH would people hate Batman for killing a mob leader and corrupt cops? Again, makes no sense.So these are the few things that bugs me most and I'm not even gonna start with the pretty poor script with its flaws and stretches (which are quite a lot even for a superhero movie). As for the entertainment value, yes i was entertained as I've said before but i have to say that i found the action sequences to be very ordinary. I think at the end of the day, it is Heath Ledger who makes it a (slightly) better movie than Batman Begins. I can't say Christian Bale gave a good performance because frankly, he didn't have much to do! But it's a shame that we won't be seeing Heath Ledger in a Joker makeup again. It breaks my heart. If I give this movie a 7 out of 10, I would have to give Ledger a solid 10. I hope he at least gets an Oscar nomination.
Saw it at a preview last night and thus did not have the benefit of reviews beforehand. Although I let most of my kids watch "Batman Begins", I won't let anyone but the teenagers see this one. I thought the movie was exceptional, but the menace of The Joker is too intense for kids younger than that. I'm not suggesting they'll be scarred for life, but don't let the action figures and kids' meals fool you - this movie feels real and it's one of the darkest I've seen in a long time. If you've read the Batman graphic novels of the modern era then you know what to expect, but people unfamiliar with how low Batman can go may be in for a shock (my wife was one!).Heath Ledger for Best Actor!


                
seems like the comment on the front page was written by someone who must of been paid by the studio, Jesus! It wasn't that good dude! Get a life or at least get out of Malaysia! The movie was trying to be too many things. It should of focused more on just being a action movie and not so much psychodrama! Heath was brilliant but Nicholsons Batman was also great. I couldn't see myself watching this again. Once was enough! And the Batmobile was down right bizarre. It didn't look like something created by a rich man like Bruce Wayne. I liked the performance of Eric Roberts as well as Heath Ledgers. I believe the last batman was better. 7/10as a followup on this day Aug 30th, 2011, I have watched the movie a few more times and YES it is a GREAT movie! If grew on me and even after I met Gary Oldman at a high-school football game and commented on how well this movie plays on repeated viewings because the acting is so good, he agreed. Heath was brilliant and the movie does work on many levels! I rescind my previous review!


                
Two things interesting about this for me. (I'll let others talk about Heath.)One is how much more of a comic book it is than a film. I don't mean that it is sillier or more fantastic, but that the values seem to be based on storyboards as panels. The implications are pretty interesting. All those Marvel productions are pretty much the same: the same level of fantasy, the same vocabulary of cinematic effects. The same slant from "graphic novel" framing to modern film traditions <U+0097> which incidentally are less designed than are the accidents of common CGI compositing tools.This on the other hand is not cinematic. It makes it boring for me visually, but there's another result: the story. The story is not your standard long form arc. Its at least four stories concatenated, as if you would read a few pages and come back at the next lunch break. It rambles, it has real comicbook soap opera. I really do think of this as a comic book that accidentally finds itself in a film. That's as opposed to "Sin City," which though based on a comic, and supposedly co- directed by the comic artist, is intensely cinematic, so much so you almost drown.The other feature for me: the handling of noir.Noir is all about how the viewer manipulates the action by viewing. It has permeated nearly every corner of film and most intelligent filmmakers try to play with it. It is the primary narrative tool we have to add depth by adding layers. The Nolans are intelligent filmmakers. While the film isn't very cinematic, the script is, in this regard. The novel trick here is the joker. Sure he is played well, and Ledger was becoming one of our foremost folded actors. But the thing works because the role was written to matter, and that's because he introduces a double noir fold. The watcher is in the film, and the watcher is "writing" the script regardless of any action that anyone in the film can take. Its classic noir doubled. The joker's key speeches even cover all the noir highlights: you have to ruin routine; you have to profoundly affect, even kill random innocents; you have to express an amazingly complex orchestration and make it seem capricious, accidental. You have to deny intent and complexity. You have to pretend to not be amused.All these things are embodied in what Ledger was given. This is very important writing, and if you know "Prestige" and "Memento," even "Following," you would have expected something like this. Even if the film isn't good as a film, the writing is, and that allows Heath to make a film within. Its why "Clockwork Orange" is so important.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.


                
The Dark Knight became the third movie I've gone to a midnight showing for (the other two being Revenge of the Sith and Kingdom of the Crystal Skull) and it was by far the best of those films. The energy in the auditorium was palpable. There were times when we collectively gasped, laughed, and cheered.For fans of Batman Begins, The Dark Knight is grittier, funnier, and more complicated. As a matter of fact, the film's only drawback is the complicated storytelling. It made the film two and half hours long, and, moreover, it felt two and a half hours long. Also, the PG-13 rating in America, is quite serious. There are some truly gruesome images and Heath Ledger's Joker is one of the most menacing villains ever to appear on the screen. One villain in the host of supporting baddies who got the short end of the stick in the last film and in this one, was Cillian Murphy's Scarecrow. I almost wish they'd left him out entirely, instead of giving the boy a lousy send-off twice, because Murphy could be a fantastic villain in the third film, in my opinion, anyway.The rest of the returning cast is fantastic, as expected. Christian Bale is perfect as Gotham's self-sacrificing Dark Knight, and he also did a great job with the billionaire playboy side of Bruce Wayne. The banter between Bale and Michael Caine is pitch perfect and is responsible for one of the funniest scenes in the film. Morgan Freeman and Gary Oldman are also given a chance to shine in this film. Oldman was especially fantastic as Jim Gordon. Aaron Eckhart is a great Harvey Dent, and I have an easier time with the chemistry between him and Maggie Gyllenhaal than between Gyllenhaal and Bale. While Maggie Gyllenhaal is her usual great self, it's difficult to pretend that she's Rachel Dawes, not only because she's not physically Katie Holmes, but she's practically playing a different character. Suspension of disbelief only goes so far.Overall, it was a fantastic film and a great second installment. My only question is, how will they top themselves for the third one?


                
Awesome Movie. Great Story. Star cast is so Good. Story is best. Background music is narrow. good best. awesome. superb. No words to explain. Awesome Movie. Great Story. Star cast is so Good. Story is best. Background music is narrow. good best. awesome. superb. No words to explain. Awesome Movie. Great Story. Star cast is so Good. Story is best. Background music is narrow. good best. awesome. superb. No words to explain. Awesome Movie. Great Story. Star cast is so Good. Story is best. Background music is narrow. good best. awesome. superb. No words to explain. Awesome Movie. Great Story. Star cast is so Good. Story is best. Background music is narrow. good best. awesome. superb. No words to explain.


                
Let me preface this comment by saying I'm not a huge fan of comic books or comic book movies by default, but I do enjoy the genre if it's done well. I really enjoyed Batman Begins, and the Frank Miller take on Batman in the Dark Knight Returns. As much as I liked them however, they felt like a "comic-book". Not to deride the genre, but if you read a lot of comic books you probably know what I mean when I say this. There's a certain level of cheese and immaturity associated with any character that straps on tights and an animal-themed costume to battle crime.However, the question that kept going through my mind when watching the Dark Knight was "Is this really a comic-book movie?" And I think that's no accident. Chris Nolan is certainly a master of his art and every choice that was made in this movie seemed to spring out of this idea. The sepia tone is out, replaced with a more ultra-realist look: when it's night, it's dark and when it's day it's light. The characters are somewhat over-the-top but ultimately believable: the word superhero and supervillain is never used in the movie, and even their comic-book names seem to be rarely (if ever) uttered. And the action is cool, but hardly over-the-top. The only thing that's really "comic-book" about the movie is Batman's costume, which is made about as practical as possible while still staying true to the character. It's all tied together with a rock-solid script that asks tough, thought-provoking questions, yet never gives way to a dull moment (in fact, it was so intense I think it gave me heart palpitations).Certainly a risky move to pull in a film that's appealing to an audience that is generally looked down upon by the mass media. But I think Nolan (and his brother) give their audience much more credit than the typical movie maker and it pays off--well, it did for me.What I'm trying to say is this movie is good. It's so good you may, like me, find yourself questioning your definition of "comic-book" movie.


                
I don't think there has ever been a more powerful superhero film made to date that equals the greatness of The Dark Knight. Simply put, one must see this film.Even had someone not heard of the amazing portrayal of the Joker by the late Heath Ledger from the numerous high praise, they would still be flabbergasted at his incredible performance. Besting the choice of Christian Bale as Batman, Ledger is quite possibly the soul of this film, as each time his character makes an appearance, the room will go quiet and your heart will sink, pondering what he will do next.The story is basically Batman fighting the advancement at what seems to be an inevitable anarchy brought on by the Joker's ever-evolving mind. Harvey Dent -- the soon-to-be Two-Face -- James Gordon, and Batman each resemble a point on the morality spectrum, and as the plot continues to unfold, one must question what will happen to our heroes. Making this fantasy grounded to reality.There's hardly any CGI in this film, where it would be used is sometimes hard to be seen. The vast majority of the action and scenes are filmed with live everything. A brazen but ingenious choice by Christopher Nolan. Well done... well done.Hans Zimmer and James Newton Howard provide a similar sound from Batman Begins, in that a lot of the themes used in that film have been incorporated here. There's a few new bits of music in here, such as the Joker's theme and a rousing battle cue.Overall, The Dark Knight is everything one could hope for in a superhero film. This is a dark film, probably not viewable for a child under 10 for the wicked left side of Dent's face once he has become transformed. With the ending, one can only pray to the heavens that Nolan will do a third, and pick up where we left off.
The chills that I got while watching this movie was something i don't get that often. The already legendary role of the Joker played by Heath Ledger is nothing more then ... well legendary. Ledger isn't playing the Joker in this movie, he is the Joker. To me Ledger makes a big part of the movie. But however it is unfair to only credit Ledgers performance because there is so much else that is good about this movie.Let's not forget the terrific job Nolan has done in making Batman come alive again. I honestly thought that even though Batman Begins was good Nolan was never gonna be able to live up to the whole Batman vibe that was going round for months. Well I can also honestly tell you that the movie knocked my socks off. So i guess i was wrong.And then there is the great chemistry between all the actors. It just works. Christiane Bale does a more then decent job in portraying the Batman once more. Michael Caine an Morgan Freeman both flawlessly take on there roles and then let's not forget the breathtaking Maggie Gyllenhaal. Who shows convincingly that she was up to take the role of a blockbuster dame. Also Aaron Eckard does a great job in portraying the overly good Harvey Denth. And Gary Oldman isn't the least boring in his role as a fighter of injustice in Gotham.Everybody in this movie adds an important deal in the clever storyline that Christopher Nolan has set out for the Dark Knight. Because The Dark Knight indeed has a clever and not at all predictable story line. Batman is still a blockbuster so don't expect a memento like plot but it's definitely better what we are used from Warner Bros blockbusters.Even though it's all that people talk about I still want to end this review with the performance of Ledger. When I first heard that Heath Ledger was assigned to the role of the Joker I was a little more then surprised. I mean don't get me wrong hes made some good movies before this, but the Joker isn't exactly the same as a gay cowboy. 'You need someone a little disturbed for this role'. Well who knew that Ledger had a bit of psychopathic terror in him after all. In his role as the Joker he makes Hannibal Lector look like a family entertainer. Ledger completes the movie. The Dark knight is good, but Ledger is Phenomenal. This is a movie that you have to go see! Even if you don't like Batman, then just go see the Joker.


                
I would have to say that Nolan has done something that no other Batman film director could ever do - make a darker film than Tim Burton. Tim's over-the-top circus-like direction, while albeit dark, isn't anywhere near as dark and gritty as this film is.Let's start with the Joker first off. Ledger has outclassed Nicholson in this role. This isn't the prim and proper Joker that Nicholson displayed - this Joker is a force of nature that plays by absolutely no rules except his own twisted moral code. He cares more about chaos and mayhem more than he would ever care about money or fame. He lives off the fear of the populace. Nicholson's obsession with the Batman had more to do with him creating the Joker, versus a twisted and depraved fascination with Batman being the symbol of hope for a doomed city. Turning the Joker into a bona fide terrorist fits today's post-911 world like a glove in terms of creating a visceral reaction within the audience. Nicholson's Joker was more preoccupied with settling personal vendettas than being a terrorist, which means that his Joker isn't near as fascinating.Likewise, Two-Face in this film is more in line with Nicholson's Joker this time around. His existence in this film is purely about personal vendettas, but if there is one complaint I have about this film, is that he's largely overshadowed by the Joker. Again, someone who has personal vendettas unfortunately isn't near as interesting or compelling as someone who's unpredictable and destroys things just for the hell of it. While I do agree that having Harvey Dent in the film was a good idea to move Batman's story along, I would be loathe to say that Two-Face is the star attraction here.All the stars here seem to know what's at stake with this film, so they give it their all. Even with Heath Ledger out of the equation, the performances are fine. Michael Caine and Morgan Freeman really do take advantage of their supporting roles in the film, and use the limited screen time they have to make an impact. Christian Bale does another fine job as the freewheeling playboy as well.Lastly, one cannot say enough about the special effects. The effects in this film rival all other superhero films. An IMAX camera was even used for certain scenes, heightening the impact even more.Even if you like the 1989 Batman film, I highly recommend you see this one. It out-Burtons Burton.


                
The Dark KnightI know that everything that needs to be said about this movie has been said, but I write this after having viewed The Dark Knight for a third time. I truly believe this film to be one of best Blockbuster films to come out in some time; An elegant, intelligent film about the extremities of good and evil and most importantly, about faith that the better angels of our nature will prevail in mist of an unjust world. For that, the film ingrains the Batman mythology into our vision of American pop-culture, where archetypes Bruce Wayne/Batman, The Joker, and Harvey "Two-Face" Dent can be re-imagined for the perils and anxieties of our times. Wayne is portrayed as a man living in the skyline of his city, unaffected by the violence and mayhem that Gotham endures. His only newsworthy events are tabloid fodder, escaping in the ocean with a beautiful Russian dancer(of course all of these are alibis for his true motives). He is how we see the rich in this country, unattached but undeniably compelling and drawn to them. The Joker is re-identified as our worst fears, the random whims of destruction that can possess our lives in a deeper, morally unclear platform. He is a pure example of Terrorism, a man eager to play his chords while a city is engulfed in flames. Unlike some popular origins in which Joker is born from a fall into a batch of chemicals while encountering Batman (Alan Moore's The Killing Joke, for one), here he has no background, and appears as random as a Tornado in Kansas. He is similar to Anton Chigurh from No Country For Old Men, an uncompromising force that has a disturbing view of humanity without losing a peculiar charisma. Batman is the guard of Gotham's safety as well as a launching pad of criticism for the methods he employs to combat crime, including a sonar device that can detect the whereabouts of Gotham's citizens in order to stop The Joker. His actions are vaguely parallel to our government's war on terror, where our protection has severely compromised our personal liberty and begs to ask if the presence of a Big Brother, even for the sake of good, is a high price to pay.The structural lead character of this story, however, is Harvey Dent. A valiant, benevolent civil servant, Dent is a classical tragic hero that has his convictions turned against him, permanently transforming his face and his soul into a grotesque amalgam. His rise through the political ranks as a District Attorney resembles a youthful, energetic promise a fresh candidate with engrossing ideals brings, which perhaps resonates for us to the fascination we have for current Democratic nominee Barack Obama. But the ideals are irreparably tarnished when a personal tragedy destroys the will of this great man. As Two-Face, Dent's view of fairness relies on the flip of a coin, a final betrayal of the alliance between himself, Batman and Gordon. The sadness of Two-Face's rationale is that the world is indifferent and that random chance is the only balance of justice, where in fact the ability to change the world lies in the decisions we make. In that argument is where this movie transcends from a very good action thriller into one that reflects and questions our own morality and the role we play in society. Should we or shouldn't we be neutral in a moving train?
Batman continues to wage war on crime with the help of Alfred, Gordon, and Lucius Fox. Yet someone is silently pulling the strings, laughing while he does it. THe Joker. He forces Gotham's White Knight to the edge of his sanity and pushes Batman to the point where he may cross hisonce fine line between hero, and Vigilante. Overall excellent film for Batman not exactly a family movie but definitely something to spend your money on. Bale is a natural yet we can't ignore Ledger who takes up the mantle of the Joker perfectly. A must see film.10 stars.


                
Well me and some friends went to see the dark night. As we left the theater I left in silents. I thought and thought was this a good movie? Normally I can pick up every flaw a movie has and can easily predict what happens. But while watching this movie every time i thought i knew what would happen bam! total flip. Something unexpected would happen. So far this year the movies I watched i could have just watched the previews and could have easily said I have seen the movie. But with the dark night So much happens that watching the previews is not even close to what the movie is. The movie exceeded my expectations. Words can't come close to the awesomeness of this movie. It has it all Unexpected twists, Comedy, Drama, Insanity, Action, Romance. This is not like any Batman you will ever see. They say wants you reach the top the only thing you can do is go down. Not true with This Batman movie. With only 9 movies now made I believe Chirstopher Nolan is already up their with Tim Burton, Jonathan Demme, F.W. Murnau, Charles Chaplin (the little tramp), Ron Howard, and many more great directors.


                
