If the director of this independent film tried to make us feel really confused, like the main character, he did it wonderfully. There are only a few movies like this one, the kind of movies that makes you pay attention to every minute of it. Obviously that doesn't work all the time, but this case is the exception. Really well directed with a wonderful photography and excellent cast. The main actors' performances are great. We really root for the guy as we hate the ones who try to take advantage of him.Original films like this one always stand out. Perhaps it didn't caught much attention at first but now it is in an important position at the IMDb top 250 and that means that most the people recognize great movies when they see them.As I said before, this movie is a little confusing because it runs backwards while the black and white scenes run in chronological order. But that wasn't a cheap trick to make the movie more "intelectual", it was its strength. A rare film that shouldn't be missed.


                
Yes, it's true.  The entire movie is based on a gimmick.  However, I honestly feel that this does not cheapen the picture in the slightest bit. I loved every scene; discovering information as our lead character discovered it. It demands a second and third viewing, as there are many subtleties and quick flashes that may not be picked up on the first time around.  Its one of the most original films ever made, and for people who scoff at the concept of not having a short-term memory, it actually is a real condition. Watch this movie. And, please pay attention. The performances are wonderful, and its structured magnificently.


                
Revising such film noir conventions as a story told through the unreliable point of view and voice-over narration of a morally flawed investigator-protagonist, the pervasive infusion of a dark past into the narrative present, and the use of a femme fatale as an embodiment of evil allure, Memento is perhaps the most original and intriguing revision of the genre since Welles' Touch of Evil.As almost every commentator has noted, the most startling (or 'gimmicky') feature of Memento - and one with obvious roots in the film noir tradition - is its inverted/contorted plot structure. The film loops backwards episodically to present a series of revelations about the main character, Lenny (Guy Pearce), about the motives of his antagonists 'Teddy' (Joe Pantolino) and 'Natalie' (Carrie Ann Moss), and about the nature of Lenny's memory-loss condition. His condition 'isn't amnesia' (or so Lenny tells everyone he meets) but rather such severe short term memory loss that he is unable to assimilate and retain experience - in other words, to make new memories. Consequently, Lenny's identity, or more precisely his self-knowledge, is arrested at the moment he received a blow to his head while trying to stop intruders from raping his wife.Everything that has happened thereafter has no subjective reality for Lenny, only whatever 'objective' reality he can forge using instant photos, notes to himself, and - for the really important stuff - tattoos. But matters are even more complex and paradoxical than this setup might lead one to expect. Gradually, the viewer learns that even the clear memories that Lenny claims to have from before the assault are, like dreams, colored by protective distortions and selectivity. Moreover the so-called facts he has assembled in his investigation and that he defensively claims are more reliable than memory turn out to be irretrievably entangled in subjective motives: his own, Teddy's, and Natalie's. Thus the viewer's initial sympathy for Lenny as a justifiable victim/avenger transforms to horror as Lenny's true current identity becomes clear.Importantly, Memento's regressive plot structure is punctuated and counter-pointed by a series of noirish black and white flashbacks in which Lenny relates to an anonymous phone caller the story of Sammy Jankis, another sufferer of short term memory loss who, ironically, was Lenny's big case in his pre-trauma life as an insurance investigator. Unlike the main narrative, the Sammy sequences are told in chronological order, strategically intersecting and organizing the narrative as it wends its way backwards to the moment when Lenny decides to set in motion the data trail that will lead to the murder we see him commit in the film's opening sequence. In addition, Lenny's reconstruction of the Sammy sequences is itself dreamlike and unreliable since he attributes to Sammy characteristics that (if we can believe Teddy, an utterly corrupt cop) are Lenny's own.In addition to providing plot exposition and a recurring visual/narrative reference point, the Sammy sequences also bring into clear thematic focus the existential implications of memory loss. Like Sammy's, Lenny's 'condition' is a reduction to the most minimal and absurd level of the human mental processes for constructing meaning (in life, in film) out of fragmentary phenomena and evanescent recollections. In an age of Alzheimer's, deconstruction, and ego-fictions, most viewers will all-too-easily identify with Lenny's painfully hopeless and terrifyingly arbitrary quest to hold reality steady as is it fizzles and flits away.
Spoilers herein.I rate this very high on my scale, primarily for its ambition and intellect.Usually I get annoyed at IMDB comments that report the story as if it were important, but it is here:---Lenny's home is attacked, wife raped, him injured. He develops this `condition' which has no physical cause. In other words, the condition is invented. The insurance investigator (Sammy Jankins), uncovers him as a fraud by using electrified test blocks. Knowing this, his wife challenges him and he `accidentally' kills her rather than face the condition. Sent to a hospital, he escapes and ties up with the cop who investigated the case. Together, they track down the petty crook and kill him. Over time, the condition becomes more pronounced and embedded. The cop (Teddy) is crooked and exploits Lenny in a doublecross drug deal, getting him to kill Jimmy. Jimmy's girlfriend Natalie also manipulates Lenny to first chase off Dodd (who is looking for the missing money). Lenny decides to get even with Teddy, so plants a seed that he will use later to justify killing Teddy.---It is essential to know that Lenny was never an insurance investigator, and that his condition is self-delusional. The order and ritual is not to cope with, but to create the condition. Remembering his wife increases the intensity behind the psychosis -- remembering his investigator gives him identity and focus in refining the condition -- knowing all this transforms the idea behind the film into something of genius.That's because it is deeply self-referential: us looking at a film, especially at a mystery, is just the same as looking at a few polaroids and trying to create/remember a past. Watching movies is self-delusional, and with detective stories it is a game of wits between viewer and writer to outwit and manipulate each other just as here between Lenny and Teddy. (The filmmaker calls us, we shouldn't answer, but we forget.) This film goes further. An actor forms the picture by putting words on it; in the case of acting, the `picture' is the body, so it makes sense for the clue/words to appear on his body.The combination of the three (words on skin, remembrances of images past, the mind duel with the writer) adds up to a pretty mind-expanding framework. That alone transports the intelligent viewer to another world, a shocking world of self. This makes the film important, and an important film deserves criticism.So what could be better?The ink on skin as referential of film acting was done so much more elegantly and deeply with `Pillow Book.' The playing with time was moderately clever compared to the other, deeper games in this film -- but it could have been much more challenging. It could have stuttered (`Limey') could have folded (`Pulp Fiction') could have paralleled (`Run Lola Run') could have spiralled deeper (`Snake Eyes'). Maybe in the next film.I did not think the eye of the camera was very clever. This had `noirish' writing but not filming. More like the later `DOA' in the black and white would have really spun. The dialog and plot were needlessly simple. If I am going to go to the trouble to displace my mind for a day or two, I want it shifted beyond Jupiter. That the story was so simple was pandering to the dumb masses and annoyed.But the biggest flaw was our friend Guy. Moss is not a real actress. Guy is, but he's of the rather simple kind, who thinks he plays a character. Consider what this film is: it is a film about films first, and within that we have a character inventing another character and reality. That's three roles in one. Woody Allen made a similar movie so far as this matter: `Sweet and Lowdown.' It was a fake documentary about a guy who created a stage persona which he subsequently adopted. Simple stuff plotwise compared to `Memento.' But it had Sean Penn. Watch Sean play three roles at once, weaving them into a complex multidimensional space. This film was intelligent enough in its conception to warrant such texture, to have the actor remind us that we are him and he isn't.
It is refreshing to see a (relatively) mainstream thriller that does not follow the tired old rules, that uses Resnais, rather than Mel Gibson, as a starting point, that substitutes for an inevitable linear plot a temporal time bomb, where the straight line of events is smashed to pieces and put together with seeming haphazardness.  Further, this plot is told completely from one character's point-of-view, a character as we by now know, with short-term memory.  His great boast is that he remembers his identity and memory up until the accident - the denouement suggests that even this is a myth.So what is the plot we're watching?  Has the emotional shock of finally getting revenge had the required, cathartic effect, and that Leonard Shelby is now piecing back the bits of remembered past?  Or is he, in effect, a dead man, if we agree that someone does not exist as an identity without memory, exists in a kind of limbo, and that this dead Leonard is watching his life flashing before (or behind) him?  As all the 'revelations' at the end take place in the narrative's begining, Leonard is denied all the action hero's usual rewards - increased self-knowledge, knowledge of the world and the plot.  He is given the answers at the start of his plot, and forgets them.  Leonard at the end (his beginning) is a more coherent character than at the beginning (his end) - is this just because we've given a mass of (highly dubious) information by then and think we know him and his situation better?  Or is he, as his narrative progresses, getting vaguer, moving towards inertia, the catatonia that finally swamped his altar-ego Sammy Jankis.  Our problem is that the film comprises not one plot, but four, all fragmented, full of gaping black holes, all mediated by this character who knows nothing.  One is Leonard's narrative as he sees it, as he tries to avenge his wife's murder.  The second is told in monochrome flashback (or whatever this is called in a film that runs backward), mostly told in mysterious phone calls, and seem to flesh out the gaps missing in the first plot, but actually creates more. The third is the 'real' plot that may have something to do with cops, snitches, femmes fatales, or may be hallucinated, misremembered by Leonard, or simply planted there as cover for another plot, or may not even exist at all.  The fourth is the story of Sammy, who suffered the same 'condition' as Leonard.All four are obviously connected with each other to create a discordant fugue, but each undermines the other; in a sense, hell is other plots, and Leonard is in hell.  We can only take the opening sequence, where Leonard stands holding a fading photograph over a dead man's bloody body as the only 'reliable' image, and in this 'reliable' image, another, the photograph, is slipping away, ungraspable, like Leonard's memory, like the film.In another sense, though, what this film does is what any detective story does, which is work its way bakwards from the crime to its source.  This is what Dupin, Holmes and Poirot do, followed by legions of TV and movie detectvies.  This film just takes this journey literally.  In a conventional detective story, this travelling into the past is a way of making the present and future safe, of reasserting order, of filling up the gaps.  As Leonard doesn't succeed in reaching the source, and as the audience flounders too, there can be no reassertion of present and future. 
Leonard is the logical conclusion of a long line of anti-detectives, figures who do not solve the crime, who are personally implicated in the investigation, and are eventually destroyed by it.  'Vertigo''s Scottie Ferguson is the most famous example, others include 'The Spider's Strategem', 'Blow-up' and 'The Parallax View'.  These films offer detectives who do not order chaos, who cannot reorder the world, in the way Holmes used to.  Crime, solution and detective get lost in a temporal vacuum, never to be saved.  These abstractions are firmly grounded in 'Memento' in the body and the eye; Guy Pearce's rather splendid physique as palimpsest, where history is recorded at random, where the keys of interpretation are lost.  The split between mind and body is complete, and with it the essence of our unified humanity.  Similarly, with all the Polaroids he takes, the camera may never lie, but, as discrete entities, images are meaningless, in narrative terms anyway.
Memento sees Guy Pearce play Leonard Shelby, a man with no short term memory, on a search for his wife's killer in a film which is intelligent, engaging, well thought out, and sometimes, even funny. Memento demands your full concentration, and its backwards development is a stroke of genius, placing you in the same situation as Leonard; you see what he sees, and aside from small clues, very little else. This way of engaging its audience is what makes Memento special, as it draws you into the plot and Leonard's complex situation without leaving you lost amidst the chronology or bogged down in little clues. This is also helped by Guy Pearce's performance; he remains likable for most of the film, his little jokes and his honesty helping you side with him, but he also shows evidence of a darker side, especially towards the end (the beginning?), as Teddy (Pantoliano) plants the seed of doubt in his mind.Basically, Memento is a very good film, an intelligent, engaging storyline that keeps you interested even after it ends.
Memento is one of the most original, and stunning movies I have ever seen. Memento is close to an epic masterpiece. They take a simple plot, and mix it up with all these different chronologically strategies. (This time using several chronologically mixed scenes). One man wanting revenge for those who killed and raped his wife, his memory the only thing stopping him. But Memento takes you through a journey of strategy, notes, pictures, black-mail and surprises. It certainly lives up to the hype, and remains as Nolan's best movie. A guarantee I can almost give to all viewers is that: they'll be things that seem a little mixed up after your first viewing, that's normal. I have watched Memento two times, closely and yet, still they're a few unanswered questions. Memento delivers in all aspects, a intriguingly thriller with an opinionated ending.


                
Christopher Nolan's 2000 Neo- Noir film 'Memento' is one of the most intensely complex and gripping films to have ever been created. The story is centred around the protagonist Leonard, who explains throughout the film about his short term memory loss (known as anterograde amnesia), as well as focusing on his attempts to solve and avenge the murder of his wife. However, what divides 'Memento' apart from other films is the complexity within the narrative and portrayal of the structure. The bulk of the film alternates from colour to black and white scenes, which then converge at the end of the film leading us to the beginning of the proceeding scene. Nolan uses the black and white scenes to represent the past; whilst including other material, such as flashbacks, that precedes the beginning of the black and white scenes- observed as Leonard's long term memory. However, just like the protagonist, us as the audience do not know the exact length of time those memories occurred- thus creating the "most interesting ambiguity of the film" (Christopher Nolan). As one of the highest grossing directors in history, Nolan is able to create an unusual yet captivating masterpiece, which continues to be admired and loved seventeen years later.
It's not until a film like Memento comes along, or that you personally have to deal with someone close who suffers a form of this subject to hand, that you get jolted to remember just how your memory is such a prized and treasured thing - and crucially that it's one of your key safety devices.Christopher and Jonathan Nolan crafted one of the best films of 2000 based on those facets of the human condition. Their protagonist is Leonard Shelby, played with stupendous believability by Guy Pearce, who is suffering from a memory amnesia caused by a trauma to the head as he tried to aide his wife who was raped and murdered. He can remember things before the incident, but anything post that and he can't form a memory. So who can he trust? Does he know any of the few people who appear to be in his life at the present time? He tattoos his body to help him remember, constantly writes notes to keep him alert in his now alien world, while all the time he is on the search for the man who ruined his life.Christopher Nolan plants the audience right into Leonard's world. By using a reverse story telling structure it's deliberately complex and ingenious given that it opens with the ending! It has been argued that it's trickery for trickery sake, style over substance, but the way each scene is built upon in the narrative is a thing of high quality, it's all relevant and demands the closest of attention from the viewer, where cheekily we are ourselves asked to form memories of prior narrative passages. Mystery is strong throughout, the characters currently in Leonard's life may have different means and motives, it keeps us alert, with the confusion, lies, manipulations, enigmas and amnesia angles booming with neo-noir vibrancy. And the Nolan's know their noir of course, adding a narrator who is hard to define or trust himself!The reverse structure wasn't new in 2000, but Christopher Nolan picks up the idea and adds new strands to it, simultaneously bringing his visual ticks as David Julyan's musical score shifts from elegiac forebodings to pulse pounding dread, and as evidenced by the darling easter egg option that allows one to watch it in chronological order, it's a damn fine thriller without the reverse trickery anyway. Super. 9/10


                
I became a fan of Christopher Nolan after I saw Batman Begins and I must say Memento is another spectacular addition to his repertoire.This is unlike any movie you will see. Lenny, aka Guy Pearce, is searching for the man "he thinks" killed his wife. He has a condition known as anterograde amnesia, which means he has no short-term memory. He developed this condition after suffering a TBI the night he and his wife were attacked in their home. This is the same night he "thinks" his wife was killed. He must put tattoos all over his body and gather every clue he can to find "the killer".Truly a classic in the suspense and mystery categories. Very unique the way the movie is shown with flashbacks in color and the present in B&W until the time periods meet. See this movie!!!!
This is my 1st review on the site and I have chosen this masterpiece of a movie to review.I have seen movies in my life with an innovation factor whether its the characters, the plot, the directing or even the soundtrack, but this movie deserves to be a great, clear contender in the innovation land.Since the 80s, we are tired as viewers of clichés regarding protagonists or antagonists and this movie serves the cause of surprising the viewer not necessarily plot-wise, but character-wise. I mean all of the characters in this movie have their ups and downs within the build up.Guy Pearce is certainly one of my favorite actors of all time, so it isn't new to me that I got owned by his acting and for Carrie-Anne Moss, she is an actress of natural, God-given ability. So, where did the pleasant surprise came from?... It came from Joe Pantoliano who added THE flavor to the movie.If you still haven't watched this movie and I doubt it, then go and see it today for it is a masterpiece not necessarily in its epic, rich, novely aspect, but for its innovation.


                
Just watched Memento on netflix, I knew about the movie and everybody told me I had to watch it, but I was not prepared! This movie definitely earned its praise, and now it is one of my top 10 favorite movies


                
Quite simply this is one of the best films I've seen with actors and actresses of whom I've barely seen. This is NOT a cult film which is popular by some weird twist of fate. This IS a solid film; well acted, directed and definitely well written. Although I have seen this basic plot twice before, I haven't seen it in a movie or so well done. The combination of Leonard's brain damage and the reverse chronologic filming allow one of the most bizarre plot twists I've seen. Thespian for Thespian, one of the best-done films to come out of Hollywood.


                
Nolan is an absolutely brilliant director and the amount of great movies he has done put him on the very top of Hollywood's recent historyTo keep it short, why should you see this movie:Try to think how to tell a story from a perspective of someone who cannot develop new memories. Of someone who cannot remember something new for over 30 minutes. It cannot be done - and yet Nolan succeeds in placing the viewer in that exact perspective. Pulling an amazing movie in the process.A must see.


                
Memento is a gripping story about a man with a critic Alzheimer, that is trying to understand what happened the day before, the only thing that he remembers is that his wife was murdered, and wants to found the guilty one. Every minute is intriguing, and probably you would have many questions every 5 minutes, at the same time is really important to pay attention to every single detail in all the scenes, because maybe you don't understand the real story.
Totally entertaining and recommended


                
Amazing screenplay, it collapse ur mind just like a hero suffers in movie. Inspite of more repeated scenes are appears in movie i really never get bored and thrilling stays with me for fullmovie.


                
I rate this very high on my best of list for its ambition and intellect.The script is written on the body of the main character. It's a device that the TV show Blindspot would rip off.I watched this over and over and over and it took me to a place I did not want to go, because it's very dark but here I go:The main character is attacked, wife raped, him injured. He develops a fake condition to scam his insurance. The insurance investigator figures this out during a flashback in a flashback with the eletric blocksHis wife gets fed up, challenges him, he knows it, and murders her with the insulin.Sent to a hospital, he escapes and meets up with the cop who investigated the case. They track down the rapist/thief and murder him.However, the memory condition then becomes imbedded. He became his own fictional character. The crooked cop exploits a drug deal gone wrong to get the dealer, Jimmy G, murdered.Jimmy's girlfriend Natalie, the smartest character in the whole movie, figures it out and uses our memory boy to chase off the other dealer looking for the missing money.Where I got lost is where our memory boy decided he wanted to kill the crooked cop and tattooed it to his body so it would become a memory.Lenny was never an insurance investigator, his condition is self-delusional. All he did is just the same as looking at a few polaroids and trying to create/remember a past. Guy is playing 3 characters here. His own character, the borrowed character of the insurance investigator, and his made up personality as the film goes along.
Memento - what an amazingly different, unique film! Although every scene moves forward (to a certain point), the film itself is moving backwards, yet it all makes perfect sense as if the film is moving forward. Pure genius! Guy Pearce gives and incredibly convincing performance.


                
I'm not sure if I've ever thought so much about a movie after I finished it than I have with Memento. Where to even begin with this movie...I remember that all of the performances in the movie, especially Guy Pierce of course, were very solid and believable. I liked the almost noir-feeling that it gave off, and I liked the setting a lot too. But none of these are the selling points of the movie. The way this movie presents itself is so unique and thought provoking. The way that the story is told is unlike anything I've seen before, and the way Nolan uses colors and editing to piece a story that leads into the middle of itself is so weird and experimental, but it makes this movie so great. I can definitely see how this method of storytelling made a lot of these people leave 10/10 ratings.There were a few things about the movie I was a bit off on, however. I do wish that the movie didn't spoil its chronological climax at the beginning of the movie, because it kind of ruined the rest of it in my opinion (even though the plot twist at the end of the movie was unexpected). I found this movie to be kind of confusing at times, and sometimes I couldn't help but lose track of what was happening. I get that in a sense it's supposed to make you feel that way though, so maybe we can chalk those up to my stupidity. Overall, I'd really like to see more films take risks like this did. There are so many points where this movie could've gone wrong, but it never did. Maybe I'd consider making this a 9/10 on a second viewing, but either way I'm completely sold on Memento.
I had grave doubts going into this one. Its fans seemed to me to be the same people who like a lot of the movies I really hated over the past five years or so, movies like The Matrix, Run Lola Run, Fight Club, and many others. I avoided it for a long time, though I always thought I had to see it no matter what. And when the chance to see it for free came along, I jumped at it. Fortunately, Memento lives up to the hype. It's one of the few movies that can. Seriously, I wouldn't doubt that this movie will one day be counted as one of the best ever made. Perhaps not the ninth best ever, its current position on the imdb top 250, but it will certainly have its place in the history books.The main reason for this is its unique narrative structure. Add this one to the ranks of Citizen Kane for its high level of narrative innovation. What it does is it tells its story backwards. It will give us one large chunk of narrative information, stop, and then rewind to the last place Leonard (Guy Pearce) began his small chunk of memory. You see, Leonard has this condition where he has little short-term memory. After a few minutes, he forgets everything that has happened to him since a serious injury. He reminds himself of his purpose every time he wakes up in a new chunk of memory through hosts of photos and notes that he has written to himself. His purpose: to avenge his dead wife. She was raped, and her rapist knocked poor Lenny on his head. This condition, which is the foundation of the narrative structure, is clearly false. You just have to suspend your disbelief as you watch, and, I promise you, you'll see something very unique.The best thing about this film is that it gives you some real mental exercise. It asks you to remember a large amount of information. Add to that the fact that not everything is trustworthy, and that truth and memory and facts and everything that we take for granted are constantly being questioned and warped, and you've got yourself an enjoyable uphill battle.
The rest of the film is equally commendable, which ought to be remembered as long as you can retain it. The acting is quite good, especially Joe Pantoliano, so good in Bound, and Carrie-Anne Moss, with whom I was quite unimpressed in The Matrix. Here, she shows that she can play a complex character and that her main assets aren't her T&A. Guy Pearce is also quite good, though he was perhaps better in L.A. Confidential. I think someone else might have brought a bit more depth to the part, but perhaps not. One of the most difficult things about his role is the fact that he really has no complexities - he's a blank slate. One could honestly call him simply a tool of the plot. However, someone who would say that would be missing the fact that he is often being used as a tool by other characters. Christopher Nolan is not just a master scenarist, he's also an excellent director. Also great is the cinematography, sharp color with some spatterings of black and white.Perhaps there are some plot holes, but I didn't notice them. This is truly a masterpiece, a film to remember. 10/10.


                
English-American screenwriter and director Christopher Nolan's second feature film which he wrote after a short story by his younger brother, British-American author, screenwriter and producer Jonathan Nolan called "Memento Mori", premiered at the 57th Venice International Film Festival in 2000, was screened in the Contemporary World Cinema section at the 25th Toronto International Film Festival in 2000 and was screened at the 17th Sundance International Film Festival in 2001. It was shot on location in Sunland-Tujunga in Los Angeles, Pasadena in Los Angeles, California and Long Beach and Burbank in California, USA and is an American production which was produced by American producers Suzanne Todd and Jennifer Todd. It tells the story about Leonard Shelby, a once happily married man and former worker at an insurance company who is staying at a motel called the discount inn. Leonard is searching for the man who raped and murdered his wife, but he has no short-term memory so he writes down everything that happens to him, gets tattoos with information on his body and takes photos of everyone he meets. The only thing he always remembers is his wife, and Leonard's sole concern is to find the perpetrator and avenge the love of his life. Distinctly and precisely directed by English-American filmmaker Christopher Nolan, this rhythmic, mindful and instantly engaging fictional tale which is narrated by the protagonist and from his point of view, draws a dense and singular portrayal of a heartbroken and grief-stricken man who is obsessed by his memories of his lost wife and his search for revenge. While notable for it's gritty urban milieu depictions, sterling production design by production designer Patti Podesta, black-and-white and color cinematography by American cinematographer Wally Pfister, brilliant editing by American film and sound editor Dody Dorn, make-up by American make-up artist Scott H. Eddo and use of sound, this character-driven, narrative-driven and incisively written indie neo-noir depicts a multifaceted and nuanced study of character and contains a great score by English musician and composer David Julyan.This forebodingly atmospheric and utterly and consistently involving psychological thriller from the late 20th century about one man's delusional and nostalgic quest for an unattainable happiness, is impelled and reinforced by it's fragmented and poignant narrative structure, subtle character development, esoteric characters, entwined and interrelating stories and the commendable acting performances by English-born Australian actor Guy Pearce, American actor Joe Pantoliano and Canadian actress Carrie-Anne Moss. A masterful modernist mystery which gained, among numerous other awards, the Waldo Salt Screen writing Award at the 17th Sundance International Film Festival in 2001 and Academy Award nominations for Best Original Screenplay and Best Film Editing at the 74th Academy Awards in 2001.


                
MEMENTO simply tells a chain killer's mental processing story in the first person.WWW.IMDb.COM told me Your comment does not contain enough lines - the minimum length for comments is 10 lines of text. SO, I have to make more sentences following other's will,not my own.Leonard did the same thing during the most time,as an avenger deserving pity---he complied with the rules he made:recording the truth.AS a psycho,a chain killer can be regard as an innocent person,especially in the eye of law.But when facts prove that this killer has self-controllability,he is not innocent any more.WHEN he chose to record the unreal information,he abused his self-controllability.THE in-between sentences are superfluous words.I don't wanna break the rules.IN the movie,the first and the last are the what and the why,and my comments share the same CONDITION.
I also have frantically started writing. I want to make note of the movie lest I forget it. The movie has ingrained a sense of condition in me as well. Leonard says the memory can change, the color of the car can change. True?? One of the puzzling pieces was the presence of a picture of Lenny bare chested and happy. It doesn't have a caption and he doesn't question why. He is conditioned you see, he is confident. Leonard believes he can lead the life as the police conducts investigation, taking notes, relying on facts. Well, the problem is what are facts? All in all, a puzzling movie and it drives the viewer also into the whirlwind of thinking. It challenges your notions of being, notions of certainty. It's not just a movie, it's more than that. "Memento" is an episode in your life which presses you hard.


                
This movie can get confusing if your not paying attention, but watching it all the way and following the journey of Lenny is one mind blowing experience that I would suggest not missing. The story is well constructed and keeps you guessing until the very end and the characters all make you wonder what is their true roles in Lenny's life.


                
Very clever directing by Nolan, with great acting from the cast. Tension is well played in this movie. One of my favourite movies of all time, I am excited for Nolan's future works. Would recommended to anyone above the age of 12.


                
