I get why movies like this get nominated for Best Picture and why topical pictures get so much attention and star-studded casts. It's an If this worth an Oscar...how it won best picture is beyond me!!!! Seriously though, it's just dull. There is nothing in this movie that is cinematically interesting. Just scene after scene of people in varying states of agitation either reading or speaking. Compare this to a movie like Steve Jobs (2015) which is also very dialogue heavy and note all the various ways in which Boyle and crew aid their dialogue through camera movement, interesting angles and shadowing, etc. It makes you realize how thoroughly uninteresting Spotlight is in that particular way. Spotlight could have been done as a picture book with a few sentences of dialogue per page and Mark Ruffalo's happy face or sad face plastered on top.3 stars though just because a very interesting subject.


                
I've been reading through the reviews of this film wondering if these people are paid to boast this film as Oscar worthy. Don't get me wrong, movies have been going downhill for years, but this was one of the most overrated films I've seen in awhile. I guess it doesn't take much to impress people these days. Was I the only one who didn't think it was dark enough? I've seen darker Lifetime movies than this, and the whole movie is entirely built on conversation with very little action. The acting was OK, but the script was just bleh. I felt like it never reached an impactful climax, and I was hoping to see some gnarly stuff given the topic. I was really looking to seeing this movie, it had all the workings of what could have been a great film, but it just didn't deliver. Based on the story topic, it should have been knocked out of the ballpark, but to me, it fell completely flat. I'm even having a hard time remembering what I saw because I was so bored throughout the film and left feeling like what I just saw was forgettable pretentious garbage.


                
By no means movies awarded the best movie academy award are the best out there. That's for sure. Neither Miss Universe is the "most beautiful woman in the world" etc.I will probably fail to remember which movies won the Oscar the last 3 decades. Some of them are totally forgettable and makes you wonder if they were deserving a nomination in the first place. In my opinion "the best picture of the year" should be a game changing movie, that leaves you speechless while you are watching it and make a permanent imprint in your mind and soul.Spotlight won the Oscar for the best movie of 2016. Was it worth it? In my opinion faaaar from it. Was it a bad movie? Of course not. But it is far from being great. It has adequate performances from the well known leads. A bright photography, which for me is always a plus, but...Of course the premise touches a sensitive subject but it doesn't make an impact to the audience. You will hear: the number is not 13 it's more than that like 20 or even 90, and that is supposed to have an impact to the viewers, about the scale of child molestation from priests and a possible church cover-up, but it really hasn't. You hear 2-3 testimonies but you don't see the act, not even in the form of a flashback. So, for that, it is not effective.I read some reviews praising how "controlled" this movie is. In my opinion that was a mistake for that subject. The testimonies weren't enough to draw a picture about the problem. Also there is no actual heroes here. The reporters just doing their work and the paper had the opportunity to do something years ago but let it slide.Overall: I cannot understand how this movie is considered as the best of 2016. It is a mild ride. No surprises no heroes. A little bit on the boring side in its 2 hours 7 minutes duration. Nothing extraordinary. Just adequate as a film and far less than that as a statement against a serious problem of our societies.


                
So I have to admit I ended watching the movie after about 45 minutes because it just did not interest me at all. I am from Germany and yes I have heard something about child abuse by church but why should I really be interested in a local (Boston) child abuse scandal which a local newspaper is reporting about?I think this is a good example why not every problem or event makes good stuff for a movie. I was impressed on how many great actors are in the movie and about how little they were able to show in those 45 minutes.So I just found it totally uninteresting and I had problems to even understand those many persons and their part in the movie.


                
Fact; (in the parlance of so-called "journalism") Boston Globe editor Walter Robinson KNEW about the child rape/torture allegations against the archdiocese and DID NOTHING ABOUT IT FOR ALMOST A DECADE!So, children continued to be raped and tortured for another 10 years until these "crusading" journalists finally decided to do something about it.They won a Pulitzer and the movie wins an Oscar and the criminal collusion of the editor and the paper with the other scumbags is merely a footnote in both the film and the history books.The people that applaud the movie and the paper should be ashamed of themselves.
Maybe i didn't understand the movie but was bored to hell by this


                
