Biographical drama about the research by the Boston Globe' Spotlight team on the scandal of child abuse by priests covered up by the local archdiocese. It's an investigative drama, but that's it: good acting, but nothing extraordinary that would take this film to win the Oscars for best movie and screenplay. Reasonable information documentary type, yes; good movie, no. What we see is just some people scheduling some interviews and asking other people questions to gather information and publish an article. Where's the story in that for a movie? By the way, why does not Hollywood make a movie about 'pedophilia in Hollywood'?


                
Look,This isn't an attempt to downplay the events, this isn't a cheap shot at the "Best Picture winner". This is just a technical look at the medium used to tell this story.But first a little bit of background, this story has made headlines all over the world, year-in-year-out, since this full extent of these atrocities were uncovered. Everyone who watches the six o'clock news, buys a paper or scrolls through Facebook knows roughly what happened.It makes it all the more confusing then, when a story like this is thrown onto the big screen, and told in an agonisingly straight style. By this I mean, there isn't anything new here, the production isn't groundbreaking or cutting edge, there are no boundaries being pushed to help cinema float into the future. They didn't bring anything to the table, attempts at building suspense are short lived - with bottoms hardly having enough time to get to the edge of the seats. The performances are passionate, but let down by a textbook (not in a good way) approach to the cinematography, it leaves it feeling distinctly flat. If they were dealing with a more unknown story, it could have been effective. There are some examples of this, letting the camera on, being calm in the face of evil that work. Joshua Oppenheimer's 2012 documentary "The Act of Killing" - exploits this flat style to further sicken the audience. Jumping back to "Spotlight", a story this big needing some more sting in its tail? Just to make people wonder about the things our species are capable of? It's pretty worrying.I know what you're thinking, "it's supposed to be black and white, hype and tension would only look like fear mongering..." You're right. But! Film is still just a medium for storytelling, and there is an art to it. Poor retelling numbs the story, and this one cannot be overlooked. Take it back to post-production Tom McCarthy...


                
It is a movie or rather a TV movie in which nothing of what the film entails becomes good. It's a lifeless movie. It fails to reach the viewer. With the subject that treats it should arrive and much, nevertheless it is cold. And it is not that it is cold because the photo is cold or what it treats the coldness better, it is not that this fact bet, no, is that the film does not transmit anything. Photography is like a TV movie, as if it were a video camera and that moves even more.The direction is so remote, neutral and distant that it does not transmit anything, nor in a matter of planes nor in tone nor anything. The actors, being many of them of reputation, also do not highlight anything.I do not know what happens to this movie but once you see it I do not think you'll remember it for more than a few hours.I do not understand why it was selected for the Oscars because throughout the year there have been many better candidates in all the facets in which it is selected. Bone that as always, public and critical do not agree.In short I have seen it because as a movie lover, I try to see everything, but I do not think I remember it for more than a month.


                
Spotlight refers to the group of investigative reporters who work for The Boston Globe. The group has been there since the 1970 and will often spend months working on a single story. In 2001, Marty Baron (Liev Schreiber) comes in from Florida as their new editor-in-chief and asks the current team to put their latest investigation on hold and look into allegations of a Catholic priest's sexual abuse against a minor and the potential cover-up. Retiring editor Walter "Robbie" Robinson (Michael Keaton) and his team of reporters are hesitant at first, considering Baron to be an outsider just trying to stir things up. Eventually Robbie and his investigators Michael Rezendes (Mark Ruffalo), Sacha Pfeiffer (Rachel McAdams), and Matt Carroll (Brian d'Arcy James) agree to the story and find the truth is much worse than one priest and one child.My only concern was the potential for deep lulls in the movie pulling the investigation and interviews together for their story over the course of the 2 hour and 8 minute film. The "lulls" of the investigation were actually the driving points of the film. Each stone the team overturned revealed more abuses, more victims and more cover-up on what turned out to be a global scale. I gave Spotlight an anticipatory 3.5 stars as I had a feeling it would be entertaining, moving and bold, but probably one of those films that seeing it once or twice would be enough without feeling the need or desire to own it. I actually lowered it half a star. Again, it's tough to rate these movies on their creative license when they are based on true stories, however, the main purpose of these reviews is to gauge how accurately the film as portrayed in the preview. The preview for Spotlight made it seem like religious leaders, politicians, lawyers and more would be vehemently blocking the team's investigation and story at every turn. In truth, it really wasn't that difficult for them to find attorneys, victims, and even perpetrators who were willing to come forward to help them piece their story together. There was a lot of talk about how powerful the church was and the reach of their control with friends in influential places, but little action to that effect throughout their digging.Spotlight was, as anticipated, disgustingly moving and disturbing. It was well-written and brilliantly acted by the entire team, but a bit less dramatic than the preview lead me to believe. I enjoyed it, might watch it again, but most likely won't be making it to my home collection.


                
I don't get it, all these positive reviews, I read the short description of the movie, I really liked the idea, it's a very sensitive subject that had to be discussed sooner or later, but 60 minutes into the movie and I dropped it, like seriously ? It's so boring, all these names thrown here and there, it's dialogue-heavy for no obvious reason, there is no important dialogue going on, just a bunch of workers, handling a case, interviewing a bunch of victims, and voilà, nothing more. I felt underwhelmed, bored to death. If it were not for the subject-matter, or the actors, this movie would get a zero. So for subject matter and actors' performances : 4/10


                
