I liked this film, thought it was a well done solid film. But I am afraid I can't say anything more than that, it is very documentary like which can be it's biggest strength (a very fact driven plot heavy film) or it's biggest weakness (characters feel cold and distant and other than the plot nothing really impresses, also quite bland in the visuals department). However the characters do start to show some life nearing the end of the film but by that time damage is done it can be hard if not impossible for viewers to differentiate between the reporters for nearly one and a half hour of the film, they all suffer from different faces but same objective syndrome and inadequate effort is made to separate one from the another. Also speaking of run-time, this film is a wee bit over two hours long, editing especially in the first half could have made this film a bit crispier. However I did like the accuracy level in the film regarding the cellphones, ads, electronics and the cars used in 2001; a lot of films these days are becoming very careless in this regard. I would compare it to last year's Foxcatcher another fact driven docu-drama film, solidly acted, but nothing special in the direction, editing and cinematography department, I would still recommend it but no way this film deserves a second watch, you can absorb everything there is to get in a single viewing. All in all, a solid well written docu-drama which will have it's time in the "spotlight" (pun!) this Oscar season and will become "oh that movie about pedo priests" by next year's Oscar season.


                
Going into 'Spotlight' I was aware that it was the front runner to win Best PIcture at the Academy Awards. After having seen it I can't really understand why. That's not to say it wasn't a good film, it simply didn't blow me away at all. It told a story, an admittedly fascinating and true story, in an informative way but it didn't do anything that great films do like inspire me, move me or leave me stunned with the powerful nature it was told with. Best Picture winners of the past, like 'Schindler's List', told true stories but also encompassed all three of those traits and plenty more. That was a film I will never forget, 'Spotlight' will probably be completely out of my mind by this time next week. Frankly, I was a little underwhelmed with the lack of emotion such a serious subject brought out in me. The film just didn't really seem to try to do that. It felt more like a documentary reenactment, simply with very fine actors, than anything else.My disagreement with it likely winning Best Picture aside, there are some very fine filmmaking skills on show here in all departments. Director Tom McCarthy, in only his fifth turn at directing, has been nominated for a Best Directing award. While I don't like the lack of emotion his storytelling brought out in me, he clearly had a vision to tell a story in a certain way, and he got it done. He tells it in a punchy fashion that never allows the audience to drift off. The Best Directing race this year is a tight one with four of the five all being widely in contention. I don't think McCarthy will get the win however, as his film doesn't have the "X-Factor" going for it that a lot of the others do. Having said that, any film that wins Best Picture has to get some real credit for its director, so don't completely rule him out if it does indeed win that.Mark Ruffalo and Rachel McAdams have also been nominated for Best Supporting Actor and Actress awards. I have trouble understanding how, to again be frank. Roles based on real life characters always get more attention than others but these two had absolutely nothing to work with in the script. They were almost never given a chance to shine in any scene. Because of this I don't believe either has a chance of winning their respective award. It wasn't a film designed to make actors look good. Having said that, the stand out performance for me was Michael Keaton. He almost won the Best Actor award last year and this year can't even get a nomination. Had his been considered a Supporting Role I'm sure he would have but it was probably considered in that "in between" state, which may have hurt him.There are a lot of true stories at this year's Acadmey Awards and I think 'Spotlight' is benefiting from being the most interesting story of them all. 'The Big Short' is another case of an interesting true story, however that was told in a very unique and clever way. Interestingly, that is the biggest competition 'Spotlight' will have when the winner is read out on the night. My fingers might just be crossed on the seeing the upset.


                
This was a solid drama elevated by superior acting from a top-notch cast but I left the theater somewhat underwhelmed. The movie lacked the sort of drama that makes you wonder how the story will end even when you know how the story will end. The main problem is that the Catholic Church just doesn't come across as a particularly forceful adversary. We're told that the Church is so powerful and has kept the abuse hidden for decades, but when a group of reporters actually goes digging they encounter some roadblocks but nothing that gives you the sense that the Church was something to be feared. While I didn't necessarily need Cardinal Law to dispatch some Opus Dei goons to discourage the reporters and the victims, the movie would have been more rewarding if they'd encountered much stronger resistance from the Church, public officials, and their own family and friends.


                
It's not that this isn't a star-studded gripping movie about an important subject. It just wasn't best picture to me (for which it won an Academy Award, along with best screenplay). For that it played it far too safely. Much of the movie reminded me of the 1994 "The Paper", also headlined by Michael Keaton.In a way, The Paper was better because it was entirely fictional and therefore could go all-out. "Spotlight" (named after the editorial crew of the Boston Globe that uncovered the scandal) kinda had to try to fit the facts. For example, the journalists seemed to do relatively little uncovering themselves, for that they relied heavily on attorneys, experts and interest groups, and at times they even blocked the investigation. Boston is described as a type of mafia territory where you can't escape the Catholic church, except for when you're Jewish or Armenian. That seemed a pretty shallow explanation.Rachel McAdams didn't seemed too much of a Hollywood blonde to fit into the newspaper. Have you ever seen newspaper journalists? There's a reason they don't work in front of the camera.For me, I'd rather have a great movie about a trifling subject than a good movie about an important subject. Because I don't like being schooled by mother.


                
"Spotlight" is the investigative team at the Boston Globe newspaper who focus on 'big' issues that they select to pursue - work that can take many months to come to fruition. Headed up by Robby Robinson (Michael Keaton) the rest of his team are Mike (Mark Ruffalo), Sacha (Rachel McAdams) and family man Matt Carroll (Brian d'Arcy James). It's 2001 and times they are a changin' at The Globe. New editor Marty Baron (Liev Schrieber) is a workaholic wild duck from Florida with transformation in mind. He sees value in the team pursuing a 'cold' story about a Catholic priest accused of multiple counts of paedophilia, all of which appears to have been quietly 'shushed up' by the church. The investigation progressively uncovers a far more widespread and murkier story that goes on to break as a global scandal for the Catholic church.This is an important film given its controversial subject matter. And the acting is all top-notch. Michael Keaton feels extremely comfortable in his role as the investigative journalist, delivering one of the most 'goose-bumpy' lines in the film (as seen in the trailer) - "Which story do you want us to write - because we're writing one of them". He must have been disappointed not to receive another Best Actor nomination for this.Mark Ruffalo and Rachel McAdams both did get the nod for the Supporting Actor/Actress nominations: Ruffalo's performance in particular is stellar, full of earnest passion. But it has to be said that all of the rest of the cast also more than pull their weight, with Liev Schrieber and John Slattery (as sub-editor Ben Bradlee) being very strong and the ever-reliable Stanley Tucci electrifying the screen as the dilligent but cranky lawyer Garabedian. As I write this, the Screen Actors Guild has just awarded "Spotlight" the award for the Best Ensemble Cast, and this is well deserved.The film looks great, with cinematography by Masanobu Takayanagi ("The Grey", "Silver Linings Playbook") supported by fantastic lighting and superb editing (also Oscar nominated). It's refreshing that the location filming in Boston doesn't lean on the more 'touristy' shots normally depicted. The persistent and effective piano score is by Howard ("LOTR") Shore.So, with all this going for it, I'm heading for a 10-star rating then? Well, actually, no. There is something distinctly missing in the film that was initially difficult to put my finger on. The film bears closest comparison with 1976's Redford/Hoffman classic "All The President's Men". And whilst it does compare in some ways (a lot of indecipherable dialogue and a mass of different names being one!) there's a key ingredient missing. While both stories were true, and you KNEW what the outcome was, "All The President's Men" still managed to build up an incredible sense of tension of the "will they, won't they" kind that is almost completely missing here. Not that there isn't the opportunity: for example, will delays (caused by certain other newsworthy events happening in September of that year) allow "The Herald" to break the story first? But no, the opportunity is squandered. A significant twist in the story (not spoiled here) around Keaton's character is also let off like a damp squib on a rainy night. And where was the scene of 'reaction' from the church, led by Boston's Cardinal Law (Len Cariou)? So the two Oscar nominations I would most have issues with are Best Director (for actor/director Tom McCarthy) and Best Picture: undeniably it's a good film, and you should go and see it, but in my eyes it was an opportunity missed - - it should have been an absolute classic.(Please visit bob-the-movie-man.com for the graphical version of this review. Thanks.)


                
Mmm, might make my top 50 of 2015. It's a perfectly good movie about investigative journalism, and it's interesting to see the process of journalists, but it's extremely pedestrian filmmaking and has like zero insight into the subject at hand (which is the cover-up of priest molestations). Michael Keaton, Mark Ruffalo, Rachel McAdams and Brian d'Arcy James play the Spotlight team at the Boston Globe. They're all good, but, except for one big moment with Ruffalo, none of them do anything exceptional. The Globe's new editor, Liev Schreiber (somewhat more interesting, but not much), decides to follow-up on some earlier stories about the subject he thinks are incomplete. The best performance in the film belongs to Stanley Tucci, who plays a lawyer for victims. The second best belongs to Neal Huff as the leader of a victims' organization. Both Huff and Tucci are angry that the Globe is just now getting interested in the story. I think even critics in Boston know that Mad Max: Fury Road is a better film than this. Maybe some day the Spotlight team can uncover that conspiracy.


                
I really wanted to enjoy this film, as I knew the true story behind it. I just felt it wasn't told properly, or could have been told better via its screenplay.Don't get me wrong, it was a great cast, but some of the performances felt flat at times, and again, I blame it on the screenplay and/or the direction.The pace also felt very slow and although 2 hrs and 8 mins aren't abnormal for a movie, this one felt like it was over 3 hours.Still an enjoyable viewing, but had it been tweaked a little better (editing dept?), I may have enjoyed it more.It's a 7/10 from me.


                
As we know Spotlight pulled off something of an upset at the 2015 Oscars by winning for Best Picture. It might have not been my first choice, still it is a good film dealing with a most distasteful subject, molestation by Roman Catholic priests of minors.For centuries the priesthood has been a refuge for closeted gay men who were then never questioned about their lack of interest in women. Then along came Stonewall and gay liberation and chances undreamed of for gays to live openly. So there was no longer a need to enter the priesthood. That caused a lot of vacancies and to this day the Catholic Church has never filled all the openings.Secondly celibacy is just one insane requirement. Back 1000 years ago when it was introduced we never knew about libidos and sex drives. For some with low or no sex drive it's no big deal. But some of us have needs. Put it together you have a recipe for pedophilia.Not that this wasn't known. Back in my younger days I knew a family that numbered a priest among a few brothers. This individual while an ordained priest ran for NYS Assembly. But one day we heard he was transferred to a new parish on an Indian reservation in the southwest. That was a favorite dumping ground for priests from the New York Archdiocese who got caught and were in too many parishes. Cardinal Francis J. Spellman's favorite exile place. Maybe Cardinal Bernard Law if he knew about what Spellman did he might have put off what happened to his Archdiocese in Boston. This all started with the expose of one Father John Geoghan who was transferred to many parishes in the Archdiocese after it got out he had a taste for young boys. What the team of investigative reporters from the Boston Globe did was tell the wider story and the film is their search for evidence. The film is always compared with All The President's Men and how the Washington Post broke the Watergate story. One big difference is that a couple of high powered box office names in Dustin Hoffman and Robert Redford led the cast. No big names in Spotlight's cast, just a well assembled ensemble. In fact two of the cast Mark Ruffalo and Rachel McAdams were nominated for Best Supporting Actor and Best Supporting Actress respectively. You might well ask the question, who were they in support of?Spotlight is a good film, not a great one, but it has a few moments. One that is unforgettable for me is Rachel McAdams on the trail of her story going to the house of a former priest. If there were an award for brief significant performances category than Richard O'Rourke as the defrocked priest would have got it for that year. Watch Rachel's reactions as O'Rourke who is so clearly not emotionally developed starts talking of his experiences. Then he's cut off from McAdams by his sister played by Nancy Carroll who is protective of her child like brother and orders her off the premises. That scene told you a lot about many who went into that vocation.I don't think the great film on the subject has yet been made. But Spotlight will do until it is.


                
This revealing drama is directed by Tom McCarthy, who also co-wrote with Josh Singer. Winning the Best Picture Oscar brings about much debate. The two hours plus film at times lumbers, but is saved with talented acting. A team of crack Boston Globe reporters spend the best part of a year to reveal a string of cover-ups that goes back decades that exposes the Catholic Archdiocese history keeping to be very relaxed and void of child molestation reports and dozens upon dozens of hidden or overlooked complaints of clergy-initiated abuses. Many whistles may have blown, but went ignored being heard.A tremendously talented cast made SPOTLIGHT award worthy: Mark Ruffalo, Rachel McAdams, Michael Keaton, Liev Schreiber, Elana Wohl, Paul Guilfoyle, Stanley Tucci, Jamey Sheridan and Billy Crudup.
Great films create a compelling connection to the actors and characters. You care about them as individuals and you come to love, hate or relate to their quest. Spotlight does not really deliver on this. It is a good film, and it tells an important story with an important message about the fourth estate. Well, actually, the film is also largely about the flaws of the first estate, second estate, and third estate, but the fourth estate (the press) is the one that rebounds from its flaws. This methodical telling of a true story about the importance of a vigilant press is rated highly by critics this year. It is a story about how the press, politicians and religious leaders all conspired to protect a terrible group of people. This is an important story in that we must prevent this from ever happening again by any people in our society. But the importance of the story itself is not how you rate a film. This film is well crafted, well acted and very well cast. But its mission is quite methodical and we gain few emotional insights about the key protagonists. The film deserves much praise in that it may help teach us to never be silent again when dark and evil behavior in among us. The mission to end this evil is important and for that reason, it is an important film to see. We can hope this film helps prevent future wrongdoing and helps people to speak out when they see things that are truly wrong. It is a very well-crafted film with an important message. The message may be more important than the film itself.


                
Chances are Spotlight will walk home with Best Picture of The Year at the Oscars. I'm calling it now. I was very excited to see it because I love Michael Keaton and last year's Birdman was so bizarre. Plus this seemed to be the type of film that could only be great with a great cast and an incredible, disturbing and important subject matter. Spotlight is fascinating. It's at least as good as Trumbo was but the problem with this and Trumbo is that both films were just good. Spotlight is based on the horrifying story of a team of reporters at the Boston Globe who single handedly uncover one of the biggest cover-ups in history of sexual abuse within the Catholic Church. It's interesting, it's well acted but it's far from great. The pace is good, nothing gets in the way of the main story and there are strong performances from an ensemble cast. No one really "stars" in the film but rather everyone works at driving the important story. I felt like from an entertainment perspective it wasn't necessarily thrilling but it does tell the story decently. To me a Best Picture nominee should have all their ducks in a row and Spotlight doesn't really fit that bill for me being just "good." Their is no real "star" in Spotlight because it's an ensemble cast. And despite the big names, no one really stands out because it's not a character driven story really. Still Michael Keaton (who has always been a favourite of mine) brings his usual style and chemistry to the picture and helps properly guide it. I think he gives the best performance even if it is subtle. Rachel McAdams is fantastic in general. I always enjoy her but her performance in this is barely existent and the fact she got an Oscar nomination seems ludicrous. But we all know this can be the case with Oscars. She is background character in this film. Mark Ruffalo is decent and shows a lot of emotion compared to some other characters. Liev Schrieber is also good but a role that is far too small much like Ruffalo's. John Slattery is always a good addition for a character actor but once again, too small of a role. Honestly, everyone else is even smaller roles including Stanley Tucci and Billy Crudup who could have used more screen time. I think the film could have been far more effective if some of the major players have been given more development.It's hard to speak bad of a film that has received so many nominations and is the favourite it win the Best Picture Oscar but I feel like so far the nominations I've seen this year have been sub-par with the exception of Mad Max. I tend to think there is usually some great gems on the Best Picture list but Spotlight doesn't fill those shoes. Tom McCarthy isn't a well versed director and his previous film was one of the most made-fun of (Adam Sandler's The Cobbler) so how did he end up directing this and why does everything think it's "so great?" I mean Spotlight was good, it's a very important story but a "great picture?" No not even close. I don't know what the critics see in it but Spotlight is average and watchable but won't floor anyone, it certainly didn't floor me. 7/10
After seeing all of the best picture nominees this year, I have to say this is my least favorite. It's a good movie, that's for sure, but I wasn't really blown away by it.This movie is incredibly well written and especially acted (I want to point out Mark Rufallo and Liev Schreiber) and the story was very interesting. But still, when I finished watching the movie, I just didn't have that special feeling I get when I watch a great movie. It's not boring at all and it's not afraid to go into details, it's very realistic and sometimes it even feels like you are watching something real happen. This did happen and at some parts you really feel like you are watching that and not the movie and also some parts are really messed up. It's never shown, bit you are shocked just by characters talking about it which is great. But I just didn't find myself so invested in the story.It's a very well done movie, but to me it feels like something is missing and till the end of the movie, I wasn't that interested anymore, but I think many people will like this movie.


                
Having recently read Goodbye Good Men by Michael S. Rose -- which goes into excruciating detail about homosexuality in the Roman Catholic seminaries during the Sexual Revolution of the 60s and 70s, which inevitably led to the ordination of sexual deviants -- 6% according to the film, the pedophile priest scandal was a dreadful accident waiting to happen. Church authorities were indeed negligent and chose to engage in the massive cover-up, and the Globe's expose did some good. Catholic-bashers (both Christian and otherwise) gloated with glee when the story hit (and kept on hitting).However, there were numerous other reports of pervert rabbis preying on school children which also were swept under the rug with the complicit assistance of newspapers. And also buried deep in the Metro section on page E-7 was the massive abuse committed nationwide by secular teachers both male and female. I'm sure the advocates of the "do your own thing," and "if it feels good" movements who preach tolerance of wickedness and evil, and those who define deviancy down won't like this comment, but that's the breaks. Deal with it!


                
Amazing cast (but none of them doing career best work), weighty theme handled well (and yet the Church is completely demonized, with no reasonable opposing view of their actions in dealing with the scandal) the direction is fairly tight - however the dialogue is occasionally very on the nose and scenes often skim the surface and then cut away to the next thing without really building or exploring in depth. The music and pacing was fine but at times felt like a really high end TV movie rather than a theatrical film. It is an affecting drama, well-told, I just felt it never reached the fever pitch of outrage it really should have, and the ending is quite underwhelming. There is a lot of talking/exposition/monologuing. Would have been nice for some revelations to happen visually/through action the audience could observe first hand. It feels kind of labored as is. I personally don't think anything about the film is awards worthy, except maybe Ruffalo (what else is new?) and while Todd McCarthy is a fine filmmaker, this is not his best film and nowhere near the directorial achievement of someone like Lenny Abrahamson for Room. I just feel like the reason critics are really raving about this film is that it shows their fellow journalists getting to be the heroes.


                
Loaded with great performances. I didn't know Liev Schreiber could be lovable. Or Stanley Tucci likable, let alone great. The main problem here is you have a story with heavy subject matter, and a realistic portrayal about how a group of journals might go about solving the problem. But the realism doesn't allow for a dramatic engaging look into the issue that gets to its core, that is hard hitting enough for the subject's weight. Basically it needed someone in the movie to go, "It's about child rape. What's the moral grey area of that assh-les?" Instead Mark Ruffalo goes ham but not really. "If it takes a village to raise the child, it takes a village to abuse one." It needed more of that.


                
This is one of those films I have respect for it being genuine and not trying to be more than what it is. But since I give my honest opinions on movies, I will still say this film was actually quite boring for me. Again I have respect for this film not bringing false parts to sell tickets but try to stick very close to the source materials. Kind of like what honest journalist would do, instead of faking a story to get the news across while exaggerating the whole ordeal. This is the opposite of a exaggerated film, most of the actors doesn't try to outshine others or try their best to act out more than others. They try to convey the characters in a very genuine manner. The plot is about a group of journalist going after the truth of what went down with the Catholic priests in secrecy. And it goes in a realistic direction throughout the whole process. There isn't any life threatening moments or secret societies or any of that stuff. It's a very genuine movie, showing what appears to be real people going after truth and justice. The acting is really good with characters that appear to be real. This is a pure story showing film and I give it respect for that.7/10
A solid movie, though I was not fully captivated. The story emphasizes on the importance of a strong independent press. A very important story of course. The story of abuse in the Catholic church serves more as a vehicle to highlight this. The actors did a great job but to me they did not blend in as much as I would like them. Mark Ruffalo is just too much Mark Ruffalo as is Michael Keaton very much Michael Keaton. I would have added a few less known actors to the cast to make it more natural. To me Liev Schreiber was the most credible, Stanley Tucci (with hair!) did also a great job. Watching the movie it had a bit of a old fashioned feel of the 70ths, any moment Robert Redford could show up, and I think that is the reason I was not completely convinced. I was constantly reminded of All the president's men and that was just a better movie.


                
The subject matter, as well as Ruffalo and Schrieber's performances in particular, together with the rest of the cast is arguably a 10/10, however, a film also comes with more than just actors and plot.Spotlight has an excellent, and a HIGHLY necessary story that needs to be told as much as humanly possible, but, how it was told wasn't at all revolutionary or profound in fact. The story is profound, but the telling of it is not. Spot that light and faint difference.McCarthy's direction was pretty much as ordinary as they come, barring one very piercing scene however, that was just so incredibly subtle, but if noticed, just commanded absolute attention.Also, Shore's score was unreservedly appropriate for this film. It set the necessary tone from the very beginning.Because of its subject matter, Spotlight should get a 10/10, however at the end of the day, it is a piece of art, and should be viewed as such. Its message is amazing, and had it been told better, then this film could've been among the greatest of all time. 7/10.
Based on a true story: In the early 2000s, a team of reporters at the Boston Globe investigate several incidents of Catholic priests sexually abusing children."Spotlight" works well on many levels and not just for its main story of finding the shocking facts. It also reveals that universal and timeless evil known as the 'conspiracy of silence' that occurs within establishments. In this particular story, the conspiracy is not only within the Catholic Church but also within the upper echelons of Boston society. Another fact of human nature is also revealed: in any closed society, it often takes outsiders to make necessary changes.The film also sheds light on a group of people rarely exposed in movies: lapsed Catholics i.e. those raised in the religion but who became discouraged by grave misconduct at higher levels of the church hierarchy. It turns out that all of the reporters are in this situation and there is a fascinating scene in which they discuss their backgrounds and how this might affect their approach to their investigation.The first half is filled with energy with much inter-cutting among scenes. The highlight is a cross-cut of two scenes involving interviews with abuse survivors - one straight, one gay. In these scenes, the language is refreshingly blunt and revealing. A later scene involving an interview with a priest is even more shocking. The actors playing the survivors and the priest are also powerful in their brief roles.The second half is still good but it tends to lag a bit. It seems like time to wrap up but more issues keep getting piled on. One is a scene involving a conflict on the newspaper team. The benefit of this scene is that it shows the best of Mark Ruffalo who gives the most passionate performance among a very fine cast. The downside is that the scene feels like an unnecessary extension to the movie.This movie is rightly being compared to "All the President's Men" as a great journalist story. It can also be compared to the superb Canadian film "The Boys of St. Vincent" (1992) for exposing clergy child abuse. "Spotlight" is a fine film that may not meet all expectations; but it must be given credit for its courage and boldness.


                
As a Roman Catholic, I can safely say that these abusive men are pieces of garbage, and have no place anywhere but Hell. It is also tough to see this type of scandal and take hatred from others that like to group you with these monsters and not be shaken spiritually. That being said, in order for me to get anything out of this movie, I realized that I needed to put myself, and my beliefs, out of the picture. So, as far as unbiased feelings about the film, I thought it was an interesting and different perspective on crime films. Taken from a newspaper's point of view, this has the potential to inspire other artists to create a similar premise in the future. The acting is also very strong, and the screenplay is another solid aspect of this movie.With this in mind, I felt the camerawork, although not bad, was boring and lifeless at times. The film also dragged at points making it feel longer than it actually is. Overall, it has a strong message that can be applied to anybody. That message being to realize that there are bad apples in all organization, and that those we may trust have secrets that could be dangerous to others. Not a mind-blowing film for me, but strong overall. Highly recommend viewing to gain a message from the movie yourself.


                
Wrong to insinuate that the Church has not reformed. The film begins with a brief prologue in 1976. At a Boston Police station, two policemen, a rookie and a veteran officer discuss the arrest of a Catholic priest for molestation of children and the presence of a high ranking cleric talking to the mother of the children. The Assistant District Attorney then enters the precinct and tells the cops not to let the press get wind of what happened. When the rookie remarks how it will be difficult to keep the press away during the arraignment, the veteran scoffs and sarcastically asks "what arraignment?"In 2001, The Boston Globe hires a new editor, Marty Baron. Baron meets Walter "Robby" Robinson, the editor of the Spotlight team, a small group of journalists writing investigative articles that take months to research and publish. After Baron reads a Globe column about a lawyer, Mitchell Garabedian, who says that Cardinal Bernard Law (the Archbishop of Boston) knew that the priest John Geoghan was sexually abusing children and did nothing to stop him, he urges the Spotlight team to investigate. Journalist Michael Rezendes contacts Garabedian, who initially declines to be interviewed. Though he is told not to, Rezendes reveals that he is on the Spotlight team, persuading Garabedian to talk.
'Spotlight' covers a sensitive subject matter, so it was imperative that the story was told with as much consideration as possible for those affected. I found it to be an effective and accurate portrayal of some truly sickening events, with appropriate emphasis on the dialogue and characters. The writers deserve a lot of credit for this.The film makes for compelling viewing and once your hooked, it's difficult to take your eyes off the screen until the film is over. Everything had to be done just right, especially as the shocking revelations were unfolding. It was generally very impressive.'Spotlight' does more than just tell a story. It tells a very difficult one and it does it with dignity. A very well made film.


                
Did the world needed a scandal about child abuse in the Church? Well, definitely not.Did the world needed a film about the uncovering of that scandal? Oh yes, it did. And you should watch it, because this film is going to move you."Spotlight" (2016's Acadamy Award for Best Picture and Best Original Screenplay) is based on a true story. The revelations of the Boston Globe worried the world 15 years ago and shook the Catholic Church to its foundations. The "Spotlight"-team was awarded for the Pulitzer Prize of 2003.But even if you know the story behind that all, you will be surprised and still shocked, by each revelation during this movie, and you will gain much empathy for the investigating journalists.That is thanks to the actors especially. It's no wonder the cast won the Critics' Choice Award for "Best Ensemble" because Mark Ruffalo, Rachel McAdams, Michael Keaton and Brian d'Arcy James totally nailed their characters. Also Liev Schreiber does a great job, as the new editor of the Bosten Globe, who gets the ball of investigation rolling.And to deliver such an acting and such a passion is not easy in a film which is set mostly in the basement: the basement of a newspaper office and in the deepest basement of humanity.Peace.


                
"They knew and they let it happen! It could've been you, it could've been me, it could've been any of us." After watching "Concussion", I wondered how former NFL players would react to this film. After seeing "Spotlight", I asked myself whether the clergy had the courage to see this film or not. And also if lessons were drawn from this. Would the Church restore his original role in society? A haven for believers. Its function as middleman between the divine and the Christians. An institution created as a service for the needy, poor and pious. Or would abuses such as addressed in "Spotlight" simply continue to exist? Because lets admit it. The credits at the end of the film are more horrible than the actual film. It shows that the cited case is only a tip of the iceberg.What's more frightening? Being pursued by a deranged maniac who's wearing a hockey mask and carries a chainsaw? Or being abused by a perverted priest who can't restrain his lust because of a self-imposed celibacy? Perhaps the first is extremely deadly. But the second one causes such a trauma, the victim wishes to encounter such a nut with a chainsaw to release him from his suffering. The things I thoroughly hate are abuse of power, inviolability, breach of trust and covering up criminal offenses by powerful authorities. And that's something common within the church. A little bit too much fooling around with little choirboys? No problem. We'll put you in another parish where you can play shepherd again and watch over some tame sheep. Disgusting."Spotlight" reminded me of "All the President's Men" with a young Dustin Hoffman and Robert Redford playing Carl Bernstein's and Bob Woodward, two Washington Post journalists who published articles about the Watergate scandal. Also a cover-up. But this one happened on a political level. The only result there was the resignation of president Nixon. The ecclesiastical cover-up made lots of victims. "Spotlight" is a dead serious film with a dead serious, nauseating topic. It's admirable that they didn't let it degenerate into an accusatory film that would unleash a veritable witch-hunt. Needless to say, the main roles are played impressively by Michael Keaton, Mark Ruffalo, Rachel McAdams and Liev Schreiber. And for once, I was hoping that Ruffalo would briefly change into that green, muscular monster so he would crush a few clerics to the size of a of a host.More reviews here : http://bit.ly/1KIdQMT


                
This years Academy Award Best Picture line-up was one of the most underwhelming in recent memory, but there was a little cheer when director Tom McCarthy's underdog Spotlight took home the top prize. My personal favourite of the nominees, The Big Short, lost out, and the stand-out film of the year, Inside Out, wasn't even on the list (although it took home the Best Animated Feature), but the lack of truly great films this year doesn't take anything away from Spotlight, which is a riveting little procedural hampered by a surprising emotional distance from the disturbing subject matter.Like most films set amongst the huddled office meetings, desk- thumping and pen-chewing of the newspaper room, Spotlight takes its inspiration from Alan J. Pakula's seminal All the President's Men (1976), and concerns itself solely on the noble efforts of the staff trying to piece together that big story that will change everything. Here, we're at the Boston Globe in 2001, and the newspapers new editor Marty Baron (Liev Schreiber) and almost instantly notices the importance of delving deeper into eccentric lawyer Mitchel Garabedian's (Stanley Tucci) accusation that Cardinal Law (Len Cariou) has covered up the molestation of various children by a priest in their very city.Baron hands the task to Spotlight, a team consisting of 'Robby' Robinson (Michael Keaton), Mike Rezendes (Mark Ruffalo), Sacha Pfeiffer (Rachel McAdams) and Matt Carroll (Brian D'Arcy James), who takes months exhaustively researching their subject matter before publishing their findings. What they uncovered were hundreds of cases in Boston alone of child molestation by priests, and the fact that this was ignored by people in a position to do much more. In fact, some of the most powerful moments come from the revelations that some of the Boston Globe staff sat on the story for years without taking notice of the extent of the abuse. With Operation Yewtree still hitting the headlines here in the UK, the subject of sweeping these kinds of cases under the rug couldn't be more relevant.Spotlight depicts, in breathtaking detail, the work carried out by Robinson and his team to uncover the truth and to obtain the required evidence. Keaton, after last years Birdman, gives another assured performance, and Ruffalo is routinely terrific as the pit- bull Rezendes. Aesthetically, the film cannot be faulted, and McCarthy sticks strictly to the facts. However, the lack of an emotional connection means the film does not induce the kind of anger it really should. Without doubt the movies stand-out scene is Pfeiffer's reaction to a priests blunt response to her equally blunt questioning, and the film should maintain the sort of power and shock this moment inspires, but keeps itself frustratingly distant. Spotlight is still an accomplished piece of work with some sparkling dialogue, and McCarthy hints that he may have found the same form he had with his terrific debut The Station Agent (2003).


                
