It is no secret that I left the Church for many years after they failed to deal with the abuse scandal. Like the Globe personnel, I had no idea of the scope of the problem. I was just angry that those responsible had gotten away with it.The Globe thought this story was worthwhile when they had uncovered 13 priests that abused children. When they discovered it was closer to 90, they were shocked. The eventual number in Boston was 186! This is not surprising when it is estimated that 50% of all priests are not celibate.Mark Ruffalo was amazing in this film, and Rachel McAdams was superb. Neither will likely win awards in a year of fantastic performances, but there is a chance the film may steal an Oscar. It would be a great thing.The film was very difficult for a Catholic to watch, but it was definitely worth it. Unlike the recent documentary, Mea Maxima Culpa, it focused on the Globe and the story, and not the abuse.


                
Relevant, powerful and astonishing. Shocking, criminal and true. These are the only words to describe this film as it has literally put the 'spotlight' on the systematic cover-up by the Catholic Church of mass molestation and sexual assault acts performed by the priests in the Boston archdiocese that were trusted in the communities they represented. These 'men of God' preyed on the weak and vulnerable for years and the most powerful religious sect in the world did nothing but sweep it under the proverbial carpet. 'Spotlight's' dramatic importance has immediately drawn the attention of film lovers who crave a riveting production that dives deep into a very real circumstance that has impacted every corner of the globe.Tom McCarthy could not have been at the helm of a better film and what he has been able to achieve in terms of wrestling the attentions of the audience is worthy of the highest praise. McCarthy, along with Josh Singer have written a gritty story that pulls no punches and it isn't afraid to get right into the heart of the required subject. For 'Spotlight' to have been received by the critics as well as it has it had to stride unapologetically into this unbelievable and sordid affair. It needed to expose the sensitive and controversial information that some people may find confronting but in the context of this outstanding production, absolutely essential. It destroyed lives and revealed the blatant arrogance of this pious organisation.The all star cast jumps right out at you even before the opening scenes are shot up onto the screen. Based on true events, 'Spotlight' pushes all the right buttons from the beginning. As the name implies, 'Spotlight' refers to the investigative journalism team who report for the Boston Globe newspaper. They are thorough, relentless and will stop at nothing to expose headline stories that affect the everyday lives of normal American's. When the new editor, Marty Baron (Liev Schreiber), drops a potentially explosive story in the lap of Spotlight chief, Walter Robinson (Michael Keaton), about allegations of sexual abuse involving the Catholic Church, Robinson and his loyal crew go about uncovering one of the greatest criminal cover-ups in human history. The deeper their investigation goes the more sadistic and shocking the outcome becomes. Fingers are pointed, people are accused and the list of clergy involved becomes larger and larger. The whole situation ceases to become a Boston problem and grows to a worldwide exposure. Rachel McAdams and Mark Ruffalo are part of the investigative team as young committed journalists Sacha Pfeiffer and Mike Rezendes respectively. McAdams performance is award worthy and Ruffalo is fully engaged in a role that matches his talents. Michael Keaton has found his niche in Hollywood as a sort after mentor showcasing another strong performance as the tenacious and hard hitting Robinson. The real 'cherry' in the cast is the presence of the magnificent Stanley Tucci as Mitchell Garabedian who represents the victims in the whole saga. Tucci adds the class that takes 'Spotlight' to another level with an engrossingly accomplished performance.This is the best journalistic drama since 1976's 'All the President's Men'. Tom McCarthy has centred his narrative within the confines of the Boston Globe's newsroom as it should have been. 'Spotlight' doesn't shy away from the true nature of newspaper drama and the audience benefits from such an authentic setting. Top shelf acting from some of the very best young talent sparks the fire that captivates the viewer. Throw in some true icons in Keaton and Tucci and 'Spotlight' has the perfect balance. This film will be classified as the very best in its category and has set a benchmark in terms of confronting realism. Sit back and enjoy.


                
Greetings again from the darkness. Faith. A word that easily could have been the title of this gripping and heart-wrenching film. Faith can be defined as trust and belief. Faith can also be defined as religion and ideology. Few things are more devastating than broken faith <U+0085> the core of this "based on actual events" story of The Boston Globe's exposure of rampant child molestation by dozens of Catholic priests, and the systematic cover-up by "The Church".It's challenging to name a movie that is as well-made as this one, while also being as difficult to watch. We know the story <U+0085> we even know how it snow-balled globally <U+0085> but the raw emotions of disgust and sheer anger permeate much of our being as we watch it unfold on screen. Director Tom McCarthy (The Station Agent, The Visitor) co-wrote the script with Josh Singer (The Fifth Estate) and it's worthy of favorable comparison to other investigative newspaper films like The Insider (1999), Zodiac (2007), and even the granddaddy of them all <U+0085> All The President's Men (1976).The opening scene takes place in a 1976 Boston police station. A priest has been accused of molesting a child. Within a couple of minutes we witness the empty promises, the intimidation, and the cover up. So much is conveyed in this brief opener, not the least of which comes courtesy of the ambivalence of the veteran cop as he shrugs it off as 'just another day' in front of an idealistic rookie cop. This is accompanied by Howard Shore's spot-on score, with the best parts featuring only a piano and bass.Flash forward to 2001 as we meet the investigative journalist team called "Spotlight". It's led by editor Walter "Robby" Robinson (Michael Keaton) and his three reporters: Mike Rezendes (Mark Ruffalo), Sacha Pfieffer (Rachel McAdams), and Matt Carroll (Brian d'Arcy James). They report to Ben Bradlee Jr (John Slattery), whose father was the editor of The Washington Post during the Woodward/Bernstein/Watergate era. New to The Globe is managing editor Marty Baron (Liev Schreiber). Unlike the others, Mr. Baron is neither a Boston local nor a Catholic. In fact, we catch him reading Dan Shaughnessy's book "The Curse of the Bambino", just so he can get a better feel for the community and its people.What is most fascinating about the movie is that it focuses on the investigative aspects – just how diligent the reporters were in putting the story together – and how fluid the process was <U+0085> the story led them, not vice versa. There was no media agenda to "get" the church. Instead, the reporters experienced natural shock as each piece of the puzzle was discovered. One of their key sources was a priest-turned-psychologist (voiced by Richard Jenkins) who helped them put scope to the numbers. Another was Phil Saviano (Neal Huff), the leader of a victim's group, who had tried before to provide documentation to the press. Saviano is the perfect example of how someone so passionate about a cause can be viewed with such skepticism <U+0085> right up to the point when they are proved correct. Three attorneys add perspective to the cover-up. Eric Macleish (Billy Crudup) made a career of settling cases (and silencing victims) for the church. Mitchell Garabedian (Stanley Tucci) is the polar opposite – he fights vigorously to get the victims heard, while Jim Sullivan (Jamey Sheridan) is caught in the middle – settling cases for the church and struggling with his conscience. Other interesting characters include Paul Guilfoyle as Pete Conley, a smooth-talking power-broker for the church, and Len Cariou as Cardinal Law – the man at the top who eventually apologized and was rewarded with a high-ranking position at The Vatican.The film is so well crafted and acted that it features more than a few "best scenes". Sacha has a brief encounter with a former priest on his front door stoop. The priest freely admits to molesting kids and his rationalization will certainly deliver chills to most any viewer. Since this is Boston, it makes perfect sense for the reporters to be so distracted by the story, that it supersedes the Red Sox game they are attending at Fenway Park. Being that the investigation lasted well into 2001, it's quite informative to watch a news agency shift directions for the September 11 tragedy, and along with the nation, put all else on hold. Finally, there is a point in the movie where we as viewers have just about had our fill of extreme emotions – we either need to hit something or throw up – and reporter Rezendes comes through with exactly what is needed: an emotional outburst and release of exasperation rivaling anything previously seen on screen. It's a wonderful moment for Ruffalo as an actor, and a peak moment for viewers.The story hit the front page of The Boston Globe in January 2002. The paper won a Pulitzer Prize in 2003 for its superlative investigative journalism. The report vindicated so many who had been taken advantage of, and exposed the colossal arrogance of the church. The innocence of a child vs the power of God. The story broke the faith that so many once held, and started a global (as evidenced by the closing credits) reckoning and awakening that was desperately needed. The film offers a line of dialogue, "It takes a village to raise a kid <U+0085> or abuse one." In other words, it took the often silent actions of so many to allow this despicably evil horror to continue. In a tribute to the newspaper profession, it took a small group of dedicated reporters to pull back a curtain that should never again be shut. Let's have faith in that.


                
In the past 5+ years, I've read articles about the decline of cinema and the great successes of Television. There's no denying that there have been some wonderful TV/web series in recent years, but I think a film like Spotlight is the refresh button that moviegoers have been looking for. The story is compelling, the acting is unnoticeable, and the script seems to flow the way a real conversation would. The writers and director of this film are the "Spotlight" of filmmaking, opening up a sensitive story that people acknowledged but probably couldn't imagine on screen, and they brought it to us in a way where I felt all the emotions of someone finding out the truth for the first time. I watched Spotlight at the Zürich Film Festival and after 2 hours, thought it ended too soon. The only negative thing I could think of was that those French & German subtitles were really getting in the way. Maybe next time, the director could remove those ;)


                
"Spotlight" is one of the best realistic and serious movies of recent years. I don't want to tell the story, as you will watch it soon or later, but I want to admire the movie and the content itself. Instead of falling into the stereotypical hero and anti-hero type of movies, the movie narrates the story with realistic characters, sensual REALISTIC emotions and incredibly depicts the integrity and handwork of the Boston Globe investigation team. The acting of Mark Ruffalo and Michael Keaton are great. Finally, the movie does not fall into the category of twisty blockbusters but a realistic movie about an important subject that anyone will admire.


                
Garnered awards and horrifying subject matter put aside, take a look at the movie poster for "Spotlight". It's a still image of the principal cast hovered over a cluttered desk in a small room. It's not flashy, but still an incredibly effective piece of advertising. You know in an instant that this is a journalism movie; die-hards in rolled-up shirtsleeves working all hours to unearth a national scandal. I am an absolute sucker for this.The scandal herein is the systemic cover-up of pederasty within the Catholic Church. To that end (even though a lot of the dialogue in this movie is come-from-behind startling), one line in particular jumped out at me: "They say it's just physical abuse but it's more than that, this was spiritual abuse. You know why I went along with everything? Because priests are supposed to be the good guys." This isn't just a story about the crimes committed, but there's also sensitivity towards the victims themselves. I dunno, I just found that line deeply unnerving.But when all is said and done, this movie runs on the grueling nuts-and-bolts detective work of investigative journalism; a uniformly excellent cast, great writing and tension that continues to build.Amazing stuff.9/10


                
After watching Spotlight yesterday, I felt heartbroken, disgusted and furious. The topic, plot and dialogues built around them are amazingly good, but what's this movie's strongest point still remains remarkable acting of fantastic assembly cast - from Keaton and Ruffalo, to Huff and Creighton.My opinion about Thomas McCarthy was fairly split. Although he had done some pretty good ("The Visitor", "The Station Agent"), but also some average ("Win Win", "Million Dollar Arm") and even bad ("The Cobbler") movies, he had only directed 5 of them before "Spotlight", so I was inclined not to prejudge. Before watching the movie I've heard some pretty good comments about how he dealt with directing, and I have to say that he did pretty fair job with it. His and Singer's job as screenwriters, however, was done remarkably. It is one of those scripts where you can notice writers weren't afraid to be progressive, to input lots of names, events and different speaking styles to make it more realistic, active and suspenseful. You can definitely notice Singer has previously worked on lots of Crime TV series, as the script unravels in very thrilling, climatic way it usually happens in Crime TV shows.On the other hand, acting was just superb. I think this movie should serve as a benchmark for all the well-acted movies that are yet to come. I believe that, if Academy was to nominate 10 supporting actors this year, all 4 of them - Keaton, Ruffalo, Tucci and Schreiber would've gotten a nod. Sadly, beside Rylance ("Bridge of Spies"), Stallone ("Creed"), Elba ("Beasts of no Nation"), Shannon ("99 Homes") and young Tremblay ("Room"), I can hardly see more than Keaton and Ruffalo in that race. I also think Rachel McAdams does a pretty good job as an only female Spotlight reporter. In fact, her "interrogation" scenes with Keaton tie with Ruffalo's amazing "It could've been you, it could've been me, it could've been any of us" monologue for the best scenes of, not just the movie, but maybe even the whole year.To be honest, Spotlight is no Birdman, but it is still the greatest drama of the year. It's a very clever movie, with immensely important topic and near-perfect dialogues, crafted both by amazing actors and great screen writing. If "The Revenant", "Joy" or "Hateful Eight" don't prove to be better, this is the movie I will root for during the Oscar night.Movie rating: 8.9/10 My "Best Movies of 2015" list: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls031061874/ My "Best Movies Ever Made" list: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls072746304/


                
I remember when this story broke back in 2002. It quickly became a huge story that spread all around the globe. As unthinkable as it seemed in the beginning, the mountain of evidence that built up, not only in Boston, but the rest of the world, showed everyone that people we trust, people we see as friends and guardians, have sexually abused children by the thousands.This happens right there, right in front of us. Powerful people know about it, and powerful people help covering it up. Lawyers, police, politicians, journalists, priests, u name it.It is absolute horror, and a story that needs to be told and understood. For how can this even be possible?. We live in what we call modern societies, where no one is left alone, where everyone has rights, where everyone will get help if needed. But this world did not exist for the children that are victims of this conspiracy.It is almost ironical that 9/11 happens right in the center of this story, and that the story is about people not paying attention, about people not doing what is needed to seek out the truth, especially to respect the victims of these crimes.Can conspiracies truly happen on such large scales?. Without "anyone" knowing about it?. Yes, it can. And even worse, people that we trust and believe in cover it up, and try to hide the truth.Thousands upon thousands of children abused, systematically, for years, by hundreds of priests, all over the world. Children. Our children. On our watch.This is a strong film, actually the best film i have seen this year, with "The Big Short" as number two. Which also show how a corrupt system works behind our backs, taking what we own, only to get richer and more powerful themselves.Who is the system?. It starts to look like our leaders and our masters, our politicians, who we elect, all are a part of a corrupt system, that works together, and that we, normal people are being farmed, so to speak. Is what I'm saying far fetched? I bet more and more people start to understand that this might be true, but to explain how it works, is very very difficult.The film explains how the Boston globe started out investigating one priest, and then just to reveal more and more cases, more victims, and then connecting child abuse to more and more priest. And as the story grows, the horror becomes real. It is a remarkable script, and the direction is steadfast.All actors in this film gives rock solid and some really remarkable performances, but my hats off to Mark Ruffalo. Again we see him at the top of his game, he is so good at what he does, i believe every second of what he delivers. Just like in "Zodiac" and "Foxcatcher" to mention a few.This movie got Oscar for best motion picture a few days ago, well deserved, and it also got the Oscar for best screenplay. As i also predicted, but not giving best supporting actor to Mark Ruffalo, was not the right decision IMO.See this movie everyone, it is an outstanding film, with very few flaws. It is a film that grips you the very first minute, and never lets go. It's a story about crimes we could not even dream of, not in the world we live in. And it needs to be told, understood and retold. Again and again and again.9/10 - Very Good


                
All in all it's a compelling piece of work from McCarthy, perhaps his best to date. Spotlight is a zippy and mightily distracting film. Performances are all excellent. "Spotlight" tackles a big, true and important story which really does deserve to be told. An admirable job of telling the events as they truly happened, showing the viewer the key players and how they investigated this devastating case, from the beginning to the end. No matter how close to the truth the story is, the fact is that everything is perfectly compelling. The thing that most people will be likely to remember is that the vents are gripping, forcing the audience to be glued to the screen. "Spotlight" does tell an important story and for its two-hour runtime, the film is perfect.


                
Despite the quality of this film, the disturbingly tragic topic makes this film hard to watch. The ensemble cast is brilliant and the pacing kept a somewhat complicated and slow story very interesting. It's hard to make people talking on the phone and collating data exciting but Tom McCarthy pulled it off though he usual fare is comedy. This is one of the best films of the year and an important one.In a crowded film, Mark Ruffalo stood out as Mike Rezendes, the intrepid reporter who hassled the lawyer of several abuse victims Mitchell Garabedian played by a somber Stanley Tucci. Ruffalo did a great job getting into character and distancing himself from his more popular role as the Incredible Hulk. A speech he gives at the end is one of the most moving in the film. Michael Keaton as delivered a strong performance as the conflicted Boston native Walter Robinson. He didn't match his award snubbed performance in Birdman but he nailed the Boston accent and the emotional turmoil the investigation caused.For more of this review and others, check out swilliky.com
Spotlight is a great movie and it's a powerful movie. I hope that everyone sees it if only to reinforce the harsh reality that there are evil, corrupt, and powerful people in the world who use that power to increase that power, instilling fear and pain in the meek and poor.Every scene builds exactly as it must, step by step, increasing in the shocking revelation that not only were some Boston priests getting away with child rape for decades, but a lot of people knew it. Worse yet, the people who had the power to stop it didn't because no one had the guts to stand up to the power or majesty of the church. Indeed, even the reporters at the Boston Globe had to face that even they botched several early chances to stop the abuse, but either the truth seemed too shocking to be real, or their own religious beliefs closed their eyes to reality.Given the global scope of the child rape scandal, it shocks me that anyone with a strong religious belief could remain an active member in the Catholic church. Possibly the most shocking moment comes just before the end credits, when we briefly see pages of cities in America where rape scandals occurred, then pages of cities around the world where rape scandals occurred.Michael Keaton is good, but not as inspired as in Birdman. Mark Ruffalo has a good yell to inspire Oscar tremors. Actually, everyone is very good in the movie, especially Stanley Tucci as the misunderstood grump with a heart of gold, and even Liev Schreiber, who plays a man with no emotion about as well as anyone could. The actors portraying the victims do excellent jobs as well, never letting terror or discomfort overcome the need to tell their stories.There's only one scene that seemed off: a little halfway through, a group from the Spotlight team are in the basement archives, and Michael Keaton doesn't have his reading glasses , so he awkwardly states he can't read without his reading glasses. That's a goofy insert at an awkward time, and could have been handled much more fluidly. Other than that, this is surely a must-see of 2015.


                
Spotlight is a remarkably well-written and phenomenally acted film that tells a shocking and disturbing true story that just floored me. First of all, I went into this film not really knowing anything. I knew it involved the Boston Globe, that there was some sort of scandal with the Catholic Church, and that it takes place in the early 2000's. That's all I knew, and as the film unfolded before me, and revealed bit by bit of it's amazing, astonishing story, I was completely blown away by how incredible the writing and acting in this film was. Tom McCarthy both wrote and directed this film, and he did a phenomenal job on both ends. What he did when writing this screenplay is that he didn't make the reporters who are working on this case heroes. He made them who they truly are; reporters who care about their jobs, who care about the story, who care about justice being served to the right people. He makes them incredibly human, and through this, these characters become very relatable to the people who watch this film.A lot of the way that Spotlight tells its story is so subdued to the point of brilliance. Sure, this is an Oscar movie, but there really aren't any "Oscar scenes" in this movie, save for one scene in which a character has an outburst of sorts. These actors are really holding back their dramatic chops in this film. For example, when you here bad news, do you throw a chair against a wall and go into a temper tantrum? No. In this film, as this case builds, and builds, and builds to the point where you're amazed that this is a true story, the characters in this film simply shake their head, sit back, and say things that actual people would say, like "Oh my goodness," or "Wow<U+0085> This is not good." It's truly riveting stuff.The entire cast in this film is spectacular. Rachel McAdams, John Slattery, Brian d'Arcy James, and Stanley Tucci all do great work. Liev Schreiber is great in this movie as the new editor-in-chief at the Globe, and I loved seeing him in a more restrained dramatic role that I'm not accustomed to seeing him in. Michael Keaton is terrific in this movie, and I'm so glad that Birdman wasn't just a fluke for his career resurgence. He is truly subdued, and brilliant in this film. However, Mark Ruffalo is the standout in this film. He gives one of the best performances of his career in this film, and the voice he has in the movie really works with his character to the point where I didn't even see Mark Ruffalo. And honestly, that statement pretty much goes for every single actor/actress in this film, and that's because the story and the characters are so well-realized. And when you have well-known actors disappearing into their roles to the point where you don't recognize them, that deserves praise.Spotlight is one of the best films of the year, and it deserves nothing less than that.


                
The world is filled with secrets. Everybody have their own, but usually they are quite small and do not interfere with others. However, this can only be applicable to ordinary mortals. When an important man or even a big institution are involved, things get ugly before they get beautiful. Nowadays we have plenty examples to support that, and when a well intention guy or group try to dive into this deep waters, things usually become disagreeable.Spotlight is one of these cases. The story here is about a true story of how a research journalist group named Spotlight, working for the Boston Globe, uncovered the massive scandal of child molestation and cover-up within the local Catholic Archdiocese, shaking the entire Catholic Church to its core, the Vatican. Although the majority of the young people are not well familiar with this scandal, it really shacked and shocked everyone and had repercussions beyond the expectations. Therefore, some courage is needed to direct a story of this magnitude. So, and thinking that the film was extremely well produced, I would like to underline the amazing job of the Director Tom McCarthy. He really did it! This incredible and complex true story is properly treated in this movie, with all the sequence making sense, guiding us throw the complexity of the research made by these brave guys. Complex in every matters, because it involved pure journalism, intricate laws, important people, huge institutions. And Tom McCarthy presented all in a very simple way that make us understand everything from the beginning until the end without missing a bit. This movie is really about the story and everything is there!Regarding the actors' performance not much can be said, once the brilliance of the movie relies on the story itself, so all the credits should be attributed to the team who have written and directed the movie. However, if someone must be mentioned, Mark Ruffalo (Mike Rezendes) is that guy. He is one of the journalists involved in the research for the Boston Globe and slowly get into the subject and began to be slightly affected about it. Actually, all the team, began to demonstrate signs of disturbed behavior as the research proceeds, which is quite normal regarding the atrocity that they were exposing. He is one of the main stones of the group and is responsible for a few interesting scenes. His character evolves in the movie and Mark really manages to convey all the interior pain that he is feeling.With all that said I have scored this brilliant movie with a 9/10 because it really captured one of the most controversial scandals of all time. Besides all the time passed, this could be a story of today once a lot of speculation still exists. Incredible job for everyone but as I have said, this is a movie that depends exclusively of the story without any shining performance. However, it will capture all your attention during the entire time. I truly recommended it.


                
I went to this movie not expecting much of anything. I had no real opinion either way about the subject nor the film itself. I left completely moved by the power of this story and the sadness of these events. The most moving part of this film is afterward when the screen goes black. The next thing shown are three full screens full of a list. I will not say more. Go see this film. The actors do a fantastic job of telling this story and the power of the events surrounding Boston in 2001. I was in the film and was sitting next to a women that could not hide her emotions and afterward I was unable to keep mine in check. To imagine the things that happened and had been happening surrounding the Catholic Church for decades and decades.


                
I'm not the first person to say this, but Spotlight probably is the best journalism movie since All the President's Men. It starts with Martin Baron (Liev Schreiber), who plays the new editor of the Boston Globe, catching on to a potentially explosive story that nobody seems to be covering in great detail – the sexual molestation of young boys by Catholic clergy. So he assigns the Globe's "spotlight" team to the story – a close-knit group of journalists who uncover the biggest scandals in Boston. Michael Keaton leads the team consisting of Mark Ruffalo, Rachel McAdams, and a few others as they delve into one of the most important journalism investigations of our time. The execution of Spotlight is what really made it the best picture winner at the Oscars. The way it delves into the journalistic process – the countless interviews, the research, piecing things together with scant evidence until you get the smoking gun – that's what keeps you watching this movie. A journalism investigation is not exactly something you think would hold your attention for two hours, but it does. It is also a very tightly edited film – each scene moves the story forward and not a moment is wasted or excessive. What I especially admire about Spotlight is its low key feel and humble nature. It celebrates the value of investigative reporting while acknowledging that journalists really dropped the ball by not pursuing this story sooner. It gives this serious issue the importance it deserves while asking the question – why did it take people, particularly journalists, so long to act? All of the pieces were there for them to put together. Could they have done something sooner? And it does all this with very few manipulative, Oscar baity moments. It lets the story stand for itself. Spotlight is a triumph of good story telling with little flash or style, and there's nothing wrong with that.


                
With 'The Hateful Eight' being my favourite film of 2015, it's pretty obvious that I enjoy dialogue-driven movies which showcase true talent... and thankfully, 'Spotlight' is one of those movies. This film arrived at a perfect time - with the internet slowly killing off print media and people forgetting about the significance of investigative journalism, Tom McCarthy reminds us that real news can have a massive impact in the corrupted world we live in. Watching 'Spotlight' at the cinema restored my faith in the current state of the film industry - alongside all the reboots and mindless action flicks, important works of art are still being created and distributed across the world, and I am truly glad I had the chance to support this film.'Spotlight' tells the true story of how the Boston Globe uncovered the scandal of child molestation and cover-up within the local Catholic Archdiocese, but it also explores the painful trauma of those unfortunate victims and the sheer determination of some amazing journalists to get those voices heard and make things right. It's one of those riveting stories that keep you on the edge of your seat simply through a great script and stellar performances; Mark Ruffalo amazed me in particular with his energetic and captivating performance, and even two lesser-known actors (Michael Cyril Creighton and Jimmy LeBlanc) portraying two of the victims managed to impress me quite a lot in their short yet emotionally powerful roles. In short, the casting for this film was perfect - each actor gave their best and worked off the expertly written script wonderfully.On the technical side of things, the film doesn't exactly "impress", the camera work isn't anything special - simple shots with simple compositions creating and showing what's necessary, and that's okay. The film doesn't need to be visually impressive, it needs to be coherent and represent the story in an appropriate manner... which is what it achieves. If I had to pick out a negative aspect, it would have to be the soundtrack - it's somewhat typical, simplistic and it enters the film way too often, generally making some of the transitions feel either awkward or forced. But that's it, that's the only flaw I could think of in this otherwise magnificent piece of cinema. 'Spotlight' is not just an impressive achievement, it's an important film that needs to be seen by everyone, which is why I'm giving it a solid 9,2/10.


                
What's unique and extraordinary about "Spotlight" is that you never feel as if you're viewing a film. You feel you're watching real- life journalists uncover the greatest sex-abuse scandal in American history. Tom McCarthy's "Spotlight" is about the journalism heroes at the Boston Globe who told the disturbing true story of how the Catholic Church covered up the wide-scale rape and sexual assault of young kids all over the entire world. The scary thing is that the Boston Globe thought it was just in Boston that this sickening trend was occurring in, but later discovered it was all over the world, being covered up by the Vatican. Tom McCarrthy crafts this win of non-fiction perfectly, giving you the daily lives of the investigative journalists who broke the silence and did the reporting. Michael Keaton, Mark Ruffalo, Liev Schrieber and Rachel McAdams all give amazing performances that feel so authentic and so real. Each actor studied their real life characters to the most specific detail, and the result is the absence of actors and the bringing to life of real people who did extraordinary things. "Spotlight" is a disturbing story, but a story that needs to be told, and exposes a horrible story of abuse.


                
How far would you go to uncover the dark secrets of the world's largest institute? The Roman Catholic Church a place where people go to find peace and comfort is now tainted with allegations of priest's molesting and raping young boys and girls. In this captivating drama that is based on true events it is up to a team of news reporters to uncover the truth behind it all. I really enjoyed this movie even though going into it I had no idea what it was going to be about. The way "Spotlight" is set up is incredibly done and it leaves you feeling dumbstruck because you would have never guessed the outrages actions people did to cover this scandal up. Like I said I had no idea what the plot of this movie was and at the beginning of this movie I could tell this was going to be a very serious. As this movie progressed, I was constantly shocked, surprised, and floored by a remarkably well written, directed, and acted film. This movie truly blew me away. "Spotlight" is very subdued in a lot of ways, the movie doesn't make the news reporters look like heroes but rather look like actual news reporters who love their job and just want the truth of this scandal to reach the public. The fact that this is based on a true story is absolutely incredible. "Spotlight" directed by Tom McCarthy and with great Hollywood stars like Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, Mark Ruffalo and Liev Schreiber "Spotlight" hit the big screen in November 2015. In 2001, editor of the Boston Globe Marty Baron (Liev Schreiber) assigns a team of journalist to investigate allegations against a priest named John Geoghan, who was accused of molesting over 80 boys in the city of Boston. Led by editor Walter "Robby" Robinson (Michael Keaton), who runs a team of reporters such as Michael Rezendes (Mark Ruffalo) and Sachas Pfeiffer (Rachel McAdams), interview the rape victims of these priest and uncover sensitive information that would relieve the truth of what is really going on within the Roman Catholic Church. These brave reporters make is their mission to find proof that there is a cover-up of sexual abuse of girls and boys by the priest that are said to make these children feel safe within the Roman Catholic Church. No matter how many obstacles these reporters faced nothing would stop them from uncovering the truth. "Spotlight" is a film that is so well acted and directed that as you watch it you almost forget that you are actually watching a film, you feel like it is a documentary. The story is so well told that you truly feel these true events are happening right before your eyes despite the fact you know you are looking at Michael Keaton and you know he played Batman or the fact that Mark Ruffalo is the Hulk. Michael Keaton is fantastic in this film and the performance he delivers is absolutely breathtaking with his snarky remarks and straight forward attitude. But the one scene that really tugged on my heart strings was when Mark Ruffalo's character, wanting to publish the story early because he knew that this injustice in the Catholic Church needed to be put in the light but Michael Keaton's characters knew that waiting was the right call because the team still needed more informations to truly take this institute down. Ruffalo's heart warming speech was so well acted it truly had me feel his emotions right through the screen. This film truly excels in making the audience feel for these victims and the reporters trying to get their stories out there. With amazing performances from all of the cast and a great director behind the chair this movie truly is worth watching. I highly recommend this movie to anyone who wants to know the truth of how real journalism works and that it is a tough job as any. This film is definitely for a more mature audience and I wouldn't recommend it for children but showing this film to a child would teach them a valuable lesson and that is the world is a dark and scary place but you shouldn't be afraid to seek the truth.


                
First of all, This movie is one of 2015 TOP movies and one of the best movies concerned with The Press work. Talking about very sensitive subject for the American community and was a real shock for most of the world which child molestation by some Priest and the Church's tries to cover this up.The movie was very interesting and introduced the subject in a very thrilling way in a subject that may seem "how would they make a great movie from that?" and the credit for that returns to the writers of this masterpiece.During this movie you will feel disgusted and fooled many times and you wish you weren't born in this world. How on earth this is happening !! But this is our world and we have to face it, we are here so face it. Enjoy the movie, Enjoy your life but just don't shut up and make yourself blind because it could have been you or your child, that's what this movie is saying to us.I loved the movie a lot and my rating is 9/10.


                
Spotlight is a drama film starring Michael Keaton, Mark Ruffalo, Rachel McAdams and Liev Schreiber. Based on the true story of the Boston Globe's uncovering of child sex abuse by Catholic priests, it is one of the best acted dramas I have ever seen. It is a damning and shocking look at the hypocrisy of one of the world's biggest religious organisations and the people who were brave enough to expose them.In early 2001, the Boston Globe's group of investigative journalists, known as "Spotlight", work tirelessly around the clock to uncover the recent child molestation cover-ups involving priests at the local Catholic Churches. During their research, the group discover that these cover-ups may go back even further than they had originally thought, even to the Vatican itself.Well acted and well-written, Spotlight handles its dark subject matter very carefully. It would have been easy to exaggerate the heroic nature of the group of journalists but instead they are shown as regular people who want nothing more than a sense of justice. The cast were all fantastic, Mark Ruffalo in particular gives one of the best performances of his career as Michael Rezendes, as do Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams and Liev Schreiber.I rate it 8.5/10.


                
Cardinal Law: '<U+0085>.A city flourishes when great institutions stand and together.'Marty Barton: '<U+0085>Personally I'm of the opinion that for a paper to best perform its function, it really needs to stand alone.'This really sets the tone for Spotlight, a hard hitting movie about how the Boston Globe uncovered the massive scandal single handed-ly about child molestation within the local Catholic Archdiocese. This is how great stories are told and more importantly this is how true stories are told. The movie is not easy to watch, not even for normal people but especially for children and adults who have gone through series of rapes and molestation by people they trust the most, people who are messengers of God. And the numbers are not small – the list of geographies and states the movie states at the end show you how deeply entrenched this problem is.The movie does not try to sensationalize this subject, exactly how journalism is supposed to be conducted. It somehow reminded me of Zodiac (2007), a true story which became a great movie. The depth of the research and the portrayal of characters is simply outstanding. I have been reading about the making of this movie and its great that actors like Mark Ruffalo and Michael Keaton are humble enough to get into their characters and learn from the actual people they are portraying. Just shows the discipline with which some movies are made. Liev Schreiber has a smaller role but he portrays the intensity of the real Marty Barton really solidly – Marty Barton must have had such clarity of thought to believe that it is the system that needs to be addressed, not the individual people who committed these crimes.It also shows how faith comes crashing down, how painful it is to know that the people you think are the holiest are just as human as anybody else out there. It shows how frightened a society is, especially when it comes to uncovering something that everybody knows about but haven't done a thing about.Its these small, humanizing factors that makes Spotlight what it is. It is brilliantly directed, the editing is tight and the movie keeps you on edge while dealing with a very sensitive topic. Its got 6 Oscar nominations and I am definitely rooting for Mark Ruffalo. I like the way he can play this puppy-dog-romantic and also act with intensity that really makes you believe in that character.


                
I saw this movie before the Oscar winners were announced. I wasn't particularly attracted to it, as although the subject matter sounded interesting, I was fearful that it might be a rather plodding film – about journalists slowly uncovering a scandal that is no longer as shocking as it was back in 2001.(Indeed, does anything shock us anymore?)As with Brooklyn, I couldn't have been more wrong.In many ways, this is an old-fashioned type of film and brings to mind similar films such as "All The Presidents Men". Spotlight, is a well-made, thoroughly professional film that was a joy to watch. It relates the true events of The Boston Globe's investigative reporting unit, who uncovered widespread abuse of children by catholic priests in the Boston diocese. Even more, it uncovered the indefensible and disgraceful cover-ups by senior clergy – in particular, the head of the archdiocese, Cardinal Bernard Law – in order to protect the perpetrators and the 'good name' of their church.Spotlight was the title of the Boston Globe's four-person unit that went into battle against the powerful catholic establishment.They came under enormous pressure from those on high to cease and desist.The film traces events back to the very start of the investigation when there weren't even enough facts to make a publishable story. Later, when it became clear that there was indeed a verifiable story which involved a single abusive priest; the editor refused to publish the story until they had uncovered the whole sorry mess. It was only after the Spotlight team succeeded in gaining access to hitherto court protected documents that they were able to blow the scandal wide open. As soon as their story was published, hundreds more victims of abuse came forward to give their own stories of abuse at the hands of Catholic priests in the Boston area.One priest alone was revealed to have raped or molested 130 children for decades while Cardinal Law moved him around to different churches rather than going to the authorities and having him charged. Cardinal Law also orchestrated secret settlements for claims of abuse made against at least seventy of his priests, in which families were paid to keep silent about the molestation and rape of their children. The cardinal resigned after the story became public, but two years later he was promoted to a prestigious position in the Vatican by Pope John Paul.Since the Spotlight's gritty exposition in 2002, the mass sexual abuse of children has been uncovered in the Catholic Church – not only throughout the United States but all over the world.The tight paced direction, the great music score, and the brilliant ensemble acting by Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, Liev Schreiber, John Slattery – and especially Mark Ruffalo – have all made this a film well worth watching. I promise you won't be disappointed.Along with most people, I was fully expecting The Revenant to get the nod for Best Picture, and I actually cheered out loud when they announced the most coveted Oscar of all went to Spotlight. It deserved it.
I was astonished by this film. It is so rare that I see a film that is so competently directed. The entire production was outstanding. Great writing, for adults. How refreshing is that. I admit, I made the huge mistake of seeing The Divergent: Allegiant, the day before, which was horrendously bad. So, I was so relieved to view a good film with an adult plot. It is an important story, and the film captures the suspense and the sense that these guys were onto something big. Michael Keaton is just getting better. This is perhaps the best performance I have seen from Mark Ruffalo, in some time. And he is a great actor. Rachel McAdams, and Live Schreiber were also great. As well as Stanley Tucci, John Slattery, and Billy Crudup. The exteriors in Boston were authentic, as well as the interiors at the newspaper. It reminded me of the days when newspapers were an important part of daily life. And that was not long ago. I highly recommend this film, as long as you are not a big fan of Transformers, and Fast 7. Wow. This is a relatively rare occasion Hollywood gets it right. Nice to see they are still interested in, and capable of making films for adults.


                
Spotlight, the four person team working for the Boston Globe, investigates into the repeated acts of priests sexually abusing children over the course of 30 years, resulting in the unfolding of hidden secrets that this team desperately determined to reveal.Compelling, investing, and brilliantly detailed account of a story that people tried to hide for so long. This film goes into so much detail about the emotional distress, the determination from the team, the struggle with the legal system in getting the truth out, etc. The ensemble cast is well picked out, with everybody doing a great job. Mark Ruffalo and Rachel Mcadams both give Oscar worthy performances, and Michael Keaton was surprisingly amazing, showing that Birdman was not a one time hit for him.For a touchy subject matter like this, It's really risky to put it out there, as some people (including the Academy) don't like films with uncomfortable topics. This film handled it so perfectly and so maturely that it deserves every bit of credibility. It's very historically accurate, resisting the temptation to make the main characters out to be superheroes that save the day, but instead just portrays them as people simply doing their jobs, which is what this movie does. It doesn't go out of its way to blow itself up bigger than it is, or try to establish any bit of greater importance, it simply does its job, and does it great. It is completely airtight, there is no fat on this film whatsoever. Every scene is escalating the plot further in some way, and is packed full of the meat of the story, which I savored every little bit of.Tightly written, tightly edited, tightly acted, and tightly directed, this is a unique and impressive quality film that will inspire you until the end.


                
There are two genres of modern-day cinema that are strictly American: the courthouse drama and the journalism one. Why? Because what they work with are the true powers #3 and #4 in America, absolutely on par with the legislative and executive ones. I realize that democracy and separation of powers is not owned or copyrighted by the United States, but only there we seem to have a system where judges can - and sometimes successfully do - defy presidents and the press can break careers of the government officials of a highest rank. I don't think i love America all too much, but these are the things that America can - and should - be respected all around the globe. Still, something is rotten in the state of Denmark, and to make things right it's not enough to simply be a power - you have to actually use it sometimes to enforce that the good remains good and the evil is eradicated.Spotlight is a story of one case of such struggle. And this time it's not just Good vs Evil, it's about the evil that comes from the roots of the good itself. Because the way the film shows it, the Catholic Church is an alias for God himself for a great many people in America, and the problem of child molestation by Catholic priests is more than just a rare case of "a few bad apples", it's a widespread phenomenon, a tendency, a real system.Of course, a journalism drama movie is mostly defined by the topic it covers, so it could be tempting to put the equals sign between the quality of a movie and the importance of the topic. However, it would be an understatement. A good movie is more than just a summary of the story, it's a drama (or even a tragedy) of simple people involved in it. And through their eyes we get to see what could be a dry text in an encyclopedia book as something living, vivid and emotionally disturbing. Something that we take personal.And that's where Spotlight really shines. What we are shown is not just the facts - which, i'm sure, most of us have known (at least to some extent) for a long time - but the way those facts hit the real people living in the same world the story belongs to. Facts that hit people like a hammer hits things: some of them break, some get bent and crooked and some remain straight and pierce the reality around them to make a difference. The team of investigative journalists from the Spotlight section of The Boston Globe is a pack of those straight things: no matter what pressure is put on them by the story they uncover, no matter how personal it ends up to be, their top priority is to serve the public good.What makes the story of Spotlight stand out is that the public is not completely aware of what is good for it. The Catholic Church is not an enemy people wanna fight, it's something that gives you faith, a ground to stand upon when the world around is shaking, but then starts corrupting all the good things it's done, leaving people confused, emptied and destroyed.It's one thing to just tell about those horrible devastating things. It's a completely different one to make you feel something about it. And to give you more than a one-dimensional sense of shame or anger or disappointment, but instead to fill you with a stinging cocktail of them all, is a task only a master can accomplish. And i believe that the team that made Spotlight had such masters in it.I believe that it was the characters and their portrayal by actors that made a difference. They are just a team of journalists and a couple lawyers doing their job. But at the same time it's not just a job for them. It's a personal stance. And each of them has different feelings because of it. Mark Ruffalo's character is energetic and angry, a true Hulk of a reporter (maybe even more believable as one than in Avengers or anywhere else), Rachel McAdams' characters brings soothing compassion only her face and voice are capable to convey. Stanley Tucci gives us an outsider with limited power who still tries to do the right thing. And Michael Keaton and Liev Schreiber show us the people who finally try to cha(lle)nge something that was neglected for way too long and go all-in while doing it. One by one, these characters don't seem like much special, but united by one thirst for justice, they become a force capable of making a major change.I can't say that Spotlight breaks the confines of its genre. Even with Michael Keaton in it, it's no Birdman, and it can't simply fly away from all the rules set for it. Still, it's a movie that tries its best not to be a cliché fest, and for a story that's bound by the facts it's based on, it has a surprising amount of freedom in it. So if you even remotely enjoy movies where people talk about complex things more than they yell or throw punches, give this one a try.


                
