What is about mathematical geniuses that get the critics juices flowing ? A BEAUTIFUL MIND wasn`t up to much in my opinion ( FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING deserved the Oscar that year ) while GOOD WILL HUNTING had several awards lavished on it undeservedlyFirst off is the script . When I attended film school I was told GOOD WILL HUNTING is a very good example on how not to start a script and the tutor was right . This movie lacks any type of opening hook and for the most part it`s very very slow . If you wrote an unsolicited script like this the script reader would have given up on it by page 15Structure aside the idea of a member of the American underclass being some sort of intellectual god doesn`t really ring true . Ask yourself this : If he`s the cleverst character in the movie how come he`s gone through his short life without anyone noticing his abilities ? Not one single teacher from his childhood noticed his gift ? Highly unlikely as is the fact he`s read so much mind expanding litrature . And if Will`s so clever how come he`s so oblivous of what happens to young good looking boys in American prisons ?But it`s the casting that let much of the film down . You want to get a couple of actors to play rough tough Irish gang members ? Let`s get Matt Damon and Ben Affleck which is like getting Russell Crowe to play a pacifist or Charles Bronson to play a liberal do gooder . I failed to be convinced by the foul mouthed Damon and Affleck as they strutted about smacking people in the chops and couldn`t help thinking that even though they wrote the script the parts should have been awarded to different actors , after all Billy Bob Thornton has written screenplays for films he hasn`t been cast in and the same criteria should have been applied hereThere are some good points to the movie . Robin Williams is excellent as the man who tries to show Will his potential and also very good is Stellan Skarsgard who is quite simply one of the greatest character actors to stepped foot outside of Europe and despite my previous criticism of the script there is quite a moving piece of dialogue at the park as Williams character explains to Will what he has seen in lifeBut I`ve got to repeat that there`s less plus points than negatives to this movie and I`ve got to agree with the people who`ve said GOOD WILL HUNTING is boring and unconvincing


                
I got dragged to see this movie and i knew i was in trouble in the first few minutes of the film. A seemingly average guy working as a janitor is really a gifted, brilliant, but troubled young man.I hated this stupid movie so much, that i hoped Damon's character in Saving Private Ryan would be captured by the germans and tortured to death.


                
"Good Will Hunting" was written by and stars Matt Damon and Ben Affleck in 1997.  At the time, Matt was 26 and Affleck, 25.  Their young ages are reflected in the movie which is "sophomoric" and totally lacking in depth.WARNING: THERE MAY BE SMALL SPOILERSWill Hunting is a twenty year old mathematics genius who works as a janitor at M.I.T. in Boston and has severe psychological problems as a result of abusive adoptive parents.  In one scene at the beginning of the movie he almost beats a former high school student colleague to death.  At this point I wanted to stop watching the movie. The beating was disgusting.Will solves mathematical problems with the same ease that the average guy solves crossword puzzles but his psychological problems are an obstacle to utilizing his genius. I shall say no more about the plot except that, as expected from a sophomoric project, the ending is predictable and even banal.The movie won a number of awards including the Oscar for Best Screenplay (Ben Affleck and Matt Damon) and the Oscar for Best Supporting Actor (Robin Williams). In my humble opinion, the awards were a reflection of the appreciation by the movie industry that two inexperienced guys, Damon and Affleck, could pull off a full-length feature film and were not a reflection of any inherent quality in the movie.  Robin Williams was much better in "Dead Poets Society" and in "Fischer King" but didn't win any oscar for these performances.Further evidence of the immaturity that so typifies this movie is the fact that the supporting cast were all chosen from family and friends:  Skylar, Will Hunting's girl friend, is played by Minnie Driver who he was dating at the time.  Furthermore, Hunting's screen-friends are played by Casey Affleck, Ben Affleck's brother, and by a personal friend, Cole Hauser. Neither of these screen-friends add anything to the movie.The production crew of Will Hunting is professional and the final product is slick.  If you need to spend a quiet afternoon or evening watching a thoroughly forgettable movie then this is for you.
This is undeniably a character-driven film, and I'm sure I would have enjoyed it much more if the eponymous character was a little more realistic. Matt Damon clearly knew he would be playing Will Hunting- he and co-writer Ben Affleck crafted a self-indulgent character that actors dream about. First of all, he's great looking.  Secondly, he's wild and rebellious. Thirdly- and best of all- he's a genius!  Any flaws in the character are created only to give Damon opportunity to display himself as an actor. Robin Williams is totally uninteresting- how'd he get an Oscar?  And Minnie Driver- why is this woman an actress?  Had this movie been written by someone with any sense of character, it could have been great; as it stands, it's barely good. (Gee- a closing line almost as cute as the movie's title!)


                
Too much stilted dialogue and formulated diatribes, that you just can't accept as being spur of the moment conversation, totally deflate this film. The cast don't quite manage to say what you're pleading them to, then they come out with garbled nonsense.The cast have delivered some great performances, especially Robin Williams, who had little to work with. Matt Damon is also strong, as the math genius struggling to break free from the ghost of his childhood. Minnie Driver is a true natural as the English student who desperately wants to win his heart. Such a shame the poorly written characters gave these talented thesps nothing to bite into. Each player too often behaves inexplicably, thus Gus Van Sant (or whoever was directing - it is rumoured screenwriters Matt Damon and Ben Affleck had more control over proceedings than the credited director) was unable to endear us to these people.The script's noble intentions fall flat as "Good Will Hunting" turns up nothing in its search. With the exception of one or two funny scenes, the humour misses the mark too.With this pic nominated for best film, along with three other rather under par selections - "As Good as it Gets", "The Full Monty" and "L.A. Confidential", "Titanic" should clean sweep this year's Oscars.Sunday, March 14, 1998 - Knox District Centre
This is not a good movie. Let's make that clear from the beginning. The writing, which intentionally carry the whole package, it's barely mediocre. Some banter resembles that of shows like Young Sheldon, and not the good episodes. Other dialogues are so over the top, so vehemently direct and so unaware of the circumstances that one has to cringe or laugh in reaction. At one point in the story the movie seems to forget the concept of narrative progression. And oh boy, don't let me start about the ridiculous and self-indulgent plot. Do I have to mention how inconsistent it is? Or how stupid? Just from the get go. Anyway, is not that awful and there's a couple of thought provoking lines here and there, and Robin Williams is good, so all hope is not lost. The direction has its moments in which just walks away to make the character writing shine, and that would be acceptable in a better movie, but not here. The mood, I think, is an obvious choice; intimate and tranquil. The music, however, seemed tiresome to me.


                
The only reason this movie got made, I suppose, is that Robin Williams found a role he liked and wanted to do. A few notes : (1). The type of "genius" that is portrayed here does not, to my knowledge, exist. Mathematics and the humanities emanate from two different areas in the brain, both of which are NEVER simultaneously developed to the extent indicated here. On top of that Will Hunting has what is apparently a photographic memory. AND he's very good-looking, *AND* he's a tough. Wow. This is really yet another dumbed-down Superhero movie in disguise.(2). Psychiatry is a highly complex and arcane field, as intellectually formidable as anyone could want. You can neither embrace it nor reject it wholesale. The pompous, self-deluded disdain shown by uneducated people for "shrinks" is here also shown by Will, thereby negating his supposed intellectual worthiness. Also, psychoanalytic theory ceased being at the forefront of psychotherapy decades ago. People who are still bashing Freud should really do a bit of reading.This falls into the category of 99% of films that are designed for passive viewing, and not to challenge or stimulate the viewer in any real sense. It all adds up to a big nothing ; just a bunch of oversweetened moments that will work for people who have no real mental life. The "math" here is little more than a set-prop with no real depth or detail (Disclaimer : I am an engineer). Will Hunting and his coterie of "friends" are really total dumbasses. The "girlfriend" is skin-crawlingly obnoxious, but then again men are desperate fools, so I guess he COULD endure her.The two kids who wrote this movie have never actually read a difficult book. Its a film made BY the uneducated, FOR the uneducated. If you liked this, you are a pseudo-intellectual.


                
Matt Damon was great. There's no doubt about that. His performance as Will Hunting - a genius who just doesn't fit into society and ends up as a janitor at MIT instead of a student - was fabulous, and made the movie worth watching. Unfortunately I personally didn't think there was much else fabulous about this. The story was modestly interesting, and the viewer certainly does want to know what eventually happens to Will. The ending was, strangely, both appropriately and unfortunately ambiguous, as Will leaves behind an opportunity to "make it" in order to pursue love. I say "appropriately" because the lack of resolution seemed to fit with the rest of his life, and "unfortunately" because it left me with no clear knowledge of what happened to him. The movie also raises valid questions about what it means to "fit in." Will didn't, because he wasn't doing what everyone thought he should do with his life, but - on the other hand - maybe that was just Will. Do we have to fit into a preconceived notion of what we should be doing? Fair question.So, there was a lot of good stuff in the actual story. Now, I know this is a minority opinion, but I wasn't take with the rest of the cast: Steven Skarsgard as the professor who discovers Will and tries to mold him, Ben Affleck as Will's best friend from South Boston (who co-wrote the movie with Damon), Minnie Driver as Skylar - Will's burgeoning love interest, and Robin Wiliams as the counsellor who helps Will confront some of his past demons. None of them were bad, but they also didn't really grab hold of me. Frankly, I also found the movie dragged dreadfully at times and at a little over two hours was a bit too long as a result. Damon's standout performance helps this get a 4/10.


                
It's hard to believe that screenwriters can't create intelligent dialog between characters without having to use the F word 100's of times. (If you think I'm kidding, then pop in the movie and start counting)
It took me two nights to wade through this movie's dialog. I did enjoy Robin William's character interaction with Will... but had I watched the "edited for TV" version I would probably be writing a much nicer review.
A good story... but it's impact is heavily damaged with the extreme profanity.I'll take "Finding Forrester" over this one.


                
This movie is overrated, predictable and manipulative. There is some quirkiness in the dialogue and Matt Damon does a great job (giving credit to where credit is due), but I can't believe how some audiences and critics view this movie as "revolutionary."  First off, the relationship between Damon and Robin Williams echoes, right up to the "it's not your fault" climax, Timothy Hutton and Judd Hirsch in Ordinary People.  The people in Will Hunting's life who attempt to get through to him--Ben Affleck, Williams, Minnie Driver, etc--was also liberally borrowed from Robert Redford's classic.  As for Williams, the fact he won an Oscar for what is basically a replay of his "Dead Poet's Society" role is baffling to me.  I'd like to think that Oscar rewarded him for his overlooked dramatic performances in World According to Garp, Moscow on the Hudson, Awakenings and The Fisher King--his performances in all of those films blew his "GWH" Oscar-winning performance away. Much of this movie is paint-by-numbers (especially the climax).  There were some deeper aspects to Will's life that Damon conveyed with his fine acting, yet they were never explored.  Bottom line:  If the movie had not been described as being "brilliant" and "groundbreaking," my expectations would have been lower.  Put this with "Rain Man"and "Terms of Endearment" as one of the most overrated films of the last 20 years.  Give me overlooked, unpredictable character dramas like "Dominick and Eugene" and "Birdy" over this one.


                
I think that the only good thing this movie has is Robin Williams' performance.This is such a boring movie !!


                
This film is definitely overrated. It wasn't badly directed or edited, and held your interest. But when you think back on it, uh-uh. Some parts that didn't go over well: Matt Damon, in an earlier scene, beats another tough guy to a pulp during a brawl on the basketball court. Later on, he gets manhandled by the out-of-shape Robin Williams and looks scared to death as the older guy has a grip on his throat. It was also unintentionally funny, right before this incident, when Robin Williams tells him he can bench press 280 lbs. In your dreams, pal - you are a small, hunched over, out-of-shape middle-aged dude. Also, Williams' character was ready to kill Will because he disrespected the memory of his deceased wife. A short time later, he laughs as he describes how his late wife loudly farted all the time, even in her sleep. How endearing.Then there's the scene where Matt tells off a stuck-up guy in the bar by giving him a history lesson from 1770. Like, anyone in a bar cares. Then, he gets Minnie Driver's phone number and it's a big trophy; an accomplishment. You would need very thick beer goggles to ask for her number. Then, there's the math whiz stuff where he connects the dots on triangles and it's like he he invents the theory of relativity. Also, Damon is a genius about everything......was he from Krypton??
I don't get it.  I rented the movie because it was supposed to be great. It was at best mediocre.  Did it just appeal to people because they think they are really smart and have never expressed themselves, so they identify with some character who has an inherent knowledge of differential equations and sociology.  Nothing was believable in this movie: the love, the pain, the character, or the premise.  Ben Affleck's character was the only redeeming quality in the movie.  Robin Williams did his worst acting job since Mork and Mindy.  It was just a movie about a boy who lacked complexity and was "wicked smart".


                
