A rebellious young college janitor (Matt Damon)  is secretly a maths genius, but even when it is uncovered, he seems reluctant to use it to better his life.A film that is billed as "highly original" is nothing of the kind. It merely lifts from a wide variety of diverse movies from Saturday Night Fever through Rocky to Love Story.  However it owes more to Ordinary People (the film best remembered - or is it forgotten!? -  for  robbing Raging Bull of the Best Picture Oscar!) than any other.Hard to really believe the central character who seems to have read lots of books and done a lot of studying off-screen (how, why and when are not fully explained). On-screen he seems much more interested in fighting on street corners, shouting at his working class friends (even when they are sat next to him), and getting clever-clever with authority.Good performance from Matt Damon in the central role, but Robin Williams as the psychiatrist who helps him (and who himself ends up helped), is the standout. Here is guy who can say more with a look than most actors can do with a hundreds lines of dialogue. Shame that even the academics seem  to swear just as readily and just as often as those lower down the food chain.Mini Driver is quite touching as an English student (rich - but not a bitch!) who catches our hero's eye. While bringing dimension to the movie, you get the feeling that this was included in case the rest of the plot flopped. It wouldn't take too much editing to make this the central theme with the rest being the background. However this was not needed.Too many good moments and too much of an engaging plot for us not be lightly charmed - but I wasn't moved by this movie. Our hero's working class friends are loyal - but that is about all you can say for them. Ben Affleck (in the "best friend" role) shows that haircuts, cheekbones and teeth are still what really counts in tinsel town. The sterile world of (Boston) academia and the juvenile world of the street (as portrayed here) both alienated me. Can there not be middle way for our will-he-won't-he protagonist? The movie seems just as confused on this point as I am and in the end cops out of answering it.


                
Barbed script full of "F--- you's" doesn't seem like a likely candidate for a Best Original Screenplay Oscar, but this one did win and I think the performances are the reason. The acting here is so strong--particularly by Matt Damon, who co-wrote the thing--that I believe it makes the writing seem better than it is. There are some terrible sequences that can be blamed on the script, direction and editing, such as the bit where Damon's friend Ben Affleck substitutes for him at a job interview. However, the acting usually rescues it, with Oscar-winner Robin Williams pensive and endearing as a psychologist who becomes therapist and mentor to closet-genius Damon. Minnie Driver is also excellent as an unlikely love-interest for Matt, but the finale is almost too hokey to believe. In their efforts to tie this all up with a big satin bow, novice writers Damon and Affleck sink their modest little ship just as it's about to dock. Too bad. **1/2 from ****


                
How many handsome mathematical geniuses working as janitors and whose ambition in life is to get drunk and get into as many fistfights as possible have you ever met in your life? The main problem with Good Will Hunting is that the main character is as believable as Godzilla or Forrest Gump: it takes a lot of suspension of disbelief to swallow Will Hunting's behaviour and motivations. At least Forrest Gump was a nice guy: Will Hunting's attitude, which is supposed to be the product of an abusive upbringing and therefore "not his fault", gets on your nerves after a while. Sure, it's satisfying seeing poor Will defy the establishment figures (judges, psychiatrists and snob rich college students) and getting away with it. For a while. Too bad this get boring after a while, with the viewer always ahead of the story until the predictable finale. But as long as you don't think too long about the implausibilities of the movie's setup, the story is convincingly acted and reasonably well-told, though director Gus Van Sant doesn't show any of the offbeat touches that marked his earlier efforts (the closer he gets here is a weird slow-motion courtyard fight).Robin Williams is fine as always, and more restrained than usual; the rest of the cast is adequate, though I would have loved to see more of Stellan Skaarsgard's math professor, easily the most interesting character.


                
A very good film, if somewhat unfulfilling and light in regards to the unexplored relationships from Will to Sean and Skylar. Robin Williams shows the beginnings of his serious, and sometimes darker, side. Matt Damon shows excellent promise, while Ben Affleck fumbles along as he has in many of his roles since. Still, it's a moving tale with some heartfelt scenes, particularly the defining moments between Will to Sean and Skylar.


                
Matt Damon stars as a snotty but gifted natural mathematician from South Boston who searches for answers with the help of Sean McGuire, played to perfection by Robin Williams. (Oscar-winner) A fine film with only a few dead spaces, mainly Minnie Driver, who, unlike her performance in the lovely "Circle of Friends", feels dreadfully out of place here. Ben Affleck isn't annoying. That's a first!


                
A good piece of screenwriting by young cast members Matt Damon and Ben Affleck, but one that I don't think will stand the test of time. Matt Damon's (Will) performance as the troubled working-class genius in need of guidance is excellent. However, I think that this was too much of a feelgood movie and an endorsement of counselling, for it to be a truly great film. I found Minnie Driver's (Skylar) expressionless English accent thoroughly irritating and it destroyed, for me, the possibility of the romance between Will and Skylar being interesting.The performances of Robin Williams (Sean Maguire) and Stellan Skarsgard (Professor Lambeau) are good. The patient-therapist relationship between Damon and Williams is played well by both actors. The films flaw is that it lacks real depth of characterisation. There is a good story in this movie, but it lapses into classical Hollywood slushiness with all ends tied neatly together. Some characters, such as the pseudo-intellectual student who Will runs rings around while chatting up Skylar and a friend, are pretty one dimensional as he is someone we can easily mock and despise, just like the lapdog (what's his name?) who follows Lambeau around.There are few profundities in this film and I find the idea that therapy is what is needed to help a troubled young prodigy out of his predicament rather spurious. We are also shown how Will's initial hostility to therapy as part of his probation is surrendered. While one would not wish Will to remain an angry young man with no direction, I find the belief that therapy can necessarily mediate the relationship between an individual and society too hard to swallow.


                
A pretty good film. Several things at the end were utterly predictable. Robin Williams is so much better when he goes low-key, like here. I was very impressed with Minnie Driver's performance, something I haven't seen much mention of. (Although I haven't read all five gazillion comments) She really nailed it here. Damon and Affleck were OK. The script was good, but I don't think it was any better than "As Good as it Gets" also nominated that year. (I haven't seen the other two nominees) One thing I liked was that the actors at least attempted the Boston accent. I suppose to a Yankee, it would seem uneven, but at least they tried. I hate films set in Boston, or New York, or Georgia, where everybody sounds like they're from L.A. Grade: B


                
I'm imagining that the people who call this film boring are of the frame of mind, that unless a film has at least three explosions then it's not worth the price of a cinema ticket. Then there are the people calling it unrealistic. Now forgive me but I come from a similar background to the central character Will and I believe myself to be intelligent, but I didn't use my intelligence until very recently. Instead I took to taking drugs and drinking and swearing! Only a few years ago I was working as a cleaner, but now I'm studying programming and media technology at the best technical University in the UK. Now if I can identify with this film's realism (and I live in England) why can't so many others? This film is a veritable jewel. The script is one of the best I've ever seen. The way it mixes thought provoking ideas and witticisms with the kind of colloquial dialogue which we have read in things like 'The Catcher in the Rye'. Now I agree with the sentiment that some people have put across, 'get in touch with your inner Robin Williams'. But thankfully the script or Gus Van Sant or whatever prevented it from going over board. Look at the final scene where they're hugging and saying their farewells. Now this could have overlapped into a typical slushy moment, but no the lines 'Doesn't this contravene the Doctor, patient relationship?' 'Only if you grab my ass' were uttered so as to diffuse it. Then bear in mind that you never actually see the reunion between Skylar and Will! I could go on forever arguing against people's criticisms. But what's the point if certain viewers can't appreciate the subtly evocative direction of Van Sant, the quick fire script and the superb performances by the cast. It's these same viewers who shall, until the end of their days sit and watch the vacuous outpourings of Hollywood mainstream. Let them watch this 'chewing gum for the mind' and we discerning few will lap up the droplets of quality cinema.


                
GOOD WILL HUNTING is a good movie, no doubt about it. The story is great and intriguing and told well. The performances and writing are good. But it is NOT this great movie that everyone makes it out to be, not in my opinion at least. It was fun and enjoyable, but I found it to be nothing groundbreaking. It is not even Gus Van Sant's best film. And the title is so stupid, right? I think it's supposed to be a pun about hunting for goodwill or something, and the character's name is Will Hunting, which I think they just did for the title. I hate when they do that, like with that movie JUST WRIGHT and a bunch of others.The story is even a bit unbelievable and feels fake at points, and not in a good way. But overall, it's still a good movie. The dialog and acting are great, especially from Robin Williams. Even Ben Affleck (who I don't like much) is alright in this, as he's not the main character so we don't have to watch him for too long. Recommend.


                
Let's face it: I hated mathematics at school and still do today, so the film didn't appeal to me in that sense, but it appealed to me in respect of life's lessons. I also enjoyed the film due to Robin Williams, whom I just love as an actor. This was a very dramatic and emotional role for him, which he did brilliantly. Matt Damon was also very good and believable as the young rebel. Ben Affleck's character was unnecessary and mostly silly and I found he ruined the scenes where he was present (although the character does give the best advise towards the end). Minnie Driver was also excellent as the love interest Skylar. She really gave a powerful performance.As expected, although interesting, the film became dreary to a point where I couldn't wait for the credits to roll. Due to the film's long running time, the events in the film didn't capture my attention enough to satisfy my movie experience needs. It did have a satisfying ending, though, as both Will Hunting and the psychologist (Robin Williams) gained from their sessions.'Good Will Hunting' is regarded as one of the top rated films of all time (and, yes, I can understand why), and won numerous awards including two Oscars.This is a film I'll probably never watch again, regardless of how well made and well acclaimed.


                
One of the finest performances of Robin Williams Good Will hunting is a good film with an impeccable script by Matt Damon and Ben Affleck. Robin Williams is great as the tutor and won the best supporting actor for the role. Gus Van Sant has a great track record and he is very good here. If you like strong hard hitting films with a lesson than you cannot go wrong with Good Will Hunting.


                
Good Will hunting is a good film with an impeccable script by Matt Damon and Ben Affleck. Robin Williams is great as the tutor and won the best supporting actor for the role. Gus Van Sant has a great track record and he is very good here. If you like strong hard hitting films with a lesson than you cannot go wrong with Good Will Hunting.


                
Good Will hunting is a good film with an impeccable script by Matt Damon and Ben Affleck. Robin Williams is great as the tutor and won the best supporting actor for the role. Gus Van Sant has a great track record and he is very good here. If you like strong hard hitting films with a lesson than you cannot go wrong with Good Will Hunting.


                
Though Good Will Hunting was a very enjoyable movie, I couldn't help but feel that Will, is a bit of a superhero; He can win a street fight, and a mental fight, while taking on a psychological fight and an emotional fight, which too, he won. Then I later realized that perhaps, Will Hunting is, Jason Bourne.Everybody was on Will's side, and because of that, he unfortunately came across as an unappreciative, immature, unnaturally lucky and somewhat spoilt little ass. However still, it was relatable to some extent. Having the potential to change the world, but having no one willing to fight with you and for you to realize that potential is a reality for so many... A lot of people have been given up on, and that can instill an immense amount of fear.Robin Williams was awesome and Minnie Driver just well, drove it home. She was stunning, sexy and her performance just pulled you in. The directing was a tad bit choppy though, however it wasn't too distracting. The Affleck brothers and Skarsgard were also good. 7/10.
The story of this movie begins with Matt Damon still in Harvard. He wrote the initial script for this movie as a class assignment. Later on he would recruit Ben Affleck to finish the script with him. And thus one of the most well-known films ever made was born.And for such a humble beginning, the movie is much better than it has any right to be.The story tells about Will Hunting (Damon), who's a mathematical savant and an all-around genius. Unfortunately he comes from the wrong side of the tracks in Boston and has thus ended up working as a janitor in MIT's math department. Until one day he's caught scribbling on the hallway blackboard. Scribbling such math that even the professors have a hard time keeping up.The film isn't very heavy plot-wise. Rather it's the characters, these huge personalities played by talented actors, that make the film such a memorable classic. In Hunting you can definitely see clear signs that he was written by a schoolboy, but his problems are treated in a mature way and given enough depth that you care. The movie has some good thoughts about being gifted and the meaning your starting point in life has on your choices.Plus the film has Robin Williams in it. This is not in fact one of his better roles, at least in my opinion, but the man was such a talent that even three fourths of his maximum effort was more than most could conjure up combined.This film is best seen as a teenager. As an adult you can be a bit annoyed by Hunting's clear Gary Stu tendencies and the wish fulfillment talents, but even then it is more than a watchable experience and a neat piece of film making.


                
'Good Will Hunting' is one of the best known and most popular films of the 90s. It's a powerful, moving drama about an unlikely friendship and features some of the best and most memorable acting performances of that decade, including a career defining performance from Matt Damon as the title character.It's easy to become emotionally involved in this film as you naturally want the main character to succeed. The friendship he forms with Robin Williams' character is hugely enjoyable and even despite the slow pacing, the story is engaging enough to hold the viewers attention throughout. While not a personal favourite of mine, it's easy to see why 'Good Will Hunting' is loved by so many people, and deserves its reputation as one of the best films of the 90s.


                
Good Will Hunting is a dramatic, life seeking movie that centers around a young adult named Will with a unique gift in academics. Will is a janitor at MIT and his raw intelligence is discovered by a professor at the school after he was discovered to be the person that solved the infamous math equation that no one could solve that was left on the chalkboard in the hall. After getting arrested by police for getting into a fight Will is in danger of facing jail time but the professor at MIT arranges an agreement with the judge to keep an eye on him and make sure he spends mandatory counselling sessions. This was a tactic by the professor to try and groom Will to his full potential but you soon see that Will's problems stem much deeper than behavioral issues. The movie demonstrates Will's struggle to reach his full potential partly because of distractions in his personal life and his self-struggle with adversity and getting out of his comfort zone. At first the conflict is Man vs. Man but later on it turns into Man vs. Self which truly was the real conflict all along. I personally found this film to be very compelling and it quickly grabs your attention. The idea of a naturally gifted individual that has slipped through the cracks and became a janitor at a highly prestigious school and furthermore being able to solve extremely high level math equations after listening too a couple lectures here and there is extremely far-fetched; this is made up for by the genuine acting and the well put together script that captures true emotions and a heart wrenching story. The characters are well put together and there is an extreme character development in the movie. Will goes from a tough, underachieving, rowdy, belligerent boy to a young man with his priorities set straight. This is shown by Will leaving Boston to join his girlfriend Skylar in California as well as him finally opening up to Sean Mcguire (Robin William) who is his councilor. There is also an immense amount of symbolism in this movie. Will's house is surrounded by fences which symbolizes how his potential is trapped and he's not allowing it to go, that is basically the main conflict of the movie. This movie was very dramatic when it came to the acting and how convincing it was down to the clothes on their back. Will is constantly wearing loose clothes such as jeans and dirty shirts to reflect his character; Sean is wearing your stereotypical teacher clothes such as a vest, dress pants and a formal button down shirt to reflect himself to the audience as a smart, educated man. Will had smug Boston accent that added to the realism of the movie and showed where he grew up. Skylar had a profound British accent that added to her character because it makes her sound more proper and intellectual. The scene when Will cried in Sean's arms really stood out for me, it captured the raw emotions and truly convinced me that Will was truly sad. Skylar and Will's fight scene was another truly riveting act that will stand the test of time, The anger and hostility that is reflected in his voice chilled me to the bones and Skylar's crying and her voice made it convince me that her heart was truly broken. The cinematography In this movie was very good, each shot had a specific reason. When Will burnt the math equation that he had solved and dropped it on the floor the professor dropped down on his knees and grabbed the paper. The shot showed Will looking down on the professor which showed a strong sense of power that Will had over him. Will and Sean are not seen in the same frame together when they are in Sean's office until Will breaks down. this showed a lack of unification Will had with Sean and a lack of trust had had until he broke down. Before every new scene there was also a scene setting shot to show the audience where they were; whether this was a Birdseye view or a extreme long shot it really put you into the film. The music was not a big part of the movie as I had no memory of the style or theme of it. Although this movie may not be the most realistic it is definitely a must see. The plot was interesting and the acting was at the least amazing. True emotions are shown and the deeper meaning in the movie is truly empowering.
I think this film is good because of the exceptional acting, interesting characters, and a great plot. Definitely not my favourite, but still a good film. The film is a drama about a man named Will Hunting (Matt Damon) who is a janitor at a prestigious university and is found out by one of the professors that he is a math genius. He tries to get Will into a prestigious career because of his talents, but Will had a troubled upbringing and is afraid of failing and taking chances in life, and he receives help from a psychologist named Sean McGuire (Robin Williams). In terms of the literary elements, the premise and plot are pretty interesting, and the main characters are complex and fleshed out, with a few exceptions. Will's girlfriend, Skylar, was given some depth in one scene near the end where she and Will are arguing, but that's about it. Also I find it hard to believe that she would even go out with Will in the first place, seeing as their first meeting involved him being a smug jerk to some random guy. The best character in the film, in my opinion, is Robin William's character Sean, the psychologist who helps Will through his internal conflict, and is an all-around great guy because he genuinely wants to help Will. Sean is a wise, intelligent character who serves as a father figure to Will. Will Hunting had some very interesting character development, but at the beginning and throughout the middle of the movie, he's a rude, smug, pretentious person, which are usually qualities of antagonist, but it was nice to see his character develop. The acting in the movie was pretty good but some choices weren't the best. For example, Skylar being British didn't add much to the story, and while Will and his friends having Boston accents added to the setting, I found it hard at times to tell what they were saying. Will's friends were also a tad annoying in my opinion. Most of the actors did a good job of bringing their characters to life but Matt Damon and Robin Williams gave the most outstanding performances as their characters; Robin Williams even won an Oscar for best supporting role for this film, and I think it was well deserved. In terms of cinematography, it was good, because the shots they used served purpose, but nothing special or new was brought to the table. There was an excess of shot/reverse shots and close ups in order to 'put the audience into a scene'. There was a long shot at the beginning of most scenes to establish setting. The music wasn't memorable at all, but at least when it was there it served a purpose to the mood the scene was trying to convey or it added to the setting. Also I felt the film dragged on a bit too long and the filmmakers absolutely could have made it shorter and more concise. In summary, what this film lacks in exceptional cinematography and well-rounded love interests, it makes up for in having a great story and excellent acting, and I believe it is definitely worth a watch, though I don't know if I would watch it again.
(Spoilers) Good Will Hunting, was, as the title suggests, good. Matt Damon plays a realistic, if profane, twenty year old Will Hunting, who struggles to find purpose in his life, despite his uncanny math ability. This changes once he is arrested for starting a fight and forced into mandatory psychology with Sean Maguire (played by Robin Williams). Throughout his therapy sessions, they form a bond and Maguire (predictably) convinces Will to do something with his life. The plot is predictable and cliché, starting with the classic unrealised genius character and ending with his life turning out perfectly. This dull plot development does help create a realistic main character, but Will Hunting is already believable due to his dialogue and portrayal by Matt Damon. However, believability does not create interest. Many of the "interesting" aspects of Will are simply generic character archetypes. The orphan. The prodigy. Maguire pulls out the other parts of interest, but simply by stating them, and this should not be the case. Although one might blame it on the fact that Will is a self-guarded orphan and requires therapy for a reason, the film should not be so dependent on archetypes to make the viewers interested. Will's friend (who drives him around), on the other hand, had no cliché background, and viewers learnt about his comradery and down to Earth approach through his honesty while he convinced Will into doing something with his life. The writers clearly had the ability to create interesting characters, so why did they have to rely on archetypes for main characters? Dialogue was spot-on and breathed believability into the characters, which makes it more painful to see such clichéd mains. The symbolism was limited but effective, such as the train symbolising Will's previous one-track path through life, and then him receiving the car for his 21st, which allows him to go places he wants to, symbolising where his math ability can take him. However, these might not be related at all, and the car is simply there as an economically realistic way for Will to follow Skylar to California so the writers can tie up lose ends and finish the film in a positive, albeit predictable, way. The film shines when it comes to cinematography and camera angles, using a range of them effectively, such as the camera panning to a new location when a character enters the room, symbolising a change in tone. The film could improve on setting the scene, as many locations were ill defined. Many scene changes were set by a generic birds eye view of a standard city block, and then transitioned immediately to another scene, without specifying where that particular room was. For example, viewers never saw the building Maguire's psychology office was in, or the outside of the college he was a janitor at. However, that is one of the only areas for improvement. Warm colours are used in places where Will feels happy and safe, such as Maguire's office and Skylar's room. Cold colours are used in places like where he works to convey a sense of hostility. This can be expected from a Hollywood film. Dramatic elements are also used well. High and low angle shots are alternated between during fight and argument scenes to convey a power dynamic, and costumes accurately represent the personalities of the characters, such as Maguire's classic psychologist beard. There's not much to say about the dramatic elements, as they were effectively used. Again, something to be expected from a Hollywood film. This film has all the necessary dramatic and cinematic aspects to be a recommended view, but the clichéd storyline lets it down where it needs it most. Relying on likable but archetypal characters and a predictable heartwarming ending, Good Will Hunting is likable and satisfying, but you don't need to be a psychic to tell how the film will end.
It might be thought-provoking for some but it's certainly not a high rank piece of art. I think that acting and editing could be a little bit better (example: when one of the friends (a.k.a. brothers) came to Will's house, we can see as he smiles a little bit and in a different shot, a second later, he's deadly serious on his face). Also, it may give some kind of misinformation about how talent works, being gifted is super helpful but the most important part is practicing. All of the best pianists started at a very young age. There isn't any famous pianist who started at the age of 20 or so and discovered that he/she's a genius (while watching, you could get a thought like there is; maybe only Czajkowski but he's famous due to his creativity in music and not his piano skills). Will was practicing through logical thinking, so that's understandable in his case. However, it was mentioned a few times that he's learning because he's curious but when he was asked to work with the best technology in the world he denied (not everything is in library books) even tho he was fired from the school where he was supposedly taking more advanced materials from. One can justify that by saying 'he was too much bounded with his environment' but it seems to me far-fetched due to the fact that he had to really love mathematics to be that good at it (talent means that you're really passionate about something).
Winner of two Academy Awards including Best Original Screenplay, Good Will Hunting is written by two of the biggest stars working in Hollywood industry today and is an emotionally dense drama that manages to as inspiring as it is touching and is further uplifted by stellar performances from both Matt Damon & Robin Williams.Good Will Hunting tells the story of a young man who works as a janitor at MIT and happens to be remarkably gifted at mathematics. When his talent is discovered by the professor whose advanced problems he's been solving anonymously, he takes him under his wing and also arranges a therapy session for the troubled man that changes his life.Scripted by Matt Damon & Ben Affleck, and brought to life on the film canvas by Gus Van Sant, the film follows a predictable route and is consistently paced throughout its runtime but it's the sum of the parts than the whole package that makes it an engaging ride. Few moments brim with powerful emotions while it falls flat on other occasions but it does enough to steer itself past the finish line.The technical aspects are finely executed, Danny Elfman's score is truly mesmerising but Good Will Hunting excels most in the acting department. The cast comprises of Matt Damon, Robin Williams, Stellan Skarsgård, Ben Affleck & Minnie Driver, with Damon & Williams impressing the most. Their individual performances are no doubt strong but it's their excellent chemistry with each other that turns out to be this film's highlight.On an overall scale, Good Will Hunting is a wonderfully crafted journey about a troubled young man who learns to confront his past & move towards a more promising future and also paints a heartfelt portrait of an unlikely friendship that develops between two unexpected individuals. The story is at its best when the screen is shared by a therapist who approaches his patients in a grounded manner and his latest client who's unwilling to open up to anyone. Worth a shot.


                
Usual stuff. A talented but problematic guy deals with his life. Average story, skillful acting, corny ending. I wouldn't recommend it, since it's nothing fresh. I guess it would appeal most to younger females because of Matt Damon.


                
It's a lonely feeling to finally watch such a popular and critically-acclaimed movie like Good Will Hunting, and be wondering what all the fuss was about. Sure it's been a few years since it was released, but movies this highly praised usually stand up to the test of time.So I didn't think it was amazing...but it was good. It's the kind of underdog story that pulls at the heartstrings, and I imagine that a large portion of its popularity comes from that fact. Matt Damon is just a great actor in every movie he ever does, Minnie Driver was aces, and Robin Williams made the rare decision to showcase the portion of his talent that doesn't make me want to slap him.Good Will Hunting is a solid movie, and it's really a shame that it has taken me so long to see it. Solid, but not spectacular.           


                
According to legendary film-writer William Goldman (Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, The Princess Bride), it was he who changed Affleck and Damon's treatment from something altogether more conventional into the Oscar-winning screenplay filmed by Gus Van Sant. Whoever is responsible, we should simply be glad the film was made, as it's a very well realised, emotionally satisfying, mostly original drama; from the moving performances, especially from Robin Williams and Minnie Driver, to Van Sant's camera, forever searching for the soul of the scene, this is clearly confident, intelligent film-making.For all its truths, the film is fantastical: under Danny Elfman's twinkling, otherworldly score, there isn't a single shot of Will (Damon) actually reading one of the books he knows by heart. Indeed, we're never quite clear where Will finds the time to feed his dizzying intellect between working, fighting and drinking. Less forgivable is that Driver's Skylar is rather unfairly banished from the third act, reducing a bright character to a dull device to provide a neat ending.For my money, in terms of Van Sant's 'crowd-pleasing' output, Good Will Hunting doesn't quite scale the heights of the more acerbic To Die For, or the more politically substantial Milk. But thought-provoking and very nicely played nonetheless.


                
I had a real problem with the sentimentality of this movie. It drips with string-tugging melodrama and amateurish characterizations. The only movies that can get away with such tortured pop psychology were all made by Alfred Hitchcock.I liked Minnie Driver and Ben Affleck, accent or no (it's hard to tell), and Robin Williams was OK. Matt Damon's character is so depressingly obvious that it's difficult to sit through his journey to self-awareness, and the epiphany scene is just embarrassing.But I can't say enough about Gus Van Sant and his deceptively transparent direction. Somehow he makes the flat script come alive with just a few touches. Notice how he uses the stationary and panning shots - and how he frames each image to make it vital. This is especially true for the scenes with Driver. I'm not a Van Sant fan, but I think he really lifted this movie up by its wet corners and tried his best to give it life.


                
