This is one of those films that you cant help walking away from without being touched in some way. All of the central themes to adult life are explored and exposed by a very good cast. Friendship, love, pain, the past holding back who we could be in the present, acceptance (or not) of our place in society."Good Will Hunting" is the story of Will Hunting played by Matt Damon. He is a young man who is a mathematical genius but has no formal education and who is so traumatised by his past that he will not allow himself to be the man he could with his talents. Will works as a Janitor, but chose the Massachusetts institute of technology (the finest mathematical institution in America as we are told) as the place to work in order to be close to an outlet for his brilliance. Early on in the story, the resident Maths guru Professor Gerry Lambeau sets a problem for his students to solve which should take the whole semester for the average mind. When this problem is solved and written on the faculty blackboard the very next morning, he sets another that took him personally two years to solve. The following day he is conversing with a colleague when he witnesses Will writing down the perfect solution on the blackboard again. The Professor realises he has a genius hiding in his midst.When Will is later involved in a fight, he is eventually given the choice between a short prison term or working with the Professor on a daily basis and also attending psychiatric therapy sessions. Will chooses the latter but uses the therapy sessions as a chance to mock the Psychiatrists assigned to him and show off his knowledge. When no one else will work with him, Professor Lambeau turns to his old room mate at college, Sean MacGuire (played by Robin Williams on Oscar winning form.) who manages to reach the boy emotionally and start to repair the damage that has been done to him.It is widely known that Matt Damon and Ben Affleck co wrote the screen play as a reaction to their slow progress in establishing Hollywood careers. It is a testament to their talent as writers that they came up with so many touching scenes and passages of dialogue. In particular, Williams monologue to Damon when sat on the park bench is sublime. Wills relationship with "Skylar" (played by Minnie Driver) is perfectly believable and as the story unfolds the viewer can see the change in Wills character from the cocky kid, pushing everyone away, to the young man who understands who he could be with the right encouragement.There are very few flaws to be found in this film, largely because the story is so well told and Robin Williams performance is worth the entry price alone. It is a genuinely touching experience which relates to so many people and is easy to empathise with in real life. The characters are richly written and they are all interdependent in the telling of the proceedings. You really care what happens to these people.I could "nick pick" and draw attention to the psychiatrist scenes in Robert Redfords "Ordinary People" (1980) which bear close resemblance to the ones in "Good Will Hunting" but I think Damon and Affleck just took the bar up another notch with their interpretation of the Doctor / Patient working relationship.All in all an uplifting and worthwhile movie going experience which will stay with you long after you leave the cinema.
Matt Damon and Ben Affleck shine in a film full of shining moments. There seemed to be very little wrong with this film, and it is a shame the Oscar committee decided to pass on this film as the best of 1997. Not only were Will and Chuckie endearing characters, every one else in the film conveyed a smooth and natural performance. Even Minnie Driver proved she could fit in her role as Skylar. This film also introduced me to Stellan Skaarsgard, who I think is a very underated actor. A great follow-up of `To Die For' from director Gus Van Zant.


                
Good Will Hunting is a very solid and quiet film. I just finished watching it for the second time on DVD and was more impressed by the screenplay than I was the first time. I thought the first time I saw the film it was only Van Sant's direction that held it all together. The movie is just well written and well directed. I think the casting was good, although I don't think Ben Affleck does a very god job in this film. Robin Williams deserved his Oscar, although a big part of me still thinks it belonged to Robert Forster for Jackie Brown. Matt Damon is very good in the lead role. I particularly like the scene toward the end when Matt and Robin's character's open up. The emotion is overwhelming and that is some great acting. The rest of the cast is good too, and Gus Van Sant's direction is powerful. Great movie.


                
Good Will Hunting is one movie that makes reaffirms your faith in hollywood. thank heavens for matt damon & ben affleck. one of the most refreshing & original movies in a long time. a movie that keeps its own pace and explores the psychology of the characters or rather the key character here - will hunting.matt damon as will hunting is excellent, and the same goes for ben affleck & minnie driver - but veteran robin williams steals the show as the psychiatrist trying to bring the best out of will hunting and guiding him towards the light.the authors do a credible job in making the chracters believable and lovable. one of the best screenplays in a long time.a solid 9.


                
Will Hunting (played by Academy Award Winner Matt Damon) has a brilliant mind. He can solve any equation and loves to read school books, thus he is very smart. He is also there for his friends, particularly his best friend Chuckie (played by Academy Award Winner Ben Affleck). But he is also very young and reckless. After one too many brushes with the law, Will is placed in jail, but he is offered a way out: study mathematics while his professor (played by Stellan Skarsgard) tries to get him job offers and he will get psychiatric help. After going through many psychiatrists, he finally meets his match in Sean Maguire (played by Academy Award Winner Robin Williams). Whilst doing these math problems and going to appointments, he also meets a beautiful young woman named Skylar (played by Academy Award Nominee Minnie Driver). All of these people are amazing people who are there for Will. The question is: Can he figure out his own problem before he pushes them all away?This is a beautiful movie. Plain and simple. The editing...the music...the song "Miss Misery" by the late great Elliot Smith...there are so many things that are worth mentioning here. But let's start with the writing. I said that Matt Damon and Ben Affleck won Oscars in their career. Well, it was for this movie and it was for their writing skills. This is the movie that put both actors on the map and they have done it in a way that nobody else has ever done. There is a lot of swearing in this movie, yes, but it is essential to the story. It's an amazing thing, the writing in this movie; they were in their twenties and they both wrote this movie as if they had been doing this for a long time. An Oscar that was well deserved.Also worthy of praise is the great Gus van Sant. While he hasn't directed a lot of films, two of the three that he is well known for show his greatness as a director (Every director has their own personal "Psycho" remake, unfortunately). While he was also nominated for his direction of "Milk" in 2008, it's this film that shows his strengths as a fine director. He knows what to do; he is a hands-on director. One such example of his hands-on approach is the painting in Sean's office. That painting was painted by van Sant himself. It is just a small but vital example as to how van Sant knew what he was doing. Honestly, he should have gotten the Best Director Oscar that year.Speaking of well-deserved Oscars, let's talk about the cast here. The two main cast members that were not nominated for Acting Oscars - Ben Affleck and Stellan Skarsgard - both do an outstanding job nonetheless. If Ben Affleck's movies have convinced you that he can't act, check this movie out. Without a doubt, he pulls it off. And Stellan Skarsgard pulls it off as a professor who just wants to see Will succeed wherever he's at. But let's face it: there is a reason why Damon, Williams and Driver got nominated for Oscars. They are the true standouts here. Driver is so much more than just a girlfriend to Will; she has her own backstory and, although it is only briefly mentioned, you can tell that it is an important moment in her life - a moment that has defined her. Driver definitely should have gotten that Oscar. Damon is also amazing in the main role; there are a couple of scenes where he gets to me, particularly one where he truly reveals what has happened in his past. When he reveals what has happened in his past, it is very clear as to why he acts the way he does - why he pushes people from his life. Damon portrays that inner conflict very well in a role that should have landed him his first Acting Oscar (no disrespect to Jack Nicholson, though).However, the standout performance is that of the late great Robin Williams. A lot of people remember him for his comedic roles like Mrs. Doubtfire, Aladdin and Good Morning Vietnam. Some remember him for his dramatic roles in Dead Poets Society, The Fisher King, One Hour Photo and Insomnia. Some remember him for his adventurous roles in Hook and Jumanji. But this...this is my personal favorite performance that he has ever done. He is able to tone done his crazy antics for the most part, but when he does up the crazy a bit, it is certainly viable to the scene. But that park bench scene and a certain scene towards the end are my two favorite scenes that he has ever done.While I spent a lot of this review giving credit where it was due, I do have to end off by saying: Thank you, Robin. Thank you for all the magic that you have given us. Thank you for the laughter, tears and smiles that you gave us through your amazing performances. I am truly sorry that you could not find that joy within yourself, but I hope to someday see you up in Heaven with God and the rest of His Angels. Just remember: it's not your fault.


                
This is one of the great movie which perfectly captures the rude behavior of a young mathematics genius, who had gone through a very tough time since his birth and made certain assumptions about society and had cultivated a defense mechanism on people he meets.His mentor helps him break his silence and enjoy the life in true sense which he wanted but was unable to due to his own nature!!


                
Good Will Hunting It is a touching story about a wayward boy and his healing. Though a love story at heart, it does not make for the basic premise.Will Hunting (Matt Damon) is an undiscovered mathematical genius. He is well read, lost young man working as a janitor in MIT, where he is discovered by a professor. Through the guidance of his psychiatrist (Robin Williams) he finds his calling, falls in love and begins his journey for a better life. Matt Damon as Will Hunting has done full justification to his character. You feel every moment with him. His insecurities and vulnerability is touching while at the same time his mask of sarcasm is arrogant. Robin William sails through his character as a psychiatrist. He is not a mentor but becomes a father figure to Will. His personal trauma and healing is beautifully handled. The dynamics between Robin and Matt make for some of the most memorable moments of the movie. Ben Affleck and Stellan Skarsgard have also shined in their small respective roles. There are some moments in the movie which stay with you even after. Gus Van Sant(director) has done a very good job. Moments like wills final break down or his confrontation with Skylar are powerfully packed yet subtle. The film is brilliant with a first class performance by everyone. There are no dull moments. The chemistry between the characters is plausible and realistic. The writing is witty yet deep. The movie does not evade the tougher questions yet manages to not bring down the mood. Overall, this movie is a definite keeper.
If you are just an average movie fan, then you probably know Matt Damon mainly (if not entirely) from his portrayal of Jason Bourne in the original Bourne trilogy. Do not expect to see him drown to many people in sinks in this movie, but expect to be blown away by his performance none-the-less.Will Hunting (Matt Damon) is a janitor in one of the most prestigious colleges in the world. A math professor of a high level course challenges his students to complete a very difficult equation, which he later admits took him ages to complete. The professor writes the problem on a chalk board in the hallway, and when everyone is gone, Will Hunting completes the equation without an issue whatsoever.The professors of the college are mesmerized and can not figure out who this secret genius is. Finally they track down Hunting and try to convince him that he needs to be using his vast intellect for research and teaching. They tell him how much money he could be making. What they soon learn is that not every wise man wants a life full of riches and Nobel prizes on his mantle. Some men just want to enjoy the simple life.Hunting has a mysterious past that is causing him to shut people out before they get too close to him, but one man may prove to be smart enough to breakthrough the difficult past of this genius young man. Sean Maguire (Robin Williams), your average-everyday psychiatrist, may be more similar to Hunting than either of them initially realize.This is one of the first drama films that kept me on the edge of my seat from start to finish without a single murder or explosion thrown in the mix. Scene to scene suspense, this movie will have you wanting to delve into Hunting's past just as much as Maguire.If you are looking for brilliant acting, and a powerful message about the greed of the American dream: look no further than Good Will Hunting.


                
A movie with great actors, yet an even greater message.Matt Damon's performance in the movie was excellent, loved his character, Will Hunting was a very unusual guy, gifted with a great mind and memory, but dangerously reckless.The message this movie had is still relevant to this day. Anyone can easily screw up their life by simply not knowing what they really want. Usually, you have to make the decision of what you are going to be, early in your life, you are 16 - 20 years old, many people fail to find their way and end up disappointed and unhappy for the rest of their lives. That was the case with Will as well, he didn't really care about his insane math skills and hanged out with complete idiots.Some people need to have someone show them the way, because on many occasions there are very talented people, who are just wasting time on useless studies/things that they don't need or it is just too easy for them.Not to say, you should do whatever someone else tells you to do, but in Will's case he needed some sort of guidance.


                
Will Hunting (Matt Damon) and Chuckie Sullivan (Ben Affleck) are best friends and ruffians from south Boston. MIT Prof. Gerald Lambeau (Stellan Skarsgård) always puts a challenging problem outside his class for his students. Will is on parole, given a janitorial job and solves the problem. Lambeau is surprised that nobody claims the solution and puts another problem up. He catches the janitor doing the solution and helps him in his trial for hitting a cop. Will is a mess. He's an orphan who suffered as a foster child. He meets Skylar (Minnie Driver) but can't quite open up to her until he starts seeing Dr. Sean Maguire (Robin Williams). Maguire is Lambeau's last resort. They were college roommates and he is suffering from the lost of his wife.These are great characters. The first meeting between Will and Dr. Maguire is electric. It is a couple of powerful performances. Will gets a twinkle in his eye when he finds Maguire's weak spot. Gus Van Sant does a good job mostly getting the great performances. Will has four relationships in this movie. Each one is fascinating and each one is given great material.


                
GOOD WILL HUNTING, even though there really aren't any narrative surprises, is filled with wonderful dialogue and bolstered by strong performances. The story is about Will Hunting (Matt Damon), who is a bit of a hard case when it comes to his personal life, but is also a mathematical genius. Together with the help of an MIT professor (Stellan Skarsgard) and a psychologist (Robin Williams) he comes to understand his true potential. The best parts of the film are the many dialogue scenes, some emotionally deep and others biting, that add so much depth to the characters. This was a passion project for Matt Damon and Ben Affleck, and it shows. The dialogue felt natural and true to life, which adds to the authenticity of the overall experience. Though everyone (including Ben Affleck) turns in an excellent performance, Matt Damon and Robin Williams are especially good. Matt Damon is the hard-headed young adult who is afraid to let people in, and Robin Williams is a professor with experience and insight that he uses to get to Will. Even though the narrative structure wasn't the tightest, there was something to enjoy about every scene, and all of them added something to the overall picture. I should also mention that Minnie Driver does a great job as Will's girlfriend, and Casey Affleck has a few of the best lines. As far as other aspects go I enjoyed the score, which was never intrusive or told the audience how to feel. There was also a rather eclectic soundtrack which fit the moods of various scenes perfectly. Overall, it was a superbly written film with equally good performances.


                
I had my 15 yr old girls watch it with me last month. They loves it so much that they requested to see it again! Beautifully written and acted! Robin Williams' genius is elevating the story even further. Yiu must see this film if you haven't, and if you have,watch it again!


                
The most impressive thing to me about the movie was that Ben and Matt wrote the script. This film is also well directed and well acted.


                
Nonetheless it follows a predictable narrative arc, but Good Will Hunting adds enough quirks to the journey and is loaded with enough powerful performances that it remains an entertaining, emotionally rich drama.


                
Good Story Of A Lad And His Mentor And Then Goes Potential Polishing, Understanding The Real Inner would


                
This film is just simply powerful. It states the situation of a man many people can relate to but few understand what's happening in his mindset. Any man out there who's gone through those motions of stuffing down emotions and bad feelings know how hard this hits home. Ladies, this movie is just simply a great flick and will give you an idea to how us men think. The plot of this movie is great, acting is fantastic, and it's moving. Matt Damon and Robin Williams killed it.


                
Just watched this again after 20 years, still a masterpiece and how amazing to see Robbin William in what to me is the best performance of the movie. It juxtaposes the repetitiveness and simplicity of blue collar life with the pompous, self important life of academia. Will Hunting's character is complex and its dark scars only break open in the final scenes. Still great to think that Damon and Affleck wrote this in their late 20s. Top 10 movie for me easily.
Moving, but will consider it a flick, so I only recommend it if you classify yourself as a typical audience member who does not pay attention to realism. Admittedly, I fall into this category.I was most interested in the therapy aspects of the show. As an inexperienced psychology student (I'm only as old as the movie, I know close to nothing), I've been curious about the life of a clinical psychologist (or as popular culture may call it, a 'shrink'). This show probably romanticises the true nature of clinical work. Sure, it can be fulfilling, but I doubt it'll be as glamorous as portrayed by Robin Williams. Chatting with the client, instinctively knowing the way around him, followed by a success story - sounds a bit too much like a 'movie', but then again, it is... I'm still interested in clinical psychology though. I'm glad this film explicates the beauty of the field.Despite this, I still enjoyed my 2 hours in front of the screen. It's cathartic for those like me who want to feel emotionally polarised for a moment. That's the nature of the drama genre - forget subtlety once in a while, draw yourself away from reality, and allow your intuition and emotions to develop.
When I first saw the begin of this film it didn't really interested me. I thought of it as a bit slow and only watched the first 20 minutes. Two days ago I gave it another try, because everyone keeps talking about it and it has an amazing high rating number on IMDb. And I must say; what was I an idiot for not watching the film in the first time.I loved everything about this film. The performance of the actors (espacially Robin Williams of course), the story, the shots. It even made me cry at the end (and if a film makes you cry, you know it's a good one).


                
This is the best movie I have seen since the Godfather. Matt Damon and Ben Affleck make a great team...not only as actors, but more impressively as co-writers. Add Robin Williams in perhaps his best role ever (too close to Good Morning Vietnam for me to make the call), and you have a wonderfully entertaining movie.Ben Affleck is convincing as the best friend to a genius, able to effectively play the joker and the friend who would "lay down in traffic for you". Matt Damon's portrayal of that genius realizing that life has something more to offer than batting cages and bars is equally stunning. And Robin Williams certainly leaves nothing to be desired (except maybe a beard trimmer...).The most amazing thing about this movie is the writing. Even if the acting were not terrific, this movie still would have made my top ten list. I was captivated from beginning to end.If you've not seen it, Good Will Hunting is without doubt a "renter", and I think after seeing it, it's one you'll want to own to watch again and again.


                
Brilliant in all aspects of the film. Can not fault the portrayal of any character during the film. Each character leaves an impact with the viewer they will remember for a specific reason. The story line is complete and relatable and pertanant to the characters within the story line. I highly recommend this movie.


                
Good will hunting is one of the best movies I've seen in awhile.Good will hunting is such a great movie because it is realistic and relatable. The movie is not far-fetched or unrealistic. Things such as what he did for work and what he did in his free time helped build a realistic character. The whole genius thing was a little far fetched but still more realistic than people flying. This movie was more convincing ad realistic because of how people talked. Characters such as Will and Chuckie used a lot of slang and profanity whereas the professor uses proper English and only curses when he is mad. This movie had great use of symbolism as well, Will's house was surrounded by a fence and dimly lit implying that he was unhappy. The fence could also symbolize protection, Will tries to hold onto his friends instead of using his brain to its full potential. He hides in this shell until the end of the movie at which point he realizes his friends are right and he leaves his house and his shell.The story itself is quite simple yet amazing. I very much enjoy how simple this movie is because it makes it just enjoyable the fifth time as it was the first time. There are no major twists and turns so the movie is still good the second and third time you watch it. The movie is predictable like how he goes to get the girl at the end but not too predictable like how he and the therapist become very close.
As of recently, many films catered towards teenagers are centered around immature humor and high school stereotypes. Unfortunately, most of these movies fail to appear relate-able or funny, very much inside the spectrum of normal to mediocre. The film Good Will Hunting, however, is somehow a more genuine approach at a coming-of-age story, with amazing acting performances and well written scripts. The movie experience is a true joy, and portrays life and maturity in a manner that is touching and heartfelt. Being a mathematical genius, the main character Will Hunting is a disenchanted youth struggling with his identity and pressures of the environment around him. This being a typical movie plot line, it is both revolutionary and surprising in the tactful way it is handled. Although the film "Good Will Hunting" centers around an extraordinary genius, the themes of identity, emotional healing, and love successfully imparts a universal message to the quintessential viewer. One of the wonderful aspects of "Good Will Hunting" is the portrayal of identity and acceptance in the transition to adulthood. Though Will has an extraordinary capacity for knowledge, his angst and confident attitude only masks the true damage and doubt that lurks. Coping with outside pressures from his mentoring professor, Professor Lambeau, (who is intent on having him enter the modern world as a researcher), Will must search within himself and find out what he actually wants to do with his life. The professor believes that Will should use his intelligence to influence the world around him, but meanwhile, Will is uncertain in the future he would like to lead. A strong-willed, widowed therapist, named Dr. Sean Maguire, portrayed fantastically by the late Robin Williams, helps Will to delve into his own feelings while also becoming a mentor and friend. Through the emotionally trying sessions, Will realizes the true pain and brokenness within himself, and in much thought, decides to follow the girl he loves. Although themes of identity and adulthood may seem common and overdone, "Good Will Hunting" presents its case with its poised and genuine approach. The theme of emotional healing and vulnerability is present throughout the entire movie, and handles the topic both uniquely and succinctly. One of the most memorable lines of the movie is by the therapist, who says, "It is not your fault." This idea of blame and almost self punishment does not only apply to Will Hunting, a formerly abused child, but also the average person in the world. Even though each situation is different, oftentimes when one is experiencing emotional turmoil, self confidence withers and vulnerability is shied away from. The seemingly impenetrable Will is reduced to tears with these simple words, the scene both shocking and touching. By making key choices in characterization and scripting, the film beautifully portrays barriers being broken down. The movie ultimately teaches that, eventually, hindrances must be faced, and though the situation may seem incredibly bleak, one is able to be good again. Lastly, of course with every coming-of-age film comes the idea of love, both in the platonic and romantic sense. Interestingly, the romance does not feel forced or cliché, and the emphasis seems to be more on brotherly relationships than Will's growing affection for Skyler, a university student. Despite being surrounded with a band of rambunctious and loyal friends, Will still has yet to trust and depend on someone emotionally. By being an accessible, coarse, and vulnerable human being, Dr. Sean Maguire is able to pierce through Will's thick facade, and allows Will to have a mentor to guide him in the world. The movie truly showcases that oftentimes the most important relationships that are made in life are produced out of vulnerability and dependence. "Good Will Hunting" depicts beautifully and realistically the extent of a human friendship, and how oftentimes the strange and unwelcome guests in one's life can change it for the better. The movie, "Good Will Hunting," is definitely not a cliché, sappy, teenage film. Instead of playing on stereotypes, it takes a mature outlook on the often frequented themes of identity, emotional healing, and love, and makes it relate-able and touching to a normal audience. In taking a more subversive approach, "Good Will Hunting," is both overarching and personal, which truly makes it a movie for the age, and definitely a film worth watching.
Good Will Hunting is a great film with an inspiring message. As I was watching this film for the first time in seventh grade, I felt extremely empowered and emotional. I'm sure I wouldn't have the same reaction now, but this film holds a very special nostalgic place in my memory.The movie is very quotable, with famous lines like " you like apples", etc. The story can be cliché at times, but it overall it does this to be as relate able as possible, similar to the book the alchemist. Overall, I felt this film is a 9/10, because of it's nostalgic value, good writing, and solid jokes.


                
When searching for intellectual success and humanistic relationships between life and career, there is a simple formula which works for a few people. It is an equation which reads, Superior intellectual equals power, but results in pain and isolation. Such is the story of Will Hunting, superbly played by Matt Damon. Born with a I. Q. Genius, the young man seeks friends and mathematical challenges alike. Consequently when he finds either, he attacks one and embraces the other. As a result, he lives in a world of turmoil and volatile possibilities. Unable to tolerate authoritative or academic hypocrisy, he armors himself with the sword and shield of intellectual arrogance and gives battle to anyone and everything around him. What troubles him the most is the dark pain of abuse in his youth and it is here he is most vulnerable. Robin Williams who portrays Dr. Sean Maguire give one of his most stirring performances as a sensitive and compassionate psychiatrist. Equally matched as they are adroit, the two battle in an emotional arena, each seeking to fathom the other. The result? The creation of a truly remarkable film. ****


                
