Usually, I don't write any reviews, but I can't help after wasting my time to watch this show. Probably the worst TV show I have seen recent times. There was no coherence of the story, no particular aim, no real charisma from any actor whatsoever. After finishing the finale still, I do not get the proper idea of how they resolve Nootka issue or why they want to travel to Nootka. Why Tom Hardy willing to caught by the King's soldiers or why he let himself tortured. Where are the dark magic or taboo part? Why have they shown so many flashes at the starting of the season about dark magic? Nothing clear...no proper guidance towards what's they want to show to the audience..... I think this show people have seen just cause of Tom Hardy acted and he claimed to be a writer. I do not get why BBC let airing such a poor show anyway.
Poorly written, badly scripted, some crazy casting, and leaden delivery. Tom Hardy attempts to channel Keanau Reeves with his monotonous delivery, but delivers not 1/10th of the interest. Really, do not waste your time on this steampunk twaddle. This has certainly cast a pall over any future work of Tom Hardy for me.


                
awful and boring!!! Unfortunately, the first episode of "Taboo" is not very good. It is not so weak to deny you if you have decided that you are watching a grim series (as I for example). But if you come across a pirate ship where you must defend the thesis that this is a good movie, let alone a good drama, you will find yourself in an awkward position (assuming that the pirates have developed aesthetic sense, of course). What "Taboo" may possibly offer is a return to a favourite literary genre. The historical drama takes us to London early XIX century. James said Delaney (Tom Hardy) is presumed dead adventurer who returns home after ten years of wandering. His father has just died under strange circumstances and the East India Company wants to swallow the business to which he is heir. Delaney refused to sell and "armed" with 14 stolen diamonds, decided to build his own commercial empire, thus interfering in a dangerous game that could cost him and his life.
Poor acting, videography dreary at best, production awful, amateur film set with same scenery and backdrops repeatedly used in different contexts, and completely disjointed plot.


                
On its surface this is a harmless bit of costumed period fantasy fiction. But scratch the surface just a wee bit and you find a cesspool of bad ideas and repugnant stereotypes.I'll skip the gratuitous violence, the misogyny, the ridiculous historical inaccuracies and the laughable, anachronistic dialog and get right to the most offensive thing about this series -- Tom Hardy playing the half-breed son of an Indian woman and an Englishman. In 2017!his may be considered acceptable to Brits, but this has long since passed into the realm of the unacceptable in the USA. Redface is no different than blackface. Why does a man who is 100% English think it's OK to pass himself off as an Indian? And then there are all of the make believe Indian spiritual references. It's all bunkum. It's cultural appropriation at its sleaziest. If it was just a passing reference or a minor character one could gloss it over. But the redface is central to the whole story. I hear there's a sequel in the making. They should reconsider and scrap the whole project.
