Excellent!Without revealing to much I just want to say this: Acting is very entertaining and believable. Story is surprising and keeps you on your toes. It's definitely not for the faint of hart, seeing there's some blood and gore. The series is called Taboo and this really comes alive thanks to some good acting from Tom Hardy and Oona Chaplin. And last but not least it's got ASS (Action, Suspense and a Strong story)!!There's nothing more to say, just watch it and be pleasantly surprised. I was!


                
Obviously it's not hard to see why, with Tom Hardy leading...This show is so amazing it's hard to find the words. It's like one huge elaborate puzzle, and only Tom Hardy knows the way to the finish. And we all just get to sit back and watch him take us there. Though I don't want to diminish any of the other actors, as literally each one of them are all doing a very superb job. Taboo literally has the best all around acting in a television show that I've ever seen. At the end of every episode, it is unbearable to think that I have to wait another week to see what happens next.The time period for this show, for me personally, sets the entire mood. It REALLY gives off a sort of Old London, Jack the Ripper feel while watching it. I'm not sure how else to describe the mood of the show, but that feels right.Tom Hardy's character commands the screen. When he's on, you don't want to miss a single word or grunt. Taboo also has some great dark humor to release stress build-up at crucial times.I apologize if I'm being vague, but I don't want to spoil a single thing. If you are looking for a show to watch, look no further.


                
The first season of this show is excellently written and directed. Tom Hardy does an outstanding job. The historical material is an educator's dream, but the content is a school teacher's nightmare! Every taboo is broken, and in pre-Victorian England, that's a lot of taboos! This TV show explores a part of history that is often glossed over. I definitely tried to research a little more about the war of 1812 while watching it. Some quite interesting things happened in that war. The British burned down Washington D.C.! If I had one critique of this show, it would be that the color scheme is a little monotonous. I think they should take off the 19th century filter.I definitely am looking forward to the next season. I really hope that the intricate plot development continues and becomes more historically interesting. It will be difficult, however, to live up to this outstanding first season. Please, give it a watch! Though not with children -


                
Apparently Tom Hardy lost a few million on this one. I find it hard to believe. Perhaps the person who did the calculations only took into account how the show did on its mother channel on TV in the UK. But that's just the beginning of its story, I would say, because there is streaming and DVDs and foreign sales... A lot of people prefer to stream stuff because it's more convenient. A fixed TV time isn't always a good time to watch something. I'm pretty sure Hardy knew what he was doing, and anyway, it's just not freakin' possible that this show isn't gonna do amazingly well around the world. NO WAY.It's a period show and not everyone is into those, but if you are, man, what a story. I have so much respect for Tom for being a great actor who just can't make a bad movie - and now he also created 'Taboo'? What a talent this guy has! You gotta love his approach to acting and storytelling and you can see he is only after the best quality in everything he does. 'Taboo' is yet another example of this. The story line is very intriguing, it's cooking slowly but keeps you hooked, and all the characters are great and very colourful. There is so much attention to detail here, especially when it comes to historical accuracy, but not only that. It's easy to watch a show and say 'it's amazing', but take the time to stop and think about how much work went into designing this, and into the filming. It's not just the clothes and the places and mannerisms, etc., but the many different characters too, each of whom has their own story and personality. And then there's the whole main story and the many twists and turns, with James Delaney always being on top of things, always having an ace up his sleeve. How does one simply write such a show 'just like that'? We watch it and enjoy it, but the work - the work! Think about it every step of the way and you will truly be amazed at what Hardy achieved here. You'll see a perfectionist behind every frame. I like all the actors playing all the different parts, they make it seem like this is happening for real. It's uncanny. And of course, Tom Hardy himself, the cursed James Delaney, who you know is a very bad man but you still want him to succeed. Hardy has outdone himself for sure, and hats off to him for always getting better and better, and doing it so easily. You can't take your eyes off the screen watching this. You just can't. I wonder why there are only 8 episodes in this season. I was expecting something around 20 because this became my new favorite show. Now it looks like there might not even be season 2? If there's a petition to keep this show alive, just tell me where to put my signature. I'll sign with both hands and feet.


                
The name says it all and is the best show on TV. So many great lines, "they're my rocks now". The dark and foreboding tone is intoxicating. A mix of history with a poetic twist and family intrigue. Sex, violence, politics, crime, corruption, witchcraft, spies, it is unyielding! The story line defies logic. It is the best written and acted show I have seen in some time. The writing is superb. I am hooked. Hope this gets renewed and not just a one season show. We don't watch primetime and always look for something "smart". This show is just that. It draws you in with the history angle but the back story and the current situation make you root for James Delaney. As his life went awry from the start, his experiences in life have molded him into the person he is today. A man who is completely undone, yet cunning and smart. A planner. A doer. A man who is determined to get what is his at all costs and make others pay. Thank you!


                
Not much on television worth watching nowadays so it is a very pleasant surprise when a series of this caliber comes along. The depiction of 1800s Great Britain in all it's steamy vulgarity and corruption is intriguing and mesmerizing. Ridley Scott and Tom Hardy are at their outstanding best. The production quality and scenery is first rate. The acting throughout is of a rare quality in today's market. Tom Hardy does not disappoint in his character portrayal as the lead character. Mystery, treachery, intrigue and darkness are present in abundance in the first three episodes I have watched thus far. The reach of the East India company with its unscrupulous pursuit of power and wealth by any means has me drawn in. I cannot wait for the next episode! At a time when the majority of television series seem to be filled with political propaganda disguised as entertainment this series stands out. Nothing pc to see here. Excellent!!


                
This show is easily some of Tom Hardy's best work.The first episode grabbed me in the first minute and never let go. The sets and costume/makeup are superb. It's dirty, dank and wonderfully dark. There are just enough supernatural fantasy elements to make it interesting and mysterious, but not so much to be over the top.The acting is superb, especially Tom Hardy's character. His characteristic grunts and other non verbal communications play so well with his role.The British East India company is historically intriguing, and lives up to the intrigue in this show. It's interesting to see such a portrayal, one of the primary players in the foundation of modern capitalism as an antagonist in this show.Very enjoyable show.


                
I know this is in its first season, but I'm blown away with the performances and cast and sets that these crews have done. The story line is edgy and keeps me wanting more, I look forward to more seasons of Taboo; I love that the main character James Delaney has flash backs and what appears to be some type of gift of a 6th sense to communicate with spirits & see things / communicate through fire as James Delaney is half native Indian / Métis and has absorbed other cultures. I'm not sure if this TV Series is completely fiction or loosely based on a true story (I haven't done my research). I applaud the writers that put this together either way so far so good, this TV series is amazing and one to watch out for at award shows. Great Job 10 out of 10


                
Taboo is a dark, devilish, delightful, psycho supernatural thriller. Tom Hardy is perfect in the lead role of James Keziah Delaney. A brightly brooding figure, who stalks early 18th century London's bleak and brutal streets, like a large sinister black clad crow looking for shiny baubles to line his already bulging pockets. Of course, what James appears to be, a ruthless trader on the make and what he really is, may not be the same thing. This is a superb series. Its a dark indulgence that's enjoyably eccentric enough to capture your attention and innovative enough to offer up something rather unique. Don't let Taboo pass you by. Its by far and away the best thing I have seen in a long, long time. Ten out of ten from me.


                
Taboo is an excellent addition to the series of 2017, something which says a lot by itself. The characters and the scenes are all superb and enticing. I must recommend this TV series to all the fans of historical series, especially those who are interested in the happening of the West India Company. The characters are also all so humane that you can see the faults and the mistakes of each of them, without them being glorified by the development of the scenario. A warning though is necessary as the show contains some inappropriate language and graphic scenes that include sex. It is inappropriate for children under the 12 maybe 15 years old. (That last statement is my own personal suggestion and can vary according to the various ethic codes each culture has).


                
Many people might not have liked taboo because it's not your normal action series. This one's a dark and gritty drama. Its one of it's kind and the taboo team is really intelligent. The plot itself is a simple one but gets complicated. The things that make this show awesome are the darkness. This is nothing like the other shows but it delivers. Tom Hardy's acting is a top-notch. The time of the story is set during the period of east India company. The politics are good. The reasoning is sound. The story development is awesome. I can't say one reason to not watch this show. It's very unique and worth watching. 10/10!


                
As a film critic I am delighted with the atmosphere of the this TV cinema. Exactly cinema!Sound design! And of course acting. Hardy's "Hmm", and Franka, in unusual role. Really delight!The series fascinated by gloom epoch and secrets. A leisurely narrative form, a great soundtrack and incredibly atmospheric picture of the London of the 1800s, admired by its the scale and detail.Nuar of the epoch, the mystery and charisma Hardy, all of this attracts.Its a project which have artistic value. The series is an absolute MUST have for any viewer, ready to plunge into the world of madness James Deleyni.


                
What a superb start to the series! The acting was top-notch, especially the powerful performance from Tom Hardy (would you expect anything else), and the look of early 19th century London certainly seemed to be spot on for a layman like myself. One point to note, though, in reply to Ian Cunningham's review, is that it was Vancouver Island that was referenced and not the city. The island was given that name some 20-odd years before the events of the show, so no soothsaying was required! Anyway, I'm looking forward to the rest of the series and just hope it manages to maintain the standard throughout, especially considering how high the bar has been set!


                
The first episode was superb.I can't wait for the next episode. Fantastic filmography, acting, makeup and costumes. Technically perfect. Vancouver was referenced several times both verbally and through the map. I am definitely not a pedant - in fact I have a very low threshold for attention to detail. However the City of Vancouver which was named after the brilliant and tragic English adventurer, explorer and diplomat George Vancouver, was not incorporated (or named) in his honour until 1886 and as this episode is placed firmly in the year of 1814 it would seem that the main character James Delaney besides being broody, moody and in touch with the supernatural is in fact also a remarkable soothsayer.


                
Taboo is one of the most powerful period dramas I've ever had the  pleasure of viewing.   Set in 1813, it's a brooding, dark tale from the minds of Tom Hardy and  his father, Edward "Chips" Hardy. Tom Hardy plays the central role, the  enigmatic James Delaney, who has returned to England after a decade in  Africa, to attend his father's funeral.  Pitch perfect, the excellent script is backed with strong performances  from many familiar faces including Jonathan Pryce, the beautiful Oona  (Game of Thrones) Chaplin, Franka (The Bourne Identity) Potente and  Jason (Being Human) Watkins.   For Saturday evening viewing in the UK, this is far from comfortable  subject matter. The first episode alone contained nods to the occult,  incest, untold atrocities in far away territories, and the most graphic  threats from Delaney to those who would be foolish enough to cross him.  It's all gripping good fun.  10 out of 10. I've been waiting a long time for this series and it  doesn't disappoint.


                
So I stumbled upon this series in my search for another good English show. Let me tell you this one is amazing, Tom Hardy just kills it! And he's not alone, everyone involved seems to know exactly how to drill down and play the core of the kind of people and thinking that was going on back in the 1800's. Now onto the story, there's a family by the name of Delany, the father and mother are thought to have been insane, the father built up quite a bit of debt in his insanity. Meanwhile the son went off into the military and has thought to have died in Africa. When the father died, the son returned which came not only as a shock to everyone but also as it turns out as some very unwelcome news as he was the sole beneficiary to his fathers holdings. There is also a sister married to what I can only conclude so far is a ladder climber, as he keeps trying everything in his power to get his hands on the Delany estate. And then there's the East India trading company, who's perpetually trying to kill the Son.What does this all add up to? 10/10 a very interesting show with tons of twists and turns. If dark and gritty is your type of show this is not one to miss.


                
I just finished watching the last episode of taboo, I thought this was of the best TV series I have seen for a while, You have great characters,double crossing galore, angst darkness and all other emotions in abundance.Tom hardy is brilliant as are most actors in the show and I have honestly enjoyed this more than black sails, peaky blinders and all other TV series portrayed in the old English world. Never mind the plethora of rubbish out there, some of which to be fair is watchable.If they make a second series I will be waiting with baited breath to see what James Delaney does with his boat and new role in the world KUDOS to who ever wrote this, its is fantastic and if you like suspense,good acting and a great plot watch this, it is fantastic.


                
So...I just watched episode one of taboo on fx, and I am extremely excited too see where this show goes.... So far, it is excellent. I read a lot of reviews commenting that it " was slow" or " starts off very boring", but I cannot disagree more. This series is very clearly a very complex and detailed story. I can't say enough good things about Tom Harry's performance. Tom hardy is one of the very best actors of the decade, hands down. His acting is extraordinary. There are very few shows that hold The viewers attention the way that taboo does, and this is, after only one episode. Can't wait to see what happens next! This is a great start to 2017 for television, and I can only hope that more shows come out this year that are the caliber of Taboo.


                
Cinematography pallet of an 1800's portrait painting. Acting talent featuring world class character actors. Drama driven story with ..Tom Hardy...Oona Chaplin. Oh my! Executive producer Ridley Scott had me immediately engaged. What will keep me watching is seriously amazing period drama with hints of the Pre Columbian and African occult, multinational / continental plot aspects, and established talent portraying the characters.This is a show that will help continue to redefine television, and how it should be made in the current era of broadcast streaming and high def video screens in everyone's home.


                
I wouldn't usually review anything on IMDb, but this show based on the first episode is extremely well done and I only wish it was on Netflix so I could just binge watch it all in one go! I felt it captured the gritty nature of 19th century London brilliantly (I assume as I've actually never been to 19th century London). The only caveat for me is that it appears it has a supernatural theme that I can only assume will become more relevant as the story unfolds. I'm not a huge fan of supernatural stuff, but so far it's been done very tastefully so I'm not too concerned. There are a few recognizable actors throughout, but Tom Hardy as per usual steals the show.Just a shame that I have to wait another week for an episode. :(


                
After the first episode im already hooked.a great starter to set the scene on whats to come. Tom hardy plays an absolutely ruthless nutter who seems very unafraid of anything or one dead or alive.the thing is this is really well made,well acted and visually stunning.in this day and age we are lucky to have such a great actor in tom hardy. Enjoy it was worth the wait. Great to watch on the bbc too(no adverts)! This will surely be the greatest mini series of 2017. There's a tension and raw talent cast and when mixed with a brilliant story you cant really go wrong. MASTERCLASS. After the first episode i can only see the next 7 getting more exciting


                
Firstly, Thank you BBC for putting a drama on for a Saturday Night, how many years has it been? Secondly thanks for making it something as special as Taboo. A few episodes in and I am utterly hooked, it is gripping, beautifully made, somehow cinematic, boasting wonderful music, glorious settings, and acting that is beyond impressive. Tom Hardy will always attract fans in their millions, his looks and talent make him a massive hit, I have a feeling we'll be seeing James Delaney for many years to come. David Hayman and Jonathan Pryce are both superb in their own rights. The trailers made this show look good, but in reality it is quite special, a period drama that is dark, gritty and wonderfully Gothic. I like that there is an air of mystery surrounding it too, can't wait to see how this unfolds. Do not miss this, you'll love it.
Justice. cleverness. bold moves. dark backgrounds. mystery. africa. danger. no naked-women-everywhere scene...
i usually think that giving ten point to a movie or a show is not sincere but i will give a big ten point for this one.
it s riveting. taboo has everything i love. i am surprised. surprised and satisfied. well done mr. hardy. and every other, every single person. all of you. all gorgeous. i am so in love with this show...


                
Keeps you wanting more! The devil Delaney is the greatest character! Cannot wait to see more!!


                
I haven't been so mesmerized by someone's acting,since James Dean. Tom Hardy is the best actor of his generation. He always gives me chills with every move, glance and every sound he makes. The story is something new,unusual and brilliant. Definitely not the same story repeating itself as in other TV series. If you really know about good TV series, then you just found the best one.


                
