Sorry, Tom. I love you. But, Taboo is so zzz. I gave you three episodes but I wont be watching again. Not sure what is worse: your accent that keeps changing between English, Irish and American, the fact you're trying to pull off a modern day haircut in nineteenth century London, Mark Gatiss in the fat suit as the Prince Regent which just makes me think his episodes are off cuts from Little Britain, or the fact the show is so slow and dull. I've been looking forward to Taboo for about three years. Disappointed is an understatement. Let's face it, if Tom Hardy wasn't in this, the ratings on here wouldn't be anywhere near where they are and most viewers would have switched off by now. Sorry, but don't waste your time watching this. Yawnfest. Zzzzzzzz.


                
From the great quality of filming, wonderful historical ambiances and a few OK-kind of characters, I guess You could like this show. I felt the thrill by the teaser of this show, the haunting and chilling feeling of the 1700th century grasping the attention a watcher and it did carry through its promise in the first two episodes. Then, the most obvious and quite annoying notes caught my eye and honestly, couldn't keep watching this show further than the sixth episode.Even though Tom Hardy fills his promise yet again about the mysterious, manly but still a bit sensitive role of a villain and at the time, somehow, also the role of a brilliant mind pulling the strings of societies - all that deep voice and great acting performances are not enough when it comes to the other characters. Unless the target was to make the step sister's character utterly unsuccessful, I have no clue why everyone could not see through that bad of acting. Yes, she is beautiful and has that historical vibe, but ultimately, I feel that Oona Chaplin does not suite this role at all whatsoever. Maybe it just isn't for her, and somehow all that graving for wild, supernatural sex apparently controlling her whole freaking life does not just suit, at all. They try desperately to force this sick romance between a step sister and brother as a 'love of my life' but it just doesn't work, somehow I can't see any fire or interest between the characters possibly giving a hint that there's nothing in there in real life either. If you basically don't have any desire, then it's really forced in front of the camera and that shows. Second of all, as 'originally' written this show might be, the brother-sister romance does refer silently but not without a notice, to one MAJOR continuing plot twist in one of the MAJOR contemporary TV-series of HBO: GAME OF THRONES. As increasing has been the fame and discussion of the unnatural brother-sister romance in that SUPER POPULAR TV SHOW, this show definitely, at least from my very critical point of view, use this disturbing unnatural relationship as its benefit to reach high - and reach fast. Historical story does, though, give something for a fan of history and I just can't get enough seeing those old places, ships and environments. Costumes are accurate and well-designed and suited for the right characters. This, if something, gives an eye candy.But, still, the show has been a complete disappointment at least for me. The five seconds of shots from the dark past of the main character James Delaney, repeated like 10 times in one episode do not give peace at all, but neither a increasing interest about the adventures and ominous trades with the possible 'evil' and magic, just because the few seconds of shots actually disturb, at least from my opinion, about the ongoing action and realization about everything. If you want to show something from the past, do it either only couple times in a episode OR a few full scenes creating images to the eyes and mind about the dark past. The constantly repeated images of a woman/man standing in the middle of a foggy lake with so called mysterious and scary vibes are not included to a well designed and built stories. I want to see torture, great villains and intriguing attempts to escape horrors, mind-shaking inspirations, complicated relationships, jungle with beasts and deserts, suffering and misery, passionate loving, everything that's featured in all of the great TV-shows and movies centering into the historical true/fictional stories.


                
Let me start by saying that I've been a Tom Hardy fan for a while now and was looking forward to this series, though the trailers already had me a bit concerned. The positive: the core narrative, about a man who returns from years abroad to claim his inheritance - a piece of land off the west coast of Canada that turns out to have strategic importance for the US government, the British crown, and the East India Company - and enters into a dangerous game in which he seeks to outwit them all. This is a fresh and interesting premise, and could provide ample material for a solid historical drama. And it has the David vs Goliath aspect that is always appealing.Unfortunately (this is the negative), someone evidently decided that this wouldn't be exciting enough: that it needed to be sexier and more outrageous. So they cover the protagonist in tribal tattoos painfully reminiscent of the 1990s, make him a cannibal, and put him in a torrid, incestuous relationship with his half-sister. To make matters worse, it is insinuated that he acquired these "savage" characteristics during his time in Africa, where apparently such things are typical. Plus, he is not a little mad, and spends his evenings sitting naked on the floor, smearing ashes on his face as part of some strange magic ritual and hallucinating images of his deceased mother - who is moreover Salish, and in his visions looks like the Enchantress from Suicide Squad.It really surprises me that none of the reviews so far have pointed out the cringingly racist depictions of non-Western peoples here, as well as the thoughtless (and absurd) cultural appropriation. They seem to be drawing their inspiration primarily from 19th-century, colonial depictions of 'the dark continent' and 'exotic savages'. Very weird. And undermines what could have been a great story.Performance-wise, Jonathan Pryce stands out (he's always great), ditto for Tom Hollander, Mark Gatiss' make-up is ridiculous and distracting, and Tom Hardy recycles the grunting, mumbling, hyper-violent tough-guy act which seems to be all he does anymore. Hope he picks some more nuanced and less scenery-chewing roles soon, which highlight the talent displayed in some of his earlier work.
I like the story but Tom Hardy's speech is muddled and so difficult to understand that I found myself using closed caption everytime I watched the program. I found this issue so annoying that I quit watching.


                
