First to say is that I think it's right to compare this show a bit with 'The Frankenstein Chronicles', which I will this later in this review.'Taboo' is a complex story, interwoven with an at first seemingly simple setting. A presumed dead man returns home after his father had passed away. James Delaney is assumed an abuser of his sister, man-eater, ferocious killer, madman, and so on.The show and the main characters do their best to paint this picture of Delaney, but while the story unfolds itself, it turns out that not everything is what it looks like.I admit that for a long time I couldn't really connect with Delaney, the character is very repellent, at least in the beginning. He is not very sympathetic, too. But he is also interesting, because between all that mystery and 'being so dangerous' he is also deeply hurt and broken. The story of abuse and sexual relationship with his sister may have been true, or something that he desperately evaded by leaving the country then.Compared to 'The Frankenstein Chronicles', Tom Hardy doesn't have the intensive presence of Sean Bean, but I'm sure he will one day, as he is much younger. Meanwhile, he does a very good job by being inscrutable and - strangely - lifelike, as his character Delaney would play simply himself after nearly 200 years in some stasis.The similarities to the 'Chronicles' lay (only) in pacing, time and location, and - surprise - the depiction of dirt and mud. 'Taboo' - at least - attempts to go much deeper and excavates darker secrets of the mind and the dirty businesses, therefore being more difficult to accept but also often more gripping and surprising. Strangely to say, that 'Chronicles' is more grounded, but it has also a simpler story, and leads us to know the main character better, while 'Taboo' draws a very scratched picture of its man, so we cannot be sure what he really is and what he really wants.Is it worth to watch 'Taboo' ? - definitively yes, if a bit slow pacing doesn't bother you, after all, there is much story-line and much 'chessplay' to process, which can't be all action.Especially to mention is the great soundtrack by composer Max Richter, who is certainly in a league with Bear McCreary and Ramin Djawadi (or they are with him).
Don't expect historical facts,at all. Set during the Revolutionary war we are expected to believe the royal navy is being blockaded by Americans with Irish support in the Irish sea, that during the rape of china with opium and a roaring tea trade the head of the east India company (wrong man of course but Mr.Strange sounds SO cool)spends his spare time slave trading.....as an individual. And this is especially lucrative as he scuttles the ship wasting the slave cargo he was willing to risk all for?????Also, we live in an era in London where lords,ladies and commoners freely mix and the latter rule London...lol. Every tough guy has more tattoos than David Beckham and street urchins wear Gothic eye makeup. the whores and ladies are dressed as Victorians, ball shot is used but blades aren't...so reload racing is how people fight,a bayonet would be far too easy. Except for our hero....he tears out throats with his teeth because he went to Africa....or was it Canada? I guess who cares, right? The main point is he found voodoo in Africanada and eats hearts. he can hear the dead, which is handy if bubbling water and whispering goths are your thing. Our hero comes from money...but talks and dresses like an industrial revolution coal miner from the north...when hes not speaking Canadiafrican voodoo,he might invest in rail t' mine next season!. His father was super wealthy and so is he, although he spent his youth as a cabin boy on slave ships....I'm so lost historically...but if you just forget ALL history and which period you're in and the entire class structure of Britain, its cool. Oh and in the 1700's you could csi your dads corpse...cool huh? and transsexuals, queers and Maoris they call Indians were widely accepted in dockside brothels, by the ever present... hooker with a heart o gold. There is a Victorian chemist and cocaine is widely used by him and his friends from the band 'Flock of Seagulls' although it wasn't invented 'til well after the war that is happening. Perhaps he brought it back in the time machine he uses to bring Victorian chemistry. If you actually sat down and carefully looked over the whole thing it has pretty much no basis in fact...perhaps season 2 will let us in on their whole lack of a time-line...perhaps its Supposed to be Sci Fi. Fun though. 7/10 for shear front. And for being watchable even though its clearly absurd.


                
Essentially your enjoyment of this series will come down to how you feel about Tom Hardy's portrayal of James Delaney. If you dig it, you'll love this series and forgive its bad points. If he leaves you cold, this probably isn't for you.Personally I thought he was fantastic, an unforgettable character. James Delaney is menacing, feral, taciturn and completely unscrupulous. At times barely holding onto sanity, completely fearless and seemingly inhuman. But also strangely graceful, gentle and incredibly smart.That's not to say there weren't some other great performances, the cast was a real treat, too many to name in this short review, but a lot of the other characters didn't have much to do, and paled in comparison to Hardy's intensity.The depiction of the Georgian period in an urban setting is technically brilliant, a huge achievement, and a real change from all the Victorian era stuff you usually get.The plot is of the "slow burn" variety and the pacing was a bit uneven, you'd get a barnstorming, riveting episode, followed by what felt like filler and too much exposition, I found some of the plot points a bit predictable and formulaic, you get the sense that it needed a bit of a rewrite and maybe reducing down to 6 Episodes.I think most viewers would admit that Taboo has it's weaknesses, but for me, Tom Hardy put so much power into the lead role that he lifted it into something unforgettable. I REALLY hope the second series isn't terrible.


                
The first three episodes<U+0085>? Such interesting characters, well acted, great presentation of early 1800's England in all of its power and poverty. But<U+0085> it could have been a simple story, told with great impact if it kept to the tracks. But by S01E03 its already digging itself into the murk. People come out of nowhere, problems are resolved without logic, sometimes it seems like the whole show is about Hardy striding around in the mud, greatcoat flapping around his legs, scaring the bejesus out of people. As usual with these episodic productions that live and breath with seasonal renewal, Episode 1 was fantastic, Episode 2 was pretty darn good and Episode 3 was creeping toward filler dialog etc. Keep it simple, stupid.


                
The series had great reviews and was keen to watch this. But after a good start,what a let down.
 Firstly,if Tom Hardy is serious about getting an award,he should stop posing and just be the character or in other words act. What's the point of both the script and dialogues of promising so much for the character but nothing happens other than Tom trudging along walkways,etc.For all the talk of devil himself or even the montages of devil ,nothing happens...its a dud.
The story does not have enough meat on it for even a mini series. The same locations are repeated a hundred times and the dialogues are atrocious at times.
Importantly the supporting character roles are not strong enough or even interesting for us to care or even for them to bounce of the hero.
This is one average series when it had promised to deliver so much much more.
TOM HARDY - get rid of the silly hats,silly get-ups and nutty expressions and stop posing for the camera.Just be the character and you are too good to throw away your talent like this!


                
Watch only if you have a taste for period dramas. To put it simply : It is slow and didn't keep up to my expectations because of my liking for a fast pace but apart from that the dialogues & acting were exquisite and I have literally no idea how they're so good at it. It was neither that good or any bad, it's somewhere in middle (for me), there's a chance you might just like but certainly I don't think anyone loves it.


                
This is an intriguing start, a little slow, but not the bad kind of slow. The good kind of slow, like a slow kiss with someone who knows how. It's the slow of a cast and crew who know what dynamics are, and timing. It's the slow of a cast and crew who know that there is much more to come and it wouldn't do to rush into it. A few elements that really stand out are: Atmosphere, of course, no surprises there, anyone could see that coming from the posters, but it doesn't drop the ball on that promise at all, fleshing out each scene with a beautiful backdrop and a gritty but beautiful portrayal of early 19th century London. It handles the supernatural elements shockingly well, something that is dear to my heart, having been so severely disappointed by show after show trying to do it right and not even coming close. Example, see the show that literally calls itself Supernatural. Taboo was a breath of fresh air. Delighted to find out what happens next, and that, above all, is what i look for in the first episode in a show.


                
I liked this show - it was made well with a good environment. The characters and acting are all great - not just Tom Hardy. It's one of those shows where to win the deception game, you need to be 20 steps ahead.
To be honest, there isn't really any plot twists or the likes, just a very, very slow simple plot line surrounding three 'factions?' and greed.My biggest gripe with the series is it is a very tedious watch - and i'm normally one for slow dramas. You might even find yourself having to take a break through episodes, particulary at the start.Like others, i found the mention of James being tretcherous and beast like underwhelming. I also don't know why so many followed him and his grand plan. He's a witty character, but a total ass.


                
I've just watched the pilot of this series about the return of a presumed dead man into a world of intrigue. While the supernatural elements are more low key, it reminds me of Penny Dreadful, with the same dark, brooding tone.Tom Hardy is powerful as the returned man. He exudes danger and determination and secrets. Well, everyone exudes secrets.The setup is intriguing but the pace is slow and you have to like your drama dark and humorless. Ultimately I decided not to watch any more of this. It's good, but if I want a series with this feel I would be more likely to go back to Penny Dreadful, which I hadn't watched for a while but which overall I enjoy more. But by all means check this one out for yourself.


                
(Written after Season 1)1814. James Delaney returns to England after several years in Africa. He returns to discover that his father has died and he has inherited Nootka Sound, a piece of land on the west coast of North America, on the border between the United States and Canada. The US is at war with England and the island is of great value to both sides. Delaney soon finds himself in the sights of three parties - the US government, the British government and the East India Company - and they are all willing to use whatever means necessary to gain possession of the island, including killing him.Interesting, but not compelling. The background and some of the plot development are reasonably intriguing, with some good twists and action scenes. Dark tone and very gritty drama make for a good feel to the movie. However, the plot developments often just feel like intrigues for intrigue's sake. Like many modern drama series, there is a large element of drawing out the plot and thus the series. More episodes = more money. A bit more focus would go a long way.I will be back for Season 2 though. Looks like it is about to hit its straps.


                
Tom Hardy stars in this period piece about an adventurer conspiring against the English crown and practicing in black magic. James Delaney (Hardy) returns from presumably being dead to claim his inheritance of his dead father including a crucial island to the East India Trading Company. The leaders of the East India Company conspire to steal James's inheritance through any means necessary. Left with no inheritance is James's half-sister Zilpha Geary (Oona Chaplin) whose husband Thorne (Jefferson Hall) is set on killing James for the slight. James begins to take back his father's property but finds a brothel set up on one of the shoreside properties run by the madam Helga (Franka Potente) who decides to work with. A lot of strange visions plague Delaney, specifically the memory of his mother trying to drown him in a river. Delaney is supported by his father's servant Brace (David Hayman) who knows his father's secrets and tries to stop James from going down the same path. His antagonists are the leaders of the East India Company including Sir Stuart Strange (Jonathan Pryce) and Benjamin Wilton (Leo Bill). Check out more of this review and others at swilliky.com
