There can't be a better start to 2017. After the first episode I am sure most of them viewers are hooked. Why won't they? Taboo is a cinematic experience. Everything is so detailed the costumes, the sets, the locations , the music, the characters. You can't expect more from a TV series. There's nobody else who can play James Delaney better than Tom Hardy. And who wouldn't want to see Tom hardy every Saturday, eh? The guy can deliver some mad roles. Based in 1800s Taboo shows the dark tales of James Delaney the protagonist of the English series. Best part of the series is the mystery and suspense it has orchestrated.


                
This show has it all: history, black magic, dark family secrets (and I mean DARK), betrayal and so much more. Tom Hardy is mesmerizing and rules the screen, but the entire cast is great. This is a very intelligent show, and the dialects can be hard to understand (then again, my hearing is not the best). Delaney's character is so complex - fair and soft-spoken one minute - a protector, able to see the good and evil in others, yet a ruthless killer the next. He is haunted by past trauma that he is only just beginning to understand. Do not miss this one.


                
Enjoyed every moment and Tom Hardy is great. Its a raw and realistic told story and you can almost smell the stench from that time period. All episodes are balanced and keep the story intact from beginning to the end.The uncovering of James Keziah Delaney real game play at the end of the story let things fall in place.
The Pro's -Tom Hardy, Oona Chaplin, Jonathan Pryce, David Hayman, Jessie Buckley, Stephen Graham....wonderful cast. Always good to see Franka Potente, wish she had a bigger role!-Production value, gritty, dark, moody, certainly sets tone for what unfolds.-Multilayered revenge plot with all the corollary -class, taboo, societal subtexts-Moves along between characters and plot lines and moves total narrative along.-Requires an investment in concentration, not an easy casual watch while you multitask -Tom Hardy in flight doing his Stalin, "I am a big guy" walk, stares and grunts.The Cons-Not a casual watch -The supernatural-African and Native American primitivism does not move the plot along.-It is a stew of characters and not all of them are well developed.Overall, make the investment, it's worth watching.


                
Tom hardy truly belongs in gritty roles. He brings a masculine beauty, macho grace, and ever so slight touch of heart to the brute role of James Keziah Delaney. The show leaves you hanging on the edge of your seat and begging for more after each episode. James Keziah Delaney, the antihero returns from Africa after news of the death of his father. He comes to claim his inheritance, and win back the love of his sister...in ways unimaginable. After a few show downs with the East India Trading Company the show leaves us wondering what will happen next after he barely escapes for a voyage to America were he is meant to deliver gun powder and claim his fathers land.
Such that it makes the Count of Monte Cristo, a vengeance fueled swashbuckling treasure hoarding romp, look more like Pride and Prejudice. That is not to say that women cannot possibly enjoy this show as well, no doubt Hardy has a strong following of female adulators whom appreciate his art, but the show easily feels like it was made to envelop men back into the fold of good ol dramas of yesteryear. And in the nick of time too ( bout time Hollywood).We have the death of an old man: two coins upon his eye lids, but not so much from love it seems . The long lost son, thought dead, returns. Yet unwelcome, even if prodigious. There is mischief afoot, cautious steps by many yet unseen, with the stench of profit filling ones lungs too easily. Alexandre Dumas' master work of intrigue and drive comes to mind. Taboo takes place during a time before most of Dumas works were published or even written, and with the slave trade in full swing during the early 1800s, being black himself, Dumas eventually thought the world had need for tales of adventure and humanism. So Taboo gives me the same feeling as what Edmond Dantes would begin to endure, but after his unlooked for return. The plot thickens from the start in this show, and I dig it.The acting is very enjoyable, especially from all the myriad familiar famous faces in the show. Hardy himself is unsurprisingly enchanting, in his sullen, focused manner. But he reflects the world and England of the time well, mired in secrets and darkness.The show has the best natural lighting used from candle and the suns scant hours I have seen in a TV show for some time. The attention to detail throws one into the setting with ease and you can feel and smell everything. NO detail is too small. So far, so good. ^~^
I have never actually reviewed anything on IMDb, but this is the first TV series that has actually gotten me motivated to write one. It is halfway the TV series and I am actually stunned about how Tom Hardy and the directors can create a thrilling episode, one after another. The story of this TV series is looking great at the moment, and it is only the beginning. The music and the setting of the movie is marvelous, and with the acting of Tom Hardy and Oona Chaplin it makes this series a must-watch. I'm really excited how the other half of this season of Taboo is going to go, but I could bet my money that it is only going to get better. Stop wasting your time, and go watch this masterpiece now and prepare for hours of thrill.


                
No words to explain Tom hardy's performance in his first TV series named Taboo and he is completely ruthless from very beginning. Tom Hardy clearly enjoying his character and his motivations unexplained from very beginning. He is so dangerous, ferocious and ruthless in each and every scenes in Taboo makes him one of the best performer in the History of \t\v series. This TV series is all about James keziah Delaney and his revenge. Hardy always as usual an admirable character showing his potential to elevate in every single scenes he appears. Taboo is promising, a dark and a complex TV shows ever. Taboo is slow but dark and a powerful revenge story of James Delaney.


                
Never usually a fan of TV or film set in this period of history. So I watched the first episode a little apprehensively, fully expecting to tire of it and start looking at Facebook.But I could not have been more wrong. It is dark and interesting, with unexpected turns in the story line. Excellent performances all round by a star studded cast.Just watched Episode 4, and it continues to keep me gripped and wanting more. There is an evil thread to the story line bubbling away under the surface which is slowly starting to become clearer.A must for all who enjoy edgy drama with a hint of the supernatural. The violence is brutally realistic and shocking without being over the top. It fits with the time, without dominating the story. The whole thing is shot in great locations in a very stylish way, credit to the production crew.


                
Warning - I don't think this has spoilers, as I'm commenting on the actual relevant history that's been skillfully woven into the plot - but if you are clueless about this history you might misconstrue what I say as a spoiler. I knew this history and my reaction was – dang (I can't write what I actually said), somebody really understands the world of the time! TABOO is welcome proof that you can have a well written, directed, and acted series that is historically accurate, or as a minimum historically plausible. It's 1814 and the East India Trading Company is the largest chartered company in the world, and one of its largest and most powerful institutions. It controls close to half of world trade and fields its own army that has conquered India and enforces a total monopoly on all trade there and with many other places. The War of 1812 is winding down, the slave trade but not slavery was outlawed into England and the Empire just seven years before, and the East India Company has been involved with much of that trade which is still quasi-legal if ships did not equip via England.There is a building anti-slavery movement in England, with British emancipation just 16 years away. This adds a certain believability in the East India Company still being actively but deniably involved in slave trading, and trying to hide this not only from the public but those politicians opposed to slavery. Simultaneously there was a faction in the British Aristocracy that as late as the US Civil War wanted revenge on the Colonials that had ungratefully revolt in 1776, which is also worked into adding depth, motivation, and believability to certain actions in the plot. You might say evil often happens one excuse at a time.Now into this cauldron you have James Keziah Delaney returning to England from Africa in 1814 to his sick father, who has actually just died. He disappeared 10 years ago, somewhere in Africa, after an appropriately horrific incident that could change anyone, and again has a strong basis in history. He's a hard man, shaped by his history into a survivor who will not be intimidated, or back down. His actions, just like those of his adversaries, make absolute sense given the character and the situation and continue to escalate in ways that are more than credible. The only blatant thing to me is the name of his deceased mother from the Pacific Northwest, Salish. That is the name of a coastal Native American people in the area she is from that is a major plot point in and of itself, and which has some kind of apparently occult linkage to be further revealed in later episodes.It's a grimy, dirty London, sharing more with Penny Dreadful then with My Fair Lady. Add in James Delaney's questionable ancestry, his father's odd behavior before his death, grave robbers, knowledge of the state of chemistry of the time (no 19th century NCIS thankfully), questions of inheritance and the rules of the time, conspiracy in the halls of power, and finally questions and flashes of what is probably the occult that is being alluded to and hinted at, and it sounds like you'd have a mess.You actually have a well-crafted stew, with each ingredient added at just the right moment, and which has been blended with the perfect mix of spices. Then you realize you're not quite sure what kind of meat has been added but it's NOT chicken, and that the flavor is being cleverly concealed. As you know the father is dead in the first five minutes of the first episode, it's no spoiler to reveal I watched up until the big reveal with the reading of the will toward the end of the second episode, when my free viewing timed out. As far as I can tell nothing happens without a reason in this series, but they weave this all into the plot and the actions without some annoying narrator in the background, nor do the club you over the head with anything. You don't need the historical background to enjoy it. In fact my only complaint is that this is only on paid cable/satellite. I just wish FX was more like Fox or CW where you can stream five episodes of their recent series.
Thomas Hardy is our brilliant hero...haunted by the demons of his own sins which pull against his passion for penance. The show must be studied more than watched. Your English/US 1800s history must be brushed up. You must be a patient viewer, as the plot and its supporting structure builds slowly at first and uses flash back and flash over techniques. But the show delves most brilliantly into the dark evils that encompassed the British East India Trading Company which, for so long, have been denied. And not only are the evils revealed, but revealed in a most dramatic and authentic way...almost as if they had been bottled up for centuries waiting to burst out. The answers to why the tea party in Boston was so grievous to British monopolistic commerce, answers to how and why the British were expelled from China, answers as to who incorporated a good amount of the Atlantic Triangle slave trade and a piercing look into the faces of the men who sat at her board. And yes, we get details my friends, many sorted, long denied details. Pay close attention especially to Delaney's cryptic quotes such as: "When my reds are red, my whites are white, and my blues are blue, then I will clear out". You will find much of the show is in shades of gray, but bright colors pop out at the most opportune times. As the above quote lingers in the mind we hear murmurs of blue powder, and white sails and that, yes, Red will be spilled. In fact, the red of the English rose runs through the plot like brush strokes of a Master on a Black and Grey canvas. The period costume, locations, day to day life are captured exceptionally well. The acting is first rate. The violence is hard but needed to capture the seriousness of the subject. The show vividly shows the very top of life in 1814 London, the middle and the very bottom, all in great detail. We see the many gray areas between right and wrong and good and bad. Even our hero has many short comings. But more than anything, it brutally captures events in history which have been long over due. Now if only they would move some of the plot to 1814 Rhode Island and reveal some of the actions and activities which were happening there. British importation of slaves, tea and gunpowder into the US had already been banned around this time, which allowed the trade to flourish out of Newport and this group took over many of the activities which the British East India Company lost around this period of history.
I've seen Hardy in lots of movies over the years, and he just keeps getting more intriguing. His portrayal of Heathcliff in a version of Wuthering Heights was amazing. This show is dark, broody, and sometimes overly vulgar, but I am hooked. I DVR it and end up watching episodes more than once in order to be able to grasp everything that is happening. Hardy's character is a terribly flawed hero, but he seems more likable than not. I'm not sure what to make of the sister - the obvious conclusion seems too obvious, so I am still hoping for other clues. There are more characters in this show to hate than to like, but the ones you like are the underdogs, so it's easy to root for them. There is some seriously crude, rude content, so if you're squeamish about how ugly people and life can be, it might be too much for you. I would love to see more backstory on Delaney's parents...fingers crossed!!! Can't wait to see more!


                
We have just watched a couple of these. As others mention, the cinematography is breath taking. The period costumes and sets are wonderful. Hardy is either slow mo mental or so adept and unobtrusive he fools everyone. I believe the want us to believe the latter while constantly presenting the former. Hardy is awesome and he gets the awesome roles. Everything is very graphic in this series. I looked up the characters on IMDb to see who'll be in the series for a while and they are the most colorful they have presented to date. Meaning, seems pretty juicy. This show covers the grittiness of life. Scrapping amongst the semi to very wealthy class. Will update once we see more.


                
I admit the pacing of each episode is slow but each of them have their moments. There are two magnificent music scores that stand out in the show. It has a stellar cast lead by Tom Hardy. Franka Potente from the Bourne series is in it but I feel that she was useless in this. Tom Hardy's best performance yet. Better than Bane from the Dark Night though the Bane character was silly. The plot of season 1 was mostly about James Delaney being targeted by the corrupt British government over his father's will and the legacy so he plans on settling his father's assets including a step- mother and flee Britain. He makes deals with many to provide safe passage on the ship he has to attain. Meanwhile he practices dark magic which is considered taboo. Also he survived a ship wreck nobody could have survived. Also he has an affair with his step sister. He is generally portrayed as a beast of a man.
I enjoyed it very much and I really enjoyed the acting, especially the Brace's accent, and James' mimics. The plot is interesting and the interest and curiosity kept growing!
I wish there would be another season, even though I have not one single clue about it!


                
After watching the first episode I realized that most of last year's serials weren't actually good. My expectations for this after watching the trailer were high, and they were fulfilled so far. Watching this mini-series is like reading a Gothic novel. The cast is superb, as are the costumes and set design etc. Of course, Hardy and Chaplin are great. Hardy already established himself as a good actor and I've liked Chaplin since that one season of 'Dates'. Most know her from Game Of Thrones.In part, one can say where the plot is going, but I'm pretty much convinced that doesn't prevent anyone from watching. I'm very interested in how James Keziah Delaney is taking on the East India Trading Company. Back then the EIC was THE corporation in the world, striving for world domination, acquiring every piece of property possible, by any means necessary, shaping the world that we know today. In my opinion, the depiction in the series is accurate, because it's only logical for a corporation to be evil to acquire dominance and power. Also the relationship with his half-sister will make for some dramatic moments.I'd like to binge-watch this, but that's definitely not going to happen. 8.6/10
So I have just finished the first season of Taboo and I loved watching this show every week and now it is time to review it. The premise of this show sees James Delaney return to London to create an enterprise while trying to avoid the east India trading company and the Americans. Tom Hardy plays Delaney in this show and he is absolutely amazing, he is gruff and stern as you would suspect but is also very charismatic That you totally buy his character. He fully commits to this role and he totally sells the physicality of his performance. David hayman plays his butler brace he gives a really strong powerful performance on this show. His chemistry with Hardy is great, and you truly believe there relationship as the show progresses you see there friendship grow. Jonathan Pryce from game of thrones plays the head of the east India company in this film and he is great on the show. He has the right blend of humour and drama that makes him a believable villain and character for Delaney to have to go up against. Tom Hollander from pirates of the Caribbean play a mad scientist working with Delaney on the show and his allot of fun to watch, there chemistry together really works for the show. The story of the show is really interesting seeing Hardy come back to London a completely changed man with new unique beliefs. The conflict between Delaney a pretty much everyone is great to watch as he manipulates his way through London with the interesting supporting cast. The script has some great dramatic dialogue in it that builds these characters up in interesting ways. The drips of humour in this show also work and there is some laughs to be had when necessary. The style of this show is really dark and gritty, and has some interesting use of unique circumstances. But my only issue with this show is that sometimes there are a few to many things going on and the pacing is a bit slow. But overall I thought this show was fantastic and definitely worth a watch.


                
After long time I've been waiting a unique TV Series to come,after Dexter,and I've found it ! Taboo is so well done,the clothes,the black filter in the screen which makes it even more "taboo-like" and dark...but to be honest it is a dark show,the main character is Not a a nice guy-James is a dark,persona with some witchcraft that he learned from a black men,a slave like himself.He told that even when he was in that prison.So I don't know why some people expect to remove this black screen filter when it perfectly fits in the show.This show is one of this that..u just can't stop watching because u wanna know what will happen next?!There is one negative thing,that keeps repeating as the director don't see it or I don't know why.I am talking about James ,when he walks in the town London or other streets in this big black costume you can see him from far away and easily an ordinary thief could just shoot him in the back or by side.My point is that he's walking like a Grizzly with no protection or any heavy armor...and that guy who wounded him could also easily kill him-that is not real or rational ...I mean it looks silly in a way.Oh...one more thing.I saw James eating during the whole season only twice!??! And the people in general.Sometimes I ask myself during the show, what the hell and when is he eating?!?Can't wait for Season 2 ! :D


                
I'm no wordsmith, but the show really is great. The only reason I gave it a 9 instead of a 10 is because the last episode seemed to rush through the ending, which came together a little too "neatly" to me, and after you watch the show, you'll understand what I mean. Also, not knowing whether or not there will be another season was part of the reason I gave it a 9. So many questions left unanswered! I really really really really hope there will be at least one more season, two or three more would be better. The acting is incredible, cinematography is fantastic, story line is unpredictable and fresh, just all around a super show!


                
I loved Taboo since I'm a huge Tom Hardy fan. However, it's frustrating waiting at least 3 years for the next season. Tom filming Venom was part of the reason and that for me was a huge disappointment. Hopefully season 2 will be worth such a long wait.


                
It's awesome and the plot is awesome the acting is superb


                
OK this series is gritty in the extreme and has plenty of disturbing detail. But if you want a inoculation first, watch "La Peste" out of Spain and Taboo will seem tame.Hardy's anti-hero, (Heza)Keziah Delany, ranks among the best central character scripting and portrayals in the stunning amount of great TV/serial programming.


                
