Far to slow, predictable and frustrating waiting for the end! Good grief! It could have been condensed to an hour and a half perhaps a 2 hour movie!
Hype is hype n this was dragged out to the nth degree!
Disappointing after advised by other user critics to watch it


                
This series veered way off the original story's content and atmosphere.
I highly recommend reading Shirley Jackson's 1959 original novel or watch the 1963 Robert Wise film adaptation,The Haunting.
This is not meant to be a story about a family with verbal diarrhea and on going,all encompassing dysfunction.
It is a gothic ghost story about a lonely woman finding solace and acceptance from a long haunted house and it's unseen occupants.
No offense meant to the actors,but this was really unnecessary.


                
I read a few reviews and decided to watch this series. Mediocre is the best I can say. Have watched first 4 episodes and can say maybe 8 minutes worth of real suspense. The other 3+ hours put me to sleep. The adult characters are more annoying than sympathetic or likable, so I don't really care about them. The younger children are much better but are only supporting roles. The constant flashbacks between then and now get old very quickly. Won't be watching the rest of the episodes.


                
Four episodes in, I can't keep going forward. The show's selling point is supposed to be ghosts but it focuses too much on family and personal drama. What the characters encounter in the present day is only to bring up their childhood memories that can tight the issues they have with what went down in the house. The show is all gloomy and sad, and mostly tedious and boring, which is not realistic and hard to watch. I literally couldn't watch one episode without breaks because that's how un-entertained I was.


                
I tuned into this program because of it's super high ratings and to be honest, it's brutally boring. It's very slow although what I quite like about it is the acting and the overall look to the program. For all that quality and effort into the story and such, it's the type of show I am looking to see how much remains before it's over. Each show almost NOTHING happens a waste on a cool concept and great potential. I wouldn't waste your time...unless you want to kill 8 hours of life.


                
Just watched the netflix series of 'The Haunting of Hill House. I guess now, once the rights to a classic novel are acquired by some no talent tv reptilian type, it's just fine to go right ahead and pluck thin references from the book, water them down further by surrounding them with badly acted scenarios, even alter the authors written words to fit your sophomoric soap opera mini series narrative rather than write your own, and replace them with whatever drool qualifies for writing in your episodic format. Decent art direction and jump scares will not win the day. Not after Hill House has been converted to "the haunted house ride at disneyland' meets 'days of our lives' to use industry speak. Just as in the recent CGI gorged film remake, gone are all the qualities that made this book and Robert Wise's '63 film such gothic evergreens. Why can't they leave this one alone? Shirley Jackson is rolling over in her grave.
Oh, by the way...I guess I'm alone here in my thinking on this because it got rave reviews as 'a modern retelling of the classic novel'. Can Steven Spielberg's remake of 'West Side Story' be very far behind?


                
I am trying to get through all ten episodes. So far I have watched six. If I ever finish them all, I will update my review. This is not, so far, as much of a horror story as a character study of individual members of a disfunctional family. OK, they may be disfunctional because of living in a haunted house.
The story moves extremely slowly, with individual episodes focusing on one family member. That is fine for developing the characters, but it gets tedious at times.
I'm rating it higher than I might otherwise because of the excellent acting, great set design and overal production values, but I have to say it is wearing on me.


                
I really can't get into this show at all. I have struggled to get through seven episodes, because so many people say how good it is. Actually it is incredibly slow moving, relentlessly depresssing, and not scary in the least. All the characters in the disfunctional Crain family speak in a monotone at all times. They can't stand to be around each other, and I can't stand to be around them. It is hard to believe that Timothy Hutton actually won an Oscar. His acting is mostly annoying. Some if the others are good, considering the material they have been given.
I give it two stars basically for the sets and some good acting. If you are interested in watching a long, drawn out show about a disfunctional family, then this is it. If you are looking for a scary haunted house story, then watch the 1963 movie "The Haunting". It is far better.


                
Starts off oké, but could have been much, much shorter. The long drawn out, tripe filled episodes regurgitate the same idea over and over again. If they dismembered a few of the characters, it could have been something, maybe. The real horror is the ending, which made me cringe bigtime and made my girlfriend scream only because I squeezed her arm so hard out of frustration. Why this typical american explainy happy ending??
I really hope netflix, and with it the films & series industry, get their act together and go for quality and not this generic quantity.


                
I'm more than halfway through the first series, and am disappointed with how boring and slow this show is. This is more like a family-based psych drama than horror. The back stories for each character are long-winded and meandering, and any scary scenes are sparse. Got to episode 7 and have given up


                
Like other people wrote on this, what is the deal with all the people giving this great reviews? Are you serious? This show was excruciating to watch, worse than watching paint dry


                
How is this getting high ratings? Are they all paid reviewers? To think, Netflix pushed 3rd season of "Stranger Things" to 2019... for this?! Where do I even start... how about enumerating all the major problems with this show.1. Reliance on acting skills of bad child actors. One of them in particular, the boy in glasses, ruins every scene he's in, as he visibly struggles to repeat the lines. His fakeness removes immersion and converts everything into a mundane filming set.2. Constant jumps between time periods. They remove suspense from earlier scenes because you've already seen the people involved 30 years down the line, and know who will survive the "childhood scares". They also create confusion as this show tries to imitate "Westworld" with its "delayed revelations". This storytelling method is annoying, pretentious, and boring.3. Lethargic pacing. This show is the showcase for Netflix's methodology of taking one episode's worth of content and stretching it into 4. When it comes to pacing, this show makes season 2 of "Walking Dead" look like an excitement-packed adventure. Seriously, between the scarce CGI scares, it's hard to stay awake. Which brings us to 4. Flat characters/bad dialogue. The characters are not believable. They don't speak or react like real people. They're flat cut-outs, droning boring expository dialogue, stalling for time. It's almost as if whoever did "Iron Fist" and "The Defenders" was in charge of this project, too.5. Drab color palette. Another Netflix trademark. While some of their shows manage to have a decent color palette (OITNB for example), this one falls victim to the usual Netflixing, where they suck the life out of the picture and darken it to obscure their low budget and/or cheap filming equipment.In all of 6 episodes I've forced myself to stay awake through, only one actually seemed to have a story. It reminded me a bit of "LOST". But really, is that the kind of ratio we're shooting for? Watch 5 episodes of throwaway garbage just to get to the good episode which could be told without the other 5?This show is pretty much the worst of Netflix. Even if it redeems itself somehow in episodes that follow... I simply ran out of will to push myself further. After work, I want to be entertained... not tortured. Simple as that.


                
THOHH is a Gothic horror family drama type thing. Now that sounds good on paper but the mystery, scares and spookiness are thin on the ground, so ultimately it felt like 10 hours of very little happening except a dysfunctional family sniping at each other. I love a slow burner and am tired of CGI beheadings and blood being thrown around, but this rubbish heap wasn't smouldering, any chance of fire was extinguished by endless scenes of the family, none of which are particularly likeable or interesting, squabbling with no resolve in sight. This doesn't build tension, just boredom and the feeling that what you're watching is going nowhere. Admittedly the flashback scenes in the house were pretty good, but there just wasn't enough of those to balance the scenes set in the present time. This series could have been saved by removing some of the excess fat and making a much shorter series.


                
Usually the first episode is meant to be interesting enough to grab your attention and make you wanting more. Unfortunately this episode was very boring and not interesting or scary at all. I was so excited about watching this new season of The Haunting of Hill House but wont be watching anymore from this season. Episode 1 was definitely more like a drama than a horror film. I don't understand what people loved about episode 1.


                
I've been racking my brain to recall a film or miniseries that had a finale so godawful that it ruins all that preceded it. The Sopranos came close- but there once was so much great stuff there (before money won the day) that the ending merely made me feel somewhat conned and not that I had wasted whatever time I spent watching it. Haunting of Hill House, alas, does not have such high points. Halfway through I was thrilled that I cared so little for the main characters that it was possible for the director to kill them all off, if necessary. But, as is often the case in horror, the last act of the story is exceedingly difficult to negotiate- even more so, as in this case, when the writer/director has lost his nerve. Even had he resorted to his "alternate ending" of the red room window behind the final celebration (much better)-
it still would not change the fact that the last episode is an unendurable amalgam of pyscho babble and narcissism more suited to the Lifetime Channel. The final act of a work of horror is not supposed to stop dead in its tracks with you checking the clock to see how much time is left. You can hardly recommend something with the warning "Just don't watch the last part". A somewhat promising beginning with a dismal and dull finish- I hope that doesn't become Flanagan's epitaph.
Part 5 was about as entertaining as it got. At that point, I decided to finish the remaining 5 parts and review it. This is just a mediocre movie with tons of filler. It could have been reduced to a 2 hour movie and the plot would still be intact. The Crain family move into Hill House with plans to flip the house for profit and build their dream home. The first 5 parts are all about the 5 children, but not all at once. The first is just about the oldest child Steven and down to the 5th part about the youngest child Nell. Each of the stories take place in the "Then" and "Now", which "Then" is just flashbacks. The issue with massive amounts of flashbacks, the viewers get whiplash pretty quick. After the first episode, they repeat the same scenes over and over from another person's perspective. All the while tossing in 5 to 10 minutes of suspense per episode. The rest of the episode is personal drama relating to social hangups, drugs, alcohol, sex, and marriage. I for one don't care for tame PG horror with the MA label slapped on because of bad language. If you don't believe me, take a look at the reasons listed on the IMDB for the MA label. Such as episode 1 showed a nipple! I don't watch horror to be bored to death, it is suppose to scare me. The plot was thin and there wasn't much there either. If you want to revisit a much better ghost story about haunted houses, there are two adaptations of Shirley Jackson's "The Haunting of Hill House". The oldest was 1963 B&W "The Haunting" and a 1999 "The Haunting" both are much better than wading through 10 parts of this monster. But my favorite is the old 1973 "Legend of Hell House" based on a novel by Richard Matheson. While the horror in this might be tame they don't pretend it is by misrepresentation. I don't know why NetFlix has this listed as "Season 1"? If you watch it, there cannot be another season, it would never make sense.


                
If you love long winded drama, sure this is well done and acted. Horror? Nah. I consider myself a horror aficionado and sure this has some horror pretenses but that is all. First 2 episodes had the promise of an epic horror series but then it just went downhill and by episode 5 I could not wait to just turn it off. Again, well made, good acting and a fine drama story but that is not what I expected from the "packaging".


                
I absolutely loved the original black and white Hill House. I even enjoyed the remake which "borrowed" a few scenes from The Legend of Hell House. This latest remake was a disappointment. The back stories were way to long. I got the point of a disfunctional family pretty quickly. No reason to beat a dead horse with that info. Timeline jumping is all over the place. I did watch the entire series. I just felt that this remake was very weak and it was confused about what genre it wanted to be categorized in. No really horror, weak drama, weak thriller. Save some time and believe the lower reviews.


                
I have to wonder if Stephen King saw the whole series before praising it to the skies. In one respect I can see what would appeal to him. It has a very novel-esque feeling and structure that could only be achieved in an extended presentation like this. Many of King's novels fail as movies because there's not enough time to get into the character's heads, but instead are propelled from one plot point to the next without the subtext. That doesn't happen here. But while it's admirable they succeeded on that front it's taken to an extreme with overuse of cross cutting and jumping back and forth in time to a confusing degree. As others have said the momentum slackens in the second half with many long soliloquies that could have been trimmed by half or in some cases accomplish nothing at all. And then the last episode collapses completely with plot reveals that are both confusing and nonsensical misfires. It completely negates the malevolent intent of the house and simply doesn't make sense when one looks back on what has gone before. It's a shame, there are some great possibilities where this could have gone but it flatlines.
Series about as scary as a box full of unicorn toys. Characters so uninteresting I started rooting for the horror elements that were nonexistent to begin with. Every "horror" scene is just a cop-out. People wake from sleep, run away from the nasty things or just wait for the sounds to disappear. It got old already in the first episode and somehow the series just managed to go for worse and worse towards the end because apparently, the point was not the horror but how the horror side affects the daily lives of our cast and how it makes them live inside this cheesy melodrama where every new event is more try-hard sad and deep than the former.


                
To start, this is slow, boring and VERY predictable. (CGI is also not very good)
Not scary at all or even a little suspenseful.
The story line between the siblings is the only thing that has a little story to it.
Really disappointed, especially considering all the great reviews it's getting.


                
Okay so the Show started off well then things went sideways, it got boring, slow with many plotholes and just stopped being entertaining.
The Show is absolutely 100% NOT Horror!!! it is drama about a dysfunctional disturbed familydo not believe all the hype because it really does not deserve it, i am not hating on this show, i am just giving my honest opinion.
It is below average
not recommended


                
Do not buy into all the hype. This series will bore you to death with its snail pace and empty substanse dialogs.


                
They could easily remove the 1 hour and a half of horror elements and call this a great drama story about a family that is scared about something. A great drama movie not a great horror series. American horror story is way better. This series is good to make you sleep and wake you up from time to time. Great drama


                
Good acting, interesting and twisted premise but the pace of the show drags. While there was sections of the first season I thought were interesting and some well thought out character development. There was way too much empty space where they obviously tried to pad the story in order to have long enough episodes. I won't be recommending it.


                
