My Hopes were high...but i was wrong...Not Scary at all but a Depressing show.. Too much Melodrama... The name should be Beware of a Dysfunctional Family..! Not recommended in Horror genre..!


                
I rarely bother to write reviews but the insane praise this is getting is, well, insane. At best its OK, at worst pretty boring. It's not really a horror, for me that bit seems almost tacked on (although I haven't finished all 10). Its more a mediocre drama with some horror elements and there lies the problem, neither are that great. It's not particularly scary (also the effects are pretty cheesy) and not that interesting on the drama side.If your looking for a half baked, pretty tedious drama, with a mildly spooky backdrop then you will probably love this. If that's not really your bag, then maybe do something else.


                
The premise of this series is dumber than dirt. A family of seven somehow finds the money to buy a four storey mansion the size of Delaware, which the father plans to fully renovate and resell. He plans to do all of this in (wait for it) just eight weeks.I have some experience in real estate (including renovation and flipping) and I know for a fact that this is absolute ********.Incredibly, the father claims that re-selling the house will make the family rich. Viewers are not invited to stop and consider the fact that you cannot buy a house of this size in the first place unless you already are rich, so... uh??? Perhaps he means the family will become billionaires instead of just millionaires? Who the **** knows.It's all a moot point anyway, because throughout the entire 10 gruelling episodes we barely see more than a few scant minutes of what could generously be described as 'renovation.' The father makes vague noises about replacing the wallpaper (yes, all 90 square kilometres of it) but this never gets done.It turns out that half of the walls are suffering from excessive damp due to sheets of water pouring down inside them for no apparent reason. In response the father footles about with some fans and plastic sheeting, but this half-arsed token gesture towards the problem is quickly forgotten and never mentioned again, so I guess the walls didn't get fixed either.At some point the father accidentally cuts the back of his hand on an industrial fan which inexplicably lacks a guard across the blades. The wound is severe, clearly requiring minor surgery, a ******** of stitches, some nerve reconstruction, a professionally applied bandage, and at least a week of inactivity before the hand can be used again.The father wraps a thin bandage around it, and continues his lame attempts at DIY. A few scenes later he's using the hand like nothing happened.Anyway, the kids start seeing ghosts but nobody believes them and they get traumatised in various ways.One of the kids becomes an author who gets a vasectomy(!) One of the kids becomes a junkie(!!) One of the kids becomes a neurotic, self-absorbed bitch who hates everyone and works at a morgue(!!!)One of the kids becomes insane, and marries a black man(!!!!) One of the kids becomes a psychic lesbian with daddy issues(!!!!!) who sexually assaults women and inflicts domestic violence on the one who becomes her unfortunate on-again-off-again partner. When the partner complains, the offender gaslights her and the cycle begins again. Charming!The mother is insane right from the start, and it's suggested that this madness runs in the family. The father is in denial about everything, because of course he is.The house is inexplicably furnished with acres of antiques. I guess they just came with the property? /shrugThe main cast consists of dull, unrepeatable characters with bland, fully interchangeable personalities. The children are portrayed both in their youth, and as adults.The child actors are pretty abysmal. One of the boys looks and sounds like the belong in a Neil Breen flick. One of the girls is given lines that are completely unrealistic for a child her age. The adult actors are little better, and one of them has a forehead the size of the Eiffel Tower, which is as distracting and unpleasant as it sounds.Anyway, the house is full of ghosts (mostly portrayed by sub-par CGI) who spend all their time wandering around the place for no apparent reason. Occasionally they scare the kids with jumpscares and loud noises, but apart from this they pose no threat.Some of the scenes are just laugh out loud stupid. When a supernatural storm blows out every window in an impossibly long hallway, the housemaid responds by futilely dabbing at the huge piles of glass with a small dustpan and brush. Never mind the fact that you would literally need a team of half a dozen people with brooms, shovels, and a skip to get the job done; she reckons it'll all be done in a few minutes with her feeble ******* around.It's a moot point anyway, since this scene is never revisited and we're not told if the windows were actually repaired at some point.Further shenanigans ensue as the story continues, with the plot becoming increasingly convoluted. It soon becomes obvious that half of the writers had walked out in the first week. The narrative switches backwards, forwards, and occasionally sideways in time. This happens frequently, and with little purpose except to confuse the viewer.There is much speculation about what is real, what is imaginary, and what is merely dreamed or mis-remembered. Different scenes are presented from multiple perspectives in non-chronological order, but little is done to organise them in the mind of the viewer. Why? Because **** you, that's why.The series becomes completely bogged down in its own self-importance somewhere around episode 5, and never recovers. From that point it's a long, slow crawl to a predictably messy end that screams 'Well, we managed to cram every other tired old horror trope into the plot, so why not this one too?'The epilogue is classic American shlock, as you should expect at this point. Everyone acts as if everything has been resolved, even though virtually nothing has been.I rate The Haunting of the Haunted House on Haunted House Hill that was Haunted by Ghosts at 9.99 on the Haglee Scale, which works out as an excruciatingly cringeworthy 3/10 on IMDB.
If watching a third of a 10 part series and guessing the rest to fill in the gaps would work for you, I suggest you do it. Anything you can come up with will be better (and faster) than watching this turgid series to its conclusion.I am not a horror lover and am easily spooked and jumpy, so would not ordinarily watch something in this genre but reading the 9 and 10 star reviews changed my mind, given the number that said it was more than just horror. I decided to give it a go and hide my eyes if need be.Nothing made me jump and the first few episodes were interesting, working out the relationships and following the flash forwards/backs. Once that was straight, there was very little left but interminable mumbling monologues, stagey family arguments, vast swathes of time given to indulgent repetitive navel-gazing and the odd shock, often experienced by more than one character but they don't discuss it, preferring to continue blaming each other for family drama and disagreements, as though supernatural phenomena is less surprising than the unexpected chance to bring old scores to the surface and settle them.It is a long plodding journey to the final episode which is a silly mish-mash of meaningless tosh interlaced with the by now routine endless discussions about feelings, coupled with confused memories and hallucinations, and we are supposed to accept this kaleidoscope of gibberish as an explanation (and perhaps apology) for the lack of horror, not to mention the lack of a real story. It took forever to get to the end and unfortunately, once there it took forever to stop.I'd like to be kind, but I can't.


                
Chock full of contrived stereotypes, script written like some cheesy preteen horror novel, incredibly cheesy build up to one gigantic joke. My sweet friends, if you're looking for a funny show with a two day long punch line, this show is perfect for you.


                
I seem to be in the minority here but i didn't find it scary at all and a little dull, too much chat not enough action, wouldn't watch again.


                
After the first episode, I was very surprised at how good the cinematography was. Unfortunately, the second episode was a chore. The annoying ''flashbacks'' reminded me of Lost - which unsurprisingly, I never finished. They were just too frequent and most of the time never added anything meaningful to the story...especially not the pace. I really don't want to waste my time as some unfortunate souls here have. I'm stopping at episode 2.


                
I started watching this show because of all the great reviews it was getting. All I can say is that it is no where near being good. It is well made for a VOD title but to call this a horror story is ridiculous. There are some decent jump scares here and there but nothing else to make me want to go past the 3rd episode. I have no problem with the show being about a family dealing with psychological trauma but to sell this as a game changing horror show is pretty fraudulent. The characters are unlikable. They speak in long monologues. There is nothing to keep the viewer interested. I was expecting to be blown away but ended up wasting 3 hours!!!


                
It's rare that I will write a review of a TV series before I've finished the season, but there's a first time for everything, and that would be Netflix's adaptation of Shirley Jackson's The Haunting of Hill House.Seven episodes in and I've found myself not only struggling to finish it, but wondering why they opted to make this in the first place. The answer is obvious. Money, and the ability to cash in on a recognized work of literary horror. And seemingly because showrunner Mike Flanagan needs something to do after Netflix signed him to a developmental deal.The first episode I forgave because with most television series it's generally the one spent introducing characters and setting up the narrative. However by episode three out of ten things should be hitting their stride, which was not the case here.Gone is Jackson's tale of a disparate group of psychic researchers investigating the paranormal. Instead they've been replaced by a dysfunctional family who long ago hightailed it out of the haunted abode but now must wrestle with the legacy of turmoil left in its wake.The characters are connected to the book in name only. The Hugh Crane of Jackson's novel was the long departed deranged patriarch of the aforementioned mansion who tormented his family in numerable ways, essentially distilling their trauma into the walls of Hill House. Here the Crane family are merely transient owners bent on renovating and flipping the property, with the children bearing the names of the book's researchers.Incorporating a similar plot device to the television series Lost, the show relies heavily on flashbacks. Ironically, this is the only part that works. The child actors chosen are quite good and empathetic, whereas their present day adult counterparts are a group of neurotics whose sole mission seems alienating the viewer.And as for the chills, yes, they do work, initially. However by episode three they've already resorted to recycling the scares, a sure sign of an uninspired effort.Curiously, the series has garnered an outpouring of rave reviews on this site, which has caused me to think that most folk have either never read Jackson's vastly superior book, or never treated themselves to Robert Wise's excellent 1963 movie adaptation that is a classic skin crawler (we'll conveniently forget about the 1999 Liam Neeson fiasco).From the get go I hoped that my initial negativity would be offset by a slow, marked improvement in the story, scares, and characters. Sadly, that's not the case here.
The show starts with a lot of promise and interesting themes. The camera work is consistently great throughout too. But the show can't cope with the weight of the meaningful topics it brings up. The final four episodes collapse under this weight, as the drawn out conclusion meanders through monologue after monologue of vapid, excruciating nothingness that fail to bring about any meaningful conclusion to the narrative. A shame.


                
I do not recall reversing movies due to the persistent thoughts; Did I miss something?, I must have missed something.
Nope. Hard to follow. Alternate time lines however the children and adults also look similar so bonding with characters becomes fruitless and distracting.
I find the 5 epidodes I've watched so far to start out flat and stay flat. Not having a ball so far.


                
There are some really wonderful moments at the start of the show, but it slowly becomes a dull drama. The non-linear storytelling becomes tedious to deal with, jumping from poorly written monologue to monologue.If you like the walking dead, you'll probably enjoy this show though.


                
No idea why this is getting good reviews. It's boring, jumps all over the place with its confusing timeline and the jump scares are few and far between. Very low budget effects. How many times is a door knob turning scary? Not even once, but it's used over and over again. Gave it 3 episodes in the hope it would improve, but just got worse.


                
The first 2 episodes we're highly promising (and the 5th was actually pretty neat). unfortunately, the rest of the show doesn't cash in. if i had to pick only one adjective to describe it, "long" is what come to mind. and oh boy is it long. Each episode lasts for an eternity, which is a real shame because i'm pretty sure it would've been so much better if they squeezed the entire plot into something like 5 episodes.
But noooooo - the show drones on and on and the characters burst into incredibly tedious monologues and we're subjected to more and more of the "dysfunctional family" bore-a-tlon...
The last episode was the worst. I can't believe they still write this sort of stuff in 2018.
Don't watch.


                
This is what happens when you take a short book that made a fine 100 minute gothic horror film and the try to extend it to 10 hrs plus.To be fair I have never read the novel though I have heard good things. Robert Wise's black & white gothic masterpiece "The Haunting" tho is a gem simply because it is concise and hints at the benevolence within the house instead of parading it before the camera. Where the concept in that version was simple, some people stay a weekend in a haunted house for reasons of their own and get terrorised by unseen forces, this version has a most generic family move in to renovate and get occasionally harassed by overly visible forces. To be fair, the flashback story is stronger and might have made a fine 3hr mini-series. Sadly it's clear the makers are too fond of Stephen King stories so we have present day versions of the siblings all with their own gimmick, one maybe psychic, one is now a struggling addict, one is a control freak and another may be a little crazy and yadda yadda and so on. They then have to overcome their emotional baggage to pull together as a family and face the past etc etc. Basically it's just 'IT' over again but with the house instead of the clown.Despite other reviews that say otherwise without watching the entire thing I would say the performances are ok and the house looks the part, very gothic and nicely shot. There is ONE clever time travel conceit within the plot that stood out but the rest is woefully short on genuine scares. This had real potential and when I saw the write ups I was well up for it but yet again another well reviewed horror piece turns out to be an overlong disappointment. No one seems to appreciate that menace is better unseen and implied. Oh, and that sweet yet morally dubious ending, less said the better.
People calling this "the best horror TV-series of all time", really? It's more like a family drama series than horror. There's a couple of cool, almost scary moments and the rest is like "7th heaven" with a dark twist. The acting is not natural and look forced. A huge disappointment.


                
I found this movie full of unnecessary details and slow scenes. I got bored, but kept on watching, waiting for the surprise that would make me understand why people like it so much. But no...


                
This is not horror. This show started really good, but I ended up skipping most of the episodes half way to the end. Its like 13 reasons why all over again. Dont waste your time with these incredibly boring 10 episodes, just watch The haunting 1999 much better.


                
All the 9's and 10's on here will be from people who who for Netflix . Boring .


                
Was not what I had expected! Way too much drama, watched to the end only to find out what happened. Not a fan and definitely not recommending to my friends .


                
The Haunting of Hill House is a dialogue heavy so called horror film from director Mike Flanagan.
Ignore the high rating, this is a film for millennials who's only experience of horror is watching When a Stranger Calls on the Horror channel.
The film is a physiological/family drama with one or 2 jump scares in each episode and is pretty much a metaphor for mental illness. Avoid.


                
Long winded, slow moving, and basically dull drama about members of a family. No scare factor aside from sound effects in a few scenes. Sorry I put the time in on this very mediocre production


                
It's boring. I honestly don't get why it's famous !!


                
If this series had been made without claiming any relation to Shirley Jackson's novel OR the original movie I might have given it a higher rating. The acting was fine, the design was fine, but as a fan of the original I am highly disappointed.Mainly because I feel as though the creators of this show had no understanding of the original material. This became clear as the show progressed and was more of a family drama than a ghost story.However the very last line of the movie should be enough to make my case:
"Silence lay steadily against the wood and stone of Hill House, and whatever walked there... walked together."And on top of that, there is a book in the series named The Haunting of Hill House that is written by one of the main characters... a male character. I know this is fiction but seriously? Isn't that a little insulting to the memory of the woman who created the original work?
It's not worth your time, dull and slow, too much talk, you can avoid it.


                
