Creepy, gothic, atmospheric drama/horror story about a family who briefly lived in a haunted house and the far reaching effects it has on each of their lives. There are a lot of really great elements to this show. The casting is excellent. The women all look like family to the point it takes a few episodes to keep them straight, The casting of Timothy Hutton as the elder Hugh was inspired. He easily passed as an older version of Henry Thomas . The acting was good and the character development was outstanding. Everyone was multidimensional and believable as real people. The story telling style of jumping between past and present is used very effectively and keeps you on your toes.  There are several very well placed jump scares, but the majority of the horror comes from the building of anticipation and dread . I watched more than one scene with my hands covering my face and peeking through my fingers. The writers also liberally employed the use of fleeting images that you aren't quite sure you saw, but add to the overall atmosphere,  This all hollds up rather well for the first eight episodes. Then the whole thing gets a little shakey, and finally collapses under the weight of itself in the final episode. Every character has a drawn out melodramatic monologue. The former restraint is abandoned and after 9 hours of detailed character development and story telling, all the storylines are neatly and happily wrapped up in the last 15 minutes.The series is absolutely worth watching, but for me the ending is what keeps it from being a perfect 10.


                
A series of a family that got f'd up in a haunted house, and you just want to find out why and what really went wrong. Each episode is captivating and you cant help but keep watching. horror/thriller/drama, good job netflix its always a 50/50 but this series is good


                
Unlike other reviews have indicated, this is not a sequel, prequel or remake of any of the prior film versions or the classic novel. my personal favorite is the 1963 robert wise version, "the haunting". scared the crap out of me as a child - the doorknobs and the bending walls. russ tamblyn from that version even makes a cameo in this version as well, playing nell's therapist.anyway, what they did was take all the characters from the story and, instead of making them visiting researchers, made them a family (the crain family - yep, they kind of jettisoned the back story of the house as well). this family moves into the house in hopes of selling it after fixing it up. the story jumps back and forth between their time in the house and later, after the kids are grown up and still suffering from their time spent in the house that's haunted by.....well, something. their father takes them from the house in the middle of the night without explaining why, and they never go back. just like the book, it's not clear if the haunting is real and if the various members of the family have carried forward the traumas they experienced into their adulthoods. and they're all pretty messed up too. they did manage to fit in some of the more memorable events/scenes from the 1963 film into this one, putting them into the context of this version. the expansion that a 10 hour version gives is amazing, and each family member pretty much gets their own episode (some dovetail into other character scenes shown from the other character's point of view). i started out not liking the massive changes so much, but really settled into the story (ep 6 is amazing, in my opinion). highly recommended. it's well written and creepy. though it was played a bit for laughs in the 1963 version, you'll certainly never hear the phrase "in the night. in the dark" the same way again.


                
I'll keep this short... this show was awful... I'm going to write the opposite of what every other review said which leaves me wondering what I missed?! But the acting is terrible, I mean really really bad, it's boring, it's not scary, I have given up after 2 eposides.... but I may preserver and if I'm wrong I will rewrite this but so far this is crap!!


                
But then episode ten happens happens and totally screws up everything, and honestly is just downright boring. This slow burning horror just falls flat into some dumb cliché that contradicts the entire story, very anti-climactic.


                
This is seriously a fantastic show for the first nine episodes. It is dark and scary, weird and atmospheric, but also has substance and interesting character arcs - which is very rare in the horror genre. It is basically a horror-drama. I absolutely loved it. The ending, however, was poorly done. Not so much how everything was resolved (which kinda made sense), but the over the top melodrama way in which it was presented (including the music). I just wish they had sustained the overall quality of the series in the last episode.


                
Young Luke and Young Shirley looked to me to be maybe 5 - 6 years apart. But Adult Luke's and Adult Shirley's actors are 11 years apart in age, and look more like 15 - 20 years apart. That's just one example of what I'm referring to. All the woman - young and adult - have long dark brown similar hair, all are slender and pretty, including the grounds keeper. In their other performances I often confuse the actress Carla Guigino (the Mom) with the actress Elizabeth Reaser (Adult Shirley). Here's the thing. All the actors are good, well suited for their roles, and I get wanting to cast in that way - the right actor in the right role even if you have to fudge the ages. But if the creators were going to cast such an identical cast, so hard to tell apart and with poor age distinction, then the filmmakers should have been clearer as to who was whom in the unfolding of the story. The new characters added in to the current timeline include Shirley's children, plus the husbands and wives, only add to the confusion of who are now the Adult versions of the Kids, with the stories all cut into each other flashing back and forth. I was at the end of the second episode when I finally figured out for sure who was who. It's a good series, I gave it 8 out of 10, but I had to vent about the casting. If the filmmakers were going to unfold the story in this intricate way, then they should have cast different looking actors. Make someone voluptuous, make someone blonde, give someone bangs, make someone short, give someone a signature hat thing (like the glove thing that doesn't become connected until the end of ep3.) Give your characters physical distinction, or, give them distinction in your story telling. Really that's my only criticism. This is a good series.


                
On the whole I enjoyed this. But like my title, was like the Tom Hanks film Castaway. The beginning was slow. The middle was great and the ending was an anti climax. A horror? Nah. Jumpy in a couple of places but thats all. The story and acting was great, its tense and keeps you hooked but I think the horror side could've been turned up a notch or two.


                
Its more of a drama than a horror series, the character flaws of each person involved was way more scary than the actual house events. Very well written for a spin off of the Shirley Jackson story. The house is legitimately creepy well designed sets as the story transitions. A few twists that i didn't see coming as i watch to many movies i can usually see whats coming and i didn't. The monologues ran kinda log and the "Tarantino" editing get kinda ridiculous, you spend 20 mins in the past to see 30 secs of the present and jump right back into the past for 20 mins, it get really annoying by episode 8.***SPOILER***The ending is absolutely terrible, no shock ending, no resolution, no final battle, no logical conclusion just the same sappy crap. The dad sacrifices him self to save the kids by bargaining with his dead wifes ghost and all he has to do is kill him self, so the kids go free and he explains what happened to the eldest, that's it literally zero conflict in the last episode. The remaining family air out their dirty laundry for a hug fest at the end accompanied by a sappy slow guitar song. The care takers even return to the house to become ghosts so they can live their forever, i guess they forgot the house killed 2 of their children, which to me as a human person would never offer more of my family to a house to be trapped as a ghost forever.
Spoiler alert:In the end It will be the writers delivering a schmaltzy final episode that will leave you feeling empty. So, what was the suspense and fear all about? The ending was an elongated dust-binarty time travel moment from Interstellar? I mean what?The series had some exceptional writers, but also a millennial who wrote awful situational into some characters. Afterwards rewritten as plot points were no doubt developed and re-written. "Oh well we better go back and make her more angry and cold then". Plus some dialogue from a 22 year olds insta feed, standing out alongside some truly exceptional writing.At the end of the day Hollywood just couldn't resist, and we got_that_ for a final episode. I won't spoil it but they clearly didn't know where to take this. I wont say "they gave us good ghosts, " or "they gave us bad ghosts". Actually Yes I will. That ending was internally inconsistent.Who wrote that? Come on, a happy, contrived ending? I expect to see Annikan Skywalker in the Red Room at the end.Could have been a 10/10 so, so easily
The Haunting of Hill House adapts and morphs Shirley Jackson's original work into an compelling, well-written, and, at times, heartbreaking rumination on family trauma. Although the visuals are often terrifying, they're not the main propeller of the show, and if you're looking for a cut-and-dry thriller this is not the show for you. Instead, the Haunting of Hill House utilizes strong characterization and interpersonal relationships to carry the plot along. The first half the show is the best half, without a doubt. We get to know the five Crain siblings through a non-linear timeline, as the show jumps back and forth between their lives as young children experiencing the horrors of Hill House and the traumatized, messed-up adults those horrors produced.As a huge Shirley Jackson fan, I liked that the show wasn't simply a remake a book but rather a reimagining, such as Annihilation was. THoHH took the soul of Jackson's novel and worked with it, turning it into something else entirely, while still including little hints of the book recognizable to those well-versed in Jackson's world.


                
TL:DR I love 99 % of what this show offers except its ending due to it being a different version of jackson's novel. Its not that I'm a purist, its that I find the change of villain near the end to be a very bad decision. Other than that, fantastic show. Well worth your time. Sets the standard for what horror should be like these days. A definitive breath of fresh air. Story, cinematography, acting, visual design, music and attention to detail = 10 out of 10 right off the bat. Its a very good series. Every episode is unique and relevant to story as well as individual character progress. A LOT is being told in a short and concise way that never feels neglected. Very good writing. Main emphasis here being the horror. Its very good work.
Moment I saw the various scenes I kept telling myself " And here I thought true horror was dead" The jumpscares are either kept to an absolute minimum and when included, never feel cheap. The build-up & tension is incredibly well executed. The emphasis on SHOW, DONT TELL is absolutely beautiful and a breath of fresh air. 
Some of the shows best scenes dont include exceptional dialog. Its just you, the actors and the slowly building tension before the camera shows the monsters. Exceptional understanding of horror cinematography. I applaud you Mike Flanagan. Extremely good and well executed in every way.Even fantastic directors like James Wan could learn a lot from you / this show. Much of whats present here would've helped on the overrated (in my opinion) Insidious / Conjuring films. But anyway. 
What are the shows cons here? Fairly simple. Its weakness is its strength. The adaptation of Shirley's book itself.
The ending, full circle and all that is not going to be for everyone. matter of fact, seeing it made me consider lowering my score to a 7 or 8 from a 9 because I'm a fan of the book and the original story. The sheer terror of such an evil house being emphasised so delicately to its every detail. 
Hugh Crain was a monster. So seeing this adaptation and how it ended had me... well, in a state of cognitive dissonance because I wanted a darker ending. I wanted the house to appear far more monstrous. I wanted to see more than just lots of dead people, some good, some bad and only 1-2 of them actually appear remotely menacing without ever having much of a character. In other words. The villain in the book was Hugh. A well fleshed out evil man that cursed his own house. 
Much alike Rose Red's had Ellen Rimbaur from Stephen King's novel who kept building on Rose Red and got rid of anyone who stood in her away. Either joining her in death or just dying under mysterious and horrible circumstances.But in this abreviation of Hill House, we dont have a clear villain. At first we think its the house. Then we begin seeing mainly 1 evil spirit and a whole lot others that dont really do too much. 
And we dont know if its the house thats still the enemy at the end, OR if its just a few malovolent spirits that can be diplomatically told to screw off if you encounter a spirit thats friendly.In other words. This abbreviation reminds me of Casper the Friendly Ghost. 
Casper was nice, his house compadres... werent'. And after seeing the end of this, how the evil spirit just walks away and the rest just remain there, in their new / home they were always meant to be in, kinda thing, we're left with this idea that " Is the house really evil? Or is the house just... complex and both possessing good and evil alike"And its just weird. Its a bit confusing and makes us ponder and although I usually LOVE doing that, I primarily enjoy the pondering of an ending that respects the original concept. Case in point. Eleanor and the child spirits.
Ellen Rimbaur and the ghosts at Rose Red. What will ever happen to them. Will the house just remain this haunted, horrible place. Will they just vanish if the house got demolished. Stuff like that. But in this abbreviation we pretty much know it all. The red door to the secret room is not very secretive. We never get an explanation to whats so special about it. The room itself is incredible simplistic and once again. 
The red room in Shirley's book signified a special place. Heart of the house and core of the monster himself = Hugh. But here... its just a room. And thats it. And it doesn't feel evil. Since the spirits can open or close the door. In other words, NOT the house itself. The spirits are the problem. 
The spirits continue feeding and killing people.And that the disconnect I had personally. The villain is hard to put your finger to. Rose red = Ellen Rimbaur
Shirley's Hill House = Hugh Crain.2018 Hill house = The house? The evil lady spirit? We have it established that the house is feeding off of people. Their energy. 
How the Crain's is described as an unfinished meal. But when we look closer and we see whats really going on we dont really get a specific villain and the ones we do get are NOT strong at all.Sad, jealous ghost lady who's name I dont even think we are told that comes across as a seductive damsel versus Ellen Rimbaur who loved children and her house more than anything and decided to get rid of ANYONE that dared hurt what she loved till she became crazy. Let alone Hugh Crain himself. The tyrannical killer of children only to imprison them in death. 
They are all horrifying and add to the house ITSELF having someone in charge. Someone who triggered the traumatic event that brought this dark energy to life.But in this TV show it feels like each protanogist is their own villain in shape of their guilt, fears and on TOP of that, an evil spirit lady. It ultimately means that we dont know how exactly Hill House came to be so dark. We hear about a few deaths in order but we never truly get an exact clarification or visual discovery as to why stuff happened or when. Just that people died 1 by one. And that means that...? The house wants to kill you little by little to feed? The house is automatically demonic?
Because thats not what either Rose Red or the original book Hill House was about.That is more reminicent of Stephen Kings The Shining. 
A house that uses hatred and sadness to destroy people. Filled with evil spirits. But the spirits in King's version or the movie never feel like they are the sole problem. The horror of the house... is always maintained. There's something greater here. Something evil. But anyway. 
If you can accept the series for what it is. This new abbreviation, its a straight 9 to a 10 depending on whether or not you can accept it all. I personally have no criticism of this outside of this colossal con I've elaborated on.I wanted an ending that showed a FAR darker side of the house. I wanted to see something really grim inside that room. I wanted something right out of the Shining to happen. I wanted catharsis from a horror perspective. But instead the abbreviation went for emotional clarity, redemption of the mother who was once again, tricked by the evil lady spirit (The house's role is unclear entirely. It just feels like a prison for spirits but we never know how that house even became such a thing outright and thats a shame since the house is the primary villain all the way up to the end. Its the strange, mysterious figure we are anxious to see, learn more about and dread at the same time... but alas, no climax) We get our protanogists leaving the house, resolving their issues, fears and worries, and ultimately see them live happily ever after sorta whilst daddy goes to join the dead daughter and mother in the house where they they will reside, happily and at peace. I dont mind optimistic endings. I'd actually welcome an ending like this if they only bothered to give us a far better, darker explanation to the house. In the House Hill movie with Liam Neeson we get a positive ending too and its fine. Its just that we got to see the TRUE evil of the house. And understand just why it was so dark, who the monster truly was and see it conquered. Here however, the dead lady simply isn't scary. she's not intimidating and she's just not given any time to be fleshed out either. She's not fleshed out to remotely compete with villains already mentioned and her conclusion can be summarized like " Hey, you! Get your hands off my man! --- Okay, sorry (leaves)" The end. It felt extremely anti-climactic since I was anticipating something scary. Something horrifying and extremely dark. Monstrous and demonic. The very thing, the black heart of the house that caused ALL this pain and kept all these spirits here maybe.But we never get it. Its all just a shame. Ghost lady completely steals the focus from the house being the main form of concern. 
At the end you're like " House is just a house. The spirits are just screwed up and try to manipulate you to kill yourself"I dont like it. So I'll keep my score at 8. A damn fantastic show but not a masterpiece. I'm basing that solely on personal opinion. I dont find any issues with acting or cinematography. Everything is superb. I just have a problem with this specific abbreviation. 
Should you watch this show? GOD YES. I had a blast for 8 episodes. The final 2 when the evil lady was appeared I began losing interest. 
The mystery was replaced with a weak villain and yeah. Rest I've already explained more than enough.Sorry for my repeats. I'm just bummed by this. I had hoped for a grand finale and we certainly got that, just not in a sense of true horror and cathartic build-up of the original villain = Hill House itself. Hell House... 8 out of 10. Great series from an objective point of view. Worth your time. Fantastic emphasis on classic, true horror and its a cinematographic masterpice from the perspective of not being a cheap, modern horror. THIS show sets the standard for how to do Horror these days.And I greatly respect it for that.
It is so hard to make a truly scary movie or show. Once in awhile a good one is made. The Haunting of Hill House is one of them.
It is an excellent show overall. It is sourced from a novel that was made into a move in thr 60's, The Haunting. Itself an excellent movie.
The show is the nice blend of both direct and indirect scares. The atmosphire drips with a sense of dread. You care about the characters as well which makes it that much more engaging.
I needed to revise my review not seeing the final episode. I now have to lower the grade. The final half of this episode diminished this series. It was like watching a different show. The ending was very disappointing. Expecting a final confrontation with evil we are confronted with head scratching and what just happened.
It is still overall an excellent series.
The episodes are scary and keeps us on our toes. With family drama and a constant eerie feeling, it makes us want to spend our whole day and night watching. However, episode 8 is probably my favorite - the scene in the car still gives me the creeps and I don't think I have seen anything scarier. That's why I am so disappointed by episode 10, the last one. This episode was not good. It was ruined by a very poor and over the top dialogue. The whole point also feels a bit stupid. I might be the only one feeling this, but it did ruin a bit for me.
Okay! So this is not gonna be a normal haunting story or a haunting house that would kill people or too much blood and make people panic every second. The story takes its own time to build about each tiny aspect that forms a solid connections in the later part of the story, so one has gotta be very patient in first 5 episodes to make it out. Has an excellent screenplay, Camera work and actors My god have done a tremendous Job, gotta thank netflix for getting this up to being popular. Coming back to the story line, the last three epsiodes though it did have sensible connections, the dialogues lyrical part of it was so much to that of reading a book, like the patterns of sentences, the rhyming, not sure if it was intentional. The screenplay was slow enough the dialogues well.
At the end, this one is the ghost of the christmas past, the present and the future, all of them which is within you but you don't see it until you really have to.
The first eight episodes of Hill House were the best horror I've seen since the Omen and the Exorcist. Scared the shit out of me. Couldn't sleep well for days. The last two episodes were such a horrible disappointment. I had assumed that the director must have died during the filming and been replaced by a really bad Lifetime channel director. Only that would have explained why it took a turn from horror to cheap sappy love fest with ghosts. Such a waste. After mourning the series for a couple of days, I decided to hang on the hope the director regains his sanity and releases an alternate ending that befits the darkly wonderful film he almost made.
Okay so this was supposed to be a brilliant architect, yet he didn't realize what was behind that red door? Ok.. I believe more in ghosts than builders from now on


                
I have just finished binge watching all 10 episodes of this series over 2 days on Netflix. I have to say I was quite excited when I knew this was coming out, being a big fan of the book. However this story bears little to no resemblance to the source material. I did enjoy the show, and probably would have scored it a 9 - 9.5 if it had been given a different title. However it was not what I expected at all, and left me feeling a little cheated. I guess the book is well respected in Horror circles, giving it more kudos, but I probably would have enjoyed it more if it had not been associate with the book. I guess there might be enough recognisable scenes to be accused of plagiarism.
I have given it an 8/10, because it was a well made, atmospheric show, with some great acting and cinematography. The horror was kept to an absolute minimum, which made it that much more effective. Instead it relied more on the eerie and suspenseful. I have to say it was a little slow at times, and perhaps 8 instead of 10 episodes might have been better. Some of the chopping and changing between different periods was annoying, but that might just be me, never been a big fan of flashbacks in movies or TV. All in all really good, supernatural thriller, but still waiting for that perfect adaptation that is faithful to the book.


                
It's a breakthrough for the horror genre. It has drama and depth that most of the-if not all- horror shows and movies lack. Acting and casting was again marvelous. My only disappointment is the ending. I thought something bigger or surprising had been building for the finale. I thought something more terrifying and sad had been preparing. But things are almost turned out happy for the family. A little ambiguous ending wouldn't hurt me for such a show filled with curiosity. I'd just prefer a dark, mysterious and thrilling one rather than simply a hopeful one. I'd expected more from the red room, from the house but still I don't want to evaluate the whole show on the basis of the last episode for the sake of being fair. It's a promising show for the horror genre and it has the power to open a new chapter within the genre.
People probably will write about how well made it is and everything, so all I want to add is , the funeral scene is my favourite, they didn't serve us cookie cutter stuff but actually gave us something real. The writer has to be commended. It's perfect when it comes to flow and realistic character depiction. Felt to me like I was watching real people but good acting but something that real siblings would behave like.


                
I was hoping for something to really scare me but unfortunately this wasn't it, however I really enjoyed the mystery and the performances were genuine and beautiful! It was a bit slow at times but still intelligent, creative and moving! I highly recommend this for anyone that likes to be creeped out but is sick of how stupid and poorly acted most horror films are!


                
I really enjoyed watching this mini-series. Overall it's well done, visually often amazing, filled with very competent actors, and really good writing. The characters are all flawed and tend toward self-absorption, but as the series moves along you realize the point is revealing how they all have coped and are still coping with a terrible past experience that defined their lives. It's also effectively spooky, though after several episodes the scariness wears off and I began to notice the forced use of musical "stingers" every time something scary jumped out. If you're looking for some atmospheric television to watch or have on in the background during the Halloween season, this is perfect.Now to quickly cover a few flaws and then the one major one... The show uses a lot of time jumping, but it doesn't necessarily make sense when you think about events from later episodes applying to earlier episodes. For one thing, the Crane parents are major gaslighters, in the early episodes they're cliched ghost story parents admonishing their children for believing in ghosts and demanding they accept very clearly waking events as being nothing more than nightmares. Then the series moves forward and we discover the mother herself is experiencing constant strange sights and experiences, everyone within 10 miles of the house seems to be all too happy to warn them the place is haunted and evil, the mother acknowledges she is from a long line of psychics and for all we know magic users, and all this talk about it just being nightmares and imaginary friends is just forgotten and silently forgiven. But the two storylines don't match up.This relates to a twist that comes at the end, which I won't give away, but it involves a surprise concerning one of the children and a ghost or ghosts they may have seen. The surprise works in the moment, but when you think about it for even a second it doesn't make any sense at all, and it's really like, do these two parents pay absolutely no attention to their children and what they do all day? I know it's a big house and big property, but they have young children who shouldn't be totally unsupervised, and yet this "twist" can still happen? Again, the situation with the supernatural is treated one way in the earlier episodes when we're covering the children's stories, but all of that is forgotten when we get to the adults.The gaslighting of the children and ice-box nitpicks of the twists probably won't interrupt anyone's enjoyment, but one thing that might annoy viewers about this show is that it wallows in ghost story cliches a lot. To the point where it really seems like they're making an effort to remember every scary story cliche they've ever heard of and jam it into the series. I wouldn't say the show is predictable, but so many times when something happens you're brain is momentarily taken out of it to think, "Wow, what a cliche! Again!" Though hey, maybe it's supposed to be a feature and not a bug, it is an epic horror television mini-series, maybe they wanted to pay homage to centuries of ghost story tropes.And the final minor flaw is that the ending is weak, the show has a very strong buildup and then the ending isn't anything big or climactic, and in fact starts to take on a totally different tone. The last two episodes really were only okay to me, like in most haunted house stories there's the obvious problem of why don't the occupants just leave? And the 9th episode highlights this question without any answers. We've got this mother character who it's made clear desperately loves and cares about her children, so the second weird stuff starts going down, how does she not just leave with them immediately? The Cranes are not salt of the Earth type people, they seem pretty capable and inventive, if your children are endangered by a haunted demon house you can find someplace else to stay, you could stay at a campgrounds if you had to. Episode nine really calls attention to this plot hole though, because the mother decides she should leave the house for awhile because it's making her crazy, and even then it's like, "Well, NEXT WEEK I guess I could head over to my sister's..." It begins to seem a little silly, we don't even see the family leave the house to go out to dinner or anything.The only major flaw I had with the series is that it's languorous. Just pointlessly slow and in need of a LOT of editing down. This is something with many Netflix shows though, but I can see some people getting fed up pretty quickly. There are just endless scenes that take 6 minutes when they only should have taken 2. We have pointless conversations that lead to unrelated conversations and events which actually matter, and there just isn't a good excuse for it. Characterization moments should be counted by the line, instead this show has laborious dialogue scenes that provide the smallest amounts of character definition or plot advancement to justify their existence. Probably every episode could have 10 minutes cut out of it without really any difficult thinking required.This self-indulgent slowness really doesn't do creator's work any favors. It doesn't make them better or more complete, it just makes them annoying. Showrunners should invite heavier editing of their material, someone needs to rein in excesses and kill darlings in most works of entertainment, it improves them immensely.Overall though, I'm really happy I found this series, it's an enjoyable yarn about a family stuck in a haunted house, with great writing.


                
I really liked it. Reminded me kinda of AHS but different. The scary part was suttle but effective sometimes. I really enjoyed it. There better be a Season 2


                
I'm a horror genre fan and have watched n number of horror movies and series so now very few movies or series impress me. This one is surely one of it. It's really well written and directed. Can't wait to for S2.


                
This is an amazing show. Heard everyone talk about it so i gave it a shot. Loved it. Amazing story plot, everything just filled itself perfectly. The jumpscares they get you good, unexpected and just amazing. I felt as if the ending could have been better. For example they all walked in the red room and the ghost started playing games with them and they were all forced to relive the past and stuff like that. It does leave us wanting for more and i love that about this show. I guess we will just have to see how season 2 turns out - Eludo
