I don't usually invest my time in watching anything in the horror genre, as most are generally predictive and due to lack of music accompaniment I know when to cover my eyes so as not to end up on a defibrillator. The generic full of unnecessary gore and a lack of believability storyline was definitely missing from this well written and performed series. Nothing in this genre usually surprises me, but this was something very different. 
Looking at the reviews I thought I'd give the first episode at least a quick view to see if this was anything other than predictable.
From the off, I was captivated at the beguiling and compelling storyline, something different with twists and turns, which totally sucked me in. 
As further episodes unfolded, the acting is so believable from all the cast, although did sit up and take particular notice of Kate Siegel, who plays one of the Crain siblings, that you cannot do anything but sit captivated and neck deep in this Netflix masterpiece.
I jumped at times that I thought were safe, questioned parts that I thought I already had a handle on and sat shocked at the route of the already captivating story line.
I have only given this an 9 as there is always room for perfection, but the investment I made in the characters of this nothing short of an original piece, was definitely a 10. Great dialogue, acting and unpredictable storyline.., this one has it all going on. Entertainment at its best.


                
So, Let me start by saying I would give this show an 8.5, however, I have bumped it to a 9 as I finished the show recently, and my impressions of the last two episodes may be negatively skewing it lower.Let's begin with the premise of the show, to which I will be lovingly comparing it to the hit 2004 TV show "Lost" and an incredible tour de force recent film "Hereditary". We begin by being introduced to the show's main characters. A family of seven, five children and two parents. The show starts in 2018 and we are introduced to a grown up version of the family. We instantly make our snap judgements of the characters, usually negative in most cases. And then in the style of lost, we experience the story of each character (with one episode being allocated to one member) in a double flashback fashion. First we are told the story of the children whom lived at Hill House many years ago. And then we are told a more recent story of the character that leads them to present day.I want to say that this version of story telling is not unique to "The Haunting of Hill House", however, it might be that it is the best implementation of it I have seen to date. Utterly gripping. I don't know if anyone reads the novel. I have had the opportunity to read years ago. I liked it. The show isn't exactly a novel. There are serious changes. Of course a good change. The show sells us this incredible multi-faceted mystery, that intertwines throughout the years, and where none of the family are on the same page. And it does a wonderful job of tying up all those narratives, all those moments that you just let go as a "glitch in the system" but then later it would call back to it and you would understand a mystery you didn't even know existed. With that, it is important to recognise the fantastic job the show did of revealing the "How" of the show. How everything tied together.A fan of black and white horror movies I am well acquainted with Robert Wise's 1963 "The Haunting", which to this day stands out to me as a classic of the haunted house horror genre. Netflix's "The Haunting of Hill House" retains a lot of what makes that movie so great while also branching out on its own and introducing diverse and interesting characters. Also child players and adults really look like each other. Cast selection successful. While there is a definite difference of rating and the show opted to go into the realm of color tv I consider both to be entertaining and chilling in what makes classic horror effective. There's even familiar nods to the movie- the iconic spiral staircase, a scene where two people are scared out of there minds by the walls seemingly coming alive and starting to shake, etc. This series falls more in the suspense than in horror and evidently if you are one of those who thinks that horror means gallons of blood and deaths every 20 minutes, forget it.The series focuses on the stories of different siblings in different episodes. And it shows the stunning points that individual stories touch. In fact, each time, we see that there are different points of events. We see the same event from other perspectives. Thus, the story of the family takes on a more intense dramatic structure, on the other hand it is becoming more and more complex thanks to the different details revealed. The funeral scene in episode 6 has a really good shooting technique. The camera enters the recording and the scene is shot in a single sequence. One of the most impressive scenes I've seen on TV. I mean, Mike Flanagan's giving a directing lecture.Where the Netflix series really stands out to me is by tying all of the horror elements to PTSD, making you question whether these horrors are really just confined to the house, the people who lived in it, or both. The characters are somehow trying to live out their lives to the fullest and keep their sanity after the history and tragic memories of living in a haunted house. Each character believes different things about what happened there, and each is damaged in their own way. It feels somewhat reminiscent to TV shows like Lost in a way. This show goes pretty deep into this reality and for some it could possibly hit a little too close to home. 9/10


                
I've only started on episode 2, although I'm hooked and freaked right out! The performances from the adults and the younger versions of the adults are very convincing and ropes you into a family that has been screwed over by terror and your along for the ride with them!
Enjoy 
I am


                
I absolutely adored this drama. It had just the right amount of scares but also told a fab story. From the past to the present it was exciting and kept me on the edge of my seat. Yet the last episode filled in all the gaps but then went all soft. A happy ending and a house that was haunted but it went all gooey. I wanted it to end with the house consuming all of them. Not a sugar coated happy ending. Overall though 9/10 would have been a 10 but the ending did my head in...
I really love this, it's horror at it's best, and I was kinda numb to horror these past years to be honest. Not much could give me a good scare anymore. With the haunting of hill house it's different. We just started watching today and decided it would be best to switch off netflix after watching for 5 hours straight. Just can't stop watching :)


                
A gem of the horror genre. well-thought out intertwined scenes, amazing long one-shots, shocking moments that make you jump off the couch. great family drama in general.


                
I don't usually write reviews on here but for this i had to.I'll keep this short.This is one of the best if not the best original shows netflix has done.Top notch writing,directing,cinematography,acting,etc.As a huge horror fan this show captures the atmosphere and build of what captures the imagination.I can only hope that NETFIX if you are listening you adapt clive barkers COLDHEART CANYON.After seeing what you have done here i know you can adapt that novel faithfully and true to it's source.And it deserves it.Excellent show.


                
In the beginning when I started this show It was hard to get into; the acting was very rough around the edges but if you can sit through the first episode or two then it starts to take shape. I have to admit I was wrong when I said this was a horrible show as it turned out to be a very well constructed show. I had to set aside the fact that this show along with almost every show put over over the last few years are all the same with a different cast and scenery and try to look at it as something new.
I enjoyed this for what it is.


                
I just finished binge watching this series - it's definitely worth your whole Saturday! It beings with a family, who seem to have the perfect American life. The parents are house flippers, who move into the run-down Hill House to rennovate and eventually sell to fund their 'forever home' where they'll build the rest of their lives. The house has other plans... From episode one, we follow each of the seven family members through their memories of growing up in the haunted Hill House - supernatural suspense and thrills, a plot that grips you and a script that is sensationally written, carried out by fantastic and moving actors that tell their stories through fear, grief and unbelievable odds. It doesn't use cheap scares, it messes with your mind and catches you off guard. Hill House will grab you by the guts, and pull you in, just the same as it did this family. A definite must-see!


                
This show is about loss, regret, grief, and our relationships with other people - both living and dead. It is a show that will scare your pants off and then turn around and make you weep. It is probably the deepest and greatest piece of horror fiction in the 21st century; I watched all episodes within 24 hours.The acting is terrific, cinematography and directing are en pointe, music is very suiting, production design in the house is amazing, and the writing is devastatingly beautiful.Seek this one out.


                
Came for the horror, stayed for the plot! Better than most horror movies!


                
I enjoyed watching this on Netflix, best thing iv3 watched in a long time. Good story line, good jumpy bits. I would recommend this to anyone who enjoys watching horror shows.


                
I don't watch horror movies but this was so different. So much suspense that kept me watching all the episodes at one go. Tastefully done injecting the horror bits when you least expect it. Acting was superb. Storyline was gripping and the flashbacks were done nicely too where you don't get confused which you tend to in some movies where it is not nicely done. I enjoy watching this thoroughly.


                
I must be a little dense, as it took me some time to figure out who was who and when was when. Do not give up on this series, as it is well worth the trouble of getting characters and time lines straight. By the end you have been totally satisfied and understand why you were investing so much time on the story. ('So THAT'S what happened!) Well worth the watch!


                
This series had me binge watching it until 3 am. With a baby to wake to in the morning, I still couldn't stop. However only one gripe. The lack of realistic emotion with the characters bothered me. With such deep content and somber moments, I expected more. I understand some of the characters were meant to deal with death differently because of their past. Sort of hardened them. But there were instances I couldn't get past. Such as when the Dudley's found their daughter dead. Their only child they had left. Barely any tears, and they welcomed the fact their daughters ghost was there like it was nothing. I don't want the characters to spend an absurd amount of time grieving, but the majority of these episodes were based around loss. And hurt.
All in all, I enjoyed it. Honestly really made me miss my family and reminded me of the love between us. As stupid as it sounds, I found myself tearing up a few times.
Definitely worth taking the time to watch. I probably would have ended it differently but it doesn't change my opinion on how captivating and creepy the series is. Very well written and performed; true to the Hill House legacy. I hope Season 2 is a prequel!


                
Flicked on Netflix and saw this show listed, which I had never heard of, or seen advertised. I like a good horror, so thought I'd give it a whirl. Not bad - easy watching, jumpy, scary at parts and not terribly written re: character development as some horrors can be. It's a Netflix production, so you know they'll put in the effort.Definitely a Friday night treat in bed, kinda show. Do not expect the exorcist. But this a thrill/jumpy kinda show.


                
This show is riveting and well filmed with quality performances by all. I've never squinted my eyes so much to avoid the constant stress of what's next. I'm a huge fan of the Rose Red mini-series and this is an all new take on the haunted house genre, which, when done right, scares me senseless. Television horror has become as good or better than anything the big screen can provide. A series worth binging with the lights turned low.


                
Most amazingly written, directed, acted series of the last years. This is the perfect amount of horror, thriller, storytelling, past and future l just can't event describe it. If you don't usually watch horror just watch it the same, you will change your mind, because here it's all about strong emotions, positive and negative, not just scary stuff, it deserves to be watched. You will love every character, believe me. Cinematography and photography are really impressive! Loved it from the beginning to the end.


                
Over all I really enjoyed the show. I haven't read the book yet so I don't know how it measures up to that. It does seem to me that they more or less took This is us and made it creepy.I did enjoy it though, very well acted, very well written, and very well directed. I felt it was a bit long in some places, but it still kept me very interested and engaged.


                
Ignore the 1/10 reviews. When you read them, you start to notice the trend of "reviewing before finishing the show", or even 1 episode for that matter. 9/10 for me. Why? Well, there isn't anything else in this genre, with such great quality. The acting is great. Believable, true and realistic. The directing is excellent. This is what makes the show. You'll notice throughout that there are some scenes that don't have a single cut. I think I noticed one go for about 10 minutes without a cut. If you know filmmaking, you know how difficult this is. If that doesn't sell you, then let's talk storyline. The show has it's slow episodes, but name a show that doesn't. These are the episodes that add the details, create the relationships and develop the plot. So they are necessary. But, that still doesn't take away from the 8 other episodes of pure emotion. I'm not talking soap opera emotion. True feeling. Feelings of terror, sadness and suspense.Allow yourself to dive into this show with an open mind. Become immersed in the storyline. Put yourself in the characters shoes and pay attention at all times. You won't regret the experience. This show is unlike any others in the genre. Don't miss out.


                
Great show, draws you in and compels you to pay attention.
Also contains my probably most favourite female character of all time: Theo.
She's just incredible...as a child and as adult, no words!


                
Absolutely insidious writing with heart-rending acting and chilling scene transitions! Just visceral! Left me horrified and speechless. This is the horror the genre has been missing.


                
I didn't expect that i'll love this series so much.
I ve watched all the episodes in one night and i don't remember the last time i ve done that.
I hope will be season 2 in the future.
Great tv series, i suggest to watch it guys!!!


                
Holy cow. Finally something worth watching in the horror genre! This gave me chills and nightmares... and just generally freaked the hell out of me. It also has a PLOT; an actual storyline! The only complaint I have is the ending. It was just so disappointing given all the built up horror tension. I was a little unsatisfied with the ending :( But overall, it is a must watch.


                
