Cary Grant, who lived with Randolph Scott for twelve years from 1932 to 1944, was far too old at 55 to be playing the romantic lead. It's hilarious that he looks the same age as the actress playing his mother - horrendously bad casting. This movie is a slow, overlong, dated and boring and it certainly cannot be compared to any of the Bond movies. In contrast to what some other reviewers here have claimed, Grant was never offered the Bond role, because he was far too old at 58. If this rubbish had been half an hour shorter, filmed on location instead of on fake-looking studio sets, and if it hadn't been so slow then maybe it would be watchable. William Holden would have been far better as Roger Thornhill.


                
This film is a poor mans James Bond. Hitchcock might be the master of suspense but he sure ain't the master of spy thrillers as this film goes from bad to worse. This may have been mildly interesting in the fifties/sixties, however a modern viewer must find this film very boring. This has no place in the top 250, let alone the top 20. If you like Hitchcock I would watch this and compare to his over classics. If Hitchcock doesn't float your boat, avoid at all costs


                
Despite Hitchcock's penchant for perfection on two occasions (Rear Window & Psycho), this is an absolutely imbecilic excursion.  Plot holes fill the script and even Hitchcock's usual visual grandeur isn't present here.  I'll trace this to where Spielberg's trait of "maximum suspension of disbelief" originates.  More interesting works like 'Rope' and 'Birds' have daring elements that make them stronger.Cary Grant is a block of wood.  Heck all the acting is simple by today's standards.  The plot, too, is nothing remarkable since there have been so many other "running man/conspiracy" movies since this one.  No doubt this work of Hitchcock has dated the worst.Tony Scott tried remaking this, he failed.  Perhaps someone smarter like David Fincher or Robert Rodriguez will try again.Final Analysis = = Cinematic Dud


                
This film is the latest to fail my 30 minute test. I give every film 30 minutes and, in that time, if the film has promise, I watch the remainder. The only films that fail the test are those that are very poor, for one reason or another.In the case of North by Northwest, the issue is blatantly clear: The script is ridiculously contrived, and the story is totally unbelievable. I cannot watch a serious film when it disregards reality in such a casual, off-hand manner. The premise of a man on the run because of mistaken identity is not too shabby, but there are so many insulting things the writer does to force the story. I'll give you one example, of many, in the first 30 minutes:Protagonist is abducted at gun point from a busy public building (already, that's absurd) by two men, who then take him elsewhere. He meets their boss, who tells him that he may as well drop the innocent act, and that his identity is known. After he unsuccessfully tries to convince the abductors that they have the wrong man, they force bourbon down his throat, and then attempt to crash him off a cliff, in an effort to make his death look like an accident. Even though the quantity of alcohol he has ingested would render him completely helpless, he somehow fights off one of the abductors and takes control of the car, managing to drive it for a long while before the police apprehend him. He is arrested and tells his story to the police and judge. So far, the writer wants us to believe that these professionals have:1. Abducted someone in this ridiculous fashion 2. Made a massive mistake with one of their targets 3. Been too stupid to realize after the protestations that the protagonist is not the man they are looking for 4. Have chosen a ridiculous method to kill their target. Seriously, if they were as organized as we're led to believe, the protagonist would just disappear. No professional would drive someone off a cliff.The level of realism is already rock bottom, and it only gets worse from this point on (sigh... for example, the protagonist decides to do his own investigation work, which involves entering the hotel room of the intended target, even though he has come close to being murdered. NO-ONE WOULD EVEN THINK ABOUT DOING THIS. HUMANS DON'T BEHAVE THIS WAY.Everything that happens is totally unbelievable and against how real people think and operate. In order to make the film work, the writer has had to cheat by making everyone act like a moron. I absolutely guarantee you that if you take the initial incident and apply it to real life, it would end with the villains apologizing for mistaking you for someone else, your own death, or the villains being arrested. With a foundation that is SO rotten, nothing of worth can possibly grow.I love some of Hitchcock's films (especially Dial M For Murder, and Frenzy), but this is just absolute nonsense.
It wasn't as good as Hitchcock's previous movies and I'm a big fan of his...boring might describe it. We know Thornhill will be okay in the end, where's the action/psychological thrill??...cliche storyline? or have I seen too many of his movies?


                
So I watched this movie with great expectation. Supposed to be one of the best suspense movie of all times.Well it wasn't. I couldn't finish half of the stupid movie. It's made in the 50s, and apparently people in the 50s were naive enough to believe the protagonist would be stupid enough to rush grab the handle of the knife after a man talking to him was stabbed, therefore making him the suspect. How stupid can he be? I couldn't finish watching this film. The sound track was really awful and trivial, I guess that was expected in the 50s. Apparently, modern suspense has advanced much more. I watched Silence of the Lambs yesterday and it held up to the times really well. Not this one.


                
Why do old movies need to be automatically classic just because they are old? This movie is horrible...period. The acting is bad...the story is unbelievable, in the literal sense...the production value weak. Hitchcock and Grant are given much too much credit...both are sub-par entertainers. A critics movie for sure and a waste of time for anyone under 50...


                
I saw this film a long time ago on tv and finally watched on computer again. What a disappointment. No only is the music bad, but the dialogue is terrible, and Eva Marie Saint, who looks likes she has flashbulbs in her eyes, speaks so slowly and in such a monotone it's hard to believe Hitchcock would consider her for that role. The plot keeps getting stranger and stranger and all about two spies who don't seem to walk around with bodyguards or are armed themselves. Too many coincidences, and not enough intrigue. Sorry.
IN ADDITION, there is a point where Grant goes through Eva Marie's personal stuff and musingly finds her very small shaving brush and very small shaver. He later uses them in the bathroom of the Rail Road station and it seems to take him an extra amount of time to shave. Is this a reference to the fact that Eva Marie is such a hot woman that she shaves her ladies' parts and uses these small instruments? Does that make her hotter. Or is my dirty mind just rolling away with me.


                
