VERTIGO did nothing to advance Hitchcock's career in 1957 when he released it, and it's actually not a shame: the following year he decided to go completely against the slow-moving erotic thriller genre and do something shamelessly commercial, escapist and single-handedly create the spy movie. Ian Fleming, author of the James Bond novels, states he based his character on the physical characteristics and the suave personality of Cary Grant, as an added note. This could well amount to be the first James Bond film -- a dangerous villain complete with a sidekick, an alluring woman with a dubious nature and an enigmatic "boss," a dashing hero, lush locales setting the scene for powerful chases and escalating danger.NORTH BY NORTHWEST has one crucial difference to any James Bond film, though: Alfred Hitchcock. While the Bond films have been seen as quintessential action fluff (although fluff of the better kind until the franchise ran out of gas in the 80s), Hitchcock, always the master of subtext as well as suspense, creates memorable scenes that balance sexual tension, sexual innuendo, comedy, and mounting suspense seamlessly. There is never the feeling of being bored as there is too much going on, especially with the sizzling chemistry of Eva Marie Saint and Cary Grant, by now a Hitchcock veteran. When they're on screen, dialog crackles and so much more is said with so little gesture -- she closes the lid on her Ice Goddess role, but gives it a nice, cheeky, knowing wink. He of course evolves from the sort of man who while looking and being slightly clumsy and under his mother's thumb -- once it becomes clear he's been marked and is a target for a sinister plot that only later becomes clear -- becomes more assertive in taking matters into his own hands. A quintessential Hitchcock Everyman, Grant has his stamp all over his role. No one can imagine anyone else running away from that crop duster in one of the movies many standout sequences, or saying the reassuring last words to Eva Marie Saint as they cuddle together in the train. When one thinks of NORTH BY NORTHWEST, one thinks Cary Grant.Easily one of Hitchcock's best films, made while he was at the peak of his career in the bracket formed with THE MAN WHO KNEW TOO MUCH and MARNIE. Great supporting performances are all over the map, from Jesse Royce Landis as Grant's mother, James Mason as Phillip Vandamm, Martin Landau as Vandamm's protégée who might be a little more than that, and Leo G Carroll as The Professor. Doreen Lang appears early in the movie as Grant's secretary; she would of course be remembered as the woman who shrieks at Tippi Hedren in THE BIRDS and gets slapped by her as the camera holds itself tight on her face.
For Christmas this year, I received my first to-own DVD: Hitchcock's classic, NORTH BY NORTHWEST. After over 40 years, this rip-racing adventure-thriller still packs a punch and looks great on widescreen. This movie came along during a renaissance period for the Old Master, between masterpieces like VERTIGO and PSYCHO, but this excursion into the world of suspense is so different from anything else Hitchcock had created up to that point. Never did he challenge our endurance to keep still in our seats for such a long period of time, and yet the film's 135 minutes go by so fast it could only be explained by movie magic itself.Cary Grant is one of those actors that a filmgoer either falls in love with or deeply envies. His debonair manner is displayed to the full in this film, even though the peril that his character goes through would cause any normal dude to break into a maddening sweat.  The dialogue Roger Thornhill delivers alongside Eve Kendall (Eva Marie Saint) in this film is sometimes too hilarious to be true, but wouldn't any woman fall for it? (I'm merely guessing here)  Ernest Lehman's screenplay is so lighthearted and yet very ominous. With all the traps and pitfalls Grant goes through in this film, you would have to find comedy in it. Grant does and to great appeal. I absolutely love the sequence at the auction when Roger tries to get himself arrested by yelling out flaky bids and accusing the auctioneer of selling junk worth no more than $8.  I also admire the scenes with Saint on the train to Chicago; I was tempted to jot down some of his pick-up lines, but then I realized it's just a movie (or is it?)Hitchcock was famous throughout his career of setting up death-defying sequences with major landmarks as backdrops. Here, Mount Rushmore will never be looked at the same again afterwards. We may never enter the United Nations again without peering behind our backs for a notorious knife-thrower. And, I dare say, I will never walk alongside a highway where a cropduster could swoop at any minute. I love the line during the Rushmore incident when Grant says his two ex-wives left him because he lived too dull a life. Go figure!It has been said that Hitchcock's many films each contain a personal side of the director inside them. The archetypes of the Master of Suspense are here amid the chasing and running across the U.S. The mysterious blonde, played to a tee by Eva Marie Saint, is a common fixture of many Hitchcock jaunts. Saint joins Grace Kelly and Tippi Hedren in this feature. The protagonist is again awkward when faced with  the opposite sex, but unusually casual when wrapped up in danger. The hero has an attachment to his mother, continually under his nurturing wing. And of course, the macguffin has fun with us again (government secrets my foot!)Whenever I see action-packed epics today like "The Fugitive" or the James Bond series, they all seem to quiver in comparison to this film. It amazes me that Hitchcock is able to hold the audience in the palm of his hand throughout the whole length of the journey. We become Grant as he runs away from the police and the secret agents who have chosen him as their dupe. But throughout the squabble, we sense that Grant is getting off on the whole jaunt, just as we want the chase to continue, not looking at our watches for a minute. However, it's fascinating to note that Roger Thornhill is not a born adventurer, nor is he an archeologist with a flair for escaping impossible situations. We are experiencing the Cary Grant in all of us, running away from an enemy we do not know they are or what they want. Is this symbolism of some kind? I say who cares; just watch the film and have fun!


                
Alfred Hitchcock's "North by Northwest" is one of the best films in his long and distinguished career. Part of the success of the movie lies in the screen play by Ernest Lehman, one of the best writers of that era. Also, the haunting music by Mr. Hitchcock's usual collaborator, Bernard Hermann, adds texture to what we are seeing. Together with all the above mentioned qualities, "North by Northwest" was photographed by Robert Burks and was edited by George Tomasini, both men did outstanding jobs to enhance a film that shows a mature and inspired Alfred Hitchcock.The film works because of the witty dialog Mr. Lehman wrote. This has to be one of the riskiest projects undertaken by Mr. Hitchcock because of the sexiness Eva Kendall exudes throughout the film and the repartee between her and Roger Thornhill. The film mixes adventure and romance that aren't put ons, as one feels what one's watching to be really happening.Much has been said in this forum as to the values of this classic, so we shall only add our pleasure in seeing this masterpiece any time it turns on cable. In fact, the film hasn't dated, the way some others of the same period have. The highlights of the film are the sequences involving the crop duster, the train ride to Chicago where Eve and Roger first meet, the auction, and the Mount Rushmore climax.This is one of the best contributions by Cary Grant to any of his work with the director. Roger Thornhill is one of the best roles Mr. Grant played, during his long career. His chemistry with Eva Marie Saint is perfect. This young actress added class and elegance to the picture. James Mason and Martin Landau played villains convincingly. Jesse Royce Landis, Leo G. Carroll, and the rest of the supporting cast is excellent."North by Northwest" is one of Alfred Hitchcock's best crafted films thanks to the brilliant people that came together to work in it.


                
With everything you expect from Hitchcock and more, "North By Northwest" is terrific entertainment from the master.  There are interesting characters, an exciting story with intrigue and suspense, lots of fine photography, and some of Hitchcock's best-known set pieces.  It's capped off by a fine Bernard Herrmann score that is almost as good as the one he wrote later for "Psycho".Cary Grant may be the ideal Hitchcock actor, and he is a big part of making this such great fun.  As one of the man-on-the-run characters that Hitchcock loved to make movies about, Grant is entertaining and believable, maintaining good humor even as he tries to work his way out of a series of desperate situations.  The other stars, James Mason and Eva Marie Saint, also are very good, and the supporting roles are all filled by good character actors.The story is one of Hitchcock's most exciting.  It's slightly longer than usual, and it occasionally stretches credibility, but it all goes by quickly because there is always something interesting going on, and there is also plenty to look at.  Whether using the famous landmarks or using more everyday settings, there is always lots of good detail, and the settings complement the story nicely.  At times the plot becomes somewhat fanciful, but probably deliberately so, for it only emphasizes Hitchcock's mastery of technique that he can have his characters do almost anything and make you believe it at the time.With everything that characterizes Hitchcock at his very best, this fully deserves its reputation as one of the finest films by him or any other director.  You can watch it several times and still find it just as entertaining.


                
Many feel this is Alfred Hitchcock's greatest American movie, and I agree! NORTH BY NORTHWEST is the Hitchcock film to end all Hitch films, with all his pet themes covered with maximum wit, panache, and suspense, as well as a romance between Cary Grant and a soignée Eva Marie Saint that's as tender as it is sexy. Grant has never been more engaging and dashing (literally and figuratively :-), though the smoothly villainous James Mason nearly out-suaves him. My husband and I have joked that if Mason had played Thornhill, the film would have been over in mere moments. With all due respect to Grant, if the imperious, unshakably confident Mason asked the Glen Cove police, "Do you honestly believe that this happened the way you think it did?" they would immediately reply, "No, sir, you must be right, you're free to go, sorry we bothered you." :-) Also boasts a great early performance by a reptilian young Martin Landau as Mason's possessive henchman, as well as one of Oscar nominee Ernest Lehman's best screenplays (in fact, he borrowed liberally from it for his script for the film version of THE PRIZE starring Paul Newman) and one of Bernard Herrmann's finest scores. Anybody who wants to write or direct a chase thriller should watch NORTH BY NORTHWEST first to see how it's done!


                
This is Hitchcock's best film <U+0096> quite an accomplishment, considering how many great films he created. And after half a century, "North By Northwest" holds up beautifully. This film has it all: suspense, glamour, humor, and images that capture the imagination and remain etched in memory. The legendary crop-dusting sequence alone is a master class in the art of pure cinema. Like the rest of the film, it's brilliantly conceived and brilliantly executed. All the elements come together to produce the finest form of entertainment. Bernard Herrmann's frantic fandango captures the complexity and pace of the action. Ernest Lehman's script is full of sophisticated dialogue. Performances are spot on. Has Cary Grant ever been more engaging? Is James Mason the ultimate in charming villains? And Eva Marie Saint's allure is multi-faceted. Movies just don't get better than this.


                
Although I don't think this is Hitch's best film (IMHO that's "Rear Window"), it's my favorite, partly because it features the Century Limited (which also has a featured role in "The Sting") and partly because the cast is so deep -- besides the top drawer stars (Cary Grant, Eva Marie Saint, James Mason, and Martin Landau) it has great supporting character actors -- Leo G. Carroll, Jessie Royce Landis, Philip Ober, Edward Platt, Ed Binns, Les Tremayne, and the uncredited Malcolm Atterbury.The plot's merely a device to put together a string of unlikely set pieces involving Roger O. Thornhill (Grant), an advertising exec who is mistaken for a secret agent by two thugs, and taken off to meet the evil Jonathan Van Damme (Mason) masquerading as a UN Diplomat. The purpose of the charade is never explained; nor are Van Damme's contrived methods of offing Thornhill, none of which is successful. In a series of unlikely coincidences, Thornhill finds himself wanted for murder and fleeing from the police on the Century Limited, the train from New York to Chicago that saw thousands of passengers a day in its prime. Thornhill meets and seduces a beautiful young blonde on the train, who remarkably agrees to hide him from the authorities; mirabile dictu, she's Van Damme's girlfriend. But we don't care about the improbably confluence of events that drive the picture to its remarkable conclusion in South Dakota.The first among many excellent off-screen contributions is the Bernard Hermann soundtrack, whose frequent hemiolas paint an aural picture of the jagged angles suggested by the title and the opening credits set against the facade of the UN building.I agree with the many reviewers who put this movie at the top of their lists, and pity those who can't see the humor or suspense in this Hitch classic. One suggestion -- see this on the big screen, if you can. Just for an example, the crop dusting scene is suspenseful enough on DVD; the last time I watched it in a theater, people were ducking in their seats to get away from the plane.
When you thought that he's all out of ideas and last minute rescues, Hitchcock comes back with more eye candy and great action. North by Northwest is sometimes called Hitchcock's last great film. Carey Grant and Eva Marie Saint have very good chemistry and the inclusion of not one, not two, not three, but severa plot twists makes this film one of Hitchcock's best.One thing not focused on in this film is the use of camera angles. When Roger is taken to make the telegram, the camera slides from a foreground view of Roger's lunch buddies, to the two standing men in a background view. Also, when Roger awaits George Kaplan in the field, there is a great establishing shot of Roger where there is total silence and calm until the eerie plane is spotted. One last camera technique that Hitchcock perfected was when, in the final moments of the Mount Rushmore chase, Roger Thornhill and Eve Kendall were saved by the sniper. The body of the person shot was shown and then a tilt up to the sniper showed the detectives. Little snipets like these were just a few things Hitchcock did well.Overall, this movie was one of the best I've seen ever. For a 1950s movie, it is ahead of it's time and paved the way for future films to imitate many of the innovations that the flick brought to the screen. Go out and see this movie!


                
In a business lunch in a hotel in New York, the advertising executive Roger O. Thornhill (Cary Grant) is wrongly identified as being the American spy George Kaplan by the foreigners agents Phillip Vandamm (James Mason) and his right arm Leonard (Martin Landau). Roger is kidnapped and Vandamm's men try to simulate an accident for killing him. Roger escapes, but sooner is accused of murdering a diplomat in the UN building. With the police and the foreigners spies chasing him, Roger meets and has a crush with Eve Kendall (Eva Marie Saint). Later, he will be advised that George Kaplan indeed does not exist, and he agrees to act like a bait to rescue Eve from Phillip and his men. This movie is another masterpiece of Alfred Hitchcock. The story, full of comedy, action, thriller and romance, is delightful. Cary Grant is amazing in the role of Roger Thornhill and Eva Marie Saint is extremely beautiful and sexy. The actions scenes are breathless and outstanding, highlighting the one with the plane and the pursuit in the rock mountains. A wonderful movie recommended for the whole family. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil): 'Intriga International' ('International Intrigue')


                
I bought this on a whim, after someone made a joke about a drawing I'd done (of a man running away from something in a field) striking of Hitchcocks famous scene. After watching it, I am ashamed that I didn't see this instant classic sooner.The film starts off and instantly you are hooked, the snappy dialogue (the brilliant Taxi skit), the comedy (pretty much any scene with Mrs Thornhill Sr) and the thrilling ambiguity and intrigue. The answers come in just the right places, so you're never wondering longer than is reasonable, apart from the scenes where Hitchcock has dragged it out to an amazing edge-of-seat effect.Another thing I loved, apart from the great writing, story and direction, were the characters, a compound of the above three. All the actors do a brilliant job of filling the characters shoes, and Cary Grant is nothing short of irresistibly charming and brash as the troubled hero. Most film-makers nowadays would portray the characters as psychological train wrecks given their circumstance, but they exhibit the cool and likable persona's (even Mr Van Damme is a charming villain) that are sadly missed in most modern films.In fact, a lot of things in this film are sadly missed from modern thrillers, the charm is irresistibly and I've no qualms about giving it a 10 and saying it's one of the coolest films I've ever seen.


                
Alfred Hitchcock was a certified genius of a filmmaker. He could scare you, shock you, surprise you, enthrall you, make you think, make you smile, make you laugh, and all the while making you a part and parcel of the storytelling and action in his film. His goal was always to make the audience a part of the action and take them along for the ride. He may do this to absolute perfection in this film, NORTH BY NORTHWEST, my absolute favorite film of his. It's debatable whether or not this is his greatest film. A lot of so-called film 'critics' will swear by VERTIGO(although I'm not crazy about it), some say PSYCHO, others say NOTORIOUS, some prefer SHADOW OF A DOUBT, others REBECCA. Who knows? I just know that NORTHW BY NORTHWEST, without a doubt, is the most thoroughly enjoyable, fun, fascinating, entertaining, and eye-popping film that Hitchcock ever did. I love every frame of it. The first 30 minutes alone is more captivating, exciting and entertaining than 99.9% of the crap they throw at us nowadays in the movies.Cary Grant is Roger Thornhill, a normal, run-of-the-mill advertising agency executive. Grant deserves all praise of being the legend that he truly was for what he does in this film. Grant's Roger Thornhill is one of 'us', a fairly regular everyday Joe who gets thrust in the most convoluted of situations: mistaken for a government agent named 'Kaplan' by treacherous U.S. enemies (led by the classy James Mason), Thornhill is whisked off captive one evening and his life is threatened and he is almost killed, but he thankfully escapes his captors and so the fun begins in finding out who these bad guys are and why they think he is Kaplan.The film has a kind of snowball effect. Each situation that Thornhill is thrown into or gets himself into is more dangerous than the previous one and he has to find some way to get himself out of it. Hitchcock almost seems to relish scaring the Bejesus out of this guy just to see how he will slick or cajole his way out of it. Thornhill is really an unwitting and unexpected pawn in the battle between U.S. agents and the enemy traitors. All the qualities that made Cary Grant a star shine through in this film: he is handsome, classy, witty, funny, sarcastic, and surprisingly agile. Whoever thought he could pull off being an action hero after all those years of playing primarily romantic comedies? But he totally gives a convincing performance in this film.Of course at some point we are introduced to the femme fatale, in this case Eva Marie Saint, who is super-sexy and mysterious in this role. Saint's character makes you realize why so many women found Cary Grant so charming and irresistible.The film has some of the most memorable sequences and set pieces ever in history: the United Nations murder, the Mount Rushmore finale, and most of all, that magnificent crop-dusting sequence smack dab in the middle of the film that forever captured the hearts, minds, and imaginations of moviegoers everywhere. The scene is all at once action-packed, scary, dangerous, exciting, and funny.For me, this Hitchcock film (first shown in 1959) can be seen as a very early example of a blockbuster summer action movie. It has all the elements: a colorful look and feel, lots of outdoor scenery, nonstop action, a breathtaking pace, and a central character through which the story is told and that we could all identify with and root for.Truly a great achievement by both Alfred Hitchcock and Cary Grant, with big-time assists from a great cast of supporting actors and actresses, a witty script, and the beautiful scenery of various U.S. locations.
Alfred Hitchcock knew a recipe for a perfect thriller because he had made many but among his films, "North by Northwest" (1959) stands out as a great combination of suspense, sex, and humor. The film is based on a case of mistaken identity that in a course of a few days makes a likable (even if slightly arrogant) Manhattan ad-man Roger O. Thornhill (Cary Grant) the object of a cross country spy hunt. Having no clue what is happening to him, Thornhill will be kidnapped by the spies, brought to an unknown mansion and after the questioning forced to get drunk. He will get arrested for a stealing a car and drunk driving of which he has no recollection. It is just the beginning. Next, he finds himself in the UN building talking to a man who drops dead in the middle of the conversation in front of hundreds of people. The worst part <U+0096> the man is murdered and Thornhill has the murder weapon, the knife in his hand. Both, the police and the spies are on his trail and his only hope is to escape NYC by train where a very sexy blonde named Eve (Eva Marie Saint) is ready to help him. Their encounter leads to one of the sexiest scenes ever filmed without any sexual act involved.The film is packed with the witty and funny dialogs and one- liners as well as with artful and imaginative set pieces including Grant running for his life across the prairie from an evil crop-duster and the climatic chase on Mount Rushmore. Hitchcock who always wanted to make a film with two scenes <U+0096> a chase on the face of a president and the attempt to wake up the Peru Ambassador during the assembly in UN who turned to be dead, had his dreams fulfilled with "North by Northwest" which he suggested should be called "The Man Who Sneezed in Lincoln's Nose". Among many of film's pleasures are Eva Marie Saint as sexy stranger on a train and James Mason and young Martin Landau as a duet of villains with a complicated relationship.
Hitchcock always called PSYCHO his "fun" picture.  It seems to me this film, which is my favorite of his, would fit that term better (though PSYCHO, a great film, may have been more fun for him, because it was probably less of a hassle physically to shoot, and because it appealed to his warped sense of humor), since this basically kids the genre he helped invent, the suspense thriller.  The plot, when you think about it, is a remake of his own THE 39 STEPS, and although I'm not a Hitchcock expert, others could probably point out echoes of other of his films in this one.  At the same time, it still manages to be quite suspenseful.Cary Grant was one of Hitchcock's favorite actors, and it's easy to see why; he lends a class and glamour to the film, yet allows himself to be put in all sorts of sticky situations which he is able to escape from, no matter how narrowly.  Eve Marie Saint is one of the best leading ladies he ever had, generating not only sex appeal but mystery.  Leo G. Carroll is quite good as The Professor, and I wonder if he was an inspiration for George Smiley.  Martin Landau is slimy as Leonard.  But besides Grant, the best performance here is by James Mason, who avoids going over-the-top to just ooze malice.  I especially liked his last line; "Not very sporting, using real bullets."  There are so many classic scenes it's hard to list them all, and Bernard Hermann's score is excellent as well.


                
If anyone has doubts about the power of mistaken identity and its place in fiction, look no further than this film. The many hokey takes on it through the years have diminished its very real power as a storytelling device. As a comedy trick, it is cheap and dull. But as a dramatic trick... there is real force behind it. Everyone dreads being alone in the time of a crisis and not having anyone believe them and feeling like they are sinking further and further into a pit that's growing ever deeper and deeper. A good filmmaker can use the idea of mistaken identity in a tense situation to tackle these fears. And Hitchcock most certainly is a few steps above a good filmmaker.In fact, he is at his best here. Vertigo may be his best shot film from an artistic point of view. Rear Window (which I would have done a review of for this series of critical takes if I had seen it in time and is quite excellent) is his most interestingly shot movie perspective-wise. But this is Hitchcock showing his truest colors. All the tropes of his directorial style are on full display and are in fine shape. I often joke to myself (I'm alone a lot) about Hitchcock's love of his use of his specific style dashboard cam no matter the situation, but it can be an effective cinematic tool to increase tension, make the area feel more claustrophobic, and increase focus on the characters.To give a one-sentence synopsis: An advertising executive is mistaken for a secret agent from the authorities and must go on the run. What follows is a wild yet deft 136 minutes of what I believe to be Hitchcock's most obviously entertaining film. Pulses pound as the characters move like chess pieces around a well-written, twisting and turning storyline that causes many iconic scenes, the most famous of which being when Thornhill (The protagonist) runs from a crop duster craft. It is everything an action scenes should be, and the isolation kicks every element up a few notches. It is the favorite scene of many, including me.Every element, from the action to the mystery, is well-executed. The dialogue is interesting, as it is in many Hitchcock movies. In fact, one of Hitchcock's most underrated talents is writing-dialogue. He may not be a Sorkin or a Woody Allen, but he knows that dialogue is the key to making interesting characters that are more than just pieces in a puzzle. He may have believed that actors are cattle, but one can tell from watching his films that he knows the importance of characters. His dialogue is natural yet profound, and while depicting catch phrases and fads from that era would make the movies seem dated, the intelligent, understated way he talks about the issues of his time here and there make the movies seem like they are proudly representing their time. The difference is the difference between decay and grandeur, between the many ephemeral leaders of Rome and the never-fading Roman culture.The acting is more than fine. Cary Grant, one of the legends, puts on a believable and thorough performance. In some of the quieter scenes, it is what makes the film work. Eva Marie Saint, another legend (and a blonde, as most women are in Hitchcock movies) adds spice and edge to a role that would have been ordinary had it been performed by a less actress.On a side note, I don't think I'm the only one who finds it just a bit creepy to watch someone act on the screen when they're now dead, like Grant, and even more bizarre when they're still alive but have aged quite a bit since their role, like Ms. Saint, who is alive and in her nineties at the time of this review.Hitchcock is known as the Mater of Suspense and this film shows you why; it takes all sorts of twists and turns. One of the trademarks of Hitchcock films is their ability to appear like they're one type of film before seamlessly yet starkly transitioning to another. The Birds went from a screwball Pythonesque comedy to a horror film, Psycho from a heist film to a dark twisted thriller. I have seen no other director that can pull off this trick so well. In this film, we go from a more mysterious psychological movie to more of an espionage adventure tale; it's not as jarring of a shift, but it is a shift nonetheless.The score represents Hitchcock's best on that front. Scores like this are the reason why an unscored movie like The Birds or a softly scored flick like Rear Window come as such a shock. This score is big and booming and dynamic. Yes, the fifties were riddled with over the top scores (it's actually one of the best ways to identify a film as being from that decade) but Hitchcock knows how to use it in a way that cuts the through the inherent cheesiness of the idea (though I still can't stifle a chuckle every time it gets real intense) and turn it into an impressive cinematic tool the underscore the many important moments of the film. Give the soundtrack a listen; it is perhaps even more impressive when give a listen away from the film.If I was given one word and only one word to describe this movie, I would choose iconic. This is the sort of movie that deserves to be watched, to be passed down from generation to generation and held up as one of the hallmarks of great cinema. Watch and take in what has been honored for generations and has, like landmarks of many other sorts, affected the lives of many, including me, during that time.


                
Businessman Roger O. Thornhill (Cary Grant) is mistakenly thought to be a Federal agent. He is kidnapped by an evil man (James Mason). They soon realize they've captured the wrong man and try to have him killed. But it doesn't work and Thornhill finds himself a hunted man...OK--this is not perfect. There's some lousy back projection (but all Hitchcock films have that) and I was never really sure WHAT the bad guys were doing (something to do with microfilm). Also I've never believed Grant's actions when someone is killed in front of him (WHY did he grab the knife?). But the film is so incredibly entertaining no one has ever cared. This has some of Hitchcock's most famous scenes--the infamous "crop dusting" sequence and the climax on top of Mount Rushmore--but the whole film is just as good. There's a tense auction sequence and Grant's harrowing car ride down a treacherous road while dead drunk.There are some amusing parts in the film: Grant's mother appears to be a few years YOUNGER than him; the main villains last name is Vandamm; the romantic sparring between Grant and Eva Marie Saint is full of sexual innuendo; Martin Landau (one of Vandamm's henchman) is gay (he says he has a woman's intuition and has slightly exaggerated mannerisms--but it's not offensively done) and get a load of Vandamms mountain house at the end! Grant appears a bit old for this but he pulls it off; Eva Marie Saint is incredibly beautiful and pretty good as the love interest (sort of); Martin Landau is so young and handsome with blazing blue eyes and James Mason is just perfect as the evil Vandamm--his lines seem to come so effortlessly and he's so suave...but you also see the cruelty hiding underneath. Probably one of the best Hitchcock villains ever.So--excellent script with incredible dialogue; rich, bright Technicolor; shot in VistaVision (a wide screen process); great score and Hitchcock's always great direction with several astounding camera shots. Never boring--even at 136 minutes. A true classic. Don't miss this one! I give it a 10."That's funny. That plane is dusting crops where there ain't no crops."


                
Following up on his two previous masterpieces, The Thirty Nine Steps and Saboteur; Alfred Hitchcock put together his ultimate chase film with elements of both coming into Ernest Lehman's screenplay. I've seen figures that show in terms of box office and later video sales and rentals, North By Northwest was Hitchcock's most successful film financially.At this point Alfred Hitchcock's name over the title could sell a movie, but I'm sure he didn't mind having Cary Grant in it to draw the movie going public. This was Cary's fourth and final appearance in a Hitchcock film and I think it is his best performance in one.Like in the two films I cited, Cary is innocently caught up in a web of intrigue and he got there by just answering a telephone page at a hotel dining room. He took a call right after someone paged a George Kaplan and the bad guys think he's Kaplan. And he gets grabbed.It's a devilishly difficult situation for him because there ain't no George Kaplan. He's a fictitious guy who was invented by one of our spy agencies (that's never identified in the story)to take the heat off an agent very close to masterspy James Mason. Mason tries to murder Grant by getting him drunk and putting him behind the wheel of a car. Later on Grant gets framed for murder while trying to find out what's going on and he's on the run from New York to Chicago to Rapid City and the Mount Rushmore monument.James Mason plays the cultured villain Philip Van Dam. Mr. Mason who had some of the most precise diction heard this side of Ronald Colman on screen, could play villain and hero and a lot in between equally well. Among other things he's a bi-sexual and his henchman/boyfriend Martin Landau is jealous of his involvement with Eva Marie Saint. With the Code still firmly in place, it was quite daring for Mason to refer to Landau's suspicions as his 'woman's intuition.Eva Marie Saint joins the list of cool and fiery blonds Hitchcock was so partial to for his films. I'm surprised he never used Eva Marie again, she seemed the perfect successor for Grace Kelly who if she hadn't become a princess would have been playing this part for sure.Bernard Herrman who wrote the acclaimed score for Hitchcock's Vertigo followed that up with an equally good score. Especially during the moments of Grant's tangle with a crop duster plane and the chase across the Mount Rushmore Monument, Herrman made great use of music to help the audience feel the tension. It's a great instrumental piece, violins that seem to pound with a drum counterpoint. The best kind of film music.And why wouldn't it be because North By Northwest is some of the best kind of film making.


                
Having seen most of Alfred Hitchcock's works I must admit that North by Northwest has quickly become my favorite, even though it may not possess the typical Hitchcockian motives. What's more, It could as well be placed in the same box as the James Bond franchise, because it may in some aspects remind of the well-known spy movies (Cary Grant could have been a perfect 007, with his elegance, handsome face and fantastic overall presence). However, I must say that it combines a better-developed structure, more wit in its dialogues and greater suspenseful sequences than any Bond movie does. Also, personally I thought that Eva Marie Saint was much more appealing than all of the Bond girls combined.The main plot introduces the whole movie as a serious and thrilling mystery of a man, who is mistaken for an agent and embarks on a journey to clear his name. Still, apart from that, there are various comedic aspects of the film, along with my favorite scene in the first few minutes, when Roger Thornhill (played brilliantly by Cary Grant) is being held captive, forced to get drunk and then ride a car. As for the romantic section, there is the ongoing chemistry between the devious Eve Kendell and Thornhill.All those aspects make up for an amazing and most enjoyable plot. The ideal mix of all the conjoint, yet rather opposing, factors marks the true genius of the director himself. Even though all of Hitchcock's pictures are undisputed masterpieces, North by Northwest captivated me the most. I haven't really seen a movie that offers so much - perfect plot-subplots combination, intelligent script, memorable scenes, many distinct sceneries, tremendous acting (great supporting roles by James Mason, Leo G. Carroll and Martin Landau) and, most importantly, the building of suspense until the very last minute. It is also the best Hitchcock- Grant collaboration you will find. Even though the picture didn't win an Oscar in any of the three categories that it was nominated in, it surely could have won an Award for the best picture of the year. Or the decade. Or the century. Because every time you watch this fantastic movie you will be able to find a new part that will catch your attention. That is the true genius of Hitchcock. He made a movie that brings out everything that is the greatest about the motion picture industry, that is the ability to develop a masterwork that can be interesting to every single person in the world.


                
I must have seen this movie at least 5 times. It is a brilliant drama/thriller and the whole production which includes direction, writing, music, acting, etc., is top quality. By a quirk of fate a businessman is unwittingly dragged into a deadly spy game. A whole series of adventures follow with plenty of twists and turns and surprises along the way. All the characters are charismatic, the villains are suitably bad and the hero suitably brave as well as amusing and flawed. The story is presented in a straight forward interesting way, with no unnecessary sub plots or distractions and a tour de force of a storyline with a super climax. Its over 50 years since the movie was released, and what a pity so many of today's films cannot compare to this one:10/10


                
North by Northwest (1959)Perhaps a perfect movie, and a perfectly Hitchcock movie. This has great sets (including a mock up copy of Mt. Rushmore and the real United Nations exterior, shot by stealth from a car). And it has three great performances from two great actors and an actress who rises to her best for this demanding role. This would be of course Cary Grant at his middle aged peak of handsome easy charm, James Mason at his middle aged peak of handsome easy charm (and very different), and Eva Marie Saint, nearly a decade after her searing appearance in "On the Waterfront," very much a mature woman, alluring and yet knowing. You can see this is an adult film, by and for adults, including the very adult Hitchcock, who seems to be having the time of his life making it.The plot itself propels, scene to scene to scene, as if we are in on the chase, and yet it stops for some genuine laughs, hilarious moments snuck between the layers of cold war chill. That seems a contradiction, in a way, since this isn't at all a comedy, in the normal sense. And there are some sexual innuendos that were subtlety working around the fading Hays Code rules, and that now seem like pure brilliance. It's a smart, bubbly, entertaining mix.Some people don't get Hitchcock, and I get that. I love his films more and more over the years. "North by Northwest" is characteristic of his willingness, even his insistence, on keeping the artificial edges to the movie visible, the clearest example being the runaway car early in the movie, and the famous chase over our dead white presidents at the end. It's as stylish and entertaining as a movie can be, from the costumes (Grant's legendary grey suit and Saint's gorgeous dresses, picked up at Bergdorf's) to the interiors (not only the painted backdrop of the U.N. building but Grand Central, a couple of famous hotels, and a classic stuffy mansion).You can moan when Grant's character, Mr. Thornhill, grabs the knife out of the man's back, or you can notice the out of order backdrops out the window of the train (it moves from sunset to late evening to sunset, and the bridge appears and disappears in a blink). But that means you're in it for the wrong thing. (In the first case, you want him to grab the knife, because that's the classic mistake in thrillers. In the second, you're supposed to be watching Grant and Saint in one of the sexiest understated dialogs of all movies.)Yes, I like this film. It is, above all, likable. It's brilliant and all that, too, but when it comes to just enjoying watching a movie, this is top shelf.
If you read the trivia section for this film you will find numerous bits of information relating to who might have been starring in this film if the circumstances had been different. For me the people who were involved were perfect. I know nothing about film making but it seems to me that the director knew what the story was and who the people were to be in the film and then he decided how to create it. And a masterpiece is what he came up with. The film will keep you transfixed because its overall message is fun. Yes there is tension, danger and some people die but if you watch the film with an open mind you will see what I and lot of other people mean by fun. Life at times can be absurd and unbelievable and there are parts of this film when you just smile because you can identify with most of what happens on screen. As far as I am aware its not a true story, its just a cinematic creation that is also a classic and will be a joy to watch again and again. This film is fifty years old but like every other great film its as enjoyable today as it was when it was made. Buy, rent or borrow the DVD and you will not be disappointed.


                
This has long been my all-time favorite movie. To me, it's just flawless. I love Hitchcock and I love Cary Grant, and they're at their best in this film. I love everything about this film. Scene after scene is just perfect. Even the lesser details are wonderful: The music score is just magnificent! The opening credits are great! The Hitchcock cameo is great! The plot is a treat, which I won't spoil at all.OK, it's not Hitchcock's most profound. But I don't think that diminishes it one bit. For what it is, for what it's trying to be, it's just flawless.(and here's a bonus line to satisfy the picky software)


                
A timeless classic, one of the all-time great motion picture achievements. Cary Grant is an advertising executive whose life is turned upside down in the most bizarre way when he is mistaken for a mysterious government agent. Throughout an exciting adventure across America he must contend with spies, romance, betrayal and, in one famous scene, a murderous crop duster pilot. The genius of North by Northwest is that, despite imitations and the countless thrillers that followed it, one never knows quite what the next plot twist will be, or even what is real and what is not. Even nearly five decades later, the astounding finale at Mount Rushmore remains an amazing feat. North by Northwest is the perfect merger of all that was great about Hitchcock and all what is great about film.


                
Cary Grant is THE James Bond who never was.He was approached to play the role in the early 60's but he declined, citing that he was too old. Sean Connery got the job instead, and was a huge success. But one feels that Grant would have been the definitive Bond if he ever played the role. This, and 'Notorious', are certainly his best films for Hitchcock, and this is certainly his best Bond-type role. He stars as Roger O. Thornhill, a suave, womanising, New York advertising executive who is drawn into a web of intrigue after suffering a case of mistaken identity. He ends up being pursued across the country, unwittingly embroiling himself further in the web with his dalliances with Eve Kendall (Eva Marie Saint, as the Is She Good Or Is She Bad? femme)and others.Hitchock's favoured 'Wrong Man' situation is utilised perfectly here, as Grant is caught up in circumstances that he has no control over. But Grant takes it on the chin, and his charisma and comedic timing as Thornhill are excellent. This is a most entertaining and humorous Hitchcock film that maintains it's pace and action for over two hours. The suspense never lets up, as we are treated with some truly amazing sequences, including the finale atop Mt Rushmore, a UN headquarters visit, and THAT pesky crop duster. And keep in mind that these are just a few of the many, many amazing scenes here.Eva Marie Saint is so different here from the innocent Edie Doyle role in 'On The Waterfront' that garnered her an Oscar. She's matured into a sweetly seductive woman of the world who Grant falls head over heels for. Their encounter on the train is filled with corny pick-up lines and rather silly yet juicy dialogue, but it WORKS. One feels cheated when the train affair actually ends; re-winding is essential.Hitch's love of trains is also conveyed perfectly here, with the train symbolising sexual attraction and mystery (check the closing shot especially- very overt symbolism!), as Grant and Saint ride on board. We also have great villains in James Mason and Marty Landau. The very charismatic James Mason is wonderful as the trademark very charismatic Hitchcock villain, Phillip Vandamm. His trademark mellifluous voice and dark good looks (is this man not insanely attractive?)are used to great effect here. He gets many great lines.This is a re-working of Hitchcock's British film, The Thirty-Nine Steps (1935) with Robert Donat and Madeleine Carroll. Comparison is not really warranted, as they films from entirely different era's and made in different countries with vastly differing budgets. However, 'North by Northwest' jumps over the earlier effort when they are compared as just two Hitchcock films from the cannon.Made a year after 'Vertigo' bombed, 'North By Northwest' is seen by many as Hitch's safe, crowd-pleaser film. True in many ways, yet it is an unassailable classic regardless of any formulaic overtones. Grant is perfect in this rip-roaring ride full of suspense.10/10.
Alfred Hitchcock made this film at the height of his genius and also at the height of his popularity, when his television show gave him the kind of exposure and face recognition usually reserved for only the biggest stars. Hitch always maintained that great films should also entertain, North by Northwest being presented here as our star witness to prove his assertion to be correct.Cary Grant plays Roger O. Thornhill as the slick Madison Avenue advertising man who is mistaken to be George Kaplin, a spy hot on the trail of Phillip Vandamm, played masterfully by James Mason. All we really know about Thornhill is the statement he makes to Eve Kendall (Eva Marie Saint) on the train from New York to Chicago that he has a mother, several bartenders and two ex-wives dependant upon him for support. The "O" used to initial his middle name stands for "nothing" and his initials, R.O.T., sum up his life. These details are revealing and the scene is beautifully crafted, showing us the apparent emptiness of his life prior to this adventure. Ernst Lehman's script is loaded with these types of gems throughout the picture.If you're really not into excellent dialogue and clever acting and prefer that the story get on with it, this also is the movie for you, as it has two of the most memorable action sequences in the history of motion pictures. Of course I'm referring to the crop dusting sequence and the finale on top of Mount Rushmore. Those are enough to put this movie near the top of anyone's must see list.Kudos are also due to Leo G. Carroll in one of his best character roles as The Professor, who's humble appearance belies the fact that he is the one who is responsible for manipulating much of the action behind the scenes. A young Martin Landau, as Leonard, Vandamm's "right arm", shows us in the few scenes that he's in what a capable actor he was. The music by the great Bernard Herrmann is one of the classic pieces that made him famous, starting from the clever opening title sequence to it's conclusion.If we view this movie in its historical context of 1959, we see that it was made in the middle of the Cold War, and much of the suspense is reliant upon the audience's reality of living with the knowledge that everything could end with the press of a button (I know this is too simplistic, but many people's perception at this point in history was just that). The Professor, Vandamm, Ms. Kendall, Leonard and others are Cold Warriors, and it is Thornhill's misfortune to become swept up in it's intrigues, but our very great fortune to be able to get swept up with him and let Hitcock, the "Master of Suspense", be our guide in one of his masterworks.


                
If only all films could be as rewarding to watch as this, I was hooked from start to finish, and would definitely not hesitate in watching it again.This is one of those films that has it all, intricate and well formed plot, likable main character superbly played by Cary grant, and a magnificent all round cast.The chase of Thornhill from place to place, as he in turn is chasing the man he's been mistaken for, keeps you occupied and attentive, waiting for each new problem, new twist in the tale that arrives as Thornhill proceeds.The direction and settings for each scene were sublime, including a fantastic piece of camera work when grant's character gets dropped off in the middle of nowhere by bus to meet the elusive George kaplan. The shot begins with him getting off the bus, and switches to a wide view of the emptiness and bleakness of his current surrounds, as the bus pulls out of view. Then it switches to grant, with the road running next to him, into the distance. The versatility of the direction and camera-work is something sometimes lacking from films, and certainly stands out in this one.The locations were perfectly chosen, from the UN building in new york, to mount Rushmore for the climax. The grandeur of the background only serves to enhance the experience.As far as favourite scenes go, I'd have to go for the dining car on the train, with the banter showing the attraction between thornhill and Kendall, or perhaps the auction room scene, an inspired way to evade capture by thornhill's pursuers.Apart from me being a film geek, north by northwest gives you a fulfilling ride through the frustrations and experiences of Thornhill as he is mistaken for a spy. Wit and humour pepper the dialogue, making you laugh and smile, with Cary grants rough charm accentuating everything.Surely as close to film perfection as it gets. A must see.
