Before watching this film I have to say that I was anxious to see what many refer to as 'Hitch's best work' and with James Mason and Cary Grant I could hardly see how it could go wrong. But as with so many other 'classics', so many other pieces of 'perfect' film making I was horribly disappointed, and why? The film had so much going for it, but the fact of the matter is that by the end of the film I had lost 2 hours of my life that I will never get back and what is even more tragic is that Hitch lost months.It is easier to list the few good points than the masses of things wrong with this film so I'll start there: Cary Grant; James Mason; the direction (possibly; certainly not Hitchcock's best); the message that if you (the audience) value your masculinity you too will take the first opportunity to drink drive your way out of a perilous situation and let's not forget possibly the greatest moment in ANY Hitchcock film; train through the tunnel metaphor.But now for the rather more in depth list of terrible elements: I'll begin with the most prominent; the cheese, this film has cheese flowing out of the screen, and people argue that it spawned the stereotype rather than is part of it, but is that a good thing? Really? To have created a strain of films not only containing James Bond, but ultimately Tripple X. The direction, save for the crop duster scene is average at best. The ridiculous plot that has Cary Grant conveniently pulling a knife out of a man's back - i mean come on! The list goes on and frankly I don't have the time.


                
before i begin, i will say that i understood every part of this movie. I had to study it for film class.Secondly, i've seen many BAD movies, especially in Bollywood, and those movies happened to be VERY similar.This movie cannot be any cornier. With each stupid plot point and the bad acting, the movie only has a name because Hitcock made it. If Hitchock did not exist, and if anyone else made this movie, making an identical copy, the movie would fail. The movie cannot maintain its position alone, it needs Hitcock.Movies considered the best of all time must be able to compete with those from anytime, past or future. Therefore, technology, color, and anything you can think of that has acted as a disadvantage towards Hitchcock because of time period does not matter, because these elements are not needed to make a great film--such as On the Waterfront. great film, made during the same time period.PLENTY of films made today are SIGNIFICANTLY better, yet are underrated because their directors do not have a name that compares to Scorsacce, Speilburg, or Kubrick. North By Northwest alone would be one of the forgotten movies of its decade, except the world is filled with Hitchcock fanatics


                
Hired this DVD because IMDb had it in the top 50 films ever. Not a chance. I can only think people are rating this highly because it was some sort of trail-blazer (this is a guess - i don't know if it was or not). It was slow and boring, it simply cannot cut it against what we expect from a film today. It is one of the most boring films I've seen for quite a while. Don't watch it. Apparently I've got to write ten lines for this review to be publishable, and I'm determined to get it published in order to warn people not to waste two hours of their lives. This film is a precursor to the James Bond films. If that's what you're looking for I suggest you go for some of the classic James Bond films rather than this.


                
