La Haine is an experience. It takes you on a journey with three young men distrustful of the system and the people placed in charge to protect them. And it absolutely nails it.The acting is brilliant, absolutely believable from everyone. Vincent Cassel, Hubert Kounde and Said Taghmaoui are brilliant in their roles, giving life and fervor to their characters. They are a joy to watch and they have great chemistry with each other.The cinematography is astounding, as it sweeps across rooftops, through mirrors and down streets, immersing the audience in the world these young men live in. And for such beautiful camera-work, the film itself is gritty and dark and brutal and raw, visually enhanced by the choice of going with black and white instead of colour.The sound design is great, and the choices of when to have sound effects or silence are perfectly organised within the film. The accompanying soundtrack fits the themes, setting and characters well.The editing is great and the pacing never lags. It's a movie that keeps moving, moving towards an inevitable ending for the troubled youths. Time ticks by and you just have to say to yourself, "so far so good".Overall, this movie is brilliant. An experience indeed. One that goes by quickly but leaves you feeling as if you've been kicked in the gut. Beautifully directed, I recommend La Haine to everyone. 9/10 brilliant.


                
In a similar vein to 'Kids', released in the same year (1995). They both investigate poor youths riled up in the big city. While 'Kids' focuses more on sexual irresponsibility and the AIDS crisis, 'La Haine' looks more at the class and race disparities, guns, and police violence.The acting of 'La Haine' is top notch. I don't speak French, so that's not a hard and fast judgement, but they were convincing, dynamic and fluid throughout. Then the minor characters, in contrast with the three main characters, were much more grounded and stable. That was an important piece to the puzzle. The three main men had to be fiery. The monologue of the old man was astounding.Then the ambiguous ending, absolutely killer, and Said's closed eyes say it all.Both 'Kids' and 'La Haine' are incredibly tragic time capsules. OH, and it's just as potent today with all that's going on with the cops and violence here in the U.S.


                
La Haine1995's La Haine was all too familiar to the condition of today's society. Directed and written by Mathieu Kassovitz, taking personal pieces of past to the screen. The story based around three young men living in France struggling to find meaning in life and a way out of the issues they created still digging themselves deeper in unpleasant events. Identical to the youth in the U.S, we often find ourselves seeking fillers to fill voids. Not every decision made is in prime, but rather how we reciprocate to the issue is valuable. As the main characters, Vinz, Hubert, and Benoit advance through the story, dodging police and local gangs, the three press on through the cities of France, you discern the imbalance in personalities the characters put on. This imbalance is naturally what advanced the story forward, placing the young men in individual states of unease, making an urgency to resolve the issues placed in their course. Looking at Mathieu Kassovitz's film that has communicated on first hand relatable occurrences that effortlessly touch views minds. Being a millennial of current times, personally knowing how persuaded myself, as well as other youth can get when the pressure is up. La Haine's ending was a shake of disastrous, almost a warning, futurous look on the world if the youth do not revise their actions and think of the long term effects. Hubert: "... How you fall doesn't matter. Its how you land!"


                
'La Haine' is a great French movie, a lot better than most US movies that deal with this issue. The movie is strong and feels like a real story with characters that could exist. The acting and direction is terrific, the story is very good (we follow the three main characters for only 24 hours) and especially the black-and-white cinematography is great. 9/10.


                
If you've never seen La Haine then you definitely have to watch it. If you've seen it before you know that you will watch it again at some point. I must have seen it five times by now and I still love it as it was the first time. Most of my generation saw the movie when it came out and now this movie is passed on from generation to generation. It's a movie that is at it's best when you fully understand the French language, aspecially the street language "verlan", that means à l'envers or backwards, a language that's been spoken by mostly youth thugs in the suburbs. The movie itself is a view of the harsh life in the suburbs in France, a life without many opportunities nor things to do except hanging around with your mates in the ghetto. The hate towards the police is normal and justified as they are seen as pariah. The movie, shot in black and white, is a must watch, even with subtitles, it still works. Vincent Cassel in his early years, it's something to watch. Like the rest of the cast, it all works perfectly to create that special atmosphere from La Haine. The soundtrack is one of the cd's they I still enjoy, so many years later.


                
La Haine, when translated to English quite literally means "hate", and just from this title you know straight away the kind of film La Haine is. Inspired by other masterpieces such as, Do the Right Thing and Mean Streets, La Haine is a French film taking influence from American, urban cinema. Just like the two films I have previously mentioned, La Haine is a ferocious film, fuming with a controlled rage which will resonate for hours after your viewing. To this day, I can still vividly recollect my first-viewing of La Haine. I was completely taken-a-back by the experience and left in awe at what I had just viewed. Not only this, but I quickly realised I had watched one of the most poignant social-commentaries to hit modern cinema, a film which was so honest and reminiscent for today's society.Set within the space of a day, La Haine places the viewer inside the French ghettos. The film quickly centres itself around three protagonists who have little-to-nothing in prospects as they grow up on a working-class council estate. The film is set around the day after a huge riot, whereby the three teenagers and police become subjected to a boiling tension, after their friend was hospitalised from the police brutality of the riot the night before.La Haine is not a glamorous film, nor does endeavour to make its characters seem admirable; rather it puts a social-dilemma into a perspective which enables you to feel empathy for "thugs". La Haine pressurises the viewer undergo and endure a study of social-class, and how an environment has a significant affect on the way a person behaves in life and one's morals. The film requires you to concentrate on acknowledging why these young people behave in the way they do. Highlighting many social-dilemmas, La Haine does not stray away from depicting the deprivation of poverty-stricken ghettos. La Haine focuses on themes such as, corruption in law-enforcement, to a youth's attempt at rebelling against a flawed system. The film dwells over some of the most significantly relevant problems with today's youths.Filmed in its brutally prominent black-and-white, La Haine captures the authenticity of the urban life; bringing to light the brutality that many youths are subjected to. The black-and-white is also a wonderful metaphor for the variety of cultures combining together. The addition of Mathieu Kassovitz's gorgeously smooth camera movements captures the characters that are stuck inside an urban jungle. Ultimately, you automatically become part of the gritty environment, and an eyewitness to events which are simultaneously occurring across the globe. It is more than just "comparatively apparent" that Mathieu Kassovitz is horribly aware of society's decline. Plus, the confrontational editing used in La Haine is extensively affective. La Haine captures the bland and grim concrete jungle through Mathieu Kassovitz's knowledgeable vision.Just as the narrative is multi-dimensional, so are the fantastically crafted characters, which are all remarkably layered with their diverse emotions. The characters are all people you are able to pity, due to their situations in life. A Hollywood film would either make these characters appear as gangsters or despicable thugs, while La Haine makes its characters seem humane behind their thuggish appearances. Arguably these are not characters, but are instead a representation of the people that we are all surrounded by in our lives.Each character can be studied for the way in which they deal with situations and the way they feel towards the society who has deemed them of lower status. Personally, I have always felt Hubert (incredibly acted by Hubert Koundé) is the most interesting of the characters, because even when he is not delivering his lines and the camera is poised on his face, you know what he is thinking. Of the three protagonists, he is the one I consider the most sensible and mature, and is a person who feels disillusioned by the environment he is growing up around, and wants to move away from it to seek improved opportunities. As is suggested from the scene where Hubert's pregnant (subtly hinting a stereotypical portrayal of large families on a low income) mother is talking to him in the kitchen, quite possibly my favourite scene in the film.The film's centrepiece character is Vinz (brutally performed by Vincent Cassel), who is another highly interesting character, and evidently the most mentally-troubled of the film's three youths. Vincent Cassel captures the madness of his character with a remarkable ease, distancing himself from the other actors' characters. He captures the feeling of an oblivious youth without incentive, overwhelmed by his machismo, self-indulgence, anguish and rage. His intent is to be heard and not ignored, which his method of getting back on the life he has grown up in. This is a subjective view from Mathieu Kassovitz who clearly feels that the government is ignoring youths who are begging for the sympathy they deserve.Few films can hold such a strong amount of audacity and succeed in every single aspect of the piece. La Haine is bold, fearless, charismatic film-making at its best and reminds you just how dangerous society really is and a testament to excellence of French cinema.


                
Since his hard-hitting debut, Mathieu Kassovitz seems to have become caught up in Hollywood and Hollywood-style action adventure projects, entirely unlike his debut. However, this entrance, La Haine, is an intense time-tabled portrait of three very identifiably characterized young friends in an impoverished multi-ethnic housing project in the aftermath of a great riot. Exceedingly powerful French flamethrower Vincent Cassel, who plays a Jew, is filled with rage. He sees himself as a gangster ready to win street cred by killing a cop, and molds himself after De Niro in Taxi Driver. Saïd Taghmaoui is a cheery and chatty Arab who attempts to work as peacemaker and tries to find a balance between his two friends' reaction to the world around them. Hubert Koundé is a black boxer and drug dealer. Most quiet and sensitive of the three, he sorrowfully contemplates the ghetto and the surrounding spawn of hate, wanting just to escape the degenerate atmosphere of brutality and hatred but lacks the resources. The three actors play characters who share their first names, which is an interesting touch because it is a quick and easy way for them to familiarize each other to the extent of being tightly bonded friends, as they address each other reflexively even in front of the camera. A friend of theirs has been brutalized by the police after a riot and lies in a coma. Vincent finds a cop's gun lost in the riot. He vows that if their friend dies from his injuries, he will use it to kill a cop.This sets off events that take the three down a foreboding and fatalistic path of destruction. Kassovitz plunges into his intentions by creating an innately realistic and unabashedly gritty capsule. Aside from being shot in stark black and white, which is almost reminiscent of Louis Malle's Elevator to the Gallows, his script does not work like conventional clockwork. The characters do not follow the story, but vice versa. After an intense chapter of the movie in which the three are profiled by police in central Paris, where they are clearly distinguishable as fish out of water, the film slows to their speed as they wander, sit and brood.As an American, I think La Haine is of significant cultural importance because just as foreigners see American films and develop the impression that we are all rich and surrounded by scenic and urban gloss and beauty, Americans see other cultures in the same misunderstood light, one of these cultures being French. This film distinguishes a substantial pocket of France that shares with the United States the racial unrest, white privilege, minority discrimination and profiling, and socially burdened rage instilled generationally and traditionally.


                
Hubert (Hubert Koundé): Heard about the guy who fell off a skyscraper? On his way down past each floor, he kept saying to reassure himself: So far so good... so far so good... so far so good. How you fall doesn't matter. It's how you land! Society is in free fall. There have been at least 300 "accodental" deaths at the hands of the French police. The current President of France considers the minorities in France to be "scum." This is the story of three of these minority youth and 24 hours in their life after another was murdered by a French policeman.Mathieu Kassovitz (Crimson Rivers, Gothika) has directed a masterpiece showing the youth that are alienated from their parents with their love of rap music and American films, and a culture that is alienated from those in society that are consumed with their incomes, and cars, and fancy houses.The film stars three fantastic actors: Vincent Cassel (Ocean's Twelve & Thirteen, Crimson Rivers, Brotherhood of the Wolf), Hubert Koundé (The Constant Gardener), and Saïd Taghmaoui (The Kite Runner, Hildago). Watching 24 hours in their search for meaning was both funny and sad. Considering that they represent thousands all over the world makes you cry.The photography by Pierre Aïm was magnificent."The peacemakers, those who are supposed to spread democracy and justice on behalf of our sate and self-satisfied societies, are spreading death, contempt, racism, and humiliation. They are creating a world of hate." -- Costa Gravas This is an important film that will stand the test of time; a classic that will remind us of what we are doing; and a warning to change direction.


                
First thing, the sound and Photo quality is amazing ( the black and white give so much). The way of filming is also pretty interesting and sharp. The scenario is full of little stories who could also been seen as short movies in the movie. Of course some people would say that it's just another caricature of the french Banlieu, but I think that even if it's a little bit clichet, the atmosphere and the every hour reality is cleverly shown. The actors' play is lively and entertaining... The three different and complementary mentalities of the main characters gives a real balance all the way through. Just to say that I highly recommend that movie!1h30 well spent!


                
Given the time of shooting (1995), the movie shows a remarkable foreseeing given the actual situation in the major french suburban's. It is as if this movie is used as a guideline for the aggressiveness of the last week.If a 10 year old movie is so realistic for today's situation, it can only be a very good movie. And it is a very good movie. The acting is very realistic, the story is very realistic and the shootings in BW gives the movie something extra.I rate it a 9. The movie would have been a 10 if the artistic side of the movie had something in there that made it really special, i.e. some coloured effects to strenghten some scenes (like Sin City has). Worth watching especially at this time if only for trying to understand what's going on in the suburb's of the major European cities.


                
Very violent. Very close to the truth of the boring life in a french suburb, what it can lead to, nothing good of course.


                
«Heard about the guy who fell off a skyscraper? On his way down past each floor, he kept saying to reassure himself: So far so good... so far so good... so far so good. How you fall doesn't matter. It's how you land!»An iconic film from the 90's. Beautiful cinematography, outstanding performances.


                
"La Haine" is mostly liked by the french kids and teenagers because of it's reality to show the violence in the outskirts in France, mostly in the suburb of Paris. The film is full of morals and it's also why many peoples love it, it's like a fable.I enjoyed the movie also for the musics : mostly rap but it's what i listened majority when i saw this film for the first time. Vincent Cassel also make a reference to Taxi Driver by saying "you're talking to me?" front of his mirror, many teenagers thinks this sentence is from "La Haine" by the way.This movie show the reality in the outskirts in France but you can also think it has been shot in any other country. The violence is everywhere.
La haine is written and directed by Mathieu Kassovitz. It stars Vincent Cassel, Hubert Koundé and Saïd Taghmaoui. Original music is by Assassin and cinematography by Pierre Aïm. When a local youth is beaten unconscious by the police, a riot ensues on his Parisian estate during which a policeman loses his gun. As tensions rise, the gun is found by Vinz (Cassel) who proclaims that he will kill a cop if the beaten youth dies.This is not Paris, surely? Where's all the beloved tourist sites and bohemian streets? Of course some way away from this Parisian suburb Paris thrives, but this is a real place, real heat and real hate. Shot in striking black and white, using firebrand young actors and giving them urban wit, angst and aggression, Kassovitz serves up a powder-keg of a movie. It's a portrait of a multiracial community thrust together by one act of police aggression, but the underlying themes of boredom, prejudice and the escalation of hate drip from every tension fuelled frame. The youth characterisations are rich and intelligently drawn (wonderfully performed by the three principals), but the outer edged characters impact greatly as well, even in the most unusual of places like a gents toilet. Layered over the top of it all is a vibrant rap and reggae soundtrack; perfect. Thematically we have seen it all before in cinema, in fact this feels like a composite of Spike Lee, Larry Clark, Martin Scorsese, John Singleton and Alan Clarke films, but it's still very much its own animal, a French concrete jungle where the heat is piercing but the sun can't be seen. As riots continue to blight parts of the world, La haine is still relevant and still packing a punch today. Incendary and grim for sure, but riveting and essential in the pantheon of urban decay cinema. 9/10


                
This is a gripping foreign-language picture famous for peering behind the tourist facade to show the real face of Paris. It is set in the suburbs and working class projects of the French capital, but in fact the tale feels familiar to almost any city: that of lost youths with no lives to look forward to striking back at the system that contains them.In fact the Paris depicted here has a lot in common with the likes of Glasgow or Edinburgh in Scotland: places of high culture that are also afflicted with a deep-rooted economic poverty and rampant inner-city violence. The explosive riots, the general alienation of the characters when they explore the rich end of the big city. There is also the intrusion, as there is in this country, of the nosey middle-class media types who patronise the working-class world by trying to document it on camera as a slice of 'real-life'. An fractious encounter between the locals of the suburbs and a group of TV journalists captures this exactly.I enjoyed the realism of the narrative, and the casual, natural banter of all of the actors. I don't know how much more (or how less) effective the film would be if shot in colour, but the black-and-white cinematography does the job and conveys the grittiness of the surroundings.There are no pleas for sympathy here or any sentimental twists designed to manipulate the viewer. People and events are depicted just as they are, and it is the raw simplicity of "La Haine" which makes it a compelling and highly watchable picture.
This movie is definitely a must-see, at least for people fluent in french. M. Kassovitz pictures the everyday life of 3 average young guys living in the suburbs of Paris, at a time where the fights between the police and the youth are at their paroxysm. What's really good about this movie is how close to reality it takes you. The characters are simple, they could definitely be your average neighbor, i.e. not especially good-looking or smart or with any kind of hidden gift. The storyline itself honors that: sometimes we see nothing happening around the characters, nothing at all, for minutes. That's enough to make you feel how empty their day can be, but not too long to make you feel bored. The music is minimalist (when there is any music at all) and this fits perfectly.Altought it could seem difficult to get us interested with such realistic, everyday stuff, the plot actually holds us until the end. It's a journey, and we always want to see what's next, and we do get something new every minute. It's totally unpredictable, yet logical and realistic... The character development is excellent, we really get to know the main characters and discover their personality, dreams and fate.Go watch it!Sidenote : I'd mitigate my judgment if you don't speak french, though. The french spoken here not very academic :-) and the translations face the risk to lack some of the 'authenticity' that blesses this movie.


                
It's the story of a man. He's falling from a skyscraper and all the way down as he passes each floor, he keeps saying to himself. "So far so good, so far so good, so far so good." how you fall doesn't matter. But it's how you land...And with this the premise is set with a trio of Parisian hoods bent on revenge for an unjustly beaten brother. Blinded by hate the three spiral in on each other looking for redemption. Each through different gains. Vinz (played by the superb Vincent Cassel) is the rough and tumble of the group, who has chanced on a loaded 44. magnum dropped by a police officer in one of the many riots taking place in their neighbourhood, which is by all correct definitions of the word - a war zone.With Sayid and Hubert in toe, he hatches his desire to gun down a cop with his own gun. To gain the highest of respect and to satisfy his rage which slowly builds throughout this one fateful day.It's quite a shattering picture. Shot in a brash black and white, and with plenty of referral to other movies.Example: Taxi Driver - Vinz in the mirror, fingers splayed like a gun... "Are you talking to me?" Scarface - A constant - The world is yours poster wherever they roam Raging Bull - Black n White, with boxing thrown in at some intervals. Cape Fear - Smoking cheekily in a cinema...but it ain't a thief. It's a great user of such pictures. Sort of playing homage to the heights of violent cinema, but always remaining original, thought-provoking and splattered with some scathing humour. It's brilliant in a word. And worthy of applause.
There are some very thorough comments on this forum relating to the content and style of this film so I shall try to add a little of what made it special for me. I attempted to watch it without subtitles as my French is usually good enough to enjoy TV & film without, but I soon realised that I was missing too much due to the rapid fire slang and Parisian sub-cultural references. I would say that the English subtitles are a great help for following the story, but they do not really do an adequate job of conveying the linguistic style, grit and wit of the film. This is a shame because this film should be appreciated by as many people as possible! One thing I particularly liked is the use of the background as plot elements. The various tags and graffiti add to the pervasive aggression and irony for this apparently future-less group... look out for Vinz framed by a Perrier advert for example.I really do feel that this is a "must see" film and can't believe that there are people who reviewed it that couldn't see its merit.


                
Mateiu Cassovitz's Le Haine is shows the banleiue of France in an entirely new way, especially considering the recent trends in french cinema. Although influenced by Spike lees do the right thing the issue of racism isn't hugely elaborated on except by the nationalities of the three protagonists. The issue of police brutality is more important but shown in a less unbaised way than generally presumed as all three boys do do drugs and steal although this is presented as inconsequential. In my view the film largely focus's on the problems of kids from the banlieue being excluded from the rest of the country. This is shown by using wide angle and normal lenses in the banlieue and Paris, respectively. Several scenes hint that the boys themselves invite this treatment such as when they enter an art gallery and treated with respect until they begin shouting and smashing glasses. Another example would be there disastrous attempts to enter Astrix's house.I can't help but feel that the ending was almost too sudden and implausible as the particular cop (notre Darn) had so few interactions with vinz that it seems to demonize the police to a unrealistic degree.what makes this film is kassovitz seamless blending of realist(documentary) and anti realist techniques. The use of non actors, shooting on location and real footage give the film a sense of realism which is contrasted by using flashy kinetic camera movements, complicated tracks and focus pulls and stylish editing. This is very similar to city of god which uses all off these devices to show the criminal underworld of slums in Rio.Cassovitz also uses comedy to make serious points, my favourite example being the Grunwaski scene were an old man tells an amusing anecdote to demonstrate that the Paris "Ghetto's" were mearly estates compared to concentration camps or real guarded ghettos.All in all a great film but if you would like something with a little more plot watch "Alice" by Jan svankmeiyer.
A hugely powerful film that encompasses everything you would expect from a film called "hate". Dealing with the tense situation between lawbreaker and law keeper, and based loosely on actual events, La Haine follows three young, bored lads on a what was suppose to be an average day, but turns into one they will always remember. Kassovitz directs the film with an incredible emphasis on realism (the whole crew moved into the Banlieue estate for months before shooting) and shows the world audience a completely different side to Paris - far from the rich vibrant colours and happy-go-lucky attitudes in films like Amelie (which Kassovitz also starred in).La Haine is a gritty ride, with no glamour, no colour, no over the top hyperbole - although the film was partially funded by US backers, and shows through the large amount of American influence throughout the film. But this was all part of the success of La Haine, which was able to play on already established French film making methods, deal with themes on a local, Parisian, level and also appeal to an international audience through use of the American influence - the boys discuss Disney cartoon characters and often wear American label clothes.From start to finish this is a truly captivating piece of cinema, with an ending that will leave you screaming for more, which deals with real issues such as the legitimacy of police work, racism and generally the amount of contempt we hold for each other. Kassovitz its truly in his element and i would struggle to think of a better film that deals with the realism of hatred between fellow men. A truly awesome film that should be seen by all film fans, and especially those who thinks that Paris is all about love stories, cobbled streets and cute little confectioners...


                
This is a powerful film.  Assuming as the previous commentor does, that this film demonstrates the American influence of "life in a ghetto in Paris" or gang life is somewhat arrogant.  Class struggle, gangs and the styles assumed by kids in Europe are not defined by the United States of America.One of the things that makes this film intriguing is the subtle uses of background props.  Consider the Escher poster in the background in one of the scenes.  This conveys a world turned upsidedown.  Early in the film we hear Vinz mention that he feels isolated and insignificant as an ant floating out in the universe.  Later we see the boys walking into the background while the camera keeps a poster of the World as seen from space in the foreground.  This is an ingenious representation visually of the idea we heard expressed earlier.There is some irony in that Jodie Foster helped bring this film to fruition. We see Vinz acting out the role of DeNiro from Taxi Driver in front of a mirror one scene.  This made me think of Jodie Foster's Army (a punk band from Phoenix) and Hinckly's assassination attempt on Reagan... are all these kids "catcher in the rye" types waiting for their chance to snap?  Not likely.  Regardless of these ramblings, it is a film worth seeing.


                
After great camerawork and perfect directing, every single story and joke in this movie points to an issue in the French immigrant society.
First of all the story of a man that has jumped off a skyscraper.
Second, the story about the hidden camera.
Third, the beautiful story that the old man told the boys when they were in the public bathroom, the story about Africa and Asia running after the train of the west's progress.
The best joke in this move is the last one that is a summary of the whole movie. There is a boy with a gun but with no courage to shoot; In fact, he is just wearing the costume of Batman but has no courage to do anything; the police mistake him with Batman and send this message with a bullet in the last scene: "you weren't as tough as you seemed".This movie is such a movie that throughout the movie I was telling myself: "Jusqu'ici tout va bien, Jusqu'ici tout va bien, Jusqu'ici tout va bien"


                
Vinz, Hubert and Said live in the poorer part of Paris and have to use all their street smarts to get by. After an incident in which the police assaulted a friend of theirs, tensions between police and young working-class men, such as themselves, escalate. Incensed at the potential death of his friend, Vinz is out for revenge.Powerful, thought-provoking drama. Shows a society in turmoil, slipping into anarchy, or fascism, depending on the perspective or who has the upper hand. Shows well how easily tensions can escalate and how rogue elements in either camp can fuel the escalation.Kudos to director Mathieu Kassovitz for telling the story in as unbiased a fashion as possible. The movie could easily have ended up being one massive anti-police rant but Kassowitz does a good job at highlighting the issues without ending too much in one camp. Yes, we only see the conflict from the side of the youths, but they are, for the most part, hardly angels themselves. Highly engaging as, even though the main characters are not perfect, you are interested in their lives and story. There is also a cloud of fatalism and inevitability hanging over them, heightening the danger and making you more invested.Incredibly powerful conclusion. Powerful for its message, and for its surprise value. Solid performances all round with Vincent Cassel, as Vinz, the best of the bunch.


                
Greetings from Lithuania."La Haine" (1995) was a highly involving movie. I loved acting, directing, script. The story itself here is a real life. Cinematography in black and white was superb. The whole feeling of the movie - it literally transpires you to the place and time.Overall, "La Haine" is a great film. Highly involving and superbly made. Great movie overall.


                
HATE (1995)A film that is director-reliant. Aren't most films? Yes, but here all the creativity that makes it special wouldn't exist without Mathieu Kassovtiz. The black and white cinematography shines like silver, we know that it isn't an old-Hollywood style B&W film because there's a extra bit of a glow to it. It's beautiful camera work. The ending is perfect, absolutely perfect in its sermon about gangs, show them in a sympathetic light.Grade: ARating: 9


                
