First of all, I'm an avid TV-series watcher. It's pointless to name them all but believe me, I've probably wasted years of my life watching series of all kind.Second, I just can't believe the quality of this show. Romanian shows are cheap soap operas, cheap comedies or just plain bad cheap stuff for the masses.It is the first time a Romanian show (original show) pays attention to details such as: - music - lighting - perfect sound - editing and special fxI've seen the shows other reviewers mention: Breaking bad, The Wire, Sopranos, 24, etc - more than once. UMBRE is not a copy of those shows. But now, in 2015, after millions of movies have been made it is almost impossible to say a new show is totally original so of course you feel the need to compare them.UMBRE has the Romanian touch to it - the long scenes where all you see is a bit of the normal life of a character - the type of scenes that give you a sense of reality to it. You don't have these in US shows.The actors do a wonderful job and I don't need more character development, it's not a novel it's an action-comedy show not a theater play.The slang might be too much for some but when was the last time you spend some time within that social class? When you watch The Wire there are scenes where all they say is "fu*k" for 5 minutes, continuously. I really want this show to continue - it's a new breed of show in Romania and I want to see this one succeed and other to appear afterward. I'm just sick and tired of shows about communism, Romanian tragedies, telenovelas, etc.


                
I just started watching this, saw the first 3 episodes. I wasn't expecting it to be good or bad, but being HBO I was confident it wouldn't suck. What I found is a good show, it resembles The Sopranos in many ways but with the exoticism of Romania it's not that visible. There are many funny moments, some great scenes, some nudity (ofc, it's HBO), all in all I recommend it if you liked The Sopranos or similar shows, or if you want a taste of Romania and its criminal organizations. I'm looking forward to the next season and I hope it continues for the classical HBO 6 series (or more) because there's some good stuff here.


                
I was pleasantly surprised with this series!It was recommended to me by one of my friends ,and described as "The best Romanian series he ever saw", even though I was quite doubtful at first, as I saw the first episode I was convinced he was not exaggerating that much.The plot is pretty good for a low-budget series , certainly better than in many Romanian films, the director and the actors are amazing, especially the main character, Serban Pavlu. At first I thought the language was a little bit over the top , but as I watched another American series I realized that the amount of curses was not that big at all, and if you listened to the actual street language in Bucharest you would find it very similar. In conclusion, this is one of the best Romanian series ever made.It made me look better at Romanian films/series and it made me proud that I am Romanian! As a Romanian would say:"Uite ca se poate!"(It can be done!).


                
Definitely a gem! Too bad it is so little known! It deserves a better promotion, since it is one of the best "mafia" movies I've seen lately. Seriously! It is close to Sopranos when it comes to the vivid imagery (e.g. the scene when the main character was about to get his head chopped in a bathtub was absolutely breathtaking), but without the glamour and wealth of the American mob. A great plot! It feels authentic and it is immersive! You will see a slice of real life with cheap cars, decayed buildings, ruthless thugs ready to kill for few thousands. The language is brutal but full of authentic and often very funny expressions (it helps if you speak Romanian)You will not be able to resist the binge-watching temptation. Highly recommended!PS: I hear HBO Europe is planning a second season. Looking forward to have it also on Amazon, as soon as possible.


                
One Romanian TV-show made by HBO Europe which combines drama, thriller and crime. I powerfully recommend this TV series for it's story line and actors. Really love that minor details such as romanian music, romanian radios which is played when someone is driving. There are so many other details but I let you find them. 10/10!


                
Totally surprised by this show, it's as gripping as anything I've seen. The image looks shaky but it does it's job well, the editing must be at least correct since it doesn't attract attention in a bad way. The coloring and lighting must be fine since the atmosphere is correct. And the acting must be pretty good since I feel those characters are pretty real. The swearing might be considered too intellectual for gangsters maybe, but I see it just as a nice touch, in tune with the slightly comedic aura that the events have. It's nice to see some quality swearing instead of "f--k you and f--k your mother's". And that wouldn't even be realistic.I also like how the actor's faces reflect their role. People generally have a look and even if it's not polite to tell people 'you look like a crazy bastard, or you look insane, or you stupid and insane,' I guess actors have to be told. :)The only moment I didn't like so far was the "partying" at the end of the 6th episode. It was a bit off-tune I guess.
It is not easy to depict the underworld. Especially the underworld of an ex communist country. The plot is great and it resembles reality more than many people would actually be inclined to believe. There is a huge cultural and social gap between the ex communist countries and theier western counterparts. Watching it is quite an experience. The slang is well researched, the actors are doing a great job, the directors wow captured the essence of the criminal life in Bucharest down to an almost impossible level of detail. Great job. Can't wait to see the next season.


                
It is a movie wich transcending in a perfect way the reality from the Romania country.Corruption at all levels,the fight for surrviving,low level of education for romanian citizens, problems that most of the families are living daily, the abuses and the malfunctions with which the system works for its own citizenz.A verry good movie that will blow your mind and will make you to think that,after all, the things are everywhere the same, also people.Great movie with the best anonymous actors wich the're playing the're roles perfect.You can bet that they were made to play in this movie.And the second season... by far,better than 1st.


                
By far the most entertaining Romanian series that I am aware of, especially 2017 releases.


                
I've seen over 100 tv shows and this one clearly gets in the top 5.
Since it's made by HBO, you just have to expect top-notch stuff and so it is.
Umbre is a well-paced, gritty and violent show with solid writing and great characters that create memorable scenes. The actors seem to be born for their parts and everything runs smoothly.
The second season is even better than the first one, especially thanks to a new amazing character played by an actor who does a really impressive job. 
All I can say is that it is must-see show and the rating is more than fair!


                
It's a pity you stopped shooting this gorgeous series It was an excellent movie


                
