I have to admit I'm not familiar with the Romanian cinema, but it seems they have some serious talent. Story follows a cab driver, who works as a debt collector for a local gangster and, of course, things get complicated rather quickly. Some people compare this with Sopranos, but it is in my opinion very different. Maybe it's the east European setting, cheap cars and run- own houses, but it sells the idea that he is doing it just to survive. There is no glam gangster life present in Sopranos, no pools, no expensive cars, just making the ends meet. The production value is high. Good acting, writing and directing. I think it helps seeing actors you've never seen before,because it makes them more believable and you can enjoy them without prejudice. Nice little change of pace from the same old, same old American TV shows.


                
It was about time that a show like this appeared on our TV screens and I believe that everyone working at it did an amazing job captivating audience and keeping them on the edge of their seats for the next season. The main character is Relu, a money collector working for a local mobster. He is played successfully by a very good actor, <U+0218>erban Pavlu, who had to do a significant transformation for the role including gaining some muscle. At first I didn't trust his capability to play such a role because it was very different than every other before but he managed to surprise me pleasantly with his performance. The rest of the characters do a great job introducing us in the atmosphere of crime life in Romania, which, I might add, is very different to the point where it cannot be compared with the one in America. The harsh language is present in foreign films too but we just got used to it and see it as being normal. There's no reason to be offended by curse words present in this show and change the channel when the plot is so expertly written and the funny dialogues melt so with the dramatic scenes creating maybe the best TV series in Romania at the moment. The inspiration from Asian action films is clear. The fighting is often done with unconventional weapons such as a hat-stand or some car keys, this spontaneity of the characters in their actions adding more realism to the story. You won't see clichés such as big guns or explosions but you will still be entertained, I assure you. In the end, I would like to add that the season finale was fantastic and I am sure that the seasons that will come will attract even more fans. It is definitely a show worth watching and I would recommend it to everyone who is willing to forget about the abundance soap operas in our country and try to appreciate a different kind of show, a more professionally made and more original one.


                
The first season was so good. It was incredibly authentic with characters and actions taken from the romanian reality. Just an amazing experience watching it. Unfortunately the second season was kind of destroyed by the real poor and shameful acting of Laurentiu Bãnescu who is impersonating the most unrealistic cop ever, Emilian, who is a police officer from a completely different universe than the rest of the story. It's such a shame that a really bad actor succeeded in destroying such a great tv experience..


                
