Most watchers will compare this series with other international big-budget successes such as Breaking Bad, the Sopranos or the Wire. I think that this is the first mistake that the Romanian audience makes. The second one is referring to the language that is used as being to vulgar or non-representative for the street (illegal) activities that occurs in Romania. The third mistake is emphasizing the lack of character development.On the first case, this is a low budget series, with its main aim being entertainment. If it plays well, then the future seasons will, most likely, be better. Comparing apples and oranges is one thing - they're both fruit, but comparing sledgehammers and ponies is a totally different thing. This series was created for the Romanian audience, not the American one, and because the watcher's used to American series, then he is part of the American audience.Secondly, on the language used, referring to it as exaggerated means not seeing the chain of events. Each episode has 45 minutes and it reflects 45 minutes of events, which happen to be the ones that demand that type of language. Again, this is due to the lack of experience the Romanian audience has with this type of native- swearing. We're used to foreign street language and we consider it natural, but when someone talks like that in Romanian its, somehow exaggerated. Thirdly, the lack of character development might be seen as an issue, but, to my eyes, this is what makes the show entertaining. You don't know what to expect from the main character, especially since he's an anti-hero. Not being fed with the way you should feel about the main character gives this story an upper hand. Nevertheless, I must say that I'm writing this review based only on the first five episodes, but even so, I personally find this show highly entertaining with more than just a few glances of genius writing and acting. A definite must for Romanian speakers and highly recommended for those into the anti-hero underworld drama series.


                
Great director and great acting performance. Maybe the characters are not so well developed, maybe the script is sometimes lacking consistence. In the same time the Director compensates with incredible talent and flair. Igor Cobileanski is a huge surprise, HBO people were lucky to find such a talent who was practically unknown. Serban Pavlu is playing like Relu is his alter ego and Maria Obretin, even as she has theater written all over her face, she performs like she has been doing TV movies for her entire life. Quality of the movie is in the same league with Breaking Bad. The image is brilliant, the D.O.P. does a marvelous job. Some audiences consider the language too violent, in my opinion language is very realistic considering the nature of the characters. I believe it is the best Romanian TV series ever made. With a better script, I would have given a 10.


                
I have never visited Romania, have no acquaintances there, probably have seen a couple of Romanian films, but definitely no Romanian TV-series... And now this - wow! Umbre did not captivate me from the very first minutes, but then it started working on me: its characters, performances, scenes, intertwining of people and events...Some stuff may seem bizarre, but bearing in mind their standard of living, corruption index and problems with the EU, I am sure most things are not exaggerated. There are lots of lines, glimpses, sights, occasions, etc. that are essentially tragic, but you find yourself giggling, and all the cast is just something... bold and assiduous, even minors, and the reactions of the characters to surprising outcomes are worth recording.So, if you like something original and different, including raw scenes, then Umbre is definitely for you!


                
