I bet screenwriters and directors who have studied their craft wouldn't be caught dead in a men's room with Guy Ritchie. How wonderful for Mr. Ritchie to get his foot in the door because his daddy knew someone in the business. That doesn't mean Mr. Ritchie is talented, folks. It just means he has connections. Which brings me to SNATCH. SNATCH'S target audience is adolescent boys because this is an adolescent movie. So, if you are not an adolescent boy, don't waste your time and electricity watching this movie despite the talented actors who signed on to collect monies to pay their bills.That being said, IMDb's Guy Ritchie biographer quotes Ritchie as saying, "He never attended film school, saying that the work of film school graduates was boring and unwatchable." Really? Isn't that the pot calling the kettle black?


                
It looks like a remake of Tarantino and Kusturica movies tied up in one piece with lots of vulgarities added. Is it funny? No, unless you find constant swearing, vulgar sexual references, pigs, dogs, unnecessary violence, and overblown close-ups funny. Oh, yes, there are cute melodies here and there as a bonus and tons of extras on the DVD. Is there any significant contribution of such flicks to cinema as a form of art? Hardly. Such movies are like a spit upon the audience. All right, I spit back: devour your pig faeces yourself, Mr Guy Ritchie. It's another vivid example how IMDb Top 250 representatives can suck.It makes me watching "Lock, Stock..." absolutely out of question. I'm quite sure it's a piece of English pig crap too (no offence to England in general here of course). The sad thing to me is that, judging by IMDb, crowds of people praise such movies. I would choose the dumbest melodrama instead of watching this one.Could this movie be a better one? Sure ass! With pigs, dogs, certain scenes thrown away, any similarity with Tarantino/Kusturica stuff eradicated, it would have become a watchable action. But tastes differ of course.It's easy to rate this screened pig-crap: 1 out of 10. Thanks for attention.


                
What a complete waste of time. Reminded me of Tarantino films (Death Proof, Dusk to Dawn, Kill Bill) etc.: sick and horribly overrated.I just don't understand why anyone would like this type of film. It is gratuitously violent, extremely foul-mouthed, totally unrealistic, you can not understand much of the dialog, has a stupid story line, etc.This type of film (add Goodfellows, etc.) appeals mostly, but not exclusively, to immature young men who most likely suffer from sexual dysfunction and the "tyranny of being cool." This film's plot is nonsense and not at all funny; the only smile that one may get is from their cutesy names. The characters are overdrawn and not even interesting enough to be pathetic. The viewer has no sympathy for any of the characters because they have no redeeming qualities whatsoever. Chewbacca is more interesting than anyone in this film.Rating this in the top 2,000 would be inexplicable, let alone in the top 200. This shouldn't surprise me; IMDb users put Pulp Fiction in the top 10 and Scarface in the top 200; I wouldn't put any of these films in the top 1,000. Rent a Kazan film and don't waste your time on Ritchie (or Tarantino for that matter).


                
... @rse."Lock, Stock... " only needed to be 'mildly entertaining' to make waves in the Brit film industry, "Snatch" doesn't even come close to acheiving that modest target.  All of the same elements but this time none of the surprise. Guy Ritchie obviously easily confuses 'homage' with 'rip-off'.  Right down to the blatent shoehorning of Madonna's "Lucky Star" onto the soundtrack simply because of the well-known connection, his only abilities seem to lie in bombarding the audience with the obvious at every turn.  Even Brad Pitt effortlessly stealing each scene he appears in cannot save this awful, awful film from complete 1-star ignominy.I'm truly horrified that this has been voted into the IMDB Top 250.


                
Are you serious that this movie currently has a user rating over 7.9????I feel asleep on this movie, obviously I have no idea what other people see in this movie..EEH


                
Snatch is escapism.  It is a movie that does not invest in it's characters, and it tries to be ultra hip.  If you like that sort of thing then see it. If you don't I think you should see "Sexy Beast" or the original "Get Carter."  Both great British Gangster films.


                
I'm going to say it right away,I didn't like the film at all.The film is nothing more than a bunch of cliches which try to be funny but ends up as shallow as possible. I like to laugh however I didn't laugh once in this pretentious film with its camera angles which hide a thin plot and a bad acting from every one involve.The film is nothing more than a bunch of actors who have all kind of what suppose to be "funny" accents. If it meant to be a parody than its not a successful one. Beware of this film it's a waste of time not to mention a waste of money.


                
After 33 years 8 months and 72 days after my birth and I finally found the movie that could put me right to sleep.  This movie while great with camera angles, directing and lighting was a sad testament to modern cinema.As I began to read a few of the comments that were left by users, I could not believe that this was the same group of people who found that Malcolm X was a 7.2 on a 10 star scale but that this movie was an 8.2.  My God have the standards from 1992 till 2001 fallen that much.Within the first 20 mins I noticed that I was in trouble with this film but thought better of the premium money that it takes to view a movie these days.  Maybe I am wrong in my assessment of this movie, maybe I do not understand the greater good that this movie provided to the world, maybe I can not see the true world as it should be.  I asked my coworker how she had enjoyed the movie as we went to see this disgrace together.  To my surprise, ok my horror, she stated that she loved it and it reflected modern society and what she was used to hearing about in the world....  Oh please tell me she was kidding.  This movie could not be a modern reminder of what we see in everyday life unless of course we are from Columbine or somewhere that people shoot up store fronts and murder people on a daily.  Ok enough of my soap box.  I thought this movie not worthy of the tape that it took to distribute it to my local theater, but then again, that is one mans opinion out of thousands....Someone, please tell me what I am missing here and why I would think of suggesting this movie to someone?


                
This is a horrible movie.It's boring. The story plot line isn't that interesting. It drags onand it even easies up. None of the actors are good in this turkey.I didn't laugh once during the whole movie. I don't know how it evengot made or made any sum of money. I was surprised that it has such ahigh rating here on IMDb. The only good part was with the 3 thievesbecause that was kinda funny but honestly it wasn't it was just thefunniest part in the movie that wasn't funny. Avoid watching thismovie. I give it a 0.


                
I thought the only good thing about this movie was Brad Pitt and Benicio Del Toro. I've seen a lot of movies, and this one...was one of the worst ones I've seen. Half of the time you can't understand what anyone's saying, and they jump around alot, from characters to characters. I still don't know which ones were good and which ones were bad... Anyways, I would recommend not seeing this movie, but everyone is entitled to their own opinions....I will definitly NOT be renting this movie again....The best part of this movie was watching Brad Pitt box, shirtless......and you can see Brad shirtless in other movies...


                
I am not sure, but I believe that Quentin Tarantino should be entitled some of Guy Ritchie's earnings. I mean, without 'Pulp Fiction' and 'Reservoir Dogs', this guy would be making documentaries for the BBC if he was lucky. Both "Lock Stock...' and 'Snatch' are Tarantino rip offs and the only reason this is not obvious to everyone is because the movies are made in Britain.In fact Ritchie is so inspired by Tarantino that I am not sure whether the Madonna references are there because of him being married to her, or because of the 'Reservoir Dogs' Madonna intro.'Snatch' is better than "Lock Stock'. Ritchie's rhythm has improved, but he still is no Tarantino and the semi American cast helps a lot. Also the humor is great at times, maybe at larger doses than expected, which makes 'Snatch' a comedy more than anything else.By the way, has anyone noticed that in Guy Ritchie's movies everybody pronounces 'TH' as 'F'? "Come wiF me", "I'll do anyFing"? That thing drives me nuts!6/10 (half of it goes to Tarantino)


                
Just Awful!!!!!  I have nothing else to say about this movie except that it is plain awful.  You can't understand a word any of them are saying, especially Brad Pitt.  I'm sure most women won't mind anyway since the man is half naked throughout the whole thing.  I happen to be a man though so when I see a movie with half naked men I want it to either make sense or at least be understandable.  Anyway my final rating is two thumbs way down. If you like it, I'm happy for you.  As for me, I'd rather watch Spice World again.


                
Same as with Lock, Stock and whatever, really. Guy Ritchie, an o.k. director at best, should pick a decent screenwriter for his next project to tone things down a bit. Way too many crossing story-lines, OTT characters and each and every line has to be smart and smug but strangely none of them are genuinely funny or clever, in short OVERKILL. Being rude and spouting profanities doesn't make it funny in itself, although Roy 'Chubby' Brown would disagree on that one.The British think they have a Tarantino on their hands, but that just proves a cliche about the British and their tendency of overrating themselves.Horrible stuff, watch Pulp Fiction instead.


                
Let me preface this by saying that I very much dislike Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels. (If you liked that, you'll probably like this.) I say the same thing for this new piece of drivel by Ritchie. Why? How could I dislike such a riveting piece of modern cinema by such a visionary young director? Oh, come on.... There isn't that much to like here. The style is more of the same - stealing, as I've said before, from the likes of Trainspotting and Tarantino (with Scorsese added in here for good measure?). This is not creative stuff. He takes what they've done and churns out a completely shallow, worthless rendition of it, creating what so many people in this post-Tarantino era do: this brand of "hip," violent cinema, with the aloof, jaded humor about the whole thing. What is lacking is any sort of redemptive value at all; there is no depth, no character (people seem to love the characters in this; they're all more of character sketches, of violent criminals at that), and really there is little here that could be called a human emotion. If not substance, then what? The humor is generally lacking and low brow, attempting to get laughs off the most base, disgusting things. The entire content of this film is like staring into a toilet really... Don't misunderstand me. I'm really not just a huge prude - afterall, I like the aforementioned film and directors. I simply feel that there should be something in all of this nonsense which makes it worth my while. There isn't... This is empty virtuosity (where it is even that). Unlike someone like Scorsese, Ritchie will make us bask in filth with no payback; instead, it may glorify it and is rather like watching a kid play with a new toy.


                
Gross, disgusting, senselessly violent film masquerading as an art film. And the Brits say that Americans are violent.  No redeeming value.  Throw it away if you bought it - better yet..return it and demand double your money back.  People who think this is a good movie are the reason there is so much acceptance of violence in America.


                
My guy friends loved this movie, but I was asleep within the first fifteen minutes. However, I didn't fall asleep because I was tired, but because I was bored. So I don't know anything about it, except that it was not worth it to pay six dollars for a nap.


                
This movie showed several scenes of the underground dogfighting world as a casual sidebar to the unlicensed boxing main theme. In one scene a guy, who you already know is a serious bad guy, is jabbing a stick in through the cage bars at a Pit Bull-type fighting dog which you can hear yelp, while the camera pans across to show the bloodied carcass of another dog who didn't survive the fight he was just put into, while the scarred victor stands nearby.  All of this happens in a part of the movie which is supposed to be darkly humorous. It wasn't -- it was disgusting. Anything that portrays animals in this manner is revolting.


                
