For anyone who holds any love for the English accent, steer clear of this film; Statham's performance simply crucifies it and he's by no means the only performer guilty of this crime. I'd have been more convinced had the casting directors pulled people off the streets of London and that's no joke, so to have Statham narrating throughout was a painful experience. This fundamental flaw left the whole film difficult to take seriously and moments that were clearly meant to be funny were simply awkward.Brad Pitt's performance, however, was excellent - although he barely features.3 out of 10


                
In the gutter and looking down,that's "Snatch".Obviously its extremely violent,foul-mouthed and aimed at blokes under 30 who think Mr Vinnie Jones is the mutt's nuts.Cheap laughs,racism - "I hate fxxxxx pikeys" is a constant refrain - abound and the movie continues to demonstrate the director's peculiar sycophancy to the South London demi - monde. One day those Frankie Fraser wannabees are going to get fed up with being portrayed as beetle-browed psychopaths without the wit to stay out of the nick long enough to sit through 15 three minute rounds. Here Mr Ritchie has trawled through the pages of "Rent an 'ard bastard" and come up with a "comic" cast whose idea of doing comedy is to read their lines like Morecambe and Wise,almost nodding and winking at the audience to let them in on the gag. The worst offender is the aforementioned Mr Jones who,regretfully, displays all the signs of a man who has come to believe his own publicity. The bareknuckle boxing plot has Irish Traveller Mr Brad Pitt outsmarting the crafty cockneys at their own game - not perhaps the most challenging of tasks - and the saga of the big.big,big,big diamond is more than a little reminiscent of Stanley Kramer's early sixties masterpiece but instead of under the Big Dubbleya,the treasure ends up inside a traveller's dog. Best viewed as a twenty - something bloke with a bunch of other twenty - something blokes,belching,breaking wind and necking the Stella as if there was no tomorrow. If that is not your thing I can honestly advise you to give it a wide berth.
Possibly the most loathsome film that I have ever had the misfortune of encountering. The script a joke, the direction a joke, the story a joke, characters a joke. Not a joke in the ha ha sense but in the sense that you wish you had more than popcorn to throw at the screen.The main problem with this picture is that it is trying to be something which it is not. A - it tries t be humorous B - it tries to be original and C - it tries to be that great white elephant, cool. Possibly if one hadn't seen Lock Stock... this would have passed the time with a slight modicum of enjoyment. But no, we get a rehashed, regurgitated, reject. The witty raconteur between characters in the "Bleedin' barrel o' cockney monkeys" (to quote the Fast Show) style becomes irksome and boring after about five minutes. The characters we have shoved in our faces have all the grace and subtlety of a deranged mongooseBut my main bugbear is the direction. It can only be described as 'CRASH' cinematography. I'll try and explain. 1) Cut from previous scene. 2) Loud music with heavy beat. 3) Man/ woman walking. 4) Said man/ woman stops walking. 5) Said man/ woman says something witty to other character. 6) Other character retorts with something equally witty. 7) Cut to next scene and repeat.When I watch wrestling I may enjoy this style, but I would rather wrestle a bear with an eating disorder than watch this drivel again.


                
I give this a 3 just because I like Jason Statham. This got a lot of good reviews and if you like dozens of characters and bouncing all over the place like popcorn kernels in hot oil then this is the movie for you. Yes, you really need to pay attention to be able to follow what is going on and I just wanted to be entertained. I call this the endless movie because it just moves from one scene to the next with great speed. And the next and on and on. Like many forms of entertainment such as rap or opera, I can appreciate the work involved to make such an intricate movie, I just didn't care for it nor do I like movies such as this which are heavily narrated.


                
I've just watched Snatch and I must say that it is one worst films I've seen in quite some time. The dialogue is terribly sub-Tarantino, the story messy and incoherent, the editing headache inducing and the acting is woeful for such a good cast. The film lacks any depth, not that it aims for any, and the humour that it tries to instill instead is puerile and based mostly around swearing. Having said that though, the film does have some merits. The camerawork is excellent (even if it is excessively flashy and OTT), and the climatic boxing scene is well put together, but aside from that it is a gimmicky mess of a film that wastes the talent that it brought together.


                
Madonna must be a perfect match for Guy Ritchie because he's clearly more interested in making pop videos than movies. The direction is way over the top, the characters are all one-dimensional east end stereotypes, and it's just impossible to buy into his romanticised view of thugs and criminals who are a bit dim, a bit cuddly, and alright blokes when all's said and done. Yes, Brad Pitt's Irish boxer is great but it's the only highlight in an otherwise dire film. I'm ashamed that an Englishman could come up with this kind of tripe.


                
Brutally violent film wants to be Trainspotting, but winds up as Rocky for the age of terrorism. Throwing in fistfuls of pubescent humor (and every kind of crotch-kick that's ever graced a movie) and Brad Pit Bull doesn't save this epic for the Mortal Kombat crowd. How low should we sink for a cheap thrill?


                
Snatch was perceived by me and my buddies at the time as unapologetically male entertainment. We were all on board with a movie like this that was a template for male behavior we might snag. There's barely even a minor female role in it. As male attributes are largely performed, maybe the movie would show us how it's done. We wouldn't have admitted that at the time, but I'm more comfortable with that now. Guy Ritchie knows how to make a first movie that gets attention (and thus gets made), but one would have hoped he had better, more developed ideas about the 2nd; than to just duplicate the 1st movie; than troweling on style as anxiously and nervously as he does here, to disguise the fact that nothing's really going on. This movie's complexity doesn't reveal any more on ensuing viewings than it did on the 1st. It's complex for the sake of being complex. It's not really a film... it's just entertainment. Ritchie is obviously fond of these hoodlums in all their variety, and he makes us fond of them too; the self-assured, masculine Turkish, the vulnerable good guy Tommy. I loved watching Turkish and Tommy but their scenes don't add up to more than the sum of their parts, and that's the big problem with both of the movies (this and L.S. & B.) They're just a string of poorly-related conceits or 'features.'Pitt is fine here as an unintelligible thug. And Ritchie HAS come up with a pretty loathsome villain, not the easiest thing to do; a low-class, mean S.O.B. in an enormous pair of glasses. He can mark that down as an achievement. The movie is a strong reminder that there really are people you do not want to meet in this life, despite Hollywoods tendency to paint villains in generalities and broad strokes.The authors of Lucky Number Slevin (which you should see) obviously like this movie.
