That's the only way I can explain these rave reviews and 8.2 average. Because if you come into the movie actually looking for a great story with great acting and diverse, interesting characters, well, you won't get it. But if you've decided you like "hip, cool, wise cracking British gangsters" and Guy Ritchie's ADD style of directing before you even sit down, then you'll decide this is just what you thought it would be, and give it a 10.That's the only way I can fathom how people thought this was a great movie, let alone a good movie. I mean, if you take every cliché ever put into a gangster film and rehash it with tommy gun rapidity, that's the first 15 minutes of Snatch. And it just keeps going, and going. I got so bored with it, I stopped watching. So maybe it's really great in the end? I doubt it...


                
"Snatch" is a British English-language film from 2000, so it is already over 15 years old. The writer and director is Guy Ritchie and this film came out shortly before he married Madonna. The cast includes many known names, such as Oscar winners Brad Pitt and Benicio Del Toro, action film superstar Jason Statham, the late Dennis Farina and former football player Vinnie Jones. This 105-minute is as fast as it gets for a film and this is certainly not to everybody's liking (including myself). I found the camera work (i.e. the constant switches and movements) fairly distracting. The characters are all very much in your face, so Ritchie and the actors definitely wanted to make sure you remember them. But how about writing them properly instead? Giving them interesting background stories and making them memorable this (much more subtle) way? Now that would be something wouldn't it? And that also certainly requires much more skill when it comes to writing screenplays compared to just letting everybody shout at each other for the entire film, even if the path Ritchie took at least resulted in a handful fairly memorable quotes.In the heart of a story there is a precious (priceless actually) diamond most of the characters are after. And with characters, I could also say criminals as absolutely everybody in here has gotten his hands dirty one way or another. This includes all kinds of robberies, brawls, illegal fighting, blackmailing and even murder. The latter also includes the scene I found the funniest. (Actually I did not find too many scenes funny in here I have to admit, it mostly seemed pretty try-hard to me.) I am talking about a scene where one guy shoots another and the guy hit by the bullet keeps insulting the guy who shot at him. And this goes on and on. Another bullet, another insult, another shot, another insult etc. He just didn't want to die it seems and told him frankly and openly what he thought of him. This scene was laugh-out-loud hilarious. But it was really the only one and there aren't too many entertaining sequences in here. Still, comedy was probably the film's biggest strength as story-telling and character development were really weak in my opinion. Ritchie had a fairly decent cast here and I found it pretty underwhelming what he made of it. This film is actually among the IMDb top250 films and this is truly baffling as this film does not have any substance (besides drugs) or depth whatsoever. I guess this film has many fanboys rooting for it (I believe it actually is a very male-oriented film with the cast and story) and these do not care about all the important aspects I already mentioned that this film lacks. I personally give it a thumbs-down. Not recommended.
MAJOR SPOILERYou know what I'm talking about, the kind of films in which people get killed and no one bats an eyelid, when did the term "black comedy" suddenly mean that it was alright to kill a man in you're film and laugh about it. It reminded me of a scene in The Simpsons (yes, I'm quoting the Simpsons, it's a lot more intelligent than anything Guy Ritchie can come up with), when Marge and Lisa are watching an episode of McBain, and McBain snaps a mans neck - Marge says, "Now that's what I call breakneck speed", to which Lisa glibly replays "Mom, a man just died"... If only Guy Ritchie had, had a little Lisa Simpson sitting next to him whilst he wrote this script. But that's not the worst part, Ritchie does actually include a couple of very sinister murders e.g. When Mickey's (Brad Pitt) mother is burned alive, there terrible, because the rest of the film is so empty, what is Ritchie trying to do - if the intention of the film was to be light hearted then don't put in the hard stuff. Well I suppose Snatch is better than Lock Stock, which means perhaps one day Ritchie will make a decent film, and stop destroying the memory of Pulp Fiction with these lame cockney Tarantino rip-offs.4/10
True, SNATCH does have the wittiest situations and dialog since PULP FICTION. But even that cannot hide the fact that this film looks like a pop music video. I absolutely hated the editing style that gave us the fast motion and the idiotic introduction of every single character. And the style of narrative was a rip off of GOODFELLAS. Brad Pitt was funny, though.


                
LS&2SB was a wonderful film.. Came out of nowhere and I loved it.Guy R did a really good job in that one.. He (quite deservedly) must have gotten quite a large ego because of it.Unfortunately though, he let his ego run away with him. Snatch will be a moderatley good late night movie 3-4 years from now, but right now - fuggedaboutit.He tried, as in LS&2SB, to interweave several seemingly disparate stories into the one. Unlike LS&2SB where it worked brilliantly, Snatch just came off as a "hmm, it worked well last time" kinda flick..I could go on for ages, but couldn't be bothered as I don't even remember the specifics (saw it last week).


                
Now I know some people like this kind of movie, but recently I've been starting to find it insulting.  You don't have to romanticize gratuitous violence to sell me a movie.  Or title it 'Snatch', which apparently was used because of a connotation it held.  Some baseballs hitting groins with a little coincidence thrown in.  Good if ya like it.


                
This movie has all the great things- Comedy, tragedy, drama, irony, revenge, extortion, murder, and a great soundtrack to boot.  I have to admit I didn't know what the hell was happening at times but the ending made it all worth while. This movie reminded me of The Usual Suspects, which is my favorite movie, so if you liked The Usual Suspects, you'll like this movie. Worth renting, if not buying, which I plan to do. Could have used a sexy female co-star, though. Could have used more of Benicio del Toro, also. Brad Pitt was great, Dennis Farina was great, and Vinnie Jones was excellent. Guy Ritchie proved himself to be a great director.


                
"Snatch" is a well-crafted film with some good performances, and it will keep you entertained, but it has some flaws that will prevent me from ever bothering to watch it again...1. The silly names of the characters are a bit much.  2. The anti-gay comments of one of the thugs are not necessary and spoil the fun of the film for me.  Would they include racist comments of a comparable nature? Heck no.  It really ticks me off that filmmakers think it's still fine to dehumanize gays.3. Brad Pitt isn't used enough.  He's the only character who lights up the screen in this film.  It's a straight boy film, and the straight boys in the audience I saw it with all cheered at the end (for some reason), so I don't expect to have loved it.  But it could have been a far more fun ride for all of us.  It's a pity it's so limited in this respect.


                
