`Snatch', written and directed by Guy Ritchie is by far one of my favorite films of all time <U+0096> it is easily in my personal Top Thirty.  In the film, about (what else?) several schemes that happen to go very wrong yet manage to intertwine and (for better or worse) resolve themselves in the end, Ritchie assembles one of the funniest cast of characters in recent memory. Let's see if we can keep this straight:Turkish (Jason Statham) and his partner Tommy (Stephen Graham) are amateur boxing promoters who, after their premier fighter is wounded, have to find a replacement to fight, or one of the meanest guys in London, Brick Top (Alan Ford), who just happens to run the boxing matches and stands to make a lot of money off of the fight is going to impart his unique brand of justice on them.  Enter Mickey (Brad Pitt) the gypsy who knocked their fighter out, who is an unintelligible drunk with quite a right hook.  Meanwhile, there is a diamond `the size of a fist' that has been stolen by Franky Four Fingers (Benicio Del Toro). On his way back from London to America where he is planning on fencing the diamond, trouble ensues, and his fence, Cousin Avi (Dennis Farina) is forced to come to London to find both Franky and the diamond with the help of characters like Bullet Tooth Tony (Vinnie Jones) and Doug `The Head' Denovitz (Mike Reid).  Of course, this can't happen easily, as there are a trio of inept thieves on the trail of the diamond as well as my personal favorite character in the film, Boris `The Blade' Yurinov (Rade Serbedzija) <U+0096> or as he's better known, `Boris the Bullet Dodger'.  Did you get all that?  The performances by all of the above actors, and several more that I didn't even mention are all really good, particularly Brad Pitt's.  Every single actor in `Snatch' looks like they are having one hell of a good time working in the film. This story, while complex and with many ramifications from the core plot is absolutely brilliant and a lot of fun.  There are many one-liners that I still personally use four years after first seeing the film, and the intricate weaving of the characters to tell a very simple heist story is just SO good.  `Snatch' would be a great film due to its story alone, but Guy Ritchie's direction is so dead on, the film transcends brilliant and becomes FAN-insert your choice of expletive here-TASTIC.  The slick cinematography, lightning-fast pacing and fun camera angles are right on target with the story.  Add on a great soundtrack that spans Oasis, techno and a traditional-sounding Hasidic song and Ritchie has presented the viewer with an instant classic.  While this was not the first time I had seen the film `Snatch', it was the first time I'd watched the film knowing that I would have to analyze it slightly in order to funnel my thoughts from the film just being `Phenomenal!' to `Phenomenal because<U+0085>..'  While I can certainly be classified as an unabashed Madonna fan, and have been for the last two decades, I REALLY hope that Ritchie decides to drop his wife from his film work and not continue on the `Swept Away' path, rather, to get back to the work that has earned him well-deserved high praise.  Sorry Madge.--Shelly


                
Imagine what would happen if you took 8 or 10 criminals of various professions, threw them into a maze, gave one of the criminals a diamond the size of a fist, and yelled out load, "SOMEONE IN THIS MAZE HAS A HUGE DIAMOND!  WHOEVER FINDS IT AND IS THE LAST MAN STANDING, WINS!" What do you think would happen?  Snatch is what happens.Snatch is a confusing, twisting, crazy movie.  Let me repeat that.  This movie is crazy!  Imagine the Mr. Toad's Wild Ride at Disney Word on acid, and this is what you get my friend.  Believe it or not, this mass confusion and complete insanity is very, very entertaining.The movie has it's problems.  First off, for those of you who have seen Snatch's predecessor, (Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels), you know that Guy Richie (the writer and director of both films) has a very music-video style as far as the camera angles, movements, and cinematography goes.  The strange camera techniques get so mad with lunacy that I noticed people walking out of the theater.  I was also turned off by this madness. However, most of this insane crap gets over within the first hour, so it doesn't last.If any of you people out there loved Lock Stock as much as I did, do yourself a favor and see this movie as fast as you can.  Snatch is a bit more serious than Lock Stock, but when it's funny, you'll laugh till your lungs burst.  It was nice to see Vinnie Jones, who was Big Chris in the last movie, return as the same basic character (only now named Bullet Tooth Tony) and doing the same "slamming victim's head in a car door" act again.  The performances were just as great as Lock Stock, with Jason Statham and Pitt leading the pack.  I was disappointed to see that Bendicio Del Toro didn't have a bigger role.  I was expecting him to be a lead character, but he's not.So, in conclusion, if you have never seen Lock, Stock, and Two Smoking Barrels, I would see that first before seeing Snatch so you can get adjusted to Guy Richie's style.  I still think that it is stupid to compare either two movies to Pulp Fiction (unlike most people), but it is in the same ballpark as Pulp.  That means if you liked Pulp, you will most likely like Snatch and Lock, Stock.  If you have never seen Pulp or Lock Stock, you have deprived your life of culture.9/10


                
I would imagine viewers would either really love this movie or be totally turned off. It is presented in a different format for its time (since copied), has very odd and profane characters, accents that are difficult to understand, and tells an unpleasant story with some disgusting scenes. So, why do I enjoy this film, being an old-fashioned so-and-so?Well, because I usually enjoy "stylish" film-making and dark humor and this has both in abundance. This is almost as stylish as it gets: fascinating visuals, odd camera angles and various tricks, sound effects, etc. Most of the characters in this bizarre crime film have colorful nicknames and most speak in a strong British accent. A gypsy, played by American Brad Pitt, is almost intelligible.This is why I strongly recommend you use English subtitles while watching this film, at least for the first viewing, or you will totally lost. The DVD offers a feature I've never seen before: the option of using subtitles solely for Pitt's character. The filmmakers knew few people were going to understand Pitt's weird way of speaking. Anyway, I recommend the subtitles for everyone. It makes the film more enjoyable when you know what's going on, especially with the many slang terms used in here that have to be totally foreign to most viewers outside GB.Since the action changes every two minutes to another scene with other people (Lord of The Rings subsequently did the same), it's had to get lulled to sleep or have your mind wander. Something wacky is going on every few minutes. The attitudes of the criminals are rough: these are low-life people in the underworld: extremely tough people with the toughest being "Bricktop" (Alan Ford) who likes to feed people to the pigs. There are a ton of f-words in here, too.The disjointed story is not easy to follow and I found I needed several viewings to understand everything that was going on. The characters are so strange, so cartoon-like, that - combined with the unique visuals - it makes it a fascinating film to watch every time. Some of these actors were fairly unknown at the time of this release , at least here in the States, such as Jason Statham ("The Transporter") but we know them know. There is a good mix of young and old actors in here.This is a guy's movie with the top dozen actors in this film all tough-talking, almost-crude men (plus a funny dog). It's so weird, I'll just end with the cliché that "this is not for all tastes" but if you enjoy dark humor and something totally different, you might want to give it a shot. Just remember to turn on the subtitles.


                
It seems to be about a lot of actors having a ton of fun with throwaway one-liners and double-takes. There's not much story here. This isn't even as well organized as LOCK, STOCK AND 2 SMOKING BARRELS, but it is just as fast-paced and violently wacky. Brad Pitt seems to be crossing his buff bod from FIGHT CLUB with his cheerful madman from 12 MONKEYS. I laughed a lot, and if you are comfortable with not understanding what's happening at all times, you will enjoy it. For those of us who don't speak limey, put the closed-captioning on your TV! (PS: Jason Flemyng FINALLY gets to answer a cellphone towards the end of this film. :) )


                
Snatch starts in Antwerp where four guy's dressed as Jewish Rabai's gain entry & steal an 86 carat diamond from a building, one of the gang Franky Four Fingers (Benicio Del Toro) smuggles it into London where he plans to sell it to crooked jewellery dealer Doug 'The Head' Denovitz (Mike Reid), however his Russian mates double cross him & informs shady Russian gangster Boris 'The Blade' Yurinov (Rade Serbedzija) who hires two petty criminals Vincent (Robbie Gee) & Sol (Lennie James). Meanwhile boxing promoter Turkish (Jason Statham) & his mate Tommy (Stephen Graham) are in big trouble as they have let down a vicious crime boss named Brick Top (Alan Ford), throw in some Irish pikey's, unlicensed boxing matches, dead bodies, betting shop hold ups & add hard as nails Bullet Tooth Tony (Vinnie Jones) hired to sort everything out as everyone's problems become connected...This British American co-production was written & directed by Madonna's other half Guy Ritchie & I'll say it straight away, Snatch is one of my favourite films of all time, period. I must admit after watching it again last night I wasn't looking forward to looking it up on the IMDb for fear of a horribly low score & lots of complaints from people about not understanding or getting it, particularly Americans, so imagine my surprise & delight when I discovered that Snatch is in fact in the IMDb's Top 250 films list (currently #183 but this will change sooner or later) & it certainly isn't a film which I thought would come into most people's heads when talking about the best 200 odd films ever made so I guess it's a testament to just how good Snatch is in that after 7 years from it's original release it still holds a place in the IMDb's Top 250 films of all time. A place, I might add, that I think it fully deserves. 'Who took the jam outta your doughnut?', 'You took the f*cking jam outta my doughnut!'. The script by Ritchie is quite simply the funniest thing ever put to film, I have seen Snatch several times & I still p*ss myself laughing at some of the one-liners, sarcastic jokes, humour, twists, character's & events. Snatch has more quotable lines of dialogue in it than any other film I've seen, I myself have used the 'how did you lose it, it's hardly a set of f*cking car keys' line so many times & never miss an opportunity to use it! The whole film maybe gets a little bit too silly at the end but who cares when it's this clever, this fun, this hilarious & this entertaining? 'What's in the car?', 'Seats and a steering wheel'. I'm sorry, I just love the one-liners in this & can just quote them all day long & not get bored. I love Snatch, I thinks it is absolutely brilliant in every single way from the character's to the clever plot which keeps you on your toes to the hilariously funny dialogue. Snatch is one of the few films about which I simply can't find anything negative to say at all, the absolutely perfect film to watch with some mates on DVD.Director Ritchie pulls out all the stop with an incredibly stylish & fast moving comedy crime thriller, the editing, the camera moves & the dull colour schemes which sum up the British weather perfectly just work like a dream in every respect. There's not much graphic violence although there's loads of profanity & bad language. There's plenty of clever visual gags as well as the funny one-liners & Snatch is just great to both listen to & watch. 'There are two types of balls. There are big brave balls & there are little mincey faggot balls.'With a modest sounding budget of about $10,000,000, well by Hollywood standards it's modest, Snatch has a perfect gloomy British look to it & there's some nice location shooting in & around London. The acting is brilliant from a great cast, everyone plays their roles straight & it's just so funny.Snatch is just about the perfect film, still being in the IMDb Top 250 films is by no means a guarantee of quality but it proves it has legs across a broad range of people most of who I'm pleased to discover get it & love it as much as I do. Guy Ritchie will never make another film as good as Snatch (just look at his next full feature film Swept Away (2002) staring his wife Madonna) & you will never see as good a comedy crime thriller as Snatch, that I promise you.
"Snatch" is a lot like "Lock Stock" in many ways. The formulas are exactly the same, and we have quirky characters, and scene-stealing Vinnie Jones always ready to slam a guys head in a car door. And of course a lot of underdogs getting to the top by some freak accident. It's differences are the presence of American actors (Benicio Del Toro, Brad Pitt, Dennis Farina) and in some ways it is more American. It's a lot more violent than "Lock Stock" and has more of a darkness to it. I'm teeter tottering whether I like the more violence and darkness in this Guy Ritchie project. I don't know whether I'm a big fan of the violence in this one, or maybe I just don't like hand to hand combat. The darkness is attributed with characters who have more depth than the characters in "Lock Stock". Though Brad Pitt's character is very funny, there is a moment, when his caravan is burning down, of a sad intensity in his eyes, there was nothing like this in "Lock Stock". I think Guy Ritchie's character development shows that he has grown more from his first project. Though he is following the same formulas as his previous work, there is more elements added to "Snatch". I highly suggest if you haven't seen "Snatch" or "Lock Stock", I suggest seeing "Lock stock" first. Because they are highly comparable (as if you couldn't tell) and "Lock stock" will help you bone up on the way Guy Ritchie writes and directs. I also suggest if you're new to Guy Ritchie to get a pad and paper and play connect the dots between all the characters. It's kind of hard doing it in your head like I did when I watched "Snatch."


                
Exciting, interesting, never dull...the ideal movie when you're sick of boring movies that have a ton of down-time!Complicated plot twists keep you on your toes.  Great actors obviously having a blast keep you wanting to know what they'll do next.  A very tight screenplay can have you laughing and a director in his element combine for a very fun movie. Have to see it again..I didn't see 'Lock, Stock,...' so cannot say Guy Ritchie made the same movie twice, which some reviewers have alluded to. But if that is half as good as this, its got to be worth a look.Brad Pitt joins a distinguished group that includes Dustin Hoffman in 'Dick Tracy', and Robert Carlyle in 'Trainspotting', as Movie Characters Who You Don't Understand Half of What They Are Saying...but that didn't matter one bit, it added to the overall enjoyment.


                
This is top-class entertainment. The movie is brilliantly constructed and has its own unique style. Both the story and characters are over-the-top and therefor also extremely fun.This is a movie were basically is very little wrong with. It's some perfect mindless entertainment but with a complicated storyline. So it's still a sort of movie with a story, which you have to pay a lot of attention to, while watching. The movie is made in the same style as the previous Guy Ritchie movie, "Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels". There are lots of similarities between these two movies, so if you liked "Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels" you'll most likely also really like this movie as well.Main difference with "Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels" though, is that this movie has a 'bigger' cast with some more well known names in it. Jason Statham who made his debut in "Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels" plays the main character in this movie. Brad Pitt plays a very fun role and fits surprisingly well into the typical British storyline and atmosphere of the movie. Also well known actors like Benicio Del Toro and Dennis Farina fit in very well into the story and the movie in general. But perhaps the biggest positive surprise of the movie was Vinnie Jones. He had been given quite some dialog in this movie and he shows that he really can act. Most movies he plays in, he is given very little dialog, a shame because judging by just this movie, he is a very talented actor.Maybe the movie becomes a bit too complex at times, which is mainly due to the very many characters that play a prominent role in the story. It perhaps gets a bit too much at times but overall it doesn't make the movie any less fun to watch, just more (too much) complicated.The movie has some very fun and original moments in the story, even though the movie is a bit too similar to "Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels" at times. Which is also the main reason why I still regard "Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels" as a better movie. It came first and therefor it's more original and refreshing. Basically "Snatch." is just more of the same. Not that more of the same is a bad thing in this case but it's just of course not as refreshing and original as with "Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels" was the case.If you like a well constructed movie with a solid and complex story told from multiple points of views this is a sort of movie that you'll love. Also highly recommendable if you liked "Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels", of course. I don't mind seeing more movies like this being made.9/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
The cinemas in my city are so crappy about getting movies that are off the beaten path of the mainstream, that I was surprised we even got Snatch. I had never seen Lock Stock and the only thing I knew about Guy Ritchie was that he was married to Madonna. But some friends of mine talked me into going, and it was just fantastic. It had that hard edged comedy that Pulp Fiction seemingly invented. As a matter of fact, except for Fight Club, this may be the best movie that has come out since Pulp Fiction. This should definitely be up for an oscar, and Brad Pitt for best supporting actor. You can't understand a word he says but he still manages to say more than most actors do in a 5 minute monologue. Another highlight was Benicio Del Toro who, while not in the film for very long, steals every scene he's in. Vinnie Jones surprised me because I had never heard of him (I did recognize him though) and he was such a good tough guy. Now that this movie is out for rent, everyone can see it, and it is definitely the better choice than Save the Last Dance.


                
Snatch is without a doubt one of my favorite movies of all time, actually I cannot come up with another title that tops this one. It's got everything i look for in a movie: humor, action, great atmosphere, super kewl characters (Turkish, Mickey, Boris the Bullet dodger, Bullet tooth Tony, Tyrone!!!), superb soundtrack, a good storyline, very original and inventive filming-techniques, lot's of great one liners. And it's a movie you can watch over and over again. Something I can't say about another very kewl Guy Richie flick; Lock Stock and two smoking barrels.favorite quote: "I thought you said he was a getaway driver, what can he get away from?"I highly recommend this movie and I give it a 9.2/10 score. (#1 on my personal list, but you never know what the future brings us)


                
Guy Ritchie's Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels was one of the most popular British films of all time and spawned a plethora of London gangster movies - all of them far inferior to their inspirer.  (And yes, I'm including Gangster No. 1 in that.) This has raised expectations for Guy Ritchie's Snatch inordinately.  And it doesn't disappoint. In fact it's probably an improvement.However this is not a radical departure, in fact you get exactly the same elements but with a completely different story. So expect witty realistic dialogue, awesome cinematography, clever plotting, cool art direction, flash direction, dark humour. And violence. Lots of it.The film centres on Turkish about to do a deal and he narrates the flashback to how he got there.  But just like Lock, Stock it isn't a simple journey. The breakneck pace and intricate plotting leaves little room for more than sketchy characterisation but that isn't a problem because at the very least you know the motivations for every single character and you believe them. One can only admire the juggling act required to keep so many characters and plots going and not drop a ball.  Guy Ritchie the brilliant screenwriter too often gets subsumed into Guy Ritchie the brilliant director. 
However let's get back to the violence.  Ritchie has been quoted as saying "I disapprove of violence" which is a touch disingenuous.  To be honest there were one or two points in the film where I felt a little uneasy.  It is the similar difficult balancing act which Lock, Stock - the film and the television series - tried to achieve where violence is both cartoon-like and realistic and it isn't always successful.  But the unease wasn't enough to stop me being swept along by the story.While Brad Pitt and Vinnie Jones will be the actors most talked about, this is very much an ensemble piece - every actor does an excellent job and should not be overlooked.In conclusion Snatch doesn't break new ground but it treads over old ground in a fresh, entertaining way.  And hopefully this will put an end to the London gangster movie for a while and not launch lots of crap imitations again.


                
Everything you like in a dark gritty dramedie! Action scenes shot amazingly to compliment the fun and humor along the way


                
Like I said in the intro, just put on this movie and sit back and relax and allow yourself to be entertained. Guy Richie does a masterful job of assembling an all star cast and giving them all an opportunity to shine. From Brad Pitt to Jason Strathom everyone seems to actually enjoy being involved in this movie and as a result, they have put on a stellar performance. The action is nonstop and the storyline moves along at a great pace as all the parties involved speed towards each of their ultimate resolutions.


                
Obviously a Ritchie film this fast, rapidly edited crime caper is the perfect tonal mix of comedy and drama, the cast deliver great performances and the well crafted story comes to a fantastic head. Such a lively story 'Snatch' is a fantastic film


                
There's not really much to say about the technicalities of 'Snatch'. Pretty standard direction and other production values, the acting's good but nothing Oscar worthy (Pitt is awesome make no mistake about it).The fact is...in my opinion 'Snatch' is definitely one of the funniest movies of the last decade. It's all very much an acquired taste of course...the British humor of Guy Ritchie might not be understood by anyone. I've never been a fan of American comedy so 'Snatch' was definitely a welcome change for me ...a comedy that actually had me laughing the whole time...The story is very ingenious, the jokes are original and the delivery is very good. Brad Pitt proves his versatility, he's just as good playing a high-class guy as he is playing a madman (see 12 Monkeys for example). To sum it up: everyone should give the movie a chance, if you don't like it you will know right away and if you do like it...definitely see 'Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels' too. Same director, 'Snatch' is a little better but both are brill...


                
Released on the heels of his stylishly dangerous "Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels," "Snatch" simultaneously solidified the grit-edged, flamethrower directorial style of Guy Ritchie, even as it launched Jason Statham into his "Transporter" leading man roles; heralded an altogether explosive performance from Alan Ford as Brick Top; proved yet again the go-to value of Rade Sherbedgia as generic Slovakian Hard Guy (even though no two publications can agree on the spelling of his name); saw Dennis Farina reprising his smarm-jockey from "Get Shorty"; was a hilarious continuation of Vinnie Jones' unbalanced contract killer from "Lock, Stock," and marked Bradley Pitt's first foray into incoherent mumbling whilst covered in tattoos and poo.With a soundtrack as impertinent as its plot and as foreboding as the felons who populate it, edited with a verve which could snap your cervical vertebrae and shot with a style that will make your eyebrows bleed, "Snatch" is a Molotov cocktail of a movie; a careening, chain-wielding maniac of a film.It's about incompetent thugs and incomprehensible gypsies. It's about Desert Eagle point five-oh's and fist-sized, dog-swallowed diamonds. It's about bare-knuckle street fighting, for gangsters who breed people-eating pigs. No good guys and no bad guys - only bad guys and badder guys.Indescribable at best, inexplicable at worst, who knows exactly what is going on in "Snatch," except maybe Guy Ritchie - and only when he's drunk.Compulsive gambler, Frankie Four Fingers (Benicio Del Toro) must deliver from London to New York an 86-carat diamond to Cousin Avi (Farina), but Boris the Blade (Sherbedgia) gets in the way, via his small-time help, Vincent and Sol, simultaneously igniting the wrath of sadistic underworld kingpin, Brick Top (who would just as readily suffocate you with a plastic bag or feed you to a pig as deign to scathe your manhood with his cockney insults). So Cousin Avi must jump-cut travel to England and employ Bullet Tooth Tony (Jones) to retrieve the gem.Disparate plots and subplots intertwine like choker vines - with dialog so lushly British you could smell the fish 'n' chips and comedy so sharp you could paper-cut your tongue on it.In a seemingly removed throughline, Turkish (Statham) and his marginally-tolerated sidekick, Tommy (Stephen Graham) get themselves deep into devil dealings over bare-knuckle boxing matches with Brick Top and must tactfully employ the very fighter who put their star fighter out of commission - the "harder than a coffin nail" gypsy, Mickey (Pitt). Refusing to play the game of taking dives, Mickey gets Turkish and Tommy into even deeper devilry when his freight-train right hook fells Brick Top's bet-winning boxer.Freeze frames, crash-cuts, slomo, chronological reversal, whip zooms, contrast-treated frames, follow-frames, Batman angles - Ritchie relishes throwing the baby and the bathwater at the viewer, garnering his fair share of stylistic detractors. Ultimately, "Snatch" is not designed for "The Wedding Planner" set.In the final few minutes, the disparate threads coalesce and the diamonds and dogs and boxers and blaggings all somehow crazily make sense.But only when you're drunk.(Movie Maniacs, visit: poffysmoviemania.com)
Snatch is a Top Shelf movie. If you're a fan of Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels, then this movie is for you. Its got V.O.C. (Variety, Originality and Creativity). It dominates within its genre and takes pages from others. The characters have great depth in personality and are easy to fall for. The story is original, but for this day and age, the shock value lacks a bit, but is made up for through its original comedy, action, random dialog (including pi key language) and the twisty plot. SNATCH IS my favorite movie, you can tell by my email address. On a side note, this movie is one I can say none of my friends would ever enjoy if watching it with me. I kid you not when I say I've memorized every line and accent of this movie. Watch it, because there's nothing anyone, including me, can say to convince you how well this movie was made.


                
Snatch is a gangster tale, set in England. While it's nothing like these films, the best comparisons I can make are "The Usual Suspects" and "Way of the Gun". All the actors do a spectacular job, especially Brad Pitt who plays Mickey the Piker. His ability to play a marble-mouthed boxer is impressive, comparable to any of his other solid roles. The camera work is brilliant, with guns directing the direction of angles. Boris the Blade is one of the greatest mob characters ever invented. But best of all is the intricacy of the script. Rather than a straight "rise to the top" gangster movie like Scarface, this one requires multiple viewings to really understand. Multiple gangsters with various affiliations going after different objectives. Yet they're all interconnected, and trying to keep straight in your mind who works for whom might just take a little work. This film is highly recommended, and even more so if you're already a fan of the other films mentioned.


                
Guy Ritchie yet again delivers a fast-pace, dynamic combination of story, visuals and soundtrack, making sure that there isn't a dull moment for the audience to drift off on.the story is centred around a diamond, naturally all the characters want in on its wealth so the plot thickens, a race between characters to the valuable prize.of course the obvious question is, how does it compare to the famous lock, stock and two smoking barrels? Guy Ritchie clearly left a signature on his first film, fortunately this is carried on to snatch and could be developed even further to create more exciting sequences and more compelling scenes than ever before. Guy Ritchie shines so obviously through the film and doesn't let you forget it was him who directed this cinema masterpiece.


                
I am a graduate of the director admirers theory in life. You like a few films the director does and you should find something redeeming in most of their works. I cannot even say I will watch a film for the actors alone. Like when I watched this film, I was more interested in the director than Brad Pitt being in it and I count myself as a Pitt fan (Seven, Fight Club, the first Ocean's Eleven). I wanted to see what this director could do (I had never seen his work), I had heard from my male friends that it was great but I form my opinions myself. It was to be a surprise and it turned out that it wasn't in the video collection so they went out and bought a copy at the local video store. Yes, Virginia, it is that good if you don't have a copy to show, you go out and buy another. So we settled in to watch the mystery movie. I have to say that through out the whole thing, it wasn't the story that got me so much as the angles. The cinematography was AWESOME. There were scenes that you would NEVER see regular directors trying. It was so beautiful. The story, let me get back to that, was fast-paced and frenetic. It was cunning and articulate. In the end, or near to it (I hope y'all know what moment I mean) I clapped!! I cared for the characters in a way that hasn't capture my emotions for a long time, maybe that is just the girl in me talking though.... Its a good solid energetic film with the best cinematography I have seen in so many years. I highly recommend it and if you can't get your girlfriend to watch it--mention the scene with Pitt in his underwear and she should watch it readily!! (I had no such warning--whoo!)


                
Snatch has it all! Great fighting, great actors, great storyline, goodcomedy, except beautiful women. Brad Pitt, Jason Strattham, andDenis Farina were off the wall, and histaricle! And Brad Pitts voicein the movie was amazing! A must see movie for people who likethose actors, and that genra.


                
For years and years in the 50's and 60's the western was the leading genre in movies.  Now, the gangster film currently enjoys that title, and "Snatch" stands as one of the more enjoyable of that lot.  "Snatch" sets out to entertain, pure and simple.  As you'd expect from a film about Cockney gangsters, the film offers distinct, quirky characters.  It helps greatly that skillful actors inhabit each part and clearly relish the opportunities. Add the visual and editing stylishness informed by the director's experience with music videos, good choices in pop music (except for the Madonna stuff), and lots of plot twists, and you get an entertaining film. It's not Oscar-worthy stuff, but it is fun.A word about Brad Pitt's accent in the film.  Many have called it the worst Irish accent they've ever heard.  This would be an insult to Pitt's craft but for the fact that it's plainly explained in the film that he's not Irish.  He's a "gypo", or gypsy.  And while he may have Irish ancestry, his gypsy vocation incents him to muddle his pronunciation and accent to something that sounds vaguely like speaking but is nearly completely unintelligible at first blush (one catches on after a few listens).


                
Definitely a film to buy for keeps! Unlike the movie "Unbreakable" (which I still maintain, should have been say 30 minutes long), this movie is packed with so much action. So much so that many scenes had to be in fast-forward, with others being omitted so that you the viewer can fill in obvious blanks. Like most sequels (if I may call it that), it borrows motifs from "Lock Stock". It however manages to remain original and (have I not mentioned yet?)very very interesting


                
This movie is so funny. Brad Pitt is cool even though you can't understand a word he says. It is the best movie you'll ever see. The best part is when Harvey shoots Bullettooth Tony and they're all fighting the dog. It's a great movie.


                
While its not as good as LSATSB, it comes close. I love crime films and Guy Ritchie is England's Quentin Tarantino. His use of British gangsters and guns will be loved by those who saw the funny humor in Pulp Fiction. The film gets going fast with the heist of a huge diamond that passes through several hands during a series of complicated schemes involving bare-knuckle boxing, Irish gypsies, pawnshop owners, an overweight getaway driver,  a nasty criminal kingpin who disposes of unwanted bodies by feeding them to his pet pigs, and a dog who likes to swallow things. If you liked Tarantino's first two films and LSATSB, Snatch is a must see. 9/10


                
