Overrated, over-hyped; doesn't deserve the high ratings from the people who watch it or critics.Backgrounds in this cartoon are beautiful. The positives about this show right about end there.The character designs are sloppy, the show is all about unfunny random and fart humor. The "deep character development" people are all excited about is just plain dumb - the creators try to put some deep, emotional, creepy back story in a cartoon which is ... not that.I simply can't understand the popularity this show has gained. It is completely undeserved. What happened to the good days of Cartoon Network?Simply put: OVERRATED. 1/10


                
I heard many, many good things about "Adventure Time", reviews and forum posts called it the best thing Cartoon Network did since the "Cartoon Cartoon" originals, it is probably the most popular show on CN at the moment, perhaps among the most popular cartoons in general, and plus, the IMDb score was, and still is, incredibly high.I first watched the "Bussiness Time" episode, and the show looked promising. But after watching more episodes, it just got worse and worse. It's a kids show trying to be "adult-ish" (using words such as sexy, pervy, "what the mef"), but it fails at it. The random "humor" is completely unfunny, and I just can't see why the show became so popular with such a huge, and I mean huge, cult-following. It's bad, overrated, horrible even. The animation is actually nice, but too bright, plus the character designs are way to simple. But the somehow nice animation, and solid voice-acting, are probably the only good things I got out of this show. 0,8 out of 10.


                
It doesn't seem like it. It's gross, disturbing, and sets a bad example on society. It will influence young children to become immoral. The characters are ugly and some of them have ridiculous names. This cartoon is so wacky, it's not even funny! It will give anyone nightmares. I disapprove of any cartoon with crude humor. It's too rude for kids and too ridiculous for adults. I can't bear to look at the television screen when this show is on. It used to be on TV before Tamagotchi, which happens to be the BEST show ever... Anyone who watches adventure time should be ashamed. It's not beautiful or deep or inspiring, it's just downright annoying.


                
Well, where to start? Besides the awful stories and character designs that resemble human genitalia, there is really no much to this show. The stories are plain and pointless and makes Family Guy look like The Lord of the Rings because of this. The other thing that bugs me is the language that this show has. What ever happened to well mannered characters? There is always some reference to cuss words and are not funny to boot. Besides what I just said, there are characters that resemble human genitalia and I know that all of that is intended but still, Cartoon Network lets it slide. Sad, Cartoon Network used to be an almost respectful brand but now, with crap like Adventure Time and Regular Show, those days are LONG gone...


                
I think Adventure Time is dumb and stupid. I gave it 1 chance and it sucked. It is so stupid that I wouldn't watch it if that was all there was. It has dumb graphics, dumb writers, and etc. I have no offence against the voice actors cause I don't know them or nothing about them. I know that Kyla, Anais from Gumball, is a voice actor if I am right. You can never change my mind about the way I feel about Adventure Time. If you like this show I honestly don't know how. Gumball rocks, Adventure Time sucks! Who agrees with me? I honestly don't know how you can like this show because I have never enjoyed it. They make WAY to many DVD's for a stinky show that has no meaning. What the heck is the meaning? Please don't take offence to me about what I said, thank you.


                
I'm so sick to hell of hearing about this show all the time. I've been told on numerous occasions by friends that 'Adventure Time' is "so deep and beautiful and daring!" uh yeah, no. I watched as many episodes as I could find, trying to seek out this supposed depth, imagination and value, but all I found was a television show that offers the perfect excuse for kidults to never have to grow up. Smug hipsters, basement-dwelling adults with Peter Pan Syndrome, and of course my fellow college students who've blown their student loans on merchandise from 'Adventure Time', seem to flock to its randomness, bright colours and trippy characters like moths to a flame. It was vaguely cute, and I probably would have fallen in love with 'Adventure Time' if I was still twelve years old, but I must be the biggest idiot alive because I just view this show as useless, immature and a big waste of time, with ridiculous characters, a plot that my little brother could write up in an afternoon of boredom, an annoying soundtrack and lazy humour. I have no problem if other people enjoy it, more power to ya, I say. But I really wish I'd stop seeing it and hearing about it EVERYWHERE, from shopping malls to YouTube recommendations to comic book shops. I'm completely lost here, what pray-tell is so special about this dumb cartoon other than it's shiny and happy and dopey?
When the previews for this show came out (back in 2008 or 2009, I believe) I was pretty excited. Cartoon Network had recently started to air a lot of shows that weren't good (and they'd started the CN Real block). Adventure Time looked like it was going to be great. But I did't like it. In fact, it really annoyed me. I'll admit, I only saw 13 episodes of the 1st season, which is exactly half of the episodes of that season (not the *first* thirteen, by the way, just thirteen from the season). Maybe that's not enough to judge the show fairly. I hear that there are actually story arcs in the more recent seasons. Still, 13 is better than 1 or 2 (or 3 or 4 or 5 or 6 or 7 or 8 or 9 or 10 or 11 or 12) and I'd rather not torture myself with more or this unfunny show just to judge it fairly (sorry if that sounds evil). I'm saying all this so you know the context of this brief review.My main problem with Adventure Time was that it seemed that the writers expected viewers to laugh at things just for being...weird. The thing is weird <U+2260> funny. Something weird *can* be funny, but not necessarily. Another thing that is bad about this is that when there are so many weird things happening in each episode, we start to expect everything to be weird and suddenly nothing is weird. Yet another problem is that stories suffer. I think comedies need compelling stories to be funny. They don't necessarily need to be complex. A usual episode of SpongeBob from Seasons 1-3 had a simple plot. Take the episode "Life of Crime," for instance. It's about SpongeBob and Patrick stealing a balloon on "Free Balloon Day" and having to run away because they think they'll be thrown in jail for it. Anyway, Adventure Time can safely be classified as fantasy as well as comedy, like many children's cartoons. I think Robert McKee explains in Story (just paraphrasing here) that a fantasy needs even more stringent rules than a non-fantasy or it will fall apart. Adventure Time didn't seem to have any rules. If a cartoon takes place in a world where anything can happen, if there's no logic or order, decent stories can't be fashioned for it.Let me give you a few examples of the weird humor in Adventure Time that I just didn't get:1. Finn gets turned into a foot because a magician felt like turning him into one. (The episode seemed to be setting things up for a moral, which would have fit the story, but there isn't one. Cartoons don't need morals but if you're setting up a moral, I think you should go with it or you should subvert it in some clever way.) 2. Marceline drinks the color red instead of blood. (It's funny because...vampires drink blood and not the color red?) 3. There's a guy, who's a giant peanut, who has an addiction to pudding. (There's one scene that really struck me with how badly it was thought out. The guy asks for pudding and Finn gives him a plastic pudding cup. Finn then gets a spoon from his backpack to give to the peanut guy but when he turns around, he sees that the guy has swallowed the cup itself. And then there's a short pause for the audience to laugh. Were the writers serious? This is a world where anything can happen and the main character is already talking to a giant peanut and the thing that's supposed to make the audience laugh is the fact that the peanut guy ATE THE PUDDING CUP INSTEAD OF EATING THE PUDDING INSIDE WITH A SPOON. I guess since the writers thought that random = funny and in a world where everything is random nothing is random, then they'd have to write a non-random joke since the only random thing is something that isn't random. Fries your cerebral cortex doesn't it?)I will admit, there was occasionally a funny line or scene (such as Finn reacting to a drop of water hitting his face or when Jake says, "I imagined my mom naked!" or when Finn sings The Hero Boy Named Finn) but the bad things about the show just overwhelm the good things about it, in my opinion.Darn, cartoons were better back in the 90s and early 00s. Let me explain what I mean when I say that because a lot of people get really, really defensive when you tell them that. There were good cartoons back then and good cartoons now and there are bad cartoons back then and bad cartoons now. What I mean is that the amount of good cartoons relative to the amount of bad cartoons was bigger back then than it is now.Not long after Adventure Time began, Cartoon Network started airing another show called Regular Show. If you want to see a cartoon that does erratic humor right, watch that. Regular Show made me laugh more than any other post-2008 Cartoon Network cartoon (or any cartoon on any channel, for that matter).


                
I would really love to write several reviews on how cartoons are really bad these days but it would take too long.About 10 years ago CN started to decline. The decline was not fast but it was starting. I have not watched CN in months. Even Adult Swim has gone downhill, especially since they dropped InuYasha.The horrible cartoons that plague this once decent network is disheartening. I can name many on CN that are pure bile, Regular Show, Uncle Grandpa and especially this one which is the absolute worst. But what makes this one so bad? Trust me I will get to that.I really enjoy cartoons and I try to keep an open mind when watching a new cartoon series. So what makes Adventure Time so bad? Well the major reason is that this show is teen and adult themed but shamelessly aimed at young children.Do not get me wrong, I have no problem with adult themed cartoons. But when it is aimed towards young children I take offense.I tried watching this several times, SEVERAL TIMES, and just could not get into this show for myself. A rainbow unicorn that speaks Japanese. A dog named Jake who happens to reproduce with her, YUCK! And of course we can't forget about Finn who happens to be as self centered as his friend Jake.I would like to comment on two episodes that I distinctly remember. Hug Wolf which was actually not too bad amazingly enough. The other one, which really angered me is the episode where Jake and Finn come across a snail who is lonely because he has no female companion. Jake and Finn do everything they can to try and help him find a suitable mate, to no avail. Everything goes wrong and he ends up alone until he admits to lying about being a snail and says he is a slug. So of course there is a female slug doing the same exact thing and instantly they are attracted to each other. But here comes the best part (sarcasm on) you see them kissing at the end of the episode and then, a white substance spews out of their bodies and covers both Jake and Finn. Not suitable for a cartoon aimed at young children. And don't get me started with the TV rating system because nobody follows it anyway. Unless you have a parental block or enough sense to tell your child to not watch it, they will eventually be exposed to this filth.If you have young children and you let them watch this it is tantamount to child abuse. This cartoon is meant for teens and adults but aimed at young children. And why is it aimed towards them? For profit from merchandise and to dumb them down. If you value your young children and their mental progress please try to have them steer clear of this demeaning cartoon. Like I said before, this cartoon is for teens and adults who are old enough to make their own decision about it, but harmful for young impressionable minds.
Good at the start was very dramatic and binge worthy became water down and off key in the last couple seasons
