I first saw Adventure Time on youtube some years ago. Now it's TV show. I loved it when it was a one-shot video. And I love each episode I've seen on Cartoon Network even more.Yes, the characters are silly. Yes, there is a fair amount of "OMG, that's so random!" going on. But while shows like Chowder may fail at times using this model, Adventure Time succeeds.It does so thanks to wonderful voice acting, clever dialog and most of all, unusually mature themes. Not in a risqué sense, but...it doesn't rely on cookie cutter stories and it's comfortable leaving some endings ambiguous. It's also comfortable making characters believable (despite its fantasy setting).This show is deserves attention.


                
"It's Adventure Time! C'mon grab your friends. We'll go to very distant lands. With Jake the Dog and Finn the Human the fun will never end. It's Adventure Time!" Adventure Time was an animated short made by Pen Ward and his team a few years back. The short was full of comedy, off the wall jokes, chocked full of hilarious one-liners and even an entertaining fight scene. And now, years later it is a full blown television series. The only thing people were concerned about was that the adaption could never live up to the original.Well I'm here to say it has. In. Every. Aspect.The only thing different is the characters and world have been expanded upon, and Penn's name is now Finn.Adventure Time with Finn and Jake is Cartoon Network's newest cartoon. Similarly to the pilot, it is full to the brim with humor (some which is directly aimed at the adult audience, THANK GOD) There are still many one liners (most of which have been stolen from the pilot but I'm hoping that as the series goes on this will diminish. The music isn't very memorable, but it isn't supposed to be. It's a show about Finn, Jake and all of their friends and the stupid situations they find themselves in.Cartoon Network has finally found a gem, and I hope for their sake that they keep this show running and start funding more shows like this instead of obviously cheap-made flash cartoons (Johnny Test anyone?) It is a show like this that was needed to get CN back on top, and I hope it'll stay that way What time is it? ADVENTURE TIME!


                
Adventure Time is the story of an almost normal 12-13 year old human boy named Finn, and his magical dog Jake(voiced by John Di Maggio). They live in the enchanted land of Ooo and have many strange adventures exploring dungeons, saving princesses(most commonly Princess Bubblegum of the Candy Kingdom)and meeting many strange inhabitants of the world, some friendlier than others.The plot sounds simple enough, but Adventure Time is one of the most surreal kid's shows to come out of Cartoon Network for a long time. And I love every minute of it.While I find the earlier episodes of the show ranged from good to OK, the later episodes got really great with the animation and jokes improving as the series went on. The characters are all very likable with unique personalities and quite a few have very memorable and hilarious one-liners. Every time I sit down and watch this show, I am greatly entertained.That doesn't mean it's for everyone though. While some, like me, may like the surreal appeal others may not. I don't recommend this show to the younger audience(younger then 8) as this show may unintentionally give them nightmares at times. Parents more used to family friendly cartoons may also not like the jokes geared towards the older crowd(and trust me there's a lot of them).Either way, this show has great writing, animation, voice acting everything to me is near perfection. I recommend it to anyone who enjoys a different kind of kid show.


                
Adventure time is a strange animal. It's on cartoon network. Not adult swim; but on during the regular hours. The shows target audience is children. But nonetheless, this show is the best cartoon I've ever seen. I saw the pilot a couple years back and finally saw the show and i was blown away. Adventure Time does not teach lessons per se. It starts off supposedly trying to teach you something, but instead saysscrew it and veers off into AWESOME. Its random, hilarious, and perfect. The characters are messed up in the best way possible. If any lesson can be taken from this show it's that nobody is perfect; everyone has their flaws. Everyone messes up, a lot. Everyone makes mistakes. Even though Finn is the only human in the show, everyone in the show makes human mistakes. It doesn't matter who or what you are, you're still going to mess up. But no matter what flaws you may have or how much you screw up, at the end of the day your friends will be there for you; especially when you're there for your friends. If your friend is in trouble, destroy the problem with sword, song, reason, or love. I'd recommend this show for humans 1-200.


                
A few months ago, a friend of mine showed me a grainy YouTube video of the "Adventure Time" short that was shown on Nickelodeon. I immediately fell in love with the short and we began reading up all about since we just learned it was being adopted by Cartoon Network. What we found out and watched blew us away. The amount of thought and imagination put into this show is astounding. I have never remained entertained for an entire episode of a show before, let alone an entire season! The wild and wacky aspects are quite entertaining but also do not remove anything from the ongoing plot and story. We see how characters develop and even see how moral choices produce themselves to challenge the duo, Finn and Jake, along the way. Though they stumble, this imaginative and amazing (not to mention post-apocalyptic) world always seems to lead back to the path of righteousness which is exactly where this show is.In short, this show is an anomaly among mediocrity. This is a seemingly limitless world of entertainment that does not merely dance around idiotic humor. This is a show that isn't afraid to have fun and toy around with the absurd to make its point. I applaud Pendleton Ward and his crew for flawlessly producing what I could easily call the most inventive and fun show I've ever watched.


                
I very rarely find anything on TV or in film that makes me laugh as frequently and unexpectedly as this show. Adventure Time is a well needed breath of life into cartoons. What impresses me most is that the humour is very mature but unlike other shows of that nature, for example Ren & Stimpy, it's still completely for the children. That's where the magic lies. When watching you become a kid again, immersing you in the imagination all of us shared as a youngster. The simple, but I think fantastic, hand drawn animation cements the feeling that this is no ordinary cartoon. It oozes with great characters and settings. Everything about Adventure Time shows all the love and care invested it by Pen Ward. I'd recommend this show to any cartoon lover and anyone who's still a kid at heart.


                
I got caught up in this while my daughters were watching it in the other room.I don't generally watch television, much less cartoons.I was shocked to find that this children's cartoon is the closest thing to the reality of this existence I have yet seen.A quantum existence constructed of conscious belief, where everything is nothing more than a test.This is one cartoon I do not mind letting my children watch. I actually have considered using it to teach adults scientific concepts they have a very hard time grasping. The physical reality of this existence is much stranger than anything fiction can come up with. Gamma wave energy frequencies forming particles half the time, and us creating a reality based upon what we believe, then being constantly tested to learn the lessons we need to.


                
First of all I really don't like cartoon network... or at least when they keep on showing stupid kid shows. This is what makes Adventure Time so special is that it is pretending to be a kid's show in appearance but in reality it is quite mature and isn't really for kids. All of the episodes I have seen are funny except for one. The characters are all likable and there seems to be a dark side to every character. Finn is the main character and is the ONLY human in the entire show. There are hints that this is the far future, and humanity was destroyed (you see destroyed cities under water, or a river of garbage). Finn is tries his best at being a good hero, but sometimes they he seems to hurt some innocent people. Jake is his side kick dog who is really great because his voice is perfect, and he is just laid back and relaxed. Princess Bubblegum is the good princess who Finn likes, and she is super smart and is ruler of the candy kingdom. She seems to have a dark side that appears every once in a while. The Ice King is a common protagonist. It bothers me that everyone hates him, and kind of attacks him for no reason. It is often seen that he steals princesses because he only wants to be happy, and basically the reason he does anything is because he is so lonely.Some people may not like this show for its very smooth animation style. The animation is a bit cheap but it is sort of based off of video games and some Japanese animation. It is important to realize this show is trying to be weird. Some people do not appreciate its random and off the wall humor. Like where Finn is offered to run with wolves, so him and his vampire friend start running on all fours chasing wolves at night, and they start to look really scary and foam at the mouth. Finn starts biting the wolves and fighting them, and a whole bunch of random stuff. This entire scene is only about 30 seconds long and seems out of the blue. What makes this show great is also how something insanely funny will happen but it goes by so fast you won't notice it. Like when a friendly Peppermint candy does Jake and Finn a favor, and later he says "Well now I want your skin!" and Jake and Finn laugh at his joke and then he says "I will rip it off of you while you're asleep" and he gives a demonic smile. Their smiles fade quickly. Every episode has a funny ending which always makes you leave even a boring episode on a high note.I cannot wait to see more of this show since I have seen every episode and it is a great show. Do not judge this show from only one or two episodes. Watch a lot of them and you will realize how great it is.


                
What a ride it was. The first seasons seemingly light entertainment with a slice of life part here and there, building up to some quiet serious mini series in the series in the later Seasons, that were really well put together and thought out. Al culminating to a big finale. Was it worth waiting 8 Years for it? I don't know, somehow yes, but I don't thin kthat that was the goal anyway. The Goal was the way all along and I can't wait to jump on this ride again, to say goodbye to the end and greet the beginning!
You might get a wrong idea about AT:1 - It can seem very childish because of it's vibrant colors, silly moments here and there (that is one of many characteristics of the show)
BUT
The show is not typical in any way including childishness and silliness - those qualities enrich the show.2 - AT might seem dull and random because of how weird it can get.
BUT
The weird part is all in favor of originality (which is limitless on this show).
Large portion of crazy elements of Adventure Time are purposeful smart ideas and in most cases these ideas come from pure artistic statements and not just random thoughts anyone can have.To sum up what I wrote so far - Adventure Time is not what it seems. That goes to show on the characters:
For instance: Ice King is not a two dimensional crazy villain he seems at first - He's a former scientist with a tragic past and you really empathize with him.
Marceline is not just a cool vampire - she has the most tragic backstory. Princess Bubblegum is not just pretty and cute princess with cold exterior - she is one of the most complex characters on the show and you find out more and more about her... I could go on but the characters are/get extremely developed as the show goes on (Finn is the best example of that considering how much he's grown and matured).3 - AT is not for a limited age group
IN FACT
as an adult, I enjoy the show more than any child can ever enjoy - that's thanks to the smart writing. The writers on this show manage to fit a great story (90%/95% of the times) in 11 minute episodes and it's for all ages - it's adventurous, deep, smart and funny.4 - Don't expect AT to be a typical Cartoon Network show.
Furthermore, if you're an adult please don't watch Adventure Time on CN as
lots of moments are censored (cut/altered) on the network and you may enjoy the show better without those changes in place.5 - There might be a bad episode
Yea, no show is 100% perfect and because of the difficult task the writers have on this show.
(I need to explain why: let's compare this show to Regular Show, Family Guy or Rick and Morty - the writing structure is less evident on Adventure Time as it doesn't quite have a typical structure like Family Guy has for instance - being comedy-based characters being cynical most of the time, or having random cuts for loughs, AT doesn't have a structure like Rick and Morty that has the smartest character in control every episode and being predictable and it doesn't have a typical tone every single time like FG and R&M by going for comedy over drama most the time... I write all this not because I hate on any of these shows but it's a simple fact - Adventure Time (while not perfect either) has way less cliche writing and way more depth than most cartoons out there).
Because Adventure Time makes sense, has depth and a developing story instead of on-timer episodes, it's difficult to make every single episode great. So be sure to give Adventure Time a chance to grow on you and most importantly - don't judge the show on few episodes.
P.S: Adventure Time starts as being a little silly but it matures - slowly getting smarter and deeper so keep that in mind as well.I can't get into someones head and clearly, we're all subjective here no matter how hard we try but by telling people what to expect and giving them the idea why they might enjoy a certain film/animation and making them aware of what to expect is what's important rather than saying this show is awesome or that it sucks.
As for me: I am happy I get to live in the age when there's Adventure Time to watch - that is how much this show means to me. And as a summery:This show is not an entertainment, Adventure Time is art and I mean it both as a regular fan and also as someone having degree in Animation and History of Modern Art. Adventure Time is all a person like me needs in a world full of nonsensical shows and movies that aim at entertainment and money.
So please keep an open mind and give this show a chance, you might end up thinking this show is pure genius and not some over-hyped thing some simple minded people tell you it is.
This is without a doubt the best animated series that has been created for a long time. The animation, the dark plot that it has, the characters, and many other things.
It is a very intelligent series and above all a series with which you can enjoy a lot, I recommend it a lot10 out of 10


                
I remember watching the show in 2010 and being embraced by our goofy protagonists Finn and Jake, the story lines, and the colorful candy settings.I was immediately an instant fan. What I love about the show (to this day) is how it does whatever it wants. The show in its later seasons is more mature, but still has that comedic effect. Throughout the show, we see the characters around us grow and that makes me proud. It's hard to believe such an influential show ended recently in 2018. This show will go down in both CN and Cartoon history.


                
I am consistently surprised at how well written this show is; it takes a lot for me to become dedicated to a TV show, to the point where I watch every episode. Though this show is just as bizarre as Pee Wee's Playhouse or anything from Sid and Marty Krofft, its strength lies in its consistency and continuity, its identifiable humanity, its striking contrasts, and its irreverent, multi-level humor.I wouldn't call this a children's show, since a lot of the one-liners are obviously aimed at adults. There are certain scenes that I have rewound to watch several times because they are so fresh and new, bringing to mind the observational humor of Gary Larson; for example, in one episode, a small bird lands on a window sill. When you expect it to chirp, instead it makes a sound like an alarm clock. This particular episode (about a snow goblin?) it so well written and animated that it should be in the museum of modern art. We see the goblin getting up in the morning, adjusting his eye, putting on a circle of sticks, and eating a bowl filled with a pear and acorns. It sounds strange, but the way the action plays out is such an odd but charming parallel to everyone's morning routine that you can't help smiling.For anyone who wants to see a completely and fully formed world, filled with characters who develop from one episode to the next just like a non-animated program, and writing better than any reality show, check out Adventure Time. It's not just for kids!
adventure time is rated TVPG and is not for kids because it has mild swearing like crotch crap freaking and son of a it has lots of sexual innuendo a mermaid pops out of a river and asks Finn and Jake which one of them wants to mate with her ice king tells a robot that he can do something that hes failed in and says you can mate with robot princesses Finn says theirs a lava monster in his front yard and he is so hot and Jake says m hmm and finn says no wait i didn't mean like sexy hot and Jake says no you do mean sexy hot Jake shapes himself to look like a snail and tells Finn whos pretending to be a snail that hes just sitting there thinking about mating with snails and Finn gets disgusted and says no and the snail says that he will mate with him and Jake says where just role playing buddy Finn goes into a forest filled with naked people a old guy says oh no and another guy walks by and says my most private parts peeped by a boy a lady calls Finn a pervert and he keeps running through the forest and you can hear more people saying my privates Jake looks in princess bubblegum's room and Finn tells him thats pervy in the Fiona and cake episode prince gumball asks Fiona to come up to his room with him and he starts to unbutton his shirt it turns out it was just the ice queen in disguise but still ice king tells a hit- man he hired that someone got hit in the boing loins Jake tells Finn about the different tiers and Finn says what about tier 15 and Jake says stay away from that do not do tier 15 a guy for a royal competition says its time for the royal spooning and slime princess wants Finn to spoon her tree trunks says looks like were all alone and Mr pig says wait don't you think there might be cameras in here and says well princess bubblegum is watching i hope so a guy turns into a monster and says im i a walking love magnet and peppermint butler says well you paid the price no doubt and i want to have your babies and he says great to the princess then and peppermint butler says no wait what about me and at the end of the episode peppermint butler asks where the guy went and princess bubblegum tells him i gave him away peps i knew he couldn't be happy without me so i built him a robot wife and peppermint butler says you should have given him to me and smacks princess bubblegum across the face and its very vilonte Finn and Jake run through a bunch of maces and weapons on a board walk and almost get mutilated Finn is seen holding a monsters head magic man turns a bird inside out a giant monster beats Finn up and says beg for mercy or i will kill you Finn chops off a guys head off screen and his head falls on the ground but hes still alive Finn beats up some berries and their juice sprays all over him which represents blood the liches skin burns off and he is seen skinned alive and in one of the new episodes Finn accidentally murders a character made of grass and comes home horrified covered in grass and theirs some dark humor Jake jokes about seeing dead bodies and guts on the ground and Finn and Jake try to cheer these people who are trying to mourn there loss up and it makes the guy whos dead angry and theirs some suicide references like Finn lets go of some balloons and they say yay to the mesosphere finally we can die Jake has a dream where he dies and then he wants to die and a guy named princess cookies tries to kill himself but fails and ends up in a mental institution with that being said Adventure time is not for kids and is a very good show for teens and adults
Adventure time is Awesome. It has fighting, comedy, And just a good sense in general. In The beginning it started as a show with a moral,a moral to always have honor, be brave , and help others. The show changed in the 3rd season and started expanding a lot. Even today you can still see the roots of the show, but they have made it more of a story now.You get attached to the characters. It is one of those shows you want to buy all of the dvds and comics. In all this is a great show, you should watch it.
Adventure Time is colourful, fun, wacky as sh##, hilarious and full of sexual subtexts. This is easily one of Cartoon Network's best works to come in recent years; and just like Steven Universe it has lots in store not just for kids but adults as well. The characters and story-lines are so far and wide yet perfect for such an outlandish world like Adventure Time's.As a fan of animation, Adventure Time obviously lacks some things other shows may have (such as animated nostrils on human[-like] characters), but I can forgive it for creating such memorable stories and characters that stick with you after you've watched just a single episode of the show, and that's what good television is supposed to do for the viewer: leave you wanting more and being absolutely-satisfied.


                
I cannot describe in words how incredible this TV show is. In my 17 years of existence have I never been this emotionally wrapped and attached to such as beautiful TV show as Adventure Time.The show is about a 14 year old boy named Finn Mertens who lives in a treehouse in the middle of nowhere with his talking dog, Jake, who can stretch his body into anything he likes. The two are best friends and go on adventures throughout the Land of Ooo. The Ice King, is their main nemesis and he notorious for kidnapping princesses like Finn and Jake's friend, Princess Bubblegum, the monarch of the Candy Kingdom. The show is full of so many one-liners, inside jokes, and just plain old slapstick humour which one of the main reasons to why the show has had so much success over the past 5 years. Finn and Jake almost have their own "lingo" of different puns and jokes to express how their feeling whether they're in the dumps or just plain psyched for the upcoming adventure. It saddens me to see now in 2015, that Finn is all grown up like me and never uses those same catchphrases like "Mathematical" and "Shmowzow" and he never sings in computer voice anymore. That is one of things that I would like to see be improved for the better future of the show. The background and animations of the show are beautiful and very eloquently done, shoutout to the animators at Frederator Studios who have done such a wonderful job with producing this show and to Pen Ward, the creator, for coming up with such an incredible world of imagination. I have heard a lot of reviews from people and most people say that the show "is for people that are on acid trip" (I do not do any sort of drugs myself). For me it is more than just a show, this is a definition of my childhood. I am seventeen and ever since I was in the fifth grade, I watched the pilot on YouTube and from then on I have been totally enveloped in this amazing show and I hope to see this show succeed even more in the future.


                
When i watch Adventure Time, I feel very warm inside like on Christmas morning. Its like totes the best show on the television. Adventure Time is very inspiring and very very awesome. I think that Adventure Time will inspire the newer generation to have fun and go on adventures and save princesses. Adventure Time should be voted president. I do understand that some people will not enjoy Adventure Time and be as passionate about it as I am, but that is mostly because those people have bad taste. I especially enjoy the bright colors and simple illustration in Adventure Time, and I guess that that is something that can turn people off of the show because they want their cartoons to look like complicated video games or Avatar or something. I also enjoy the humor in Adventure Time and its very clever and witty. Sometimes it can be inappropriate but whatevs. I love Adventure Time so much that i am strongly considering marrying it if at all possible.


                
Season 7 has cemented Adventure Time in cartoon history Adventure Time has created this millennium's first eternal cartoon characters. To join the ranks of Bugs Bunny, Mickey Mouse, Ren & Stimpy, The Simpsons etc. are Jake the Magic Dog, Finn the Human, Princess Bubblegum and Marceline the Vampire Queen. Adventure Time warrants it's own theme park (should be called the Land of OOO). There was some doubt about it's longevity in seasons 5 and 6 with some odd and severe episodes/characters, losing it's steam, sense of adventure, and comedy, but Season 7 has redeemed all, giving us more of what we wanted: the main four characters.Some of the things that make AD so fresh is that it avoids formula, takes chances with storytelling, and seems to host a variety of artists and styles making for beautiful artwork. It's a smörgåsbord of fun and discovery!


                
Adventure Time is probably one of, if not, the best cartoon out there right now. One of the great things about it is that it appeals to both the younger and older generations. And while it is different than most in its storytelling, it is also unique in that regard. The whole premise of the show is fun (and often quirky) without going overboard. The characters are real and heartwarming. The animation is cute and very appealing. Some of the best that I've seen.I strongly recommend it to anyone, and even if your not particularly into these kinds of things, give it a try. I'll admit that when I first heard and watched this show, I thought it was very weird. But then I got into it more and it eventually grew on me. Now I've seen it many times with most episodes more than once (and there are a lot).


                
There are three kinds of people in the world: People who love 'Adventure Time', people who haven't given it much though or aren't huge fans of it, and people that complain about the "good 'ol days" of Cartoon Network.I've only gotten into the show quite recently, but I remember way back in 2010 seeing the advertisements of young Finn fighting the villainous Ice King and thinking "Huh, this looks different", and not thinking about it a second more. As I got older, my tastes in television lied upon the characters, how well-written they were and complex and all that. When a friend told me that the characters of 'Adventure Time' were just what I was looking for, I was skeptical at first, but also curious. An evening of learning about this "Mushroom War" and watching clips of a vampire girl singing about her true feelings towards an old friend, a rainbow unicorn telling her canine partner that she's pregnant, and a video game device pretending that its human, and I was convinced to give the show a fair shake. I honestly don't think this show is given enough credit. In just eleven minutes 'Adventure Time' utilizes what its given to craft (most of the time) very fleshed out and clever narratives; I hear all the time how people say there's a lot of "pointless episodes" and only a couple "meaningful" ones, but I'm inclined to disagree. 'Adventure Time' doesn't need to sole narrative to be good; it's more of just a series of sub-plots revolving around different characters, more in recent seasons than early ones (which I'm inclined to say are pretty weak until season 3). And not only that, but there's almost not a single episode in this series that isn't referenced later on; it just keeps building and building a more fleshed-out world, and that's what the recent season 6 has been trying to do. The Land of Ooo doesn't revolve around Finn and Jake, and that's what I love about this show the most I think. Everybody is messed up, from the insanity-driven Magic Man to Princess Bubblegum and her incredibly grey morals and actions. And the characters change throughout the series too; Finn has gone from a screaming, spastic 12-year-old to a surprisingly reserved but still passionate 16-year-old over the course of the series, and Marceline has gone from an anti-hero with a heart of steel to a girl that's a lot more comfortable about sharing her feelings, at least with her newly-acquired mortal friends. On top of that, the dialogue is also something special. A lot of the time, the show manages to have these characters act and converse with one another in such a way that it sounds like the voice actors are actually having a real conversation with each other, and that really goes a long way for me at least. As far as the animation goes, I actually loved the simplistic character designs from the start, as I found them to be quite charming; plus it fits the show's overall "growing up" feel, like 'Calvin and Hobbes.' But as simple as they are, this show has a huge cast of character, almost as large as the Simpsons' probably, and each and every one of them looks different from another. That, and the background of this show are beautifully detailed if you ever find yourself looking at them. This really is one of those shows that only comes around once in a lifetime. It's simple enough on the surface for a preteen audience, but also a little complex and even thought-provoking a lot of the time for the adults, with some subtle writing and character moments that all pile up into one mathematical show. Give the entire series a watch; you don't know what you've been missing, or at least not seeing when writing it off as a simple mindless show.
Adventure Time is very awesome and stupid at the same time. When I say stupid, I mean ENJOYABLY stupid, just like Uncle Grandpa (Even thought I'm a HUGE fan of Uncle Grandpa, I have to say, it's as good as Adventure Time). Adventure Time is probably the highest rated Cartoon Network show (Pretty soon, it's gonna reach a 9/10). The lowest rated episode is only a 5.6/10, like The Cleveland Show got (It's also stupid, but enjoyably stupid). So flip all you haters, you should all be happy this show got an 8.8/10. I can't wait until it raises up to Rick and Morty's rating (It got a NINE POINT THREE out of 10, how is THAT possible?! I had NO idea that much people liked that show).


                
On the surface, "Adventure Time with Finn and Jake" seems like a oddly animated show, full of weirdness. It took me a year or so to really give it a chance.Once I did, I was amazed. The characters are silly and the jokes are quirky (Two things I normally do not care for. At all.), but the show has an intermittent complexity that will astound you. Not just the adventures of the titular characters, Jake and Finn, but much of the history of Ooo (The land where they live). Involved majorly in the show are the Ice King, played with hilarious gusto by Spongebob himself Tom Kenny, and Marceline the Vampire Queen, played by the musically talented Olivia Olsen. I won't give away too much, but the more you learn about those two, the harder this show will pull on your heart-guts. For a show that relishes in being immature, the maturity it often displays is poignant and effective.The incredibly talented Rebecca Sugar was the show's storyboard artist for the last few years, and composed almost twenty songs for the soundtrack. They are cutesy songs, but some manage to be catchy and surprisingly powerful.Don't just watch one episode and judge the show. Many, many episodes are quite different from one another, and the appeal is much wider than you might expect.A good episode to watch for an example the incredible writing of "Adventure Time" is the season three episode "Thank You". Or, the season two episode "It Came From the Nightosphere", which was an Emmy nominated episode.If music is your thing, and your a fan of Neil Patrick Harris or Donald "Childish Gambino" Glover, watch the alternate reality episodes "Fionna and Cake" (season three) and "Bad Little Boy" (season 5).Don't miss out on Adventure Time. The dialogue, the music, and the awesome world are truly unforgettable. It's been called the greatest science fiction show on television right now (IndieWire). I'm inclined to agree.


                
Adventure time is a brilliant television show for all ages, but especially for young kids because the show handles how the world should be thinking and how the characters view the world and deal with their problems. "To live life, you need problems. If you get everything you want the minute you want it, what's the point of living?" This is a must watch if you are an intellectual and a thinker. The artwork used in it is very likable and creative to say the least. The main characters are all very deep people, something you wouldn't expect from a children's show, but this show is great and knows how to teach people a little something about the world. It is my favorite show and I hope all you who read this can watch it.


                
It is abstract and charming, a show filled with innocence and childish ambivalence in a slightly more sinister setting. It is unusual to find entertainment so absolutely fun that lends such detailed consideration to character psychology.Reigning as one of my favorite shows and instant recommendation to anyone who will listen, I hope Adventure Time will be renewed and in production for years to come.At the time of this review season 6 was coming to a close, and Adventure Time has long strayed from the joviality that brought it such widespread success. The sixth season contains some of the worst and best that Adventure Time has to offer. Dark and dismal, even the episodes seemingly written to lighten the mood or simply act as c- list character world-building fodder are overcast by trauma. Like a coming of age story gone awry, it is as if we are watching the slow destruction of characters as they sink in to depression while the world around them flickers in a bipolar fluorescence. Those viewers to fall for the spirit of the first seasons are unlikely to last as the heartbreak becomes ever heavier.


                
