There are some who say punchlines are better if you can't see them coming. One way to achieve this is to employ tangential humor, but you sometimes risk completely losing your audience. Pendleton Ward has proved that he has a formula for tangential humor, and so far the equations are working out.Adventure Time's pilot aired in 2008, and since has collected a cult following on the internet. A boy and a shape-shifting dog save a bubblegum princess from an ice king...such a setting is delightfully fanciful, even for fantasy! For those who loved the original, there may be some differences that make you uncomfortable. For example, several of the voice actors are different, and the character designs are slightly altered. However, as long as you came for Pendleton Ward's brand of humor, you'll be more than satisfied.Not everyone is going to like Adventure Time, however. There are many who simply have not been exposed to such an exotic type of humor, and so this show may frighten rather than entertain.I'm sure, however, that the consensus is that Cartoon Network has improved it's show/success ratio by green-lighting Adventure Time with Finn and Jake.


                
At first I didn't get Adventure Time. I was confused, and everywhere I went when I saw the hype, I even got a little aggravated. "Why is everybody worshipping a silly kid's cartoon?!" I wanted to scream. I watched the first few episodes and didn't quite get into it, but then something amazing happened.I started to enjoy it. Adventure time seems, at first glance, to be a silly child's show, but really it is entertaining to people of all ages. It features many hilarious jokes and good story lines, and it has good continuity. It has an enormous, fantastical world, created by an imaginative and talented mind. It has good voice actors, and is all round a fun show to watch. I am a teenager (or was last week) and I didn't care much for it when I started. But if you stick with it, I find it hard to believe you will not come to love it, and you will have the only complaint with it that I do. Why are the episodes so short, and why aren't there more of them!Stay classy, people. Steve


                
I love this show! It is so crazy, that it works. You'd think that a show on cartoon network, with crazy characters, magic around every corner, and a totally unrealistic storyline wouldn't appeal to audiences above 10, but that's wrong. This show appeals to my 40 year old dad. It is probably the weirdest show that I've ever seen, but it's so much fun and so entertaining, that you forget that it's impossible and unreal. There is never a boring moment in this show. The characters are funny and have funny catch phrases. The characters are all so different and most are magical. Some characters include Finn the human, who happens to be the last human on earth, Jake the dog, a magical talking dog who has stretching powers, Marceline, who is the vampire queen and sings and plays the bass, and Princess Bubblegum, who's an extremely smart princess made of bubblegum. I record this show and look forward to the new episodes every week. This show makes me laugh and just is really entertaining and fun, for all ages. Don't Judge it before you watch it. If you like fantasy and comedy, then this is the show for you. Screw Reality!


                
Adventure Time is responsible for putting a dying Cartoon Network back in a position where it hadn't been in in years. The channel had received massive criticism after it introduced a live action block that tattered it's namesake. It took a massive risk when it picked up a pilot by a man named Pendleton Ward that received viral acclaim after it aired on Nickelodeon.Airing in 2010, it received critical acclaim, gaining credit for its creativity and nice atmosphere.However, in four years, Adventure Time has evolved from a silly fantasy to a fantastical coming of age story of out protagonist, Finn.Adventure Time takes no risk building a massive and surprisingly dark backstory for its world.Basically, 1000 years before the show takes place, a nuclear war destroyed everything and created the ultimate evil with it. A man named Simon Petrikov had been an antiquarian before the war, and the only thing keeping him alive at this time was a magic crown that enabled him to command ice and snow when it was on. It came with a price, though. Through putting on the crown, he had started a long, but definite loss of his sanity - and his humanity. He had come across a girl named Marceline, and the two journeyed through the wasteland for a refuge.Finn is one of the only surviving humans. We aren't sure how he's alive, considering that most humans are extinct. (can't talk about some of them because it takes too much explanation) He's currently struggling through some daddy issues and a pubescent relationship struggle. The characters he meets and knows are equally as troubled and complex, and they all share decent story arcs which are interesting to decode and discover.It's odd that a show that started out so innocent and silly evolved into a nerd's fever dream, (and I mean that in a good way) but it's certainly a marvel.Check it out for yourself if you haven't already, but make sure you start from Season One.Hope you liked the review.
"Adventure Time" is yet another strange show delivered by Cartoon Network, in the same line of "Chowder" and "FlapJack". However, despite being pretty strange and surreal, I liked it, mostly because it parodies many archetypes of the fantasy stories.The best part of this show was the animation: It might look pretty simple, but it is actually pretty fluid and original, with stylish designs and expressive characters. And that is much better than many horrible shows made with Flash Animation in the recent years, at least for me."Adventure Time" is a weird, but in a good way. I liked it, and I hope that Cartoon Network keep making shows as this.
People may look at this show how I did at first and say, oh its just another children's cartoon, but it isn't. Adventure Time seems to be set a lot more than a 1000 years in the future, apparently there was a mushroom war which left a huge chunk cut out of the planet and nearly wiped humanity off the planet. In the show the cartoon is inhabited by strange creatures and 'Finn the human' seams to be the only human left in Ooo. It took me about 5 episodes to start liking it properly, but I've watched every episode and I loved them all. The fun heroic and humorous ways of the characters really does make me smile and for that this is definitely in my top 10 TV shows.
Since Cartoon Network decided to cancel a lot of really great cartoons, Adventure time really makes up for the loss. Every episode is a psychedelic and humorous. It catches me off-guard every time. The characters are adorable, creative and charming, no two are the same. The simplicity of the animation is overlooked due to the clever humor. Okay sometimes even the humor is simple but placed at just the right moment. I've never enjoyed a cartoon more than this. It's even better than Flapjack which at first glance seems to mimic, but no, it's totally different.I've loved cartoons since the 70's and I rarely rate them as 10 but this one to me is fresh and surprising every time. I think any age would love this cartoon.


                
Without a doubt, Cartoon Network has had good shows; Cartoon Network has had great shows. However, I feel that I couldn't call any of them (perhaps with the exception of Over the Garden Wall at times) a work of art. Yet Adventure Time, seems to be one of the most absurd, philosophical and intelligent shows on television. It's beautifully abstract with it's unique yet wonderful animation and new ideas. It's philosophical with its many rare morals and characters opinionated to their own ideas of a better world. This show has just captured pure genius in a bottle. Amazingly, the show isn't pretentious either. Instead of cramming their messages down your throat (which would be easier to do, considering how complex and difficult to present they can be) they let you experience the state of being around these characters, learning complex morals and philosophies. The only reason this isn't a ten is because there have been a few really bad episodes. And due to how risky this show is, that's bound to happen. I'd say about 95% of the huge risks Adventure Time takes are bulls-eyes. However, when the 5% of risks fail, it can result in a mess. However, these episodes happen extremely rarely. When Adventure Time gets it right, which is the vast majority of the time, it is some of the best stuff on television.Extra note: I feel Adventure Time is my favourite CN show of all time. On IMDb, I have ranked it second (only behind Over the Garden Wall) but I feel Adventure Time is just so unique and artistic, that it is a beautiful thing at it's best. Some shows might have had great storytelling, animation or plot twists, but I haven't seen anything on Cartoon Network that can compare to the artistic brilliance in Adventure Time.
Although it may be a falsely generalized statement, but from my experience, American animated series are good at portraying society and being critical of pop culture, the strong suit of Japanese animated is creating a pure fantasy world, well not completely pure, you'll always see the trace of reality. Among my years of watching cartoons, which are not short, I have the impression that American creator adore the subject of politics, society, philosophy, not many are in favor of the pure fantasy genres, which is viewed more or less suitable for kids. Don't get me wrong, there're great deal of cartoons with a trippy style, but I don't view them as fantasy. Over use of hallucinations alone is not enough for the cartoons to be classified as fantasy which need to set up world with pure imagination and buried the trace of reality as deep as possible. Adventure time might be the only fantasy series made in American that I have found, cartoons like Steven universe would be qualified too, but at least its the best. Some may think series such as "the last air bender" or "samurai jack" are fantasy too, but I beg to differ. For example "the last air bender" has a very direct reflection on imperialism and the current political environment of various countries. "samurai jack" is not that far away from reality it just like a folk tale which tend to be a little exaggerate. The adventure time is a fantasy through and through. It happened in a completely made up world surrounded by mysteries with no clear reference to the real world what so ever, from the characters to the major story lines. Yes adventure time borrowed heavily from dungeons and dragons universe, but it is not a dungeons and dragons tale with the usual theme, it's far from it. Other subtle reference might be found such as mushroom war, which might refer to nuclear war. But this analogy won't take you far, all it implies is that this is a post apocalyptic world. Indeed no fantasy is completely free from reality, what separates great ones from the rest is the splendid and insightful world it create, which when the viewer submerge themselves into, create this overwhelmed feelings, by the joy and sadness happened in it. Adventure time is a show just like this.The different ideas of creating between west and east can be seen clearly. While traditionally, people might think eastern arts have this way of creation that won't tell you every thing and always leave room for imagination, the west tend to do the opposite. But in the field of animation, the role is basically reversed. While Japanese animation provide great detail and gorgeous visual, American animation's offering is nothing but ungroomed drawing. Maybe it's a coincident or not, but this style resonate very well with fantasy genre, even better than that of the Japanese style. This won't be true on other genre, for example, if the "last air bender" was drawn in Japanese, it would be a treat for the eyes. Over all adventure time is certainly the best fantasy animation made in American in my view, and it's definitely worthy to watch.
I adore Adventure Time. I think it may very well be one of my favorite shows on television today, but with the many different directors on the show, each one can be a little different. Most are whimsical story's about a young heroic boy seeking adventure in his home land of Ooo. Fit with beautiful art and a nonsensical story. Other episodes are like a disturbing nightmare to watch as they push the boundaries much to far for a kids show. In general, this show has great humor and adorable characters, each one more original than the next. It takes a little bit to get into this show and get used to the normals. Some episodes are extremely creepy, but most make up for it. As been said before, it may not be for everyone, but if this show was for me.


                
I love animation and have done for the longest time. At first I wasn't sure whether I would like Adventure Time with Finn and Jake, but I am so glad I gave it a chance. While it is not quite a timeless classic like Dexter's Laboratory and Courage the Cowardly Dog, it is far better than the contemptible Johnny Test and is on par with Chowder as one of the better Cartoon Network shows in the past 5 or so years.The animation I liked a lot, it had a unique stylistic approach to it. The backgrounds and colours are colourful and plentiful, while the character designs are both strange(in a good way) and interesting. There is a memorable theme tune, hilarious writing and humour with some of the jokes appealing to adults as well and fun story lines complete with some stupid but very funny situations.The characters themselves are strange, but they quickly grow on you and they are endearing very soon. And the voice acting is great. All in all, a very good show and far better than I hoped. 9/10 Bethany Cox


                
At first I thought this show was going to suck and when I saw the first episode I thought it did. But I gave the show another chance and I began to like it and now its one of my favorite shows. The show is very creative and funny. I really like the friendship between Finn and Jake. Thy have funny characters such as Lumpy Space Princess and the Ice King. I know a lot of people who like this show from little kids to adults. Heck on Sunday dinners my family watch the show together.\ Like I said I thought this show sucked at first, and you might've thought the same thing, but you may lighten up to the show and like it as well. Overall this a very fun show and I hope it goes on.


                
It's Adventure Time with Finn the human boy and Jake the magical dog! With every episode this show continues to surprise and entertain with its unusual Pendleton Ward brand of humor. Each episode is about 11 minutes long with hidden gems (have you seen the snail in every episode?) and life lessons. Each season offers dedicated viewers more insight in to the history of the Land of Ooo and how it all came to be. From facing the evil Lich, to learning Simon's forgotten past, to rescuing Princesses, this little cartoon has become larger than life.Each character has a story to tell, even Gunter the penguin.While things can sometimes go off the rails every episode has something to offer. What will happen next? I can't wait to find out!
A good show for both kids and adults. I was sad when it was over I mean after I saw the whole thing.


                
This show is relly good and can be watched by adults and kids


                
Adventure Time is a really good, weird and random cartoon about two brothers: a dog called Jake and a human (the last one on earth) called Finn. This show is full of creative visuals, and the plots are really random and interesting. The first season has some dirty humor that was fun to look at. The characters are really adorable, especially Jake. I love his design and the way he can change his form. This show may not be for everyone, you should give it a chance to understand if it's your cup of tea or not... I ended up loving it.Adventure Time is way much better than that dull "Regular Show"...see Adventure Time if you want to find out why!


                
When Adventure Time first came out, I regarded it as stupid. In fact, I regarded Cartoon Network as a whole as dying, with Secret Mountain Fort Awesome and The Misadventures of Flapjack, and such. I grew up with shows like the Grim Adventures of Billy and Mandy, the Powerpuff Girls, Teen Titans, Code Lyoko, and Fosters home for imaginary friends. To this day I still consider them to be outstanding. It was actually the internet that introduced me to Adventure Time. I was browsing some fan art websites, and some pictures of Fionna and Cake, the gender-swapped versions of Finn and Jake. Next thing I know, a new adventure time episode was on, starring- who else? Fionna and Cake. It was the first adventure time episode I watched. I don't know why I liked it... maybe because I thought it was going to be childish and random? After that, I watched every single episode online, and I'm still keeping up with the new ones. A few weeks ago, my mom decided to watch Adventure Time with me. And she actually liked it. My mom, who still wants the seventeen-year old me to watch shows like Arthur and Cyber Chase, actually enjoyed watching it. Maybe because it wasn't mainly centered on idiotic crude humor, or because there's always a lesson hidden inside (even though it isn't forced and is only made apparent around the middle of each episode).Overall, the show is about a Post-apocalyptic Earth. There's a thirteen year old boy called Finn who has an overall positive outlook on life and is more of a "white knight", and his adopted brother Jake, who is a twenty-something dog with the power to stretch and change shape at will. There's also Marceline, a girl who became a vampire to survive the Great Mushroom War, the nuclear war mentioned in the series. The Ice King is a human kept alive by the crown giving him magic powers, coming with the cost of insanity and constant vision of the spirit world. I can't say I liked all of the episodes; some are too pointless for me, like "Tree Trunks" and some others. And not all episodes are meant to be hilarious. Some, like "Marceline's Closet", "Holly Jolly Secrets part 2", and "Princess Cookie" induce a surge of thinking. I give this show a nine out of ten, considering that it is just about the only thing keeping Cartoon Network alive.
What do you want from what you watch?There are many animated shows that, I think strangely, adults view from a discerning semi-adult perspective, that particularly doesn't take into account aesthetic and meaning of aesthetic, and these things' successful interaction with backstory. This is one of those shows that works best, I think, from a nostalgic perspective.What this show is is perfect as a distillation of what a type of cartoon (action packed, boy hero, etc.) is about. It doesn't pretend to be that distillation either. It just is, and part of why this is so is that it doesn't hide its nostalgic and knowing adult assembling perspective.Some people claim this show may give young kids nightmares. This may be true. Hell, even the tamer cartoons gave me nightmares and dreams when I was a kid.I love Jake. He'd be the perfect brother if I was twelve again, adventurous and lived after the end of the world. I don't understand the people who dislike him.I love Beemo, I love Rainicorn, I love PB, I love Marcelline, I love the Ice King and Gunther, I love the designs, I love the voices. The word for this show is...precious. Everything in it wins because it does a kind of gentle, fraught cute perfectly for me. Though some episodes are too dark, at least for me, for this type of appreciation, in the long run these are necessary... certainly when it comes to rewatching the series, their inclusion will ultimately be rewarding. But I guess YMMV, and you may not like the characters as much.Trying to figure out what makes this show work / not work:I personally cannot stand the Powerpuff Girls, though then again that sense of surrender-as-compromise to complete,helpless artificiality in that show's backstory may be very meaningful to some people, or at least a good and wise joke in the funny-because-it's-so-true sense. Or the people who enjoy that show may have a completely different appreciation of its backstory beginning, probably the joke plus its generosity in allowing the father figure to be essentially the mother figure as well-- again misinterprable (as by me) as horrific. A similar blindness to the setting's nuances probably affects some of the people who cannot stand the genius of Adventure Time.


                
Have you ever watched something on television, only to sit in silence at the end and think to yourself, "What the **** did I just watch?!"? Every episode of Adventure Time is like that. Every. Single. Episode.Not that I've personally watched every episode. But I've seen the majority of them, and I honestly just can't get enough of it. It reminds me of the massive imagination I used to have as a child; back before such things as XBoxes and Playstations and DVD players. Back when kids could go outside and play until the sun had fallen far below the horizon without being afraid of being snatched up by some mysterious adult in an unmarked van.Imagine a world filled with such wonders as a city filled with buildings and streets and even people made entirely out of candy. Imagine a land made entirely of ice, with an evil ice wizard king to rule over it. Imagine meeting a real live vampire (that actually shriveled and bore pain in the sun!) that fed on the color red.While the adventure and fun are definitely included in Adventure Time, there are a few things that grate on my nerves. For instance, Finn's voice. While I can imagine such a voice on an eleven year old, it's too reminiscent of a boy just hitting puberty. It cracks and screeches and even on low volume does nothing for a headache (not that it should, mind you).Most episodes clock in at fifteen minutes long, which I can understand being set so as to capture and keep the imaginations and attentions of children. But in my personal opinion, I think the show would do so much better if the writers and animators could come up with full 30-minute episodes. Not only do I believe this show would keep the same attentions and imaginations, it might even reel in a larger audience.I like the show. I really do. The cons don't distract too much from the enjoyment, and it's a good place to lose yourself when you're having a stressful day. It's one of those rare shows on TV that you enjoy if you don't think too much about it, AND you'll enjoy if you DO think too much about it.9/10
Excellent, flamboyant animation, fantastic plots interesting characters, just flawless.


                
Adventure Time is an amazing cartoon. Its animation style is beautiful,its environments are creative and it has great characters with some deep back story and history to them. It focuses on the adventures of the teenage boy Finn and his brother Jake the magical dog. Finn and Jake are both very interesting characters. Finn is the only normal human left on earth and was found abandoned as a child by Jakes parents who raised him up. Jake on the other hand is a talking dog who gained magical stretchy powers after rolling in a strange puddle. Just the description of the two main characters lets you know how inventive this show is. The show takes place in the Land of Ooo. Ooo is basically a post apocalyptic version of earth. The land is divided into many different kingdoms such as a candy kingdom, an ice kingdom, and many others. Each landscape is very well designed and inventive. The humour of the show is great. It basically just comes out of things characters say and events that happen in the show. Its a great series for people young and old and is well worth watching.
I've been watching this show since it first aired and it keeps getting better and better. I can't really say much about this show but I can say this show is great. People really look at this show with great perspective, and I love that. When some make a Cartoon or a show similar to this one, people say to them,"This looks a lot like Adventure TIme." But Im not talking about that, Im talking about Adventure Time!This has a unique perspective with universe full of possibilities, with princesses and heroes. Finn is one of them. He is the only human alive in the Land of Oo, with his friend/brother Jake the dog go on these adventures. The creativity in this show is amazing, I get all happy inside when I watch this show, It's beautiful, its funny, it's weird, it's Adventure Time.Sometimes the Series gets confusing this season and it's kind of hard to laugh at it but I still love the show. I gave this show a 10/10 because of the backgrounds the beautiful drawings and the amazing characters. This isn't for everyone but it does have some appeal to it.


                
Weird (but not in a try-hard or annoying way) and funny. Has great characters that are constantly developed. It's a testament to the show that it can pull off so many different ideas. Some of the episodes are a triumph of weird atmosphere e.g. "No One Can Hear You" and the "Holly Jolly Secrets" two-parter, while some are nice one-offs ("Thank You" etc.).My only gripe is that season 4 has seen some not very good episodes such as "Dream of Love" and "In Your Footsteps". This worries me slightly as the previous 3 seasons only had 2/3 middling episodes spread BETWEEN those seasons. However the other season 4 episodes thus far have been brilliant (still on the fence about "Hug Wolf" but it is slowly winning me over)Some of the episodes are a triumph of weird atmosphere e.g. "No One Can Hear You" and the "Holly Jolly Secrets" two-parter.
