This is one hell of a film about the mobsters, based on a true story and coming from one of the great directors of all time. This is about Henry Hill, the narrator of the story, an Irish simple person who gets involved with the Mafia at a very young age and continues his life through it. There is no major plot in this film, just isolated incidents one of which was the turning point of Hill's life. Scorsese, as brilliant as he ever was, shows violence, sex and drugs etc in his own trademark style. And his actors helps him to make this film one of the classics.Robert DeNiro is not present in much of the film, nor his acting leaves too much impression. The three actors who really did their best job here are Ray Liotta, Joe Pesci and Lorraine Bracco. I hate to say that most youngsters today don't know too much about Liotta or how talented he was. I asked my younger brother about him and he said, "The man who did the voice on GTA: Vice City?". This is partly because Liotta did not get too many big roles after that, especially in recent years. But here he is just brilliant as Hill. It's Pesci's one of the best too. Playing a mad mobster with dark sense of humor wasn't his usual type. And Lorraine Bracco becomes the perfect lead female in such type of films.The film's got smart screenplay and excellent cinematography. And I don't know how many times Scorsese will be denied his Academy recognition. I hate to see a lifetime achievement award as his first Oscar. But things are going like that.


                
Exploring the rise and fall of a gangster, Goodfellas dawdles on Henry Hill (Ray Liotta) from his childhood when he first started as an errand boy for the local mob on across the street, to the height of his life when he unexpectedly has to make a decision that changes his life. By this time Henry is so entangled in the mafia that it has become his whole social life <U+0096> from his friends, his wife, his job to his values <U+0096> he is consumed in a camaraderie. The film is based on a true story and given its content and realistic photography approach, it feels strangely like a documentary. Director Martin Scorsese, who grew up on the gritty crime-infested streets of New York said: "I remember seeing it on the streets and thinking, this is the way a movie should look like." To convey this realistic tone, the camera thus coldly follows Henry around everywhere and it does not shy away from violence or unpleasant diversions, as is Scorsese's style. It invests the whole film in a behind-the-scenes atmosphere, where the director expertly wields a long, continuous reel of exclusive footage. Several takes are of steadicams gliding through the world for minutes, as when Henry and Karen park their cark, cross the street and enter the Copacopana where they are pampered by Henry's connections. It's raw and unflinching and truly absorbs you in Henry's life as a wiseguy, climbing the mafia hierarchy. He often botches his way through jobs; he has a hard time whacking people and he clumsily cheats on his wife Karen (Lorraine Bracco) <U+0096> the danger of the character is that you like him. Ray Liotta fantastically sews together the events as they unfold in a patient voice-over narrative flow. This flow is the film's fatal flaw. Sure, the pacing starts out nicely enough by having Henry slowly climb the mafia ladder along with his wiseguy friends Jimmy (Robert De Niro) and Tommy (Joe Pesci), both of whom are equally charismatic characters <U+0096> the latter with rapid-fire dialogue and a rapid-fire gun and Pesci winning an Oscar for his colourful performance. It's all compelling at first BUT as is the usual mistake by Scorsese... he dilutes his film. It's like he got so taken with the mafia content that he wanted so much more of it for his own self-indulgence. There are numerous scenes that serve no other purpose than giving us a feel for the mafia family and the way things are run. It is true that some of them are important for establishing the atmosphere, but there are too many of them. The pace thus shifts from patient to lingering and the plot suffers countless detours and diversion into the life of crime. It loses focus.I cannot figure out whether this 'diluting the film' approach is Scorsese's style or an unfortunate mistake he keeps repeating in every film of his. Nevertheless, it makes Goodfellas dawdle leisurely without any clear sense of point or direction for long periods of time. Everything else in the film is fantastic, no hyperbole. Scorsese takes a deep plunge into wiseguy culture, indulging in mob dialogue that snaps and crackles like kindling in a fireplace, brutal hits, sleek heists and rats. He navigates moods, themes, characters, and popular music (which is used throughout as a background device) with expert skill and less than twenty minutes into the film, you are so absorbed in the characters' lives of crime that you know of nothing else. As for acting, it is Ray Liotta who grabs my attention as Henry, and not the resident scene-stealer Robert De Niro. I also fell in love with Lorraine Bracco's performance as Henry's Jewish wife <U+0096> whose kickass attitude and sparkling personality translates well on camera. The greatest sheer presence can best be attributed to Paul Sorvino as the big-shot boss Paulie who, in spite of not saying a word until half of the film has passed, communicates a fantastic lethality. The reason the whole ensemble shines in their performances stems from the fact that they aren't acting like their characters; they are behaving like them. Of course the whole of Goodfellas is of the utmost quality but it could be even greater by being more condensed, as good most of Martin Scorsese's long-winded, diluted and slightly self-indulgent films.8 out of 10


                
Meet Henry Hill (Ray Liotta). He grew up in a marginal neighborhood on the Brooklyn - Queens line near JFK Airport. The neighborhood is working class but colonized by the mob. Local boss Paul "Paulie" Cicero (Paul Sorvino) superintends the neighborhood like a feudal lord.Paul Sevino carries the part of a low level mob boss with grace and dignity persuasively Italian without indulging in stereotypes.Though not eligible for induction into the ritual laden Italian Mafia, Henry Hill and his occasional co-conspirators Jimmy Conway (Robert De Niro) and Tommy DeVito (Joe Pesci) are allowed to hang onto the fringe of the high life of organized crime.Joe Pesci indulges more of the stereotypical Italian gangster: ruthless and earthy somewhat lacking in the class Servino brings to that role. Even though Pesci leans on certain stereotypes he manages to make a joke out of them. "Imagine," Tommy Devito frankly observes, "prejudice against Italians in this day and age." But be careful not to laugh too hard with Tommy. He guns down a made Mafioso for indulging in fun at Tommy's expense.Tommy Devito, Jimmy Conway and Henry Hill may not be formally inducted Mafioso. They're called wise guys or goodfellas. While they're not official member of the Italian mob, they are involved in some of the major mob operations such as truck-jacking and airport heists including both the Air France and Luftansa raid.There are others at the extreme periphery of the mob including Morris 'Morrie' Kessler (Chuck Low) who furnishes comic relief right up to the point calculating Jimmy Conway decides to rub Kessler out rather than pay Kessler his share of the Luftansa heist.But money is not the sole object of the wise guys. Heck they blow it all on the track. It's the life.Declares Henry Hill, "we're movie stars with muscle! Real life Italian - American Ray Liotta plays Henry Hill, the product of s strict Irish father and a saintly Italian mother well. Unlike his running buddy Tommy Devito, Henry has a certain charm he carries in the twinkling of blue eyes. He's one more likely to use persuasion than muscle when that's possible, but he's ready to administer a beating when that's required.As long as wise guys kick money upstairs to Uncle Paulie, life can be beautiful. There are certain bounds: No Drugs and the penalty is the ultimate one for violating this rule. Will the temptation to make the big money selling drugs bring the high life of the wise guys down?
'Goodfellas' is right up there with the best of Martin Scorcese. I recently hauled this out for a re-viewing and I was surprised at how totally up to date it felt. How relevant the plot was, how topical the story.And for a mafia movie of that era, how the women were brought front and centre and given a narrative voice - Karen Hill (played by Lorraine Bracco), the wife of the protagonist, Henry Hill (played by a riveting Ray Liotta) both get to tell their stories.The movie is based on a true story and the cast are awesome. At this later viewing I was particularly interested to see many of "The Sopranos" cast, here making their debuts in a similar crime-family drama.The movie is astounding in that it brings complexity, a riveting script, brilliant relevant music (with actual stars performing their hits) and mind boggling tracking shots, the most difficult of all movie sequencing. Scorcese, or his ensemble, do not flinch from the complexity of this and afterwards, one wonders at how many takes were involved.We are drawn into the intimate life of a crime family, the gradual desensitizing to the horror of the life, driven by material greed at any cost, including the callous snuffing of lives.The large ensemble cast (both known and unknown and including both of Scorcese's parents in brilliant sidebits), the cinematography, editing and dialogue are all masterful.De Niro is at his charming best,Joe Pesci captivates as a psychotic, insecure 'made' man Lorraine Bracco is masterful in a fully developed role, Ray Liotta is marvellous in the way he depicts the reality of the hoodlum life, the juxta-positioning of sauce making against the back drop of victim burials. Paul Sorvino, Michael Imperioli, Debi Mazar, Samuel L. Jackson, Illeana Douglas and Kevin Corrigan all add to the over all engrossing engagement of the film.8 out of 10. Not to be missed.


                
A fine tribal study of modern gangsterism in New York City. There are one or two allusions to being a "made man" but the words "Mafia" and "Cosa Nostra" never appear, though all the main figures are Italian, observe Italian moral codes, and occasionally lapse into the language of the Old Country. If you really want to be a member of the Goodfellas, it's not enough to be simply part Italian. You need to be ALL Italian, with traceable ancestry to the motherland, preferably Sicily.Everyone except some Federal Agents are corrupt. The wives know what's going on and are often complicit, though they have little to say about business decisions. They're satisfied with the solidarity of the larger family, the special parking places, the secret entrances to the Copacabana, the respect shown themselves and their well-groomed husbands, and the general opulence of their life styles. The girl friends enjoy many of the same privileges but are mainly the subject of jokes, which wives and children are not. Well, some are Madonnas and some are whores.The cops are partners in crime, whether the gangsters are on the streets or in prison. They become your major domos for a few cartons of cigarettes and an occasional big bill tucked into a shirt pocket. Your first jail term turns into a rite of passage, and you're given a celebration before you're packed off. The men clap and cry out "Your cherry is broke now." Prison itself is not a bad place if you're a wise guy. No one would dream of trying to rape you. You live with friends and share elaborate dinners and good wines with them.There are only two problems; one is interactional, the other moral and economic.As for the interactional problem, you can never really tell whether someone will become a "rat," not even if you've known him all your life. From the point of view of a protagonist like Henry Hill, whose story this is, it's very bad to be a rat instead of a stand-up guy. On the other hand, it's much better to be a rat instead of a dead guy. Severe beatings are common, even for men who are no more than irritating or even for innocents like mailmen. And when an important deal is at stake, whacking is necessary.Whacking is also applied to men who unwisely insult others, because this is a culture of honor. It's like the Old West without Wyatt Earp. "When you call me that, smile." And sometimes smiling isn't enough. The derision must be clearly couched. Half a couch may not do. Personal affronts call for a passionate butchery, but business transactions are cold blooded and maximally effective.This social system is real enough. In certain bars in New York and New Jersey I was unwise enough to make some joke about Mafia hangouts and received warnings. And in Little Charlie's Restaurant on Kenmare Street in Little Italy, two tables were always kept empty in case some local businessmen decided to drop in unannounced.The movie is told from Henry Hill's (Ray Liotta's) point of view and he narrates most of it. Hill was half Irish and married a Jewish girl but was accepted, within certain limitations. That brings up the moral questions built into the film. These guys are friendly and generous to each other. But who pay for all that reckless spending? You and I. The gang isn't a charitable organization. Every time we buy something or rent an apartment, it costs a little more because of them, and they contribute nothing except mutual support.It's an immoral subculture in which the goals of society -- respect, wealth, material satisfaction, friendship -- are accepted, but society's means of achieving those goals -- following the rules, upholding the law, respecting the rights of strangers -- are rejected. The sociologist Robert K. Merton called them "innovators" and that's what they are. They invent and follow illegal rules for achieving society's goals. From an ethical perspective, it's a much better story than Francis Ford Coppola's "The Godfather" series, which was an apologia for the Mafia, portrayed as a neighborhood organization that simply fills certain control functions that the regular police will or can not. No one was killed in "The Godfather" unless he was a coward and a traitor and deserved it. In "Goodfellas", a kid gets shot through the foot for being slow in delivering drinks to a table, and the incident is treated as a stupid joke. No one even TRIES justifying the act. When the same kid is later slaughtered for a resentful remark, the dead body is treated as a nuisance.The acting is unimpeachable, and so is the production design. You can almost smell the cigars, the perfume, the marinara sauce cooking in the large pot on the stove. (Everybody eats a lot in this movie.) You should definitely see it if you haven't already. It's naturalism is convincing and there is no Marlon Brando to sympathize with.
"Goodfellas" is a movie based on the life story of Henry Hill, played by Ray Liotta, and his involvement in the New York mafia. Henry's main partners throughout the movie are Tommy (Joe Pesci), James Conway (Robert De Niro), the boss Paul (Paul Cicero) and his wife Karen (Lorraine Braco). The movie revolves around a few different plot points as Henry moves through the mafia.At the beginning, Henry is a teenager and responsible for small things, such as parking cars or selling stolen property. As he grows up he becomes fully entrenched into the mafia. The film does a great job of showing the family atmosphere of the mafia, especially showing the distinction between their public marriage and their private affairs, or "Fridays are for girlfriends" routine. As Henry gets deeper into the drugs, you can see his physical appearance change. Their house, which was once very simply designed, becomes designed with wild colors and arrangements, representing the craziness of their lives. The settings continue to get more and more convoluted until he is finally arrested. As he has to choose between his mafia family and his wife and kids, you can understand how much he felt he lost - his entire identity.Another method that was extremely effective was that throughout the movie, Henry narrated, explaining different actions of the mafia, what things meant, and how he interpreted things. Karen also narrated at the beginning, explaining her attraction to Henry, but giving a vivid account of how she interpreted the mafia from the outside, showing how different the two views were at the time. This was in contrast to a similar movie series, "The Godfather," where very little narration took place. Both were effective ways of communicating the action, however the narration in "Goodfellas" ensured that the audience knew what was going on the entire time, whereas "The Godfather" allowed the audience to make up their own minds.Overall, "Goodfellas" was an excellent film. The life in the mafia is always a bit of a mystery, and the film brought to light many different aspects of the life, from how they make money, to the killings, and their deep family life. The techniques the director used amplified in many ways Henry's life and his eventual arrest and the events thereafter. They helped form a bond with his character that almost made you feel sympathetic to him, and allowed the audience to really enter into the mafia lifestyle.
"As far back as I can remember, I've always wanted to be a gangster." -- Henry Hill, Brooklyn, N.Y. 1955.Starring Ray Liotta, Joe Pesci and Robert De Niro.Written by Nicholas Pileggi ( Novel) and Martin Scorsese.Directed by Martin Scorsese.First of all I'll say that this isn't normally the kind of movie I watch. In fact I think ( apart from Bugsy Malone which probably really doesn't count) this is the first Mobster movie I can remember watching, It's a proper guys movie. I'm a guy but I'm not that much of a geezer. This is probably to movies what Top Gear is to TV.It's quite long but it did keep my interest all the way. The acting performances are decent without there really being any stand out performances. Ray Liotta and Joe Pesci ( is he really not related in any way to Joe Paquale?) were probably the pick of the bunch amongst this star studded cast of big nosed very Italian looking actors.Robert De Niro didn't really play a big part and for most of the movie it felt like he was just going through the motions and doing a pretty decent impression of himself, if that makes sense.The cinematography was good and there there lots of laughs, shocks, blood and twists along the way which I'd expect from a Scorsese film. The big problem from my point of view is that there isn't much of a plot. It's very artsy but there isn't much of a plot to keep me that interested. And I prefer a plot to grab hold of. That's probably because its a true story and they didn't want to make up too much stuff in case they offended the wrong people. I mean would you want to p*** off the mob?Overall this is a decent movie if you like this kind of thing. It's not really my kind of thing but it's still worthy of an 8 out of 10.


                
Very difficult and complicated to start thinking about which movie is the best of Martin Scorsese, I think there is no such a film, which always works great films of this soundtrack, just any movie right on the mark, the film is now in my opinion is much less appreciated what else out more movies like that and in my opinion " Goodfellas "is presented more as a kind of gangster comedy, a celebration of film that I think about crime drama I can think of" The Godfather "and" City of God "ranked after" good guys "(and rightly so), anyway, Director Scorsese's great with great decor, even cast fantastic and unexpected end, Overrated still too high and is located in IMDb Top 250 and still honor Scorsese with De Niro Liotta Joe outs and all the good guysThere are too many jumps between scenes in my opinion there is no real depth. Long film depicts a lifetime, but as the film shows a Mafia/ at least one crime in his life, I can note that when you do not manufacture and deepening interest in the characters, you just can not make a connection between the character and the viewer. Unfortunately, it happened to me.8/10 in my opinion


                
Goodfellas has got to be one of the best mob movies I have seen. Not only that, it is probably the best Scorsese film I have seen so far. The acting, the dialogues, the setting, everything in this film is brilliant. Anyone who watches this film is guaranteed to love it. The plot is based on a true story of a real life mobster Henry Hill. It follows his beginnings as a kid growing up in Brooklyn who eventually works for a crime family. The reason why he wants to work for a crime family, is because "as far back as he can remember he always wanted to be a gangster." Henry's life as a mobster forms the rest of the movie. Henry Hill is played by Ray Liotta, an actor that I wish to see more on the big screens. His portrayal of the real life gangster is as realistic as it gets. From the mannerisms to the speech delivery, it is almost like we are all thinking this is a real gangster. Robert De Niro plays Jimmy Gent, who takes Henry under his wing and in a way mentors him. The other guy Jimmy takes with him and who eventually works with Henry is Tommy DeVito, played by Joe Pesci. This to me is the best performance of the film. DeVito is a character with a short fuse and Pesci played the character to perfection. This film shows why he is one of the finest actors of his generation and why he won an Oscar for his role. To me, his performance is what you will think of when the movie is over. All in all this was a fantastic film and definitely one of the best mob movies ever. As I said before, everything aspect of the film from start to finish is incredible. This is a film that no one should ever miss, especially if you are one who loves mob movies.


                
I grew up loving the Godfather movies and this one was damn good. The way the story is told through the eyes of one of the characters only helps to draw you into the story. The relationships within the movie were well played and since this movie, I have declared Ray Liotta certifiable. Joe Pesci, who I usually find funny, began to irritate me but Paul Sorvino's Pauly truly made me feel like I could identify with these characters...he was awesome! The rest of the cast really helped to pull this amazing movie together. Then to find out it was actually based on a true story, WOW! There is no way that you can watch Goodfellas and tell me you didn't enjoy it! I did and I am super finicky with what I watch....I not only give this movie 2 enthusiastic thumbs up but I encourage you to re-watch it if its been a while!


                
From the film's opening to it's conclusion I was hooked. What at first appears to be a glorification of the gangster lifestyle gradually evolves into a cautionary tale, graphically depicting the violence and treachery of this way of life. Based on the experiences of real-life ex-gangster Henry Hill, one-time associate of New York's Luchese crime family, the film gives an inside look at organized crime as it really is. Joe Pesci as the murderous Tommy DeVito absolutely steals the show. It is worth the price of the DVD just to see this talented and versatile performer in action. Ray Liotta gives a good performance as Henry Hill, but is overshadowed by Lorraine Bracco, who plays Henry's over-the-top wife Karen. Robert DeNiro's performance is so-so. Overall, I'd rate this an 8.5/10.


                
The success of The Godfather Trilogy, Scarface, and The Untouchables has made it clear that America loves a good gangster film. One the most recognizable and high performing gangster films of the 20th century is Martin Scorsese's 1990 work Goodfellas. Featuring mobster staples Robert De Niro as Jimmy and Joe Pesci as Tommy, Goodfellas tells the life tale of mobster turned informant Henry Hill (Ray Liotta). Starting humbly as a cabbie in New York, Henry becomes a well respected mobster by age 21. However, after a stint in jail with other members of the crew, Henry turns to the drug game even though his boss, Pauly, orders him not to. After a successful FBI sting, Henry is faced with two options: get whacked by his paranoid cronies or sell them out for a seat in witness protection.Goodfellas features the full Scorsese palette: engaging montage, Irish-American identity, dirty New York, and narrative voice over. Ray Liotta captivates the audience with his performance, often appearing like a victim more than a criminal. Joe Pesci is despicable as a violent and ill-tempered Italian mobster. Even though the film spans over 30 years, every scene feels authentic. Cars, clothing, and word choice are accurate to their respective era.The only problems with the film are a plethora of continuity errors. This seems like a trivial complaint, but the coming and going of objects within the same instance at different camera angles is extremely distracting.With a run time of 2 hours and 26 minutes, Goodfellas is full of narrative delight and character growth. It engenders a warm sense of unity within the Italian-American mob. Each viewer is jealous of the love and opulence shared by its members. But all of that is stripped away in the final act as the true motivators behind the mob's actions (lust, greed, and violence) tear it apart. Brother turns on brother and Made Men become funny guys... funny dead guys.
All the story elements made sense and the actors were convincing. It is a little gruesome in some parts but that comes with the territory. One of the better mob movies.


                
Goodfellas is one of those films that I felt like I needed to see, but never really wanted to see. I'm not a big fan of gangster movies and I've never really understood Hollywood's obsession with the mafia. However, I have to say that I was impressed. This film covers almost 30 years of the life of Henry Hill in an engaging way that keeps you guessing. Plus, the performances of Ray Liotta, Joe Pesci and Robert DeNiro are iconic. This isn't a film I plan on repeatedly watching in the future, but I am glad that I finally saw it.


                
Its one of my favorite movie to watch. Ray Liottta and his on screen wife also play in Blow as Husband and wife.


                
If you are into gangster flicks and you haven't seen this movie yet, what on earth are you waiting for?
This movie is amazing, a complete package for 2 hours and 25 minutes. Goodfellas gives you an overview of a life of a mobster. This is not your typical 'crime' movie so don't expect a lot of action. The movie mainly revolves around 4 characters, Henry, Paulie, Jimmy and Tommy. The way these characters are portrayed is just lovely!
There are a lot of characters in this movie and getting familiar with their names can be confusing at times. Though fast paced, it happens to be lengthy and you would, at one point, look at timeline and expect for the climax to appear sooner. But that doesn't mean you'll be bored. This movies will keep you on the edge of your chair and at times will make you cringe at some of the brutal scenes.
It's a must watch, intense, violent and one hell of a movie that you must not miss!


                
Goodfellas was a magnus opus when it released in 1990. Scorsese ventures back into familiar Italian mafia territory and everyone from Pesci and De niro to Ray Liotta are so good you stop seeing the actor and just look at them as their characters. Featuring some insane tracking shots and great visuals of the hood Goodfellas is a masterpiece in an already overflowing Martin Scorsese filmography. If you haven't already then please do watch this masterpiece of cinema.


                
While an argument could be made that 'Goodfellas (1990)' perhaps comes dangerously close to glamourising the gangster lifestyle it portrays, this sprawling and relentless picture depicts three-decades of mob life through the eyes of a real-life ex-mafioso who entered into the witness protection program in the early 1980s and ultimately manages to maintain an impartial stance by simply portraying all the events the way they are remembered to have occurred. Our protagonist also never actually kills anyone and his desperate, drug-fuelled downfall is just as detailed as his seduced start. Scorsese directs the piece with a real ferocious verve and the improvised dialogue lends a genuinely unpredictable edge to most sequences, leading to an almost fly-on-the-wall feel even though the techniques used are inherently cinematic. When the violence explodes onto the screen, it is just as shocking as you'd expect it to be. The only downside of all this is that the already long film feels even longer due to the fast-pace and sheer amount of scenes - a minor complaint since it's all so entertaining. 8/10


                
There's much to say about Goodfellas, and most of it has already been said by others. What I enjoyed the most with the movie was how it constructs this dual reality. You see and hear all of these guys having a blast, enjoying their money and their power. You can hear Liotta's character describing the joys of the life they led. At the same time you are presented with certain scenes from this life where you can also see the backside of the medal. Many mob movies are like this. They show this really charming culture of, well, people celebrating their own importance, and a culture based on respect, tradition and hierarchy. But then you typically see it all falls apart, so it wasn't a good idea after all. This movie plays around a bit with this, showing you both sides of the medal from the get go, but as the story progresses you can gradually see the medal turning around, going from having the positive side in focus, to having the negative side in focus. But, as mentioned, both sides of the medal are visible from the start till the end. This is maybe the most obvious in the ending scenes, with how the narration relates to what you see.


                
GOODFELLAS is almost 25 years old, but I don't think there's been a better mob movie since. This movie does a terrific job showing the flash and allure of being a successful mobster (the cash, the respect, the twisted sense of family) and then the dark and dirty side - the graft, lies and ferocity. Liotta's fall is as rough as his rise is seductively entertaining (think SCARFACE, only a whole lot better) and it's punctuated by brutal acts of violence.Overall, a great movie; features an immersive soundtrack, half the supporting cast of THE SOPRANOS, and Lorraine Bracco, who just radiates sassy broad. And lest I sinfully forget: Joe Pesci, whose savage hothead character lends this movie its dark humor. He moves from butcher's knife to gun (several) to ice pick and it's always somehow funny. He lights up the screen in this movie; it's an amazing performance.8/10
*WARNING: SOME SPOILERS ARE CONTAINED IN THE REVIEW BELOW*What's so great about being a gangster? What are the perks? Well, if you're a "goodfella" or one of the "wise guys," you'll be able to let everyone know. Martin Scorsese's Goodfellas (1990) is by far one of the greatest gangster movies made today. Scorsese is the director of other films such as Shutter Island, The Departed, and Wolf of Wall Street. Along with these great films, Goodfellas has received many awards, including an Academy Award for Best Actor in a Supporting Role. Scorsese is able to bring the element of fear to the audience, but at the same time allows them to emphasize with a group of gangsters. Watching this film, I realized that it doesn't have a structure. There is no concrete beginning, middle, or end, which is what keeps the audience tuned in throughout a long movie such as this one. The start of the film begins with a scene that likely (and as we find out later, does) come during the middle of the movie. We are started off with three of the main characters, Henry Hill (Ray Liotta), Jimmy Conway (Robert De Niro) and Tommy DeVito (Joe Pesci) driving in a car with what we discover is a dead body in the trunk, followed by the voice of a young Henry Hill saying, "As far back as I can remember, I always wanted to be a gangster." This background narration of his voice foreshadows that he is going to take us back to square one, to the days that he knew he wanted to be one of them; part of the mafia.The cinematography of the film is what creates the elements and moods that the audience feels while watching the film There are many scenes in the film that are long shots; which are shots taken without any editing. Watching a film, that foremost, is considered to be more of a story than have a plot line, is much more interesting to watch through long shots. These shots are able to make an audience feel more connected to the characters in the film. The audience is able to follow different characters in the film and see exactly what they are doing, where they are going, and who they are dealing with, all in one shot. What really kept me interested in Goodfellas is how hard it is to determine who are the protagonists and who are the antagonists. I enjoy a challenge and I enjoy watching a movie that makes me think. Since the film is so long, and there are only so many main characters, it takes a longer time to unravel their secrets, personalities, and lifestyles. After watching the entire film, I left still not knowing for sure if I would consider any of the characters to be protagonists. Throughout the film, we see nearly each character either; steal, murder, do drugs and/or make all sorts of illegal deals. Then again, this is what kept me on my toes. This is why this movie is different from all of the others. There doesn't have to be a specific hero or villain. It's truly depicted on how the audience interprets the movie. You are never completely positive which person was doing the right thing in any situation. Another thing this film does wonderfully is provide a great social commentary about the mafia versus the government. Considering that this movie is based off a true story and book; Wiseguy: Life in a Mafia Family; it is considered to be a semi documentary. Containing some truth and factual details to the events in the film; it is able to shed light on the inner networks of the mafia. We, as an audience, are able to see inside a group that most people would fear, but as we watch we consider emphasizing with them instead. We see how the mafia is intertwined with small businesses, big businesses and especially the government. It was complete corruption. During the final trial scene with Henry Hill testifying against his longtime friend, Jimmy Conway, Hill makes a comment where he admits that they paid off policemen, lawyers, and judges. They got away with everything because they were feared by everyone around them. The entire movie revolves around the commentary that all outsiders feared them, but once you were in, you loved them, and they were family. By the end, I left the film not sure whether or not I should feel bad for the gangsters who were murdered, sent to jail, or sent to the witness protection program; or whether I should have been happy justice was served. That feeling that I had was exactly why I recommend this movie to anyone who wants to think critically; to anyone who appreciates a challenge with their inner-self while watching a film. If you appreciate action, violence, loyalty and betrayal, love and unfaithfulness; this movie is calling your name.
(Spolier) Martin Scorsese's film "Goodfellas," is an adaption of the book Wiseguy, written by Nicholas Pileggi. It may be one of the best gangster movies ever made. It is raw and gritty, unlike movies of the same genre like, "The Untouchables" or "The Godfather". Scorsese stayed true to the nature of what life is really like when you are a part of the mob.Throughout the film you see the inside dealings of the mob. These men hold nothing back. They will tell you how it is, and will whack anyone who is out of line and disrespectful. The life of the mob is about loyalty, respect, and proving you are worthy of this family. There are certain rules you have to abide by in order to work your way up and be "made." Tommy DeVito (Joe Pesci) represents this perfectly. He is quick to start a fight, or draw his gun if he feels that he is being disrespected. Later on in the film, his fate is realized when revenge is taken out on him. This movie is based on the actual events of Henry Hill (Ray Liotta). In the first half of the movie, you are introduced to Henry, and how he became entangled with the mob. He always knew he was meant to be a part of this life. Being a gangster meant that you were a part of a family, and belonged to this elite group that would forever look out for you, as long as you remained true to them. A gangster is the embodiment of masculinity. You have money and women at your disposal and no one would ever mess with you, because you are a "tough guy". Who wouldn't want that?It's been said that too much of something can become problematic. The second half of the film you witness Henry's downfall. He leads a double life. He has a wife, Karen (Lorraine Bracco) and children at home, and girlfriends on the side. One girlfriend in particular, Sandy (Debi Mazar) helps him with his new business of dealing and selling cocaine. He was never satisfied. He knew that his involvement could compromise his relationships with Karen and with the mob, especially his boss Pauly Cicero (Paul Sorvino). This didn't stop him, he thought he could handle it. He was organized, after all that is what the mob is all about, organized crime. The music and the dialogue that was chosen, added authenticity to the film. The music was chosen based on the time period the scenes were set in. In Henry's earlier life you heard songs by Tony Bennet, and The Cleftones. In his later life you heard songs by The Rolling Stones and The Who. Music provided transitions between certain scenes, specifically, when Henry was a teenager and he walked out of the court room. He was met by all of the members of the mob cheering for him. He had learned a valuable lesson, you don't ever snitch and you keep your mouth shut. The frame freezes, music begins to play, and you have now jumped several years into 1963.The dialogue was what you would expect to hear from a mobster. Much of the great dialogue was discovered through rehearsals, where Scorsese let his actors roam free, then wrote into the script many of the lines they came up with (admin, 2013). The use of voice over narration was crucial to the tone of the film. Without it, the movie would not be what it is. It was essential for Henry to fill in the background information needed in order to understand what was happening in the story. If you want to get the best idea of what life is like as gangster in the mob, this the movie to watch. References admin. (2013, June 4). ScirptShadow Screen writing and Screenplay Reviews. Retrieved from scriptshadow.net: http://scriptshadow.net/10- screen writing-tips-you-can-learn-from-goodfellas
The first time I saw this movie, I wasn't quite sure if I liked it or not. The more I watched it, though, the more I liked it. The violence in this film is pretty extreme, but accurate, as are the characters.This film stands out in the Gangster genre, because there isn't a "good guy," and the bad guy (who is the protagonist) doesn't die. Though, a lot of them do.I think the language could have been toned down a bit. I know that's how these guys talk, but this film could have been just as good without it, and their audience would be wider. It's an important film to see, so that would be a plus.The "Layla" montage is one of my favorite in any movie ever, and it's the perfect blend of cinematic beauty and dark/disturbing/creepy.Overall I recommend this film, particularly if you like gangster or crime movies. It's historically accurate (pretty much), and has some memorable stuff. "You dink I'm funny?!"
These are among the first words spoken by Henry Hill (Ray Liotta) in Martin Scorsese's modern classic "GoodFellas". The film chronicles Hill's career in the mob through 25 turbulent years that see him living the high life for a while until the occupational hazards of a life of crime start to catch up with him.The story is based on the book "Wiseguy" by Nicholas Pileggi, who also wrote the book upon which "Casino" was based. We're invited into the underworld of crime by a narrator who invests the story with credibility. Although glamorous at times, the movie pulls no punches when it comes to violence. Such is as it should be, in the interests of authenticity.The cast leaves little to be desired. Ray Liotta was a relative newcomer at the time but his portrayal of Henry Hill is so engaging that it makes it easy to root for the bad guys. Robert De Niro & Joe Pesci, who previously teamed up to great effect in Scorsese's "Raging Bull", shared the screen again here. Pesci of course went on to win the Oscar for his downright frightening portrayal of volatile gangster Tommy DeVito, while De Niro's performance was more understated but no less impressive. Lorraine Bracco was a bit of a weak link in my opinion but she did garner some attention for her performance at the time. Beyond the stars, Frank Vincent & Paul Sorvino are especially memorable while a handful of others also make an impression with the limited amount of screen time they have to work with.In technical terms, "GoodFellas" is practically flawless. Scorsese's direction is impeccable and his employment of popular music shows great taste and ingenuity. The cinematography of Michael Ballhaus is always attractive and the film was expertly assembled by Scorsese's longtime editor Thelma Schoonmaker. The sets and costume design also deserve high praise for authenticity.Ultimately, "GoodFellas" certainly must rank as one of the greatest gangster movies of all time. There are countless memorable sights and sounds contained within the film's 146 minutes. That being said, I don't think it's quite as good as "The Godfather" due to some minor imperfections. Still, it's a must for any discerning movie fan.


                
Ray Liotta, Robert De Niro, Joe Pesci, Lorraine Bracco and Paul Sorvino star in Martin Scorsese's 1990 crime drama based on the book, "Wiseguy." This story reflects on Henry Hill (Liotta) who becomes part of the mob world and eventually turns against it. It also tells about his troubled marriage with wife, Karen Hill (Bracco). He starts out as a small-time crook and makes his way as a gangster falling into the dangerous world of crime, drugs and violence. De Niro (Raging Bull) plays Jimmy Conway, Pesci (Home Alone) plays Tommy DeVito, Sorvino (A Fine Mess) plays Paul Cicero and Scorsese's parents, Charles and Catherine also appear. This is a terrific film with a great cast that's definitely one of Scorsese's best I recommend.
