This show has gone right down the tubes as the writers have once again taken what could have been a good drama and turned it into a show about a bunch of angst ridden, neurotic parodies of real men.1) Ragnar is a sad neurotic parody of a Viking who belongs on a psychiatrist's couch, not the throne of a Viking kingdom. 2) Rollo has given up his manhood and succumbed to the androgynous French. 3) Floki is now psychotic, and if he lived today would be a mass murderer, ala Charles Manson. 4) And the crowning touches are the liberated women spewing garbage that would have a woman living in that time flogged. No woman would get away with the trash these writers have these women pulling, but the Hollywood writers cannot help but interject their 21st century liberal social and political beliefs into their stories.Do yourself a favor and read a good historical book about the Vikings, or better yet, READ Beowulf.


                
Ragnar was the only really likeable character on the show. None of his sons have the personality to carry it. So it's still a violent and slightly historical show, but without Ragnar it's very hard to care who lives or dies.
Idk what the writers were thinking (except, perhaps, their audience wouldn't notice) with the ten year fast forward. What was Ragnar up to? Why did Lagertha wait ten years to dish out some long overdue justice? Yada yada. Beyond belief... And no Ragnar? I'm out....
This show is an absolute disgrace to story-telling: shallow, pretentious, disorganized, tasteless. Not a single meaningful dialogue or a thought-provoking subtlety. Other than interesting costumes and great landscapes, there is absolutely nothing it can offer. Plot and acting are worse than in a bad soap opera, full of trivialities and chaotic, underdeveloped turns. Promising events kept unfolding, but nothing came out of them. Just when you think "oh, now is a great chance to put things into perspective and raise an important question", all you get is a charming smile of the main actor and an empty phrase on the level of a hot-headed 12-year-old that doesn't even scratch the surface of...well, anything. But I kept hoping and after a few episodes and countless disappointments, I just stopped. Every chance missed, every point ruined. If the makers came out and admitted they deliberately wanted to make it bad, I would give them 10 points for a masterly-designed mockery. They consistently invite epiphany and then slap it in the face and laugh at it. It is a mind rape, but not the intelligent one. Someone obviously had a lucrative idea of tapping into the unexploited viking world, but unfortunately zero talent, intellect or sense of how to make it worthwhile. What a pity, what a waste..


                
Ep3 series 5 finally shows this turned into a ludicrous soap opera with Ivar wearing stupid headgear and pretending to be real history, bit of a mistake by Michael Hurst, the program is now very silly, such a shame after the first few series, monumental shame on the the writers of this made for Hollywood nonsense


                
What a complete utter butchering of Norse mythology, history, and culture.This series may have an eminent soundtrack, provided by Wardruna (how they obtained the rights to abuse the music of this outstanding orchestra is beyond me), but at every turn this series goes more assuredly into the abyss that is the realm of horrible historical films.Not only do they get the basic equipment wrong (their shields look like something made of plastic from LARP - no offence intended), the steering oar on the wrong side, the combat tactics all askew, but they insist on portraying the Scandinavian peoples as backwards, whoring, oblivious brutes.Having (almost) watched the first season, I could not bear to continue watching. It was too much to absorb when they tried to portray the sacrifices at Uppsala.To anyone who watches this series nonetheless, please watch it like the fantasy "reality show" that it really is and enjoy your fast thrills - don't expect to learn anything about history or culture!


                
This series seems to go down incredibly well with most viewers praising it for its accuracy. I find this astonishing. Accurate?? Battles between the Vikings and Northumbrians always sees the Vikings victorious and with zero casualties. Do you seriously think this is an accurate depiction of a medieval battle? I mean, seriously??I am a Northumbrian, born and bred, and quite frankly find this series an absolute insult. Can I just ask why most of you guys who like it put the Vikings on such a pedestal? We were one of the Viking's victims along with the Scots, Irish, French, Italians (the list is endless!). These people raped, murdered and slaughtered their way across Europe, yet this series more or less sets them up as some sort of an icon of warrior purity instead of showing them for what they really were - a set of hairy-assed Nazis, good at killing defenceless monks and unarmed villagers, stuffing their guts with stolen meat and drink and singing praises to their negative gods of destruction and murder.Can somebody please do a film about Alfred the Great showing these fascists getting their bottoms soundly kicked? It would at least make a change.


                
As historically accurate as bugs bunny and Elmer fuddy


                
They aimed for realism, I suppose. We see women doing household chores,we see authentic-looking Viking clothing. The battle scenes seem gory enough.What ruins everything is the wooden characters and the pretentious, wooden dialog. Did you ever notice that how in some historical epics, the characters speak as if to say "I am a person from the past and we do not speak or act like you modern people." But in the truly good historical epics, people acted lively, and people talked in natural, normal tones...and had personalities.Wooden is the word. The acting and the dialog is more wooden than Sequoia National Forest. It put me to sleep. And it would probably help if they hired actors who could act.Compare this with the Kirk Douglas movie,The Vikings..with Janet Leigh, Ernest Borgnine, and Tony Curtis. They had actors who could act and they had lively dialog. Not to mention superior direction and pacing. Huge difference.
Without Ragnar this show absolutely Stinks. What in the name of god was A&E thinking
Until season 3, i really enjoyed, season 4 was like ok...but now..OMG, i never laughed a't any comedy the way laughed seeing this action scenes. seeason 5 ep5, you made the joke of new years eve


                
I started watching this series and though it was quite good and thought it had great potential. but was i wrong!!! the battle scenes are dreadful, why on earth on every battle is there only like 100 men fighting on every battle there is. Also they seem to defeat certain of the kings of England with a village of men of about 70; this is the most unrealistic and utter crap i have ever seen. but even through this i thought i could try and see if it got any better, but they continue to do crappy battle scenes and somehow keep repopulating the same village out of nowhere every time, even though about 3 times the whole village is slaughtered apart from a few.so i gave up during the second series as i thought i couldn't waist anymore of my time watching this dribble.I would say this though, it could have been amazing if it was on a much larger scale as all of these problems would have been solved and could have lead to better story lines. but all i got from this series was that it was a very low budget series.would definitely say away from watching this TV series, as I've watched loads of TV series over the years and this is definitely the worst one i have watched.
Untill the episode where Ragnar Lothbrok died in the snake pit, I thought it was a really good series.
Then something changed. It became extremely superficial and pathetic.
Now I'm bored to death. Can't relate to the actors, the dialogue is weak, the stories are weak, there is no substance left. What makes a good series is the psychological aspects in a good manuscript, a good dialogue, good instruction of the actors, and the feeling that you can relate somehow to the protagonists. That you can maybe learn something new, that there are details you can nerd about.
Vikings has become just a pale pastiche, a tableau with no content other than kitched costumes and corny hairdos. And that silly accent, is it supposed to be a nordic accent? Why do the actors always make a stupid mimic when they are suppose to be angry? And Lagerthas hair looks lige something from a B film fantasy series. Sorry, you lost me....
Watched s1 and s2 two times and didnt even bother to watch new episodes in 2019. All actors are overacting and story is such a mess that we cant even try to follow it.


                
Prudish violent pornography. The producers are so afraid to show a little flesh yet go into great detail to show detailed obscene violence. This series becomes boring and predictable halfway through the second series. Thanks for showing someone's lungs being pulled out. Yet you wouldn't show a beautiful woman bathing in a stream in the first series. What hypocrites. The story is the same over and again and unfortunately the main actor has only two expressions - I'm trying to be cute and how can I stop the viewer going to,sleep, I know I'll chop someone's head off, or slit their throat. The overall acting of the other participants is not much better. Everyone seems to be acting against each other and not in harmony. Maybe having an international cast produced some form of international rivalry but what it actually produces is a lot of over acting.
This can be grouped as one of those lame, silly and highly rated series. I wouldn't advise anyone to see this show because you would feel as though you have wasted your time watching it.I forced my self through season 1 and most at times use the fast forward to Skip most of the silliness. This show is just a crazy soap opera (where people spend 5 to 10 minutes talking about just one thing). There are so many dumb soap operas on TV already so why this one too.I cannot conclude without commenting on the season finally, which I must say is the worst season finally I have ever witnessed. It was boring and confusing as hell.I would advise anyone to stay away from this dumb soap opera. I know I am not going in for any of the silliness in season 2.


                
As everybody I was exited when this show started. And it was good, the costumes, the actor playing, decors, everything. Just one thing I don't like, and that made me give up on that movie once and for all - it have nothing together with the reality. These psycho executions have nothing together with what vikings were, with their history, traditions and mentality. Yes, they were rough people, but not such an bloodlust animals. You can't cut the guts of someone with such ferocity and with these arms care for your children. It's not normal, it's not what really happened and it's not interesting to me. There's always blood in battles in history, this is not history, this is perversion.


                
I first rated it 7 before I see season 4 but now I rate it 3 because now I think I have wasted my time. It has ruined the history and falsified the culture of that age. What is shows from the culture and believes of those years in those countries involved is just fake. Everything in it is just unbelievable and as mentioned it is good just to waste your time


                
It is created well with regard to filmmaking techniques and it attracts to to follow. But it's far away from reality especially regarding the fights and wars. Tbe Great Army of Scandinavia wasn't great because of only the worriers but because of their number. In this film, the kings and soldiers of England and France are shown all so weak and fool, while the Vikings are shown all so smart and great worriers that each of them kills 100 people at the same time. On the hand, it has tried to show the women like Lagertha such a great worrier but at the same time she has a beautiful face with no single scar from so many wars and so sexy that attracts everyone. It's far away from the reality. A woman that fights like that cannot act like porn stars for the kings like King Eckbert


                
A made for TV series just can't get any worse than this. Incredibly bad acting, a convoluted script, historical inaccuracies, filmed with incredibly bad lighting. It seems that there is some school of bad acting hidden in the mountains of Scandinavia and unless you are an honors graduate of it, you weren't hired by the producers. The main character seems to believe that raised eyebrows and trying to make his eyes look weird is good acting. His emotional gamut runs from nothing to nothing. The script is tedious and has the same plot lines each week with just different characters executing them.I don't think it possible to make a more boring, often ludicrously bad series if you tried. Watch paint dry; you'll get more out of it.


                
Loud drumming, bad music, the usual gratuitous violence but story progression at a standstill. Loud crowd scenes, loud drums. Fake excitement. Vikings had an interesting story going with the English guy. But it's just filler lately with characters engaging in gratuitous violence for no particular reason. And always the loud drums and chanting. Milk the cow slowly but play the fife lowly. The sound technicians on the History Channel are out of control on several productions. The History of the World in 2 Hours, the Story of Us, and other productions are masking weak content with loud drums and chanting. Excited yet? Crank it up! Vikings is losing me as a fan.


                
A great storey in principle to be retold, but unfortunately the writers must have had a combined mental age of 7. The most annoying main characters remain until the end of the current series whilst the better have not. Such a shame, I could mention the poor casting, terrible fight seens, shocking investment in extras or absolutely nonsensical storey lines but I will simply say... don't waste ur life on such garbage as it is time you can never recoup. Poor effort.


                
I used to like this show but not anymore, it is extremely historically inaccurate and offensive in its representation Muslims and Arabs in season 5.


                
Only seasons 1-2 are worth watching. I got to season 4 watched the first episode and will now quit. Recycling plots. There are no characters.. they are so flat initially with limited personalities. Then to counter that they become completely unpredictable turning on each other for no reason. It's tedious.. there's no flow or consistency. Whoever made this is only out to get that shock factor. Many scenes now don't add up to the plot but are just shot to fool the viewers and have them surprised. Don't waste your time


                
The acting can't be faulted, everything else can. The Viking warriors are clearly built by Cyberdynne Industries, no matter how hard you try you can't kill them. All Saxons, Gauls and Arabs are so pitifully weak you'd find it hard to believe they had the strength to breath let alone walk.As well as all Norse being invincible and superhuman they possess a much higher level of intelligence and tactics then their feeble foe. I don't understand why they haven't conquered the known world, had 1 Viking from this series fought at Thermopylae the 300 Spartans would have all survived, not a single Persian would have survived, just one Viking would have destroyed the combined Roman Legions.The clothing, armour and weaponary are fantasy from a great range of ages, mostly from many hundreds years after these events. It must have been a very boring life being a Viking as life must have been with challenges, even starvation and plagues can't kill these characters.Real events were far more challenging hence sagas, well done Hollywood you've destroyed yet more history, one redeeming feature is there aren't any navy seals saving the world for once.


                
