Be thankful for what we got.. seasons 1 through 3. Fascinating program. The story of Ragnar, the acting of Travis Fimmel and the extraordinary detail made the first three seasons compelling. Tostig. My god, the guy had what less than twenty lines and stole the show. And then the bottom fell out of the show. Supporting characters were tasked with carrying the show and they weren't up to it. What was an epic story morphed into an epic cluster____ of pointless events, battles and internal squabbling to the point where I don't care who wins or loses anymore. And I"m sick of Lagertha and Boneless. Oddly enough, a secondary character, King Harald, had potential. Too bad he's sidelined as semi-comedic material. Excellent actor.But give the show credit -- remember how great the first three seasons were.


                
Thank you travis Fimmel for an amazing seires amazing story and great acting. The plot is dark and engaging season 1-4.5 Till the episode 'All his angels'. Then they lost the plot and it just seems like the are dragging the show for no reason anybody becomes anybodys lover son is not son and uncle becomes the father daily and goes all gives you totally daily show vibes. Loki still tries to hold down the show but with the sense of adventure and storyline its just losing its touch.
I will suggest season 1-3 a must watch
Season 4 Not bad
Season 5 Ignore
Vikings is fresh, smart, as historically accurate as it can be considering the people they're talking about had runes as an alphabet, but the charisma of the story was the rise of Ragnar and his precise & quiet war strategy and tactics. Once that was gone and a bunch of Disney kids took over, it fell flat and stale. Unfortunate really because seasons 1-3 are possibly the beat thing on TV since The Sopranos. Killing Athelstan was also a bad choice because his dynamic with Ragnar was the real love story of the show. Still, a big fan, but now I watch it more out of obligation then pleasure, which is a sign that maybe I should stop? Tell me Seer! Should I give up on Vikings?
Really enjoyed this show early on. Seasons 1 & 2, moved more slowly, but told a great story. Then the show started downhill with the fading of Ragnar. His character became a drag on the show until he was killed and instead of turning to Bjorn and Lagertha (likeable characters you were invested in from the beginning), they went to Ivar, who is incredibly unlikeable.
I am delighted to see all the reviewers energetically debating the merits of "The Vikings" first episode----it demonstrates that they acknowledge the historical value of the period the show is portraying. Yes, there were historical inaccuracies in the plot. This will enlighten the scriptwriters to the fact that viewers ARE paying attention! That being said, I thoroughly enjoyed the first episode---all that lush eye candy for a novice historical student of the Viking culture! This episode has chosen to jump in at some point in time, and chose the year of 793----without all the back story of a long and comparatively stable history of trade with the "southern lands". The Scandinavian countries were undefined and fluid at that time, and were generally lumped into the "heathen" northmen. In order to impress the pope and to be acknowledged as the holy Roman Emperor of Europe, around the year 772 Charlemagne took a great interest in converting the heathens to Christianity. In his campaign to forcibly convert the northmen, he first baptized, then brutally murdered the recalcitrant civilian pagans----many, many thousands at a time. The northmen who managed to escape to their more northern cousins told of the brutality (and extraordinarily rich) Christians. The attack on Lindesfarne was undoubtedly vicious, but did not occur without previous provocation.We all watch the show for different reasons, but if the producers can keep a reasonable level of historical accuracy, and weave in the interest and action needed to balance the whole show out----I can see a long run for "The Vikings". I am watching.


                
The Viking era is an exciting one. I'm glad to see this series because too often of late, we are getting our history from film, not books, so perhaps a new generation can come to know this culture. We are getting a glimpse of a very unique, if savage way of life that helped shape Europe.The series itself has a wealth of legend to draw from and fill several seasons. The series opens in 793 AD, however, Ragnar's fate is beyond that. Like Spartacus, he is a legendary figure and the writers of this series have a lot to play with in what was Europe's Dark Ages. So far so good for this series. The first episode, Rites of Passage, is a good introduction. I am hoping that since it is the work of the History Channel that we will get some authenticity in this series and not just entertainment. Like I said, so far, so good.


                
I admit I do not watch many TV shows but this show captivated me with the story line and my general appreciation of historical drama.My breakdown of this show is rather simple.Season 1 focus on Scandinavia, goes well and shows Ragnar's climb to power.Season 2 focus on Old English Kingdoms, great plots are created here.Season 3 focus on events in Old England and taking Paris. The whole Paris siege is by far my favorite of the series. Top of the mountain at this point.Season 4A focus is lost or rather a stall, we are now going downhill. The side plot continues over in Wessex, but Ragnar becomes a drug addict and the second invasion of Paris was more or less a dud compare to the first time. I am not complaining that the Vikings lost, it is just that this season built up so much and seemed like it did not deliver. Even the silly fist fight between Ragnar and Rollo was lame. Maybe that is why they have another 10 episodes attached to season 4 to finish things off in style? I just hope Season 4B turns things around, otherwise they might have one fewer person watching season 5.Summary, Season 1-3 are great. Season 4 needs a big turnaround with the final 10 episodes.
Movie costumer dealing with Vikings , their life in Norway , Denmark and early England under partial Viking rule . Concerning the adventures of Ragnar Lothbrok : the greatest hero of his age . Ragnar personifies himself the rich tradition of Norse mythology . The series tells the saga of Ragnar being a fairly elaborate and high level costume adventure of Vikings battling among them and the British for power and glory in the 9th Century . ¨Vikings¨ is an epic adventure/drama filled with impressive fights including gore and blood , but is also a story about family , friendship and self-improvement .This enjoyable picture packs adventures , brutal battles , thrills, good action scenes and results to be very entertaining . The main starring , Travis Fimmel , is good , he gives a nice performance as leader of a band of Vikings driving his ship sets sail for the unknown land in search of Britanny kingdom . Big-name television cast as well as luxurious production design and breathtaking scenarios . Although full of stupid historical errors and unbelievable events , the series is pretty well . Great location footage with sweepingly photography of both Ballyhenry , Ashford Studios as well as other gorgeous outdoors from Ireland . Spectacular and evocative musical score by Trevor Morris . The series was handsomely shot and directed with verve and muscle , being efficiently produced by Michael Hirst . Rating : Good , fine battle scenes , wonderful cinematography and locations make the series a standout . This throughly amusing historical epic stands up to teens and adults viewings . Don't miss for Viking saga aficionados.There is also a deep description about Viking life though the narration , including important roles , these are the followings : Ragnar Lodbrok very good performed by Travis Fimmel , and based on historical character , as he was a powerful sea-king of the 9th century ; in 845, he invaded West France and plundered there for a time before he extracted a large ransom from King Charles the Bald Charlemagne's grandson, he invaded Northumbria in England, and plundered there as well , his army then set up camp in Northumbria, and used it as a base for attacking the other Anglo-Saxon kingdoms as well as Ireland, Scotland and Wales . Rollo finely played by Clive Standen , he is Ragnar Lothbrok's brother , who is also a fierce warrior but is more impetuous and less thoughtful than Ragnar, who often overshadows him , he has a wild, impulsive streak . Floki interpreted by Gustaf Skarsgard , he is a good friend to Ragnar and also an eccentric and incorrigible trickster , in battle he prefers a small hatchet and long knife over the more traditional Viking ax or sword , his lover is Helga . Lagertha Lothbrok marvelously acted by Katheryn Winnick , she is the wife of Ragnar and a fierce shieldmaiden , she has fought alongside her husband and shares his lust for adventure , she is more than capable of defending herself and her family , even though doing so in some cases is considered a crime . Athelstan played by George Blagden is a young Anglo-Saxon Christian monk who is captured and taken from his monastery by Ragnar Lo on his unsanctioned raid to Lindisfarne in Northumbria , he is kind and gentle and trustworthy ; he struggles to keep his faith in the Nordic pagan society . Jessalyn Gilsig plays Siggy Haraldson , she is the dutiful wife of Earl Haraldson , Gabriel Byrne , the Viking chieftain , although she appears loyal to him , Siggy understands that Ragnar might make a play for her husband's position and seems to have an understanding of the politics in play and an ability to ensure that she comes out on top . Furthermore , Alyssa Sutherland as Princess Aslaug ,subsequent wife to Raganar ; Alexander Ludwig as Bjorn Lothbrok , Rajnar's son ; , Linus Roache as King Ecbert ; Maude Hirst as Helga ; Donal Logue as King Horik ; John Kavanagh as The Seer , among others .


                
Each season the series gets lamer ans lamer, first seasons were great, lot of violence, gore, nudity, you name it. Last seasons the action hardly has any gore, nudity is restricted to an elbow, it;s just not the same anymore.
My advise, watch seasons 1 - 4 and stop at 5, so not to get too much disappointed.


                
the feminists are ruining the show even more.I am sorry, but women were not part of any battles in Medieval Europe. The shows insistence that they were, insults the real story of the Viking expansion. No one denies that women held a good deal of influence in Norse politics of the time, but to tell me they were part of a Viking Shield wall is ludicrous.I really love the story of Ragnar, and it is the reason i tune in. I don't tune in to see some lib feminists propaganda...indeed most entertainment is doing more and more of this, and i don't see any end, or entertainment in it.. No Viking Warrior is going to follow a woman into battle, especially with the hand to hand fighting...these shows become detestable in their propaganda....


                
I must agree with many of the reviews, that Vikings early seasons were the best. Stories really begin ti fizzle in many series as the years pass due to the fact that producers attempt to push the point of anticipation, but then material can only be enjoyable to an extant.
One point I'd like to bring to light is the changing of Floki. In an episode from the first season he advises Ragnar to "always assume the worst of people, it will lessen the disappointment" when Rollo took Jarl Borg side and now he believed he could assemble 'fine' people to join him in the 'land of the gods'. Floki's trial & tribulations may have played part in his beliefs but I do not believe they should have portrayed him to be that naive, after all his strong characteristics supported Ragnar and influenced the sons as they grew up.
I was hoping for the best from this show, but I was sorely disappointed. The writing is average, at best, and it doesn't try to hold onto historical Viking tales that could have brought real life to this show. The script is too Hollywood with the usual dumb mini-series types of interactions that plague television on a day-to-day basis.Even with all the script defects, Travis Fimmel is just absolutely terrible as the lead character. He doesn't look like a Viking and he looks more like someone trying out for those fake wrestling programs. I will give this show a few more views to see if it can develop more with the script and hopefully mature. Maybe Fimmel will get better rather than the wooden performance he has given thus far.


                
Really love the show. Interesting characters and good plot. A lot of nice locations and the fights are great to. Started a bit slow but getting better episode by episode. I heard some dutch dude Lopez Mishael Cardozo might play King Hakon in the next season or some future episodes. There will be other interesting new faces as well. Can't wait to see more.
I wish I could give this show a full 10 stars but frankly with the 4th season everything starts going down hill. But I love the first 3!!!! The first season is still my favorite but it is of course what caught my interest so that makes sense. I think the writer should go back and re watch it and pay attention to what made this show so good. It's like it's a practically new show in the 4th season with lots of new characters. If the writer would have slowed down and possibly fit in one more season before going the route he did in the 4th one; the characters he tried to jump to would have been better developed. I've also noticed some hiccups throughout the show that were never addressed and some of those bother me. I hope it makes a comeback but they killed off my favorite character so we will see.
Vikings is a good show, make no mistake. The production team, the actors and writers are all obviously dedicated and though I did enjoy it quite a bit, it felt lacking in a lot of aspects. The characters are somewhat stereotyped and the character development is very limited. I've seen all 4 seasons and am awaiting the second part of season 4, but I cannot ignore some of the major faults the show has failed to correct. The characters though compelling and believable are not in any way relateble or enjoyable to watch. I found myself hoping they'd fail, especially Ragnar, Floki, Rollo and Bjorn which all failed miserably in captivating my sympathies. The women however, I felt were a lot more interesting, Lagertha, Auslaug, Siggy and Helga were all (to my eyes) more captivating and less predictable. Once upon a time, I tried watching the first episode of the first season of Vikings, got through ten minutes, then could no longer continue. Recently, I gave season one another chance, and managed to stick with it despite my irritation. My main problem with the series, the one that made me stop watching the first time was Ragnar. I simply cannot stand him. Everything about him grates on me, and though his actions vindicate my dislike, I hated him before he even did anything to earn it. It's the way he holds himself, the way he talks to other people, his entire demeanor. He's a condescending jerk, and I can't stand him. Seriously, he created this whole situation, and now he expects everyone else to take responsibility for his mistakes while he gets to sacrifice nothing. And demean everyone he's wronged with his mistakes in the process. But it is glorious to watch people not take that from him, though I do feel bad for all the people he's hurting. Finally, there's the fact that Vikings seemingly STOLE a bunch of ideas and plot points from Game of Thrones (even in the way it films certain shots), and being a hardcore fan of GoT, this just made me cringe even more. Vikings has some great elements, and the creator definitely managed to capture the raw beauty of the viking world and culture, and though Vikings makes up for its lack of historical accuracy and slow pace with a heaping helping of violence, romance, and striking visuals, in the end, it's flaws are too big and too important to ignore.
This is a very interesting series, I like how it is so bare and shares the worst with the life at that time.The bad is that the story is very jumpy in time-wise. A lot of the story doesn't hold very good, examples a lot of talk about raids in the east in Russia? There was no Russia and the name Russia comes from Ryssland / Rusland which means the lands of the Rus, the Rus is the Vikings from Roslagen in the north of Stockholm, Sweden. Also talking about the "ting" (council) near Kattegatt, that would mean maybe near the present Gothenburg or Halmstad in Sweden or on the Danish side, that would mean in account with raids in the "east" that it is about Vikings in Götaland (Geats / Goths) in Sweden which is between Kattegatt and Baltic sea, but then all of sudden the nature looks more Norwegian like Vestlandet but more far to north because of the northern light shown in episode one. So the story doesn't work at all if you are critical to the geographic position.Still this is a very good TV series and I will try to watch every episode of it until the last one, it's very entertaining and teaching a lot about the Norse culture in Scandinavia even if the angle is very American.


                
They seem to leave out the details for the sake of moving the show and drama along. I guess I was looking for a bit more "history" on the History Channel. I don't know but I have a feeling they want to get on the "Rome" bandwagon with HBO, and the "Downton Abbey" with PBS. I have watched the first three episodes and am still interested, but sense the budget constraints affected the details. I appreciate the attempt to show bloody fights but on the whole its fairly PG-13. The actor playing Ragnar, the "hero" of the series, does a great job. Travis Fimmel is outstanding as a Viking. The other actors interesting enough that it has potential of being a hit.
Vikings is not a show that I love, but knowing that it is my heritage, I love how they are represented. I am very tall myself, standing at 6'4, and it is so nice to see so many strong characters. I like being able to see what my ancestors did, no matter how savage, because I know they were fighting for land and better lives for their family. As time goes on throughout the seasons I love how different lands are explored and different characters come into play. There is gradual change each season as the budget for the show increases as well. All of the seasons are amazing I would say except 4A, but I would not even say that is terrible, merely mediocre. The writing is slower and it is not as entertaining as other seasons, but it provides ample set-up for 4B that is absolutely incredible. I suggest this for someone who likes gory TV and is Norwegian. I hope people like it!!!


                
This is an excellent movie depicting capitalism at it's best. But let me explain. Some guys make a joint venture that basically strips some unfortunate people from foreign countries out of their resources and/or lives. However, the business is not going so well as resources become scarce in the areas that the company operates. Therefore, one of the employees decides to take fate is his own hands and open his own company in direct competition with the main company. So the employee decides to operate in an area interdicted by the main company's CEO, who apparently is also lacking vision on the matter. Because the new area of operations is already full of marketing brainwashed people who give away their possessions to a company that promises a brighter future and is very easy to take over, things go excellent for the small company.That does not go without peril though, as the CEO (lord) is not happy with small guys making a killing for themselves and decides to take legal action against the smaller enterprise. Now the small enterprise that went rogue from the main company loses most of its resources through legal action and the poor chap owning the small company is even compelled into hiring his own wife to help out with the work. Since the small company is making a killing again, the big company's CEO decides to pursue the smaller company's ventures and create a merger with the smaller company. Now I don't know yet what happens further because I only saw 3 episodes, but I'm quite sure capitalism triumphs in the end so I'm gonna watch this with great joy and passion.


                
Seasons 1 and 2, even season 3, were great. Awesome even. Ragnar is an intriguing character; intelligent, curious as to what else is there, open to new ideas and new ways of life. He seems to always be one, two steps ahead, is mysterious, intense and sometimes quirky. I really loved his character in the first 3 seasons. 
Same with Lagertha, Raganr's one true love, a strong woman who deals with the betrayal of her husband and the loss of one child. She is strong-willed, strong in general, intelligent and can hold her water even around the best of warriors.Really, the Viking world presented in this series is equally fascinating, beautiful and gruesome. You want to hate the characters for their brutality and cruelty, e.g. killing, no, slaughtering, harmless farmers, women and children instead of only warriors. Enjoying murdering innocent people, raiding whole cities and leaving behind a trail of destruction and death. On the other hand you grow to like them, suffer with them, root for them. Vikings is an unique show that kept me on the edge of my seat. Great, captivating plot, intriguing and refreshingly different and flawed characters, great scenery and cinematography.Up until season 4, that is.... Unfortunately, I might add.Same as with so many other great shows, writers and directors seemed to have run out of good ideas, but tried to keep milking the cash cow. The lack of new ingenious storylines is "compensated" by inventing stupidly overdone, implausible, soap-y storylines. Adding drama for drama's sake. Destroying characterisations, letting characters act in ways that is in (utter) contradiction to their previous behaviour.While Ragnar was my favourite character throughout season 1 to 3, he slowly but surely progressed to a pathetic, laughable, weak caricature of his once great self. The storyline became ridiculous, convoluted, and downright unbelievable at times. Ragnar's (sudden) downfall is simply not believable, the loss of his high-spirited, ambitious self and his sudden drug addiction facilitated by the introduction of the Chinese slave/princess just totally out-of-character. 
Lagertha's grab of power to become Queen, or at least the way she does it, is not thought-out, stupid and, if you ask me, not quite in character with her previous characterisation either. Talk about beating a dead horse....I can't help but be disappointed at how the makers of this show managed to mangle, destroy all their previous good work with the stupidity that follows in the newer seasons. So my rating of this show is somewhat ambiguous...
Season 1 and 2: 10 stars, 
Season 3: 8 stars, 
Season 4 and 5: (weak) 6 starsOverall a very weak 8. A shame really, because seasons 1-3 were utterly amazing.


                
As much as I enjoy this series(which is very good, not great, but very good) it's disappointing as with many of the History Channel's shows and movies since oh, I don't know, 2000, give or take(possibly much sooner), it's not very accurate. While the battles are largely true to depiction, many of the characters are not. Take Ivar the Boneless, for example. Much of how he was depicted in the series has no factual basis, nor written text to prove what the series suggests he was like. While this alone I don't have an issue with, it's the fact that The History Channel is the channel that this series is on. A channel that at one time only produced and aired content that was factual in every way. Well, clearly that is no longer the case. And it's no more evident than watching this series, however good it may or may not be.


                
This show is very well written and is stunning for it's realism. It is not 100% historically accurate but true enough. Is great for history buffs and action television lovers alike!


                
Good acting,expensive production values and realistic violence ie be headings,running through etc.Excellent start to the series,well worth a look.Much better than UK television dramas.The geography of the area is stunning with ribbon waterfalls going down the mountains to the fjords.Im not sure how much c.g.i. is used but it looks realistic.The screenplay is quite true to life eg people go to the toilet,lie and cheat.The lead actor seems well suited to a swashbuckling role and the lead actress is fiesty and beautiful in equal measures.The ship is a beautiful creation,with the familiar horses head type prow that is powered by oars as well as a great big single sail.The attacks in England are beautifully realistic in their brutality.


                
Having sat through the first two seasons of "Vikings", I must say that I am positively surprised by the production of this TV series. There is a great continuous flow to the storyline throughout the entire first season, although towards the end it starts to become a little bit too much like "Melrose Place" with all the intrigue and double-crossing going on. But luckily where as the drama started to run high towards the end of season one, when season two kicks off the show steps away from the melodramatic path it started on towards the end, and go in a whole other direction.Aside from that, then it is a greatly entertaining series. Especially if you are from Scandinavia, which I happen to be. The scenery throughout season one is great, you just got to love the majestic mountains, fjords and forests portrayed here. Odd, though, why it wasn't actually filmed in Norway where it was supposed to take place, but filmed in Ireland.There were some flaws to the show though. First of all, I am pretty sure that they didn't say "having sex" back in that period of time. If they had said "laying with" or "bedding" in stead, it would have been much more accurate and believable. And also, my ancestors didn't speak English with badly-imitated Scandinavian accents. That aspect of the series, albeit acceptable, just brought down the show a notch in its overall believability. Have the vikings speak Norse and the Englishmen speak English.The battle and fighting scenes in the series were alright, although there were moments here and there that were lacking finesse and conviction, where you could see how painfully choreographed the fighting was, as people just stood about waiting for their turn, when there were so obviously openings in the combatants defenses.What really carries the series are the characters. These characters are well-portrayed, and have lots of personalities, traits, depths and are very likable or unlikable. Every single character contributes to something unique to the series. And my personal favorite is Floki, he is just all-through amazing, devious and hilarious. And of course I have to mention the concept of the appearance of the Seer, that was just a stroke of genius. Throughout the first season we get established some fairly alright views into each of the characters, but with season two it just goes one step further, and really delves deeper into the layers of the various characters, which was a really, really great direction for the show to go.As for the actors and actresses and their performances, well they had put together a great ensemble of talents for this series, just a shame that they hadn't opted to go for a full Scandinavian cast, and integrate the proper language more than they had. That whole random switching between Norse and English when the vikings were talking was just not working all that great, but you learn to cope with it, because the show has so much to offer that these minor flaws and moments of irritation fade away.Whether or not you are interested in the Viking era and part of the Scandinavian mythology, then "Vikings" is a great show to watch, it is entertaining and really well-produced.I had initially rated "Vikings" 7 out of 10 stars after having gotten through season one. But not that season two has come to a close, and with the impressive direction in which the show is progressing, I am upping my rate to an 8 out of 10.


                
so I got into this show the other night while hanging out with my aunt (who is already a fan and was doing a refresher marathon in preparation for the season 2 premiere) and I thought it was going to be a snore-fest or something I'd have such a tough time suspending my disbelief for because the actors would look too much like 21st century jokers masquerading and trying sell their poor re-enactments but this was not the case. Everything looks believable and within the limits of what can be shown on basic cable. I am usually not into this sort of dramatic adventure let alone a show that airs on the History channel (unless an actor I like is starring in it) but I definitely will be catching up on the episodes I've missed thus far and joining the fandom for season 2 tomorrow.
