I've been waiting for someone to make a good series about the vikings. I'm from Norway myself, and I'm naturally interested in our history. I've only seen two episodes so far, but I have to say - it really looks promising. The surroundings and nature in the two first episodes is exactly how it looks in "Vestlandet", the western parts of Norway. Stunnings fjords with waterfalls cascading down the sides. It really looks authentic.The acting is mostly top notch, a few short scenes aren't that great but it's hardly mentionable. It seems like in the beginning, people are speaking an incomprehensible Norse/English mix, and then they continue speaking a modern English. It's pretty clever actually. Fun fact: When the Vikings invaded the British isles they could understand each other's languages.The story itself is really exciting, and I just want to watch more.. I can hardly wait for the next episode to be released. I don't know so much about the Ragnar Lodbrok character, but Rollo (Gangarolf) is a very famous character in the Norse sagas.I highly recommend this show, and I really hope they continue making this for several seasons.


                
Maybe it isn't real 100 percent history. Some liberties were taken, but for the most part is seems to ring true.At times it almost seems like a contemporary crime drama, but the facts are there-the raids on British monastaries that did occur in the late 8th century, a fairly realistic depiction on what Norse life was probably like at this timeline, the spectacular countryside with its majestic forests and rivers, and the depictions of the Vikings themselves. Savage, eager to loot and plunder, but nevertheless bound by a sort of code of honor. Their acts are savage and the chieftan seems more like a medieval Godfather who uses his power for his own personal gain and who is not above killing somebody on the spot if he is displeased with his actions. The storyline is fairly literate and not the usual mindless adventure that too many of these movies present to us, and the characters are convincingly drawn and likely motivated. The music is good and the full size replicas of the ships are very accurate. Even the deliberate pace works to its advantage, we are never rushed and the story develops as it moves along. It is never dull and there is plenty of interest to engage the viewer. However, if you are put off by graphic violence , don't watch it. Those times were fairly brutal. Fine entertainment . Enjoy it.


                
As usual on IMDb fictional dramas set in a particular period in history attract the bores that insist on bleating 'its not historically accurate'. Well just ignore them as this is a fantastic and exciting look at the relatively unexplored Viking world. In the same vein as other fictional historical dramas such as Spartacus or Rome the plot centres around a single character and their family. We then take a brief look into their world and are shown how dangerous a place the world was at this time. The show has a quality feel to it not like some of the more poorly made historical drama around today (sorry but Camelot was just awful!). The sets are impressive and believable and the direction and framing of each scene is obviously set by a skilled hand. The characters are all interesting and likable and the acting is top notch. The only negative I could draw on was that there could have been a bit more action in the first episode but what action there was was very well done. My advice to you, just watch and enjoy it for what it is and don't be out off by the history buffs. If we insisted on only ever watching historical drama that was 100% accurate I'm pretty sure we would be watching none at all. Great show, a solid nine out of ten.


                
I have a major problem with Vikings. How come Legartha, Ragnar's first wife still looks like she's 25 when Ragnar's 70? Right I have to write more about this so I'll go on, Floki is an old man but his wife too has retained her young woman good looks. This is fascinating, obviously the Gods were much kinder to women than they were to men at this time in history or maybe I could dare to venture that this is so far from the truth that it ruins what would otherwise be a very interesting and historically vaguely accurate series.
I came across this show randomly. I didn't know what the show is all about and what the story line is, I thought its just a typical show. But alas! I was wrong. The show is by far among excellent shows I have ever seen. I don;t know why it is underrated as compared to GOT. According to me its on par with GOT. All the actors especially Travis Fammel (Ragnar Lothbrok) did mesmerizing acting. I highly recommend all those people who like GOT to see this show.
What is there to be said about this series that hasn't already been said? If you want an action filled series with good plots then you should be in for a treat. I would like to mention the series spiritual aspect. The Vikings were clearly very spiritual. And we get to see them encounter the new religion, Christianity, that was to replace their old belief system. This is a topic that is central. Most clearly seen in the lead characters Ragnar, Floki and their trell Ahtelstan (who is a devoted Christian, but who finds himself in conflict in his spiritual journey). I think the series does not hit the nail completely, but to their credit they try and do an OK job. I do miss more details of the Viking rites, their lore and how integrated it was into everything they did. It's also a very good portrait of how England was formed, from being divided into regions into the unity that later was to be known as United Kingdom. If there's something negative to mention I'd say that they chose some odd music (imo) to accompany the Vikings. I did not know that Scandinavians were into Mongolian throat singing :)
My wife and I really like the series. I couldn't wait for the second season to start. With that said, since this is a History Channel series, one might be inclined to look upon this as an accurate representation of the Viking period during the Middle Ages. It is not, there is much not quite right about the history, (for example, some historians think Ragnar never existed). But in the defense of the creators, much during the Viking period is not well documented, as they don't have a true written history outside of what rune stones provide, so there is plenty of room for "artistic license". One should think of this as "Goodfellas" meets "Erik the Red". I like the characters, and there is just enough accurate history to allow one to track what might happen next just by reading about the characters in Wikipedia. (Reading Wikipedia is my spoiler alert). Very engrossing and well done.
Scandinavia and Britain in the Middle Ages, Ragnar Lothbrok has a vision that goes beyond the village or even his land. With charisma, political and military tactics, he creates opportunities that bring new ways for his but also in a way the British people. History Channel made a TV series that's absolutely worth watching; 1) it's about Vikings (rare) and 2) it gives interesting views on Middle Ages (equally rare). At first I compared it with Game of Thrones. Though a big GofTh fan, that doesn't this series justice. Season 1 starts a bit slow (so did GofTh) but the topic was rare enough to stick to it. After a few episodes, I loved it. It has historic merits (GofTh doesn't) and the story becomes more exciting, faster and now in the third season, it often has unexpected twists. There are plenty of power struggles: Ragnar at first with Earl Haraldson and later with King Ecbert of Wessex. Bother/son struggles between Ragnar, Rollo and Bjorn. Love power games between Ragnar, Lagertha and Princess Aslaug. Then then there's Siggy, difficult to describe without a spoiler. My fav is the latest development between Athelstan and King Ecbert. If they keep it up, it's beyond "The Name of the Rose" quality.It's an absolute 9. I can't wait to see this again on Blue Ray. If they continue to make this story from several angles even better than it already is, there's a chance I re-rate a 10.


                
This series is simply awesome it couldn't be any more epic if they tried and it is so historically accurate I decided to research vikings and everything that happens in this happened in real life apart from some of the characters. Its no game of thrones obviously but it is simply GLORIOUS and its the fact that there isn't much fantasy elements in it that make much more realistic and entertaining. The combat is very realistic and the vikings are simply baddass it is also interesting to look into the lives of the ancient vikings and funnily enough you end up rooting for these guys even though they are the ones going to england and raiding them xD. VALHALLA!!!!!


                
Please kill the arc with Flokie on Iceland/Greenland. It's just boring..


                
There simply isn't anything as good on film or television. Do a quick search of other films based on the Vikings for a laugh. Nothing but B-films and flops. This show is only bested by Game of Thrones, but that is a different category of show altogether.This show is better than Braveheart, A Knight's Tale, Robin Hood, Tristan and Isolde, Gladiator or any medieval drama with a massive budget.This show is only getting better and better, with the writers saying there will be new countries introduced - Iceland, Russia, etc.The characters are unique and the story is original. I can't guess what will happen in the next episode, much less over the season, which is the case in many medieval films where the story is clichéd: bastard child of the king returns, conflict over succession of throne, generic power struggles and so on.Watch this, you won't regret it.


                
To all British readers, if you are in a situation where members of your family occasionally lay claim to "Viking blood" (as is the case in my family) then this wonderful series will make it crystal clear how that gene pool was originally mixed into yours. And the dinnertime conversations may never be the same again.What we are seeing is yet again an example of the breakout in quality from the stratification and de-construction of the multi-channel universe. Is this a history show or a drama? Answer: not merely a drama, but one of the best.All the actors are exceptional but watch Travis Fimmel as the lead, he uses the whisper as a device not seen on the screen since the days of Clint Eastwood.Superb.


                
When this came out i was in no rush to see it. I watched the first episode and wasn't thoroughly impressed after watching the first opening fight sequence i was worried this would be another Spartacus with unrealistic slow motion 300 type fight scenes.... LUCKILY IT WASN't...!! after the second episode the series started getting better and better! The acting is awesome! I can't fault any character. Travis Fimmel who plays the main character Ragnar Lothbrok plays his role amazingly well. There is no cringe worthy dialogue , The characters really look tough not like some of the dweeby looking heroes in TV series now days. Sure there are some historical errors but this is a great story. If anything this makes me more interested in researching vikings. The series progresses quickly, and gets more interesting as the explore new lands and customs. The Battle scenes are the most realistic i have seen yet. Even though there are a couple of break free from the phalanx and be a hero type warrior moments, i love how they keep the battle tactics tight and in formations. Like shield formations and outflank tactics. I can imagine that the budget is small so they cant exactly have massive epic battles but nonetheless they did a great job.I highly recommend this. This series thoroughly depicts an era of Hero worship and adventure that we have all lost.
After the Fall of the Roman Empire, circa 400 CE, Europe and her surrounding territories plunged into an abysmal era, often called the Dark Ages. While some believe the term too pejorative, other scholars have acknowledged it as a strange time when societal infrastructure was very tenuous. Warring barbarians battled for land and wealth across Europe until the territory was more or less united under Charlemagne in circa 800. Of the many barbarian groups associated with the Dark Ages, including the Goths and the Huns, the Vikings still capture our imaginations. Their picturesque ships with ornamented bow and single mast sail are iconic imagery associated with voyage, plunder and even pagan mythology. Their battle-axes, thick swords, and wooden shields symbolize a world plunged into literary and cultural darkness in which warrior might was esteemed beyond all else. Unfortunately the Vikings plundered many areas of Europe, notably the Irish monasteries where beautiful books were pillaged for the jewels ornamenting their covers. The History Channel has produced a narrative series chronicling the lives of a Viking tribe during the 8th century. Ragnar Lothbrok (Travis Fimmel) is the man of a humble family of four living on the outskirts of a Viking settlement. He and his family have sworn fealty to Earl Haraldson (Gabriel Byrne), the chieftain of the tribe. In the first episode, the story begins at the end of a battle in which Lothbrok has survived a brutal confrontation. We learn not only of his family and his farm but that Lothbrok is a warrior who has ambitions to raid the west by sea.Lothbrok and his son travel to the main urban center of their tribe. There, Lothbrok's son and another boy swear fealty to Earl Haraldson by kneeling and accepting a wrist ring. Oaths of fealty, the swearing of allegiance to a lord, became a widespread ceremonial rite during the Dark Ages. The ritual is associated with feudalism in which vassals swore allegiance and servitude to a lord. Before the oath, the boys along with a congregation of males, witness a trial and punishment of two residents who are convicted of crimes. After the ceremonies, Lothbrok suggests to the earl and those present that they sail west instead of their typical eastern raid. Earl Haraldson becomes indignant and chastises Lothbrok in private.However, unbeknown-st to the Earl, Lothbrok has secretly commissioned a new ship to sail west thus disobeying his lord's instructions. Thus begins a wonderful series of Viking culture intertwined with a compelling story. The production values are as good as any feature film recently produced. The photography of the lush Scandinavian landscapes is breathtaking, the acting superb, and the script compelling. This offering is far more compelling with a richer tapestry than other similar series such as the Tudors which was nothing more than a soap opera set in the 16th century. "Vikings" is one of the best historical made-for-television series since "Band of Brothers".


                
One of the best series that I've seen .Do not believe any of those negative reviews. I honestly cannot understand why some reviewers have given this such a low rating.Choose good characters and actors that play like this is just made for this role. Travis Fimmel is the best choice for the role"Ragnar Lothbrok". My best-loved characters :) "Floki" "Lagertha" And all of them have done their job well. I am now watching season one And so I saw a very good film and I had fun and I hope the rest of the series is getting better. And I am sure it is. We all watch the show for different reasons, but if the producers can keep a reasonable level of historical accuracy, and weave in the interest and action needed to balance the whole show out----I can see a long run for "The Vikings". I am watching.
The series is a breath of fresh air after Rome got over. There has been way too much of a gap for great history dramas. The Borgias doesn't get me excited. Game of Thrones is more about fantasy than history. This show does proper justice to the Vikings. It shows them as merciless warriors but also human beings who have their own civilization and laws to which they fully abide.Each character is beautifully built as you go through episodes. I for one was confused as to which side I was supporting i.e The Vikings or the Saxons.This show is so good that my mum (who doesn't speak English) has got hooked onto this and asks me for a new episode every time. All in all, a super show for History lovers.


                
This show is Sons of Anarchy - the History channel version. There is bloody violence galore, but not for the sake of gore or shock-value. It's part of the story because it is part of the history.There is a tremendous amount of attention to detail in the set design, and the clothing and props. Someone did a whole lot of research before they produced this show. I just wish that some of the shots lasted longer, so one can take in all of the detail, instead of quickly changing camera angles.The characters are well-rounded, and you come to know each one as a person, not simply an action figure. I hope this show continues for many seasons to come,and that the attention to detail remains. Also, that the writing stays as historically accurate as possible, considering that this is written for educationally entertaining drama.


                
Haven't seen any episodes until recently, since GoT is literally ruined (whole season without anything happening, for 3 seasons now they are telling us empty stories with one important episode at the end, got sick of it) I tried to find a replacement and this not only feels like a replacement but I could say that first two seasons are good as first two seasons of GoT and maybe in some segments better.Series start aggressively, the story unwraps fast, not too fast but fast enough to hold you in the place. A lot of action is also present, the storyline feels right, I'm not sure about historical facts but lets be honest, this is not a documentary.I only hope that they will continue to produce it on this level.


                
"Vikings" is a historical/adventure/drama television series, where the lead character is Ragnar Lothbrok, a viking young farmer who is ambitious and wants to explore new lands and civilizations. The character is inspired by the real Ragnar Lothbrok,a very well-known Norse hero, famous for his attempts to raid England and France. Besides him, we get to know his family and friends: his envious brother Rollo, his son Bjorn Ironside, his wife Lagertha (who is also a fantastic warrior!) his friend Floki, Aslaug, among many others characters who were also famous in the Viking Saga.Ragnar starts as a frustrated farmer, who is not satisfied with Earl Haraldson interests in only sending his vikings raiders to poor places like Russian and Baltic countries. Ragnar and his friend Floki build a faster fleet of boats to make them to the western world, where Ragnar is sure they will have richer countries to raid and a better soil to plant and live. We see the ascension of Ragnar from farmer to King, and all the different cultures who never had contact with each other before,getting into war or trying to reach a diplomacy.In my personal opinion, "Vikings" is very entertaining, even if it has some historical inaccuracies. I agree with Michael Hirst, the show runner, who said "that they had to take some liberties with Vikings, specially because no one really knows for sure what happened in the Dark Ages": If you watch "Vikings" as a TV series instead of a documentary and if you are into History/Viking/European movies/books/TV series you are probably going to enjoy it. It is one of my favorite TV series at the moment and I am anxious to the next season. The acting is also great and Katheryn Winnick is my muse!My vote is 9/10.
You need a strong stomach to watch this! I realize the over dramatization, however I watch television for the entertainment and this series is very entertaining!


                
Why are people not talking about this series like the way they talk about game of thrones? I am not comparing but I love both these shows. They both fit in the same genre. This one also has great plot, battle scenes and of course violence. Like they said, its a grownup version of game of thrones. Also good to know about how vikings lived and they created it perfectly that it transports the audience to the viking era. Glad to see it getting noticed a little nowadays.


                
I have enjoyed watching up to this most recent series and am looking forward to watching the current. Been waiting to see what happens with Floki.
A brilliant show I just came upon a few months back on prime and gotta say it's brilliant . Times back then were all about survival, fight and power . The acting is great and storyline thus far are pretty good in relation to that time period .


                
First four parts amazing but part five eeehHdhdjdjdjdjdhdhdbdhndhdgdhd


                
I'm not a fan of historical and quasi-historical films and series, so I didn't have big expectations. But first season instantly bought me. It's completely different than anything I ever saw and there's more dead than in Game of Thrones. Now I've finished the second season and the series is getting even better. It seems to me that there's also more intrigues and twists than in GoT. Acting and characterization are excellent and action scenes and fights are very realistic and convincing. Story is becoming more and more complicated and tense, and not only will it keep you focused, but also breathless. After first season I rated it eight out of ten. Now I'm raising to9/10


                
