Have a positive emotion towards this tv show.for the way they have consistent flow


                
This is epic, nature don't obey human laws. This is marvelous. I've watched this so many times on boxxy software


                
1/3/18. Like anything that Attenborough's done, this one is fantastic all around! The cinematography is fantastic! So many close-up videos of many animals in moments of suspense, during a chase, and moments of survival and mating. The best were the recordings male birds of many species doing their mating dances in colorful regalia. Each episode covers a different environment and the animals that inhabit those environs. Most amazing was the wildlife in the cities. Yep, it just not rats and cockroaches that roam the city streets.


                
Great footage and beautiful moments captured in these episodes. They all tell such dramatic stories that take place in our world: some still taking place despite of our human greed, some tragic events that occur due to it. I was really disappointed when I realized there has been no gender analytic mindset within the work of this production. I.e. descriptions of males and females in nature are done in a stereotypical, reducing and - above all - unjust way. The females (of the majority of the animals) were described as annoyed - when they were angry and aggressive, passive and weak - because focus of the story was all on the males. I am disappointed, because I thought this production was smarter and more aware of the problems within natural science: how we humans create non-existing stereotypes among the animal kingdom. How we keep on "gendering" every behavior and keeping heterosexuality as the norm.Thank you for showing us all these beautiful places and creatures and magical moments. But the stories you told with words were ignorant. On a personal level I am thankful because it has lit a fire in me: I will now learn how to handle a camera, basic wilderness knowledge and assemble a team of gender aware experts and make a modern Planet Earth.


                
