The whole series so far is a rewarding surprise. No camp caricature here but a serious, incisive portrayal of two iconic characters. Jessica Lange and Susan Sarandon create her characters based on Joan Crawford and Bette Davis with such virtuosity that every new episode allow us to go deeper without ever turning into parody. Their reality is parody enough. But what touches me is that Lange and Sarandon, taking our preconceptions into account, inspire us to look at this two women as human beings. My admiration also to Alfred Molina - Robert Aldrich? Wow! Absolute perfection. On the latest episode "And The Winner Is..." Two extraordinary moments: Geraldine Page (A superb Sarah Paulson) taking Crawford's call and surrendering to her request because "She needs it" or Anne Bancroft (a wonderful Serinda Swan) receiving Crawford in her dressing room. Bancroft and Page understand Crawford's agony even from a distance. Compassion at last. I'm enjoying Feud with all my senses. Thank you Ryan Murphy and everyone involved.


                
Superb. The dream, the wish, the thought. Sitting at a table face to face to say, I'm sorry. Thank you to Ryan Murphy and everyone concerned. Jessica Lange gives a performance that will live for ever, so does Susan Sarandon, in the last episode, her Bette Davis is there, totally, absolutely, chillingly there. What a thrill! Jessica Lange has five or six moments that I think will remain as "acting" landmarks. Alfred Molina's Robert Aldrich, devastating, brilliant! And Jack Warner's Stanley Tucci, a repellent delight. Fabulous eight episodes, eight! Enough to keep us wishing for more.


                
As someone who worked with actors all his life I'm enormously grateful to Ryan Murphy for putting together with such seriousness and such care this series about a subject that is very rarely if ever touched. And when it is, it tends to be a caricature, a satire, an exaggeration of an exaggeration. Here the drama was tangible and the work of Jessica Lange and Susan Sarandon, superlative. They managed to transport us from the times of Bette Davis and Joan Crawford, as women and actresses, to our times, without betraying it. The characters were one hundred per cent present and the actresses playing them were one hundred per cent present. If acting is an art, and it is, that mysterious fusion between actor and character is the manifestation of it. - Many young actors I'm working with at the moment, some of which had never heard of Steve McQueen, let alone Bette Davis or Joan Crawford, saw "Feud" and compelled and inspire them to want to know more. In the last few weeks I've had them come to me with stories of "All About Eve", "Humoresque", "The Little Foxes", William Wyler, George Cukor... So "Feud" has become a tool, an agent provocateur, a gateway to history, the history of their own profession. It's not wishful thinking on my part. I see it in the young one's faces. Discovering passionately, and their horizons broaden automatically. It's a joy to see. As I close this comment a heartfelt hurrah to Alfred Molina and Stanley Tucci for their fearless, remarkable performances and to everyone involved, thank you very much.


                
Now already on episode 3 I can say without a doubt. "Feud" is totally addictive. The writing, the direction, costumes and production design, it all works beautifully, satisfying those who knew nothing about the story and those of us who knew a great deal. The biggest surprise, however is the Jessica Lange and Susan Sarandon's performances that puts everything into a level way above, camp and/or caricature. Their performances are serious, profound, all consuming. Two modern stars throw themselves into the emotional investigation of two stars from the past and the results are, let me say it, extraordinary. I'm looking at Joan Crawford through an entirely new perspective. Jessica Lange has humanized her without embellishing her and Susan Sarandon plays with Bette Davis's contradictions making them crystal clear even finding a sort of justification for them. I saw the 3rd episode "Mommie Dearest" twice in a row. That's how riveted I was and still am. Let me also mention Alfred Molina as Robert Aldrich. Sensational.


                
Why was I thinking that it couldn't work? Maybe because it never does. But "Bette and Joan" present us with that always welcome exception. The introduction of this two icons has sharpness and shine. Both walking a very tight rope. Joan with desperation, Bette with defiance. It is a terrific treat to see Jessica Lange and Susan Sarandon going for the real centers rather than the caricature. Alfred Molina is priceless as Robert Aldrich and Stanley Tucci reinvents Jack Warner to a delightful perfection. The late entrance of Joan/Jessica at the theater where Bette/Susan is playing in The Night Of The Iguana is one of my favorite film moments of the young 2017 season. Now, needles to say, I can't wait for the next chapter.


                
This is rave review, no two ways about it. In retrospect Lang had the meatier role, as they fleshed out Joan's character in more detail. Susan with Bette, had a more SANE and centered character to portray. Both actresses turned in A-Mazing performances and I won't even attempt to compare them as in one was "better" than the other. With both I quickly lost the sense that I was watching an actress "impersonate" a famous person---they both just became the two women they were playing. Obviously it's easily to do a Broad Characterization of Davis. Drag Queens have been doing that FOR DECADES. Sarandon didn't resorts except once or twice, where it made sense, to that shtick. She nails the Character without it. And Lang is no less phenomenal in the way she inhabits Joan Crawford. These are two extraordinary Actresses at their Peek Powers and I won't compare or try to rate one above the other.The entire cast, male and female and the entire production was simply the BEST that TV has ever Offered. I could write Chapters about every single participated in this series. It was simply Extraordinary. I captured it on my Spectrum DVR and have watched it over and over again. I can't seem to let go of it. I'm NOT done yet. Brava/bravo/brave/bravi to EVERYONE involved.


                
If you haven't been watching this spectacular Ryan Murphy miniseries on FX, you are missing out.Murphy has the uncanny ability of going right for the jugular and getting to the heart of the matter. It stings, but it sings.This is something I often aim for in my own writing.Life is short. While you'll never hear me complain about long, wide, sweeping vistas and the most elegant dialogue you've ever heard, I also want to get to the point. Don't bury the point. In "Feud: Bette and Joan," Murphy doesn't bury the point, he shines a spotlight on it.Murphy and all of his directors and one of the most stellar casts you've ever seen anywhere – TV, stage or film – tell the hell out of the story of the notorious feud between Hollywood legends Bette Davis and Joan Crawford.This is simply a master class in acting, screen writing, producing and storytelling. I've never seen anything like it. The actors – and I mean all of them – are absolutely KILLING these roles. Every single one of them is simply at the top of their game.I'm writing this review after having seen Episode Six of this eight- installment miniseries. Sorry it took so long.All I can think is this <U+0085> it was such a shame that Hollywood was hell bent on destroying Bette Davis and Joan Crawford, both of whom were just hitting their strides when Jack Warner felt they were too old to contribute anything worthwhile.There are so many lessons to be learned here. Here are a few:Aging isn't a bad thing. It's a glorious thing.Talent doesn't fade with time, it grows.Beauty doesn't fade, it changes.Women get better with age. Period.Power hungry men are scared little boys.Hollywood was – and is – a machine that will chew anyone – and I mean anyone - up and spit them out in an instant. Same yesterday, today and probably tomorrow.Why feud when you can join forces?Make peace with your past. If you don't, it will haunt you.Marriage is not for the faint of heart.Get in front of the story before the story stabs you in the back.What goes around will surely come back around.Artistry and fame can co-exist, but it's a tough trick.When you dig someone's grave, dig one for yourself.Success is subjective and life is a roller-coaster.I could go on and on. What fascinates me so much about "Feud: Bette and Joan" is the fact that it's about so much more than a feud between two Hollywood legends. It's truly a cautionary tale about work, ambition, gender, social class, love, marriage, success, money, survival, family, morals <U+0085> you name it.It's such a pleasure to sit and watch these actors, Susan Sarandon, Jessica Lange, Alfred Molina, Judy Davis, Stanley Tucci, Catherine Zeta- Jones, Kathy Bates, Sarah Paulson, Jackie Hoffman and others <U+0085> just having the time of their careers with these roles. It's like watching kids playing, only they're adult actors on screen.While there are many talented young actors out there, they simply don't have the commanding presence and gravitas of these seasoned veterans. Good actors only get better with age.Too bad Jack Warner refused to believe that.Even today, while Hollywood is a bit more generous, any aging actor knows that while wrinkles and thinning hair are great for characters, they signal the death knell for screen careers.But <U+0085> if you're the vengeful sort, take heart. There's a simple reality that we simply cannot escape <U+0085> whether you're in Hollywood, Silicon Valley, Washington, DC, Wall Street or the Great Plains <U+0085> feud or no feud <U+0085> politics or no politics <U+0085> No one is getting out of this alive. - Michael K. Corbin http://artbookguy.com/film-reviews-_783.html


                
This limited series was great,not only gave us a great insight on the life of these 2 sacred beasts of the screen that were Joan Crawford and Bette Davis but also shown the cruelty of the old Hollywood.I loved how faithful they stood to the glamour of the 20st century,how remarkably accurate the costumes were and how they used bits from Ryan's interview with Bette,for example the explanation why one of her Oscars looked rubbed off or how they recreated great historic moments such as Bette singing "Whatever Happened to Baby Jane",different scenes from their various movies,how deep they went into each detail or how they completely rejuvenated the Oscars of 1963,which to my astonishment was done in the same building which they completely renovated and used a lot of props for it.Jessica Lange embodied not the voice of Joan Crawford but her manners,her facade sweetness and her fighting spirit to always go forward. Her highlight I felt was in episode 5 where she turned the Oscars of 1963 into her own little party,orchestrating everything around.Her most emotional scene for me was in the finale,where she has this hallucination about a party with Hedda,Jack and Bette and makes peace with them and herself.Susan Sarandon was sublime as Bette Davis.She embodied the voice,the power and the actress's renown wit and laugh.She was breathtaking in every scene she played but my favorite was her confrontation with Joan,where each lady said what they wanted to for a long time.Judy Davis for me was the best addition to the cast,she made me hate Hedda Hopper but embodied her brilliantly,from the costumes,to the manners,the voice and her famous hats.She was a force to be reckon with back in the days,we truly see her claws in the Oscar episode,where she badmouthed and manipulated the situation in order for Joan to get her 2nd Oscar.I sure want this lady to win some awards for her workStanley Tucci was the embodiment of Jack Warner. Greedy, electric, bossy,demanding,stylish,every bit of the moguls of the golden age of Hollywood.Alfred Molina did great as the submissive Robert Aldrich,who always listened to his boss until he realized his own value and went to being a successful movie maker.Jackie Hoffman as Mamacita was one of the highlights of the series for me,a very good comic relief but also a character with much depth,awareness and generosity.If you like glamour,good drama and anthology series this show has to be on your list to watch.
One of the best TV series, ever. It's amazing watching two icons acting out other two myths. A unique experience. Simply marvelous, besides being aesthetically pleasing. Ryan Murphy gets better in every single work he creates. Jessica Lange, although it seems impossible, gets also better and better, every time. Master piece for the television.


                
This is one of my all time favorites, I decided after I completed the first season's viewing. This show is a force in itself, the writing is so well done, and the two leading ladies Jessica Lange and Susan Sarandon, the way they hit their emotional range is the reason to watch this show. Moments of vulnerability, the rawness of the situation, the disappointment within ones self and the betrayals all of these emotions are captured in the best possible way. The characters are fleshed out, they are brought to life by the brilliant cast. I would sum it up by saying in the public eye in general as people we put on our strongest faces, our vulnerabilities hidden deep within knowing that a hint of weakness gives room for exploitation, when the veneer is no longer there we see our vulnerable self. I love how a show and the wonderful actresses managed to bring vulnerability to life, vulnerability of being a glamorous successful woman who lives life on her own terms and being human in general.


                
I'm 16, and have been a fan of both of these woman since I was 2. I'v watched All About Eve, Mildred Pierce, Queen Bee..etc. Overall the Pilot was a great introduction to the rest of the series. All I can say is that I admire both of these woman, and both Jessica, and Susan can really channel the emotions, and heartbreak you'd never expect from these two Hollywood Icons. Just Amazing!


                
I thought this show was excellent. Everything was so well done - directing, costumes, the actresses (of course)but most of the story. This left me thinking about what Hollywood was like at this time and how it may be now. I really felt for the characters, mostly Joan Crawford. The scene from the last episode in Joan's apartment having a candle light dinner party was really a work of art. Great show!!!


                
We've reached the halfway point of "Feud" and I'm genuinely floored. I predict it is only going to get better with each subsequent episode. I am truly surprised by how graceful and heartbreaking this production is despite pointed moments of camp and humor, which are also wonderfully executed.Lange and Sarandon have not only managed to possess their subjects but have also been fully possessed by them, giving transcendent performances of rare, indelible power and vulnerability.Sarandon has hit her stride as Bette Davis and though her performance may not be as volatile as Lange's, the wit, grace and humor she brings to Davis whilst echoing the great star's famous voice and gestures is exquisite to behold. I think it's safe to say that this and "The Meddler" are her best work in years. She's a lock for nominations across the board.Lange is doing something astonishing here. She's managed to both transcend Faye Dunaway's wonderful and unfairly lambasted performance in Mommie Dearest whilst allowing the spirit of Joan Crawford to possess her in a way that is both eerie and transfixing.Perusing through Joan Crawford interviews on YouTube, I was taken aback by how sweet and sensitive Crawford could come across. I was expecting a woman with eyebrows constantly and menacingly arched, lips pursed in a perpetual smug smirk, her hands permanently fixed on either side of her waist. What I found instead was a woman whose voice could jump octaves depending on her mood and insecurities, of which she always had many, and who could go from serene to charming to steely in an instant. She could be witty and ballsy, but overall what she showed the public was her gentle, proper, graceful and vulnerable side. Then, of course, there are the drunken interviews - Crawford at the airport, her voice jumping octaves again and accents, from mid-Atlantic to Texan; Crawford in someone's living room, slurring and cursing.Lange captures Crawford's mercurial nature beautifully. We're halfway through the series and I still don't think I've seen all the sides of Crawford Lange has to reveal. As it is, I already feel as if I've witnessed 5-10 facets of Crawford in the four episodes we've seen. It's a full- bodied and fully integrated performance that relies on every ounce of Lange's talent – from her vocal genius to her physical brilliance. When simultaneously set-up against Joan Crawford AND Faye Dunaway, that's truly no easy feat. Her performance here reaches and surpasses the wondrous heights of her Emmy winning work in "Grey Gardens", and "American Horror Story". I wouldn't be surprised if this garners Lange the Emmy for Lead Actress in a Limited Series/Movie.Together, Lange and Sarandon bring out the best in each other. The metaphor of dancers has often been used by critics when reviewing their work together here. I'll use it again. They are like two dancers taking turns being the lead, completely in sync with one another, always forcing the other to up their game but never striving to overshadow one another. They are electric together.Judy Davis, Jackie Hoffman, Stanley Tucci, Alison Wright and Alfred Molina lead the exquisite supporting cast. Each has moments of brilliance, helping transport us to a Hollywood of yore, both as brutal as it was glamorous and enticing. I see Davis, Hoffman and Wright all being contenders in supporting actress. Hoffman's understated brilliance has been especially surprising and wonderful to behold.I'm torn between Tucci and Molina who I feel are both giving amazing, if different, performances. Tucci is sexy and electric, whilst Molina is charming and touching.I must admit, this series has totally exceeded my expectations. I knew I would like and love it, but I didn't think I would be so moved and IN LOVE with it


                
I was sooo excited when I heard that FX was going to be airing a mini series on the infamous feud between classic Hollywood screen legends Bette Davis and Joan Crawford. And for Susan Sarandon and Jessica Lange to be playing them?!! Well this just seemed like there was absolutely no possible way for this to fail.... and I was right! Oh my goodness I was dazzled and amazed and touched by every single episode, from one all the way to eight, I loved every one of them. The first episode did a wonderful job at introducing these acclaimed film stars to us and showing the struggles they faced in Hollywood at that particular time in their lives. The next few episodes focuses on the start up of what ever happened to baby Jane? and how everything got started with that classic 60s horror. The performances given by Sarandon and Lange are absolutely incredible! I thought they both captured these women marvelously, they captured their beauty and their pain, both their professional lives and their often times turbulent private lives. That is another thing I loved about Feud, it focuses a lot on the private lives of these women and what all went on to make them the way they were. Each episode really does dive deep into the material and it gives you such insight. If you love things focusing on classic Hollywood like I do then you'll be in love instantly. I just watched the final episode tonight and that was one of the best finales I've ever seen, no exaggeration there, none at all. I just loved the deep meaningful performances given, they really are what makes this series meaningful and memorable, yes the sets and costumes are very well done, but the acting is what will make you or anyone fall in head over heels love with Feud: Bette and Joan! 10/10


                
What a nice surprise this mini-series was to watch. Susan Sarandon as Bette Davis, and Jessica Lange as Joan Crawford were just incredible performances. Mrs. Shullivan and I truly believed as the film rolled to and from a series of historical black and white silver screen images and then back to color images that we were witnessing the many personal exchanges between these two famous actresses.There is also a long list of terrific supporting performances such as Alfred Molina as the two Hollywood stars' director Bob Aldrich who in 1962 filmed "What Ever Happened To Baby Jane?" and Aldrich's difficult relationship with the relentless studio boss Jack Warner (Warner Brothers Pictures) also played to perfection by Stanley Tucci. Oh, but we cannot forget the superb performance by Ms. Crawford's able assistant/confidant/housekeeper "Mamacita" played to absolute perfection by actress Jackie Hoffman. The relationship between Mamacita and Joan Crawford was more than endearing, it was more reflective of two sisters who were so close knit that nothing could keep them apart, not even Joan Crawford's habitual drinking nor her sometimes explosive temper. Their relationship was not one of a Hollywood film star and her housekeeper but it was exposed in this mini series as one in which one sister (Joan Crawford) was allowed to behave as a spoiled little brat until such time that her mother-like sister Mamacita would pull in those reigns with just a few sharp words and Joan would once again calm down and begin to behave...well Joan would at least behave until the next time she was in front of the camera with Bette Davis.Other great performances were achieved by the beautiful Catherine Zeta-Jones as Bette Davis's friend who was also an established actress in her own right Olivia de Havilland, Dominic Burgess as the plump but young up and coming homosexual stage actor Victor Buono, Kathy Bates as Joan Blondell and another perfect casting of Hedda Hopper played by Judy Davis.This mini-series is very deserving of a number of Emmy's for so many of the film stars as well as for categories such as for the magnificent period style costume design, set design (we loved seeing all that plastic covering Joan's living room furniture...even her pillows!) the excellent screen writing, and even for the episode(s) brilliant opening musical score which was a high grade animation credit role depicting some of the scenes from their only film together What Ever Happened To Baby Jane? The opening credit animation musical score was such a powerful opening credit score that we felt that we were watching an Academy Award best film and not just another TV mini-series.Mrs Shullivan and I truly enjoyed each and every episode which provided valuable insight into what initially may have caused the highly documented FEUD (thus the movie title) between these two A rated Hollywood actresses whose careers were winding down before they agreed in 1962 to co- star in the film classic What Ever Happened To Baby Jane?Both Joan Crawford and Bette Davis displayed those unacceptable and ugly characteristics of a Diva, a spoiled actress who was prepared to damage their own picture(s) to get what they individually wanted, to "one- up" each other at any cost. Pity they did not realize early enough that they were being played by both movie mogul Jack Warner and by their own Director Bob Aldrich. This is a story that was well worth telling, and even a better story due to so many outstanding performances not only by Susan Sarandon, Jessica Lange, Stanley Tucci, Alfred Molina, Catherine Zeta-Jones, and my favorite Mamacita played by Jackie Hoffman, but this mini-series was so well done because of the entire cast and because of a well written script whose interest never waned as the characters were all brought to life in period costumes and period set designs with the utmost sincerity and with great dialogue.We loved every last minute of FEUD. A perfect 10 out of 10 score!


                
There are many things extraordinary about this series and the incredible performances we get to witness and for more details on that you can read some of the other reviews. What I have not seen mentioned and I am blown away by is the precision of the casting. I am looking for pictures of the main players and those being brought in as the story evolved and the resemblances of the actors with the real life people are uncanny over and over again. It seems small but this offers such a strong base for diving into those times in a historically accurate way that it makes me feel like I am a fly on a wall in Hollywood 50 years ago. What an amazing feat!


                
I have been watching FEUD now for 6 weeks and am loving the show. It is absolutely BRILLIANT. For those people who have not watched the movie - Whatever Happened to Baby Jane starring Joan Crawford and Bette Davis - you must. It will also give you a good insight into this show. I love Bette Davis and Joan Crawford and the movie Whatever Happened to Baby Jane is up amongst my favourite movies of all time. This series has the brilliant Susan Sarandon and Jessica Lange starring as the two ladies and their performances are out of this world. I really hope that they receive many awards for their acting and this show. I wish that this show would never end but that's impossible. BRAVO to everyone involved. The acting is brilliant, the script is brilliant and it really keeps you interested.Watch the movie first and then watch this show - you will love it.


                
I don't know how much of Feud is actually true. I'm going with 60% of it happened. But this show is one of the best mini-series of the last 20 years. The show sticks very closely to the known facts about these two fascinating but flaw women and gives its viewer a good insight into how Hollywood was run in the Late 50;s early 60's. The recreation of certain events is brilliantly done. But it was the direction, script and especially cast the really made this show a true classic. Susan Sarandon is Betty Davis, Not a crude caricature but a real person. An actress who wants to be recognised as a star, but feels out shined by lesser talents, namely Joan Crawford! Bette always seems to be saying the right thing in the wrong way but is too proud to admit when she was wrong. Susan's eyes really convey Bette's torment and sometimes childish malice, then regret.But for me it's Jessica Lange's Joan Crawford who gets the acting honours, she gives us a truly sad Joan Crawford. Yes there are the Mommy Dearest traits, but we seem to understand where these came from. Paired off with quiet but strong willed devotion of her house keeper , Mamacita. (an amazing turn by Jackie Hoffman).By the way, I think Mamacita is a composite of a number of persons who devoted themselves to Joan. But again, with a look or a movement of the head Lange can convey so much about Joan's inner torment. A movie star, who desperately wants to be taken seriously by the one woman who she sees as the best actress in Hollywood, Betty Davis! The rest of the cast is also excellent. Alfred Molina gives Robert Aldrich a quiet desperation with Stanley Tucci , Judy Davis , Catherine Zeta Jones and Kathy Bates all giving star turns in small but pivotal roles. If this doesn't win big come awards season there is no justice.


                
After watching episode one I have to say Feud did not disappoint. It was excellent! Best thing I have seen from Ryan Murphy. Can't wait to see the rest of the episodes. The acting is superb as are the sets and costuming. Episode one felt like the first half of an Oscar nominated film not a TV series and unlike American Horror Story, also from Murphy, Feud was not rushed, overdone, gratuitously shocking or confusing in the slightest way. I did not want the episode to end.


                
Growing up I was a big fan of both Bette Davis and Joan Crawford. My favorite Davis films were All About Eve and Dark Victory and I had a kind of secret pleasure in her over-the-top performances in Jezebel and Baby Jane. Crawford was no less a super star. My favorite films by Crawford were Mildred Pierce and Johnny Guitar. That being said, Maureen O'Hara and Olivia de Havilland were my favorite female actresses from that era.So what a treat it is to see the first episode of this series and watch the behind the scenes action in the making of Baby Jane. Susan Sarandon captures Bette Davis perfectly, and Judy Davis as Hedda Hopper, Kathy Bates as Joan Blondell, and Stanley Tucci as Jack Warner are similarly mesmerizing.Director Ryan Murphy keeps the action moving along, as he did with his 2016 "The People vs OJ<U+0085>" The lavish sets and the costumes properly evoke the era.I'll certainly tune it to see another episode.Post Script - After writing this review I continued to watch the entire series. Remarkably it kept getting better and better as the performances grew richer and richer. While Susan Sarandon has the meatier role as Bette Davis, Jessica Lang's performance keeps tugging at your heart.The final episode, with Joan Crawford having a hallucinatory supper with the major players in her life (Davis, Hopper, and Warner) was pure poetry. Wonderful. And the final scene will bring tears to your eyes.


                
With everything that you hear about the once beautiful Joan Crawford through Mommy Dearest, Ryan Murphy & Jessica Lange do an outstanding job of making her seem personable until you feel sorry for her. I think they deserve more Emmys for this. Well Done. Susan Sarandon adds her spunk as Bette Davis and nails it. Thank You Ryan Murphy for your gift of story telling and giving so many women jobs in film/TV. Please grace us with more of your gifts. Jessica Lange is now one of my favorite actresses of all time because of Big Fish, AHS and now Feud. From the Production Design, Costumes, Script to the star studded Cast, this is the true story of old Hollywood.


                
**SPOILERS*** One of my favorite scenes in the show is when Joan realizes that she and Bette could have been friends and how they always fantasized about it. It is so heartbreaking which only goes on to show how PERFECT the acting is on the show. UNBELIEVABLE! ******************************************* I recommend this show to anyone who just loves and adores period dramas or stories about Hollywood or even just great acting. If you get through the first episode trust me you will want to watch the ENTIRE THING IN ONE SITTING! It's just that DAMN GOOD and ADDICTIVE! and hey it's already been nominated for 15 deserving EMMY nominations. So see what I am talking about - even the television academy has recognized the sheer brilliance of this show. Don't hesitate go and watch the show!


                
Feud tackled something I've had in mind for years .. What ever happened to Joan and Bette ? We've seen their movies, and we know of their rivalries, but no one until now has decided to put together something as nearly perfect as this project. To begin with its not a biography, but it might as well be because even tough its a fiction show, it draws upon real people chronicling in real time frame past events. To mix fiction and non fiction in a non linear way is pure perfection. But the true brilliance of the show is not just Ryan Murphy or its artistic direction or costume design of old Hollywood era, its the leads. Both Susan Sarrandon and especially Jessica Lange are just marbles to watch. Both portrayals were delicious, incredibly sad, glamorous, relatable and acted to perfection, most definitely Emmy would be contenders. In the end thought, what i saw was a story of the treatment of women in old Hollywood, and i say old because times have truly changed, and most importantly how desperate studios were so as to go so as far as to create this horrible feud. In the end i saw a story of loneliness and fierce competition and its effects, but most of all i saw a love story ... a story of two women who were nearly equal in all measures even though they opposed in most aspects, a love story of two women who were doomed to be rivals from the start ...wethter they wanted that or not ... Then ending gave us what fans hoped things would have been ... and for that i am grateful, because the true tragic ending is definitely not designed to answer questions. Im not giving it a higher grade because something this perfect should have lasted longer than 8 episodes ... As a final thought, I think this show should be seen by everyone for its heartbreaking portrayal of misogyny and raw arrogance and its underlying destructive side effects. Final Grade ... A


                
I watched the pilot of this homage and retrospective look at two of the iconic great stars of the Siver Screen hoping it would not be another impersonation and caricature of these two fine actresses, they've been done to death .I was pleasantly rewarded as both actresses are played faultlessly and sympathetically by Susan Sarandon as Bette Davis and Jessica Lange as Joan Crawford who don't impersonate but breath new life into these two great ghosts who have tended to become clichés. I must mention the tremendous supporting cast including fellow Aussie Judy Davis ,who portrays Hedda Hopper the Queen of the poison pen ,funny I kept thinking she would also have been great as Bette Davis also? ( I wonder if she auditioned)..The production and direction are faultless and Ryan Murphy and crew should be very proud I hope the standard continues over the series it has prompted myself and I'm sure will many others to have a retrospective look at the many great and not so great films of Joan Crawford and Bette Davis.


                
Feud is without a shadow of a doubt one of the drama highlights of 2018. The first episode had me gripped and had me reading about the pair, and working through the catalogue films for both. Joan Crawford is from my point of view the lesser well known of the two, what a fascinating woman she was, Jessica Lange portrayed her sensationally, with acting that can only be described as mesmerising. Bette Davies is an actress who's work I watch on a fairly frequent basis, Death on the Nile, Another Man's Poison to name just two. Susan Sarandon also fantastic, to my mind she really does capture the essence of Davies's huge character. Plaudits also for Alfred Molina and Stanley Tucci. The show looks and sounds awesome, with stunning production values.It leaves you wanting to watch Whatever happened to Baby Jane.More please 10/10


                
