Eight-part cable series from super-producer Ryan Murphy delineates the long-running Hollywood rivalry between Oscar-winning actresses Joan Crawford and Bette Davis, culminating with their teaming for two pictures, 1962's "What Ever Happened to Baby Jane" and 1964's "Hush...Hush, Sweet Charlotte", the latter of which was finished without Crawford (Olivia de Havilland stepped in after "producer" Bette ran Joan off). Altogether amazing recreation of a by-gone era...not quite what we now think of as classic Hollywood, but rather a Tinsel Town in decline, feeding off itself and its denizens. Material which might have slipped into caricature becomes observant, acerbic and surprisingly touching here, under the service of several different writers and directors. By showing the human side of an older Crawford (Jessica Lange) and Davis (Susan Sarandon), we see the hidden, hurting heart of Hollywood, a town not known for having or showing sympathy to aging actresses. The first two episodes of the series are entertaining if a bit wobbly--neither Lange nor Sarandon particularly sounds nor resembles the ladies they are portraying, and the supporting cast, too, works to find their footing--but these are nitpicks in what is essentially a loving (and lovingly, meticulously designed) tribute to the Hollywood icons. The padding for length is exposed on occasion, but this duet keeps getting better and better. By the grand finale, both Lange and Sarandon are performing at the top of their craft (initially, one may hope for impersonations, but what we eventually get from the ladies is far richer). In an eerie, evocative dream sequence near the end, all the feelings of pain and loss and triumph and regret come full circle. These women were survivors, battle-scarred veterans, two tough broads--but not so tough that they didn't privately feel the pain of the passing years, and how a possible friendship was trampled over in the need for success and respect.


                
Don't expect a camp "Mommie Dearest" in Jessica Lange's Joan Crawford, or a drag queen Bette Davis in Susan Sarandon's performance. There is only slight resemblance between the foursome, and at times, I really thought I was seeing an early 1960's version of Tallulah Bankhead over Davis. In all fairness, the writers have gone out of their way to show the two Oscar winning legends in a sensitive light, and it's not always the drag queen versions of these now past their prime stars that you see. Crawford is particularly vulnerable: recently widowed and broke, determined not to turn her two adopted twin daughters into spoiled Hollywood brats, yet not the harridan you saw with Crawford through Faye Dunaway's version in raising Christina and Christopher. Perhaps more to the story than what is seen both in the 1981 cult film and this, Joan Crawford is a desperate lady, certainly not the "lady in the streets, whore in the streets" caricature you read about in tell-all scandal books. Joan is scared of going back to where she was before she was discovered nearly forty years before this takes place.It's early 1962, and Bette's on Broadway, starring in Tennessee Williams' play "The Night of the Iguana". "What do you want, Joan?", Sarandon barks, obviously not in the mood for mindless chatter. Joan is pure lady here, determined to interest Bette in the book, "Whatever Happened to Baby Jane?", and assures Bette that she will play the title role. Having been acquaintances for years, Bette and Joan were once rivals for the same man (Franchot Tone), a fact briefly discussed, and later were both under contract to Warner Brothers, where Bette was queen. What isn't mentioned is that they played themselves in the musical war drama "Hollywood Canteen", and Bette would often pull Joan away from visiting soldiers to do dishes. But the fact that there is a mutual respect between the two veterans is obvious, and their vulnerabilities do bring some understanding and commiserating between them. When Bette learn that Joan was seduced by her stepfather (from Joan herself), the look in Sarandon's eyes as Bette do show the shock and horror, and Joan's slight envy over Bette's close relationship with her mother indicates the hurt of missed opportunities in Lange's eyes.As far as a feud is concerned? I'm not totally convinced that there was one. A rivalry, closer to the probable truth. Certainly, they both want the film to be a hit so they can continue to get work. There is friction, mostly caused from other forces, from Stanley Tucci's crude Jack Warner to Alfred Molina's petrified Robert Aldrich, but especially by the vicious gossip columnist Hedda Hopper, played with the constant hat topped Judy Davis who still sounds like Judy Garland here, but is filled with venom as she runs between the two stars, desperate for dirt. Then, there's conversations with Davis's Warner Brother pals Joan Blondell and Olivia de Havilland, both still glamorous in 1978 when they are interviewed, but strangely talking more about Crawford than Davis whom they both worked with, while if they did know Crawford, it was only through unrecorded situations of the Hollywood nightlife. Kathy Bates really captures the essence of the wonderful Blondell, still striking if heavyset, and identical to how Blondell looked in 1978's big smash "Grease". Catherine Zeta Jones fails to convince me as Olivia, although she does get to say the profound line, "Feuds aren't based off of hatred. They are based off of pain." Yet, in spite of implausibilities and some obvious untruths, "Feud" is an excellent look back at the role of women in Hollywood, especially as not much had changed since the golden age by the time this takes place. The performance of Jackie Hoffman as a Frau Brucher like housekeeper to Crawford is filled with dynamic little touches. She has absolutely no emotion, no smile, yet obviously adores her mistress and protects her from the circling sharks. A scene between Hoffman and Alison Wright (as Molina's assistant) reveals the hopes that women will begin to gain some power in Hollywood, giving an indication that by 10 years from the time this takes place, much should have changed, which well, if you research Hollywood in the early 1970's, it really hadn't. Hoffman, who has gathered much acclaim for her comic roles on Broadway, might have just moved towards her own rising fame with this part, and having seen her on the stage, I must say, if she decides to go Hollywood, it would be Broadway's loss.When the script gets to the alleged "feud", it loads the script with bitchy humor that is straight out of old Davis and Crawford films, but never strives for camp. These are two women who will not bow out of Hollywood or the limelight gracefully, and when Crawford refuses to publicize the film, it's more out of her feeling of being shafted off to the side in favor of Davis. This leads to the Oscar slight where Crawford slyly moved to get the spotlight, even though Davis was making the rounds, giving the audiences what they wanted through her humor and love of her audience, even getting to sing on TV the not heard title song of the film, only background score in the movie of "Baby Jane". The film also shows Davis acknowledging her gay audience as she befriends heavyset actor Victor Buono, played with perfect detail by Dominic Burgess. Both Crawford and Davis were undoubtedly concerned with their image and legacy, and while some of their character's actions seem self serving at times. It comes down to the fact that had they not had the talent and drive to last as long in movies as they did, there would have been no reason to make this TV mini-series, because nobody would have cared. The fact that people still do care means that both women won the battle.
Ryan Murphy has wowed us from Glee to American Horror Story and now he is bringing to life one of Hollywoods most legendary rivals the worlds ever recognize. It's amazing to think of Susan Sarandon playing Bette Davis, other than the fact Bette Davis herself, had asked Susan to play her before in her early career but Susan Sarandon delivers true essence of Bette's firebrand personality such as the iconic cigarette holding. Jessica Lange on the other hand I was at first very skeptical about her playing Joan Crawford, although I'm a fan of Jessica, I'm impressed how she got her mannerisms correctly when it came to drinking and faking a smile. The rest of the cast is to dream for and I admire their performances. The story shows us obviously the rival between Bette and Joan but it shows how deep the rival was and how it affected both of their careers, it's amazing to see two woman who have different styles had a lot in common but hasn't changed the relationship. The show's conflict revolves around sexism, and ageism, at a time when women were consider "old" over the age of 25, Bette and Joan were at their downward spiral in their careers, aging, facing failed marriages, and bad roles. Despite their bitter feelings they put aside their differences and professionally finished the movie without delays. What I love about this project is not only it gives chances for the next generation to learn about that time but to give fans new stuff to learn about what happen that time that wasn't said before like the manipulation and violence on set. Another thing this show has and will teach us, is the word feud is not about hate but pain and that its shown in different colors, I believe Bette and Joan stubbornly hated each other but deep inside they respected each other as actresses, both said so themselves, some think its publicity, I say its professionally. Hays of too Ryan, Susan and Jessica and all the crew and cast of this project, I smell Emmys.
All I have to say is that you must watch this series to appreciate the goddesses that Susan Sarandon and Jessica Lange are.


                
Feud is a really good show, it has all that something has to have to be good, a great cast, director or in this case directors, production design, photography, costumes, etc. But the most important, a good story to tell. It´s incredible how some things are ment to be on television, this is one perfect example. Because it present´s the point of view of both Hollywood stars very well, in a very complex and satisfactory way, something that a film wouldn´t do. The last episodes they might be a little of filling, but, considering that is the only thing that i disagree with, it means that the show is really good and worth watchin


                
FX is crushing it with their TV shows in the past few years (Fargo is as good as it gets). And Feud is doing a fantastic job keeping it going. Jessica Lang is very good in her role as Joan Crawford. But, I have to say, I think Susan Sarandon is absolutely killing it as Bette Davis. I feel like I'm watching Bette Davis. I'd like to see Sarandon nominated for an Emmy and a Golden Globe as well. It not only is a great program in dealing with the Davis and Crawford feud, but it's a wonderful homage to old Hollywood. Well worth watching.


                
Makeup needs work. Great actors,just poor visual belief. This is a movie you Do not want to discredit (wehtbj). Iconic. But, enjoyed watching, to a point. Work on it. (Oh Jane, Look, there's a dead bird on your tea tray. Yes, Blanch, what did you expect it to be, alive and kicking? Oh Jane, why are you so cruel to me? Why don't you ever complement me? Bullshit Blranch. Complementing you would be like pinning a sequin on a rats ass. My, and many others, impression of Bette & Joan's character. Love both Susan and Jessica. Fire your makeup artists!


                
I tooned in to this show thinking from the previews of it that I was going to watch a funny heartwarming comedy show that will have me rolling out of my seat laughing due to the hilarity of the commercial however the actual show is more of a dramatic change on what I saw in the trailer however I did enjoy the show and I will watch next week to see For sure just how much I actually like it and I will be able to make a better decision on it then I absolutely would recommend it as of now yea it has a lot of swearing and yelling and bad examples but it seems to be a good time for mature audiences and over I say go watch it make your own decision on whether you like it or not but I am going to say that I did


                
