Hurrah for Ryan Murphy. He avoided the obvious trap of super camp. This human tragedy is told without winks and secret giggles. It is a tragedy no matter how funny. Two mega stars of its day drowning in personal pettiness and fear. Now with the benefit of hindsight and with the help of their daughters memoirs we know that fame and fortune is not the happy place most people imagine. Jessica Lange's Joan filled me with sadness, something Joan, the actress, could never do. Susan Sarandon's Bette made me want to shake her like she did Miriam Hopkins in "Old Acquaintance". Alfred Molina as Robert Aldrich deserves a mention all his own. Brilliant!


                
Ryan Murphy managed the virtually impossible. Finding a tone and the tone has to do with the humanity of this Hollywood gargoyles. I wonder if young Joan and Bette knew where they were heading. Those women that their daughters wrote about, were they who they were or who they became. Jessica Lange throws a light on Joan Crawford that made me, already, re-think her myth. Her fear is actually tangible. Great, great performance. Susan Sarandon captures Davis's temperament and allow us a glimpse into the contradictory nature of the woman. Brilliant, succinct observation - when she throws herself into the role of wife and mother, she was thoroughly miscast. Alfred Molina is superb as Robert Aldrich and Stanley Tucci is terrific as Jack "I show you my hemorrhoids" Warner. I can't wait for the next episode.


                
The acting is superb. Susan Sarandon - perennially youthful acts and talks like Bette Davis. Jessica Lange is just as convincing as Joan Crawford. Ryan Murphy has really taken a fascinating subject and created a pretty long series that isn't boring for a second. Good support from Alfred Molina as the director, Stanley Tucci as Jack Warner, Judy Davis as Hedda Hopper and Kiernan Shipka of Mad Men as Bette's daughter. Who knew the behind the scenes of making a movie could be so interesting. Looked forward to every episode.Advice to viewers watch "Baby Jane" again if you can't remember it.The only fault is didn't like Catherine Zeta Jones at Olivia de Havilland. For anybody who has seen Olivia in "Gone with the Wind" and "Light in the Piazza" or any of her movies knows that isn't the way she talks. Her looks were wrong too lacking that sweetness that Olivia has. Recently Olivia has come out suing the makers of the series for fabricating the interviews she gave and putting gossipy and bitchy statements in her mouth in this show. Looking back it did strike me as out of character for her to talk in such a matter. This is the only fault of this otherwise very good miniseries.
"FX" and director Ryan Murphy has done it again as a real life drama has been brought to the screen and it brings light on the issue all while having drama, black heart comedy, and envy with age and sexism closing everything up! Many film fans don't know a lot about Joan Crawford and Bette Davis, only some remember their 1962 classic suspense horror film "What Ever Happened to Baby Jane" and the tales and stories written of the on screen drama and fights that went with the picture, well this series "Feud" captures those hot and wicked moments just fine. Both actresses Bette Davis(Susan Sarandon)and Joan Crawford(Jessica Lange)are on the downside of their famous and glory type careers, so both try to give it a go at some work for an old journey type director. As the film they will do together will be "What Ever Happened to Baby Jane" soon and slowly the ego and tempers start to flare between the two divas the two become bitter rivals on and off set! The scenes are memorable and the series shows the personal struggles the duo faced in life with family and both appear to be tortured souls inside. The chemistry between Jessica and Susan is in top notch form making this one series to watch to be entertained and informed about two legends.


                
This show was nothing like I thought it would be, for when I originally read that Ryan Murphy would be making a mini-series built around the legendary feud between Bette Davis and Joan Crawford that raged during the making of WHATEVER HAPPENED TO BABY JANE, I figured this would be a camp fest where Susan Sarandon and Jessica Lange would claw at each other while doing bad imitations of these icons. Before the first episode was half over, I realized my complete error, as FEUD: BETTE AND JOAN is heartbreaking story of manipulation, ageism, ingratitude, and most of all, the terrible fear of being cast aside and being unwanted and unneeded. It's the story of two formidable women who had built a career in the public spotlight and desperately wanted to hold on to it.The story opens in the early 60's, when both Davis and Crawford's stars had begun to dim after careers that stretched back to the silent era; Murphy makes it plain that a cruel Hollywood no longer had any use for these women because they were on the wrong side of 50. But I would point out that the melodramas which both women had excelled in and made big box office had gone completely out of style by this time; simply put, no one was making Bette Davis and Joan Crawford movies anymore. Still, it was a time before easy plastic surgery and Botox, and the camera was not kind. It is Crawford, desperate for a hit, who finds a property suited to both her and Davis, takes it to director Robert Aldrich, who sells studio head Jack Warner on the project. These two women, who have been distant and chilly rivals for decades are now working together, and everyone, including Warner and gossip columnist, Hedda Hopper, can't wait for the sparks to fly, mainly because conflict sells newspapers and movie tickets. The two wary Hollywood legends are easily goaded and happy to comply, as perceived slights and resented favoritism by director Aldrich quickly leads to hurled insults, biting put downs and slammed doors as each one attempts to steal BABY JANE from the other. This feud continues as the movie proves to be a smash hit, through the 1963 Academy Awards where Davis was up for Best Actress and the snubbed Crawford schemed to steal the limelight from her, culminating on the set of HUSH<U+0085>HUSH SWEET CHARLOTTE, the follow up to BABY JANE, that re-teamed Crawford and Davis, where all out war broke out, a donnybrook that permanently damaged Crawford's career when she faked an illness in an effort to outmaneuver her rival and was fired from the movie. Murphy and his creators work hard to make FEUD a story of how badly Hollywood treats women, including legends, and how it easily disrespects and uses them; sometimes he pounds this theme too hard as each episode has to have someone make a pointed comment on how badly the movie industry treats the fairer sex. He is so intent on proving his point that sometimes he won't get out of the way and just let the story tell itself. And he desperately wants these two formidable women to be friends, so much so, that he concocts a sequence in the finale where a dying Crawford imagines a reconciliation of sorts with Davis. The truth is, some people are born to be enemies; that hate is a powerful motivator and it is doubtful that Davis and Crawford would ever have been friends under any circumstances. The acting is truly exceptional starting with the two leads: Sarandon has Davis's clipped Yankee cadence down perfect without ever slipping into caricature, while Jessica Lange, who had the harder job, single handed she rescues the legacy of Joan Crawford from the long shadow of MOMMIE DEAREST. There is an amazing supporting cast bringing to life some famous names from Kennedy era Hollywood, starting with Alfred Molina as the great director Robert Aldrich, a man revered by movie buffs today; Stanley Tucci is the cunning Jack Warner; Judy Davis is Hedda Hopper the gossip columnist who was nobody's friend in the end. There are appearances by Catherine Zeta-Jones as Olivia De Haviland; Kathy Bates is Joan Blondell, friends to both stars who knew the score. Sarah Paulsen is Geraldine Page; Dominic Burgess is Victor Buono and all hail Jackie Hoffman as Mamacita, Joan Crawford's long suffering housekeeper and companion. And there is a cameo by John Waters as producer William Castle.What is also amazing the incredibly accurate recreations of real life events, including Davis's singing an awful novelty tune on the Andy Williams show to promote BABY JANE; the trailer for Crawford's STRAIT JACKET; and an uncanny recreation of the monkey man mask for Crawford's co-star in TROG, a British horror film that was her last movie. They even recreate one of those awful Dean Martin show roasts that Davis debased herself by taking part in during the 70's. All the eight episodes are a wealth of back story for movie buffs and some truly outstandingly staged and acted scenes; the highlight has to be "And the Winner Is<U+0085>" where Crawford takes over the Green Room at the Oscars. Also in "Abandoned," where Davis and Crawford admit to each other that all of their success was never enough; equally unforgettable is Crawford's night time drunken stagger around the set of TROG as Jim Morrison's The End plays on the soundtrack.At the end of the first episode, we hear Brenda Lee's "I Want to be Wanted" playing in the background, it seems to perfectly sum up Davis and Crawford's motivation, these lonely women whose careers were their validation; the same could be said of Bob Aldrich, and Jack Warner, and Pauline, Aldrich's female assistant who so badly wanted be a director in her own right. All of these people whose livelihoods depended on being wanted by the American public. It makes for a great story.
I'm hooked. I'm a fan of film & great classics such as "Whatever Happened..." So the promos of Feud intrigued me. Wonderful series...the script, acting, sets, costumes, editing. I will be disappointed if there aren't Emmy nominations. I know Davis better than Crawford & think Sarandon has done wonders with the role of the famous actress. Lange, Hoffman, Molina, Tucci, Wright all give strong performances that add to the magic and transport me to 1960s Hollywood. Will not want this to end.


                
You don't know Joan until you've seen Jessica. Lange is playing a beast of a role, and entertains every second. There's never a dull moment in the life of Joan Crawford, but then again, there's Bette to fuel the fire. SOUND the ALARMS! Susan Sarandon's uncanny resemblance to Bette Davis is remarkable, but doesn't hold a candle to the words that fly out of her mouth. Davis's words were swift and cut deep and Sarandon embodies every bit of it. Also, there's more than one Feud, but two, however, their men borrowing time in the world of these wonderful, widely talented WOMEN. I love this SERIES, PERIOD!


                
Feud is the story of the making of Whatever Happened to Baby Jane told through the lens of the rivalry of its leads. But it's also a movie about the hazards of being aging and female in Hollwood, and of how Hollywood feeds off of scandal and hypocrisy. And it makes it all lots of fun.I knew I was going to like this from the brilliant opening title sequence, which seems like something from a Hitchcock film. Sarandan and Lange do a great job with their characters. Lange's Crawford is needy, resourceful, bitter, and obsessed with her own celebrity. You feel rather sympathetic for her even though she's really pretty awful. Sarandan's Davis is far more likable, a tough broad who considers the art of acting to be the most important thing in life. And Stanley Tucci is terrific as the loathsome Jack Warner. There are also fun performances by Catherine Zeta-Jones and Kathy Bates as friends who help tell the story. Really, everyone in this is great.The one notable weakness is that while Sarandon does a great job of playing Davis, she's not very good at playing Baby Jane. Davis inhabited her madwoman and managed to make a ridiculous character funny and dark, but Sarandan's Baby Jane is over-the-top to the point of bad acting. I can't blame Sarandan - very few people could pull off what Davis did there (or anywhere, really) - but it's unfortunate all the same. Lange gets Crawford's role dead on, but then, it's the easier role.Overall though, this is terrific.


                
I had misgivings about this series. One of my chief concerns was the involvement of Ryan Murphy. Many of his shows have been too campy for my taste. In "American Horror Story" and ESPECIALLY "Scream Queens," very often the female characters are written with the exaggerated femininity that is characteristic of a drag performer. They have the quality of an over-the-top female being played for laughs instead of a real flesh and blood portrayal. Bette Davis and Joan Crawford are popular subjects of female impersonators, often depicted in the most simplistic and caricatured way. The choice of subject matter and the talent involved made me worry that this show would be a total campfest, completely lacking in subtlety and truth about the human experience. The last thing I wanted was for Bette and Joan to be written like the almost unbearably ridiculous 'Chanels' of "Scream Queens."Fortunately, I was quickly proved wrong. I have seen many of both Davis and Crawford's films, so I did have a hard time accepting Sarandon and Lange in their roles AT FIRST. However, once you get past the fact that they don't look or sound EXACTLY like who they are portraying, you will find that they have succeeded at something far more important: capturing their essence. Bette Davis and Joan Crawford are played like the complex women they were, not like the stereotypical ball breaker or wire hanger hater. As the show points out, these women really weren't so different. Both felt tossed aside and past their prime by the 1960s. In addition, each had something the other longed for: Joan felt threatened by Bette's amazing talent while Bette envied Joan's great beauty. Even when Bette and Joan psychologically torture each other, Sarandon and Lange's heartbreaking performances make it more about relatable human insecurity than comical villainy. In the supporting cast, a lot work while a few do not. Alfred Molina plays underrated director Robert Aldrich nicely. The show is almost as much about him as Bette and Joan, so it's nice to see such a great actor take on the role. Stanley Tucci is well cast as Jack Warner. Jack was one of the most ruthless studio heads in Hollywood's Golden Age. In the hands of a lesser actor, the viewer would have nothing but contempt for such a character. However, Tucci manages to make you actually understand the guy, even when he's bullying his director and aging stars. Dominic Burgess IS Victor Buono! Boy does he nail that character. This may be the most perfectly cast part in the entire series. I also enjoy Jackie Hoffman as Crawford's loyal Mamacita. However, I must object to the casting of Catherine Zeta-Jones as Olivia de Havilland. Nothing about her portrayal feels like Olivia de Havilland in the slightest. Kathy Bates as Joan Blondell also makes very little sense to me. I do not deny the talents of both these actresses, I just believe their parts have been horribly miscast. Their presence is distracting and sometimes takes me out of the show. Unfortunately, Ryan Murphy sometimes cares more about star power than good casting. This is my only real complaint about an otherwise excellent show. Costume and set design are darn near perfect. In many of the events depicted, a quick google search of the real events will show you that they have nailed the costumes and look of the time. Emmy and Golden Globe wins in these categories would not surprise me. The show does some embellishing for our entertainment but still never feels like cheap gossip. Overall, a wonderful television show.


                
This is not only a fantastic but also a terrific TV series, as we are used to with Ryan Murphy's series. But this one and this season (the only one so far) has something special, something magical and that is, that the story that it tells if did really happened. Maybe not exactly like this, of course some things might change, but still, as a whole it did happen and the story that is being told is as much magical as it is pure reality.The series depicts in a brilliantly way that part of the life of the two actresses that were Bette and Joan. They were tough at the time were women didn't matter much, even if they had a collection of Oscar awards. And who better to play these characters that two today huge actresses such as Susan Sarandon and Jessica Lange? They absolutely nail it, and if you don't believe so you better look for a comparison video that now that the show is over there are more than mushrooms in the forest. They are the show. They portrait the two golden actresses in a formidable way that at some point you might think if it isn't the real ones on-screen. But it's not only these two that are brilliant, all the supporting actors and actresses are stunning. I must mention Catherine Zeta Jones playing Olivia de Havilland, she is just awesome, simply awesome.Besides the way they portrait the characters there is also the setting, the attrezzo, the glamour of the late 50s and early 60s in a Hollywood that it's not the Hollywood that we are used to. Something always interesting form a historical point of view that here is depicted in a real realistic way that helps you remember about what it was making a movie back then. Every tiny detail is well presented and you can only enjoy the show and feel like you were living back then.It doesn't matter if you had no idea about what this show depicts: the legendary feud between the two actresses because after watching this series you will only want to watch the movie that started it all "What happened to Baby Jane?", or did it continue the legend that was the feud? And if you did know about the story, you will simply enjoy it with all your senses and wish that there were more than 8 episodes.
Joan Crawford (Jessica Lange) and Bette Davis (Susan Sarandon)...A quest to remain relevant in an era that has refused to 'acknowledge' old women in Hollywood.The pain behind the fame as well as the battles fought to remain relevant. How Crawford schemed to collect the Oscar statue for another actress even though she herself wasn't nominated for the Oscars.How she (Crawford) refused to take care of her dental health because of the film industry. Also, how she deliberately put filming on hold because she wanted to feel important - an act she ended up parting with her hard earned $100 000.Feud reminds us of pain and indeed as the saying goes: "never meet your heroes".Ryan Murphy did a great job. However, I'm not happy that we won't get to see the Prince Charles and Princess Diana divorce on screen.Fingers crossed...


                
Feud isn't one of your conventional mini series that depict conventional stories and topics. It's much different from all the previous Ryan Murphy shows and that's the best thing about it. It's a fresh breath of air giving us all the details about what happened on the set of What Ever Happened To Baby Jane to all after it. The depiction of Joan Crawford and Bette Davis by Jessica Lange and Susan Sarandon were on point. They are probably going to get the Globes, Emmys and whatever it is to offer. The setting, makeup and hair styling is on point, bringing me to the 60s in a delightful manner. The only problem that I do have with this show is that it's not easy to believe some of the scenes of the actors, such as Joan Crawford talking alone with her director, as I have no idea how Murphy managed to get information about such hidden conversations. 9/10 is what I've rated this show and just like American Crime Story and American Horror Story, this show is one I'll be watching from start to finish.


                
I know, I know, it's only been one episode and it's hard to give a full review. But I personally love this show, like everything Ryan Murphy creates. My favorite thing is the performance by Jessica Lange. We have all seen Faye Dunaway's version of Joan Crawford. Dunaway put a lot of effort into her performance. Unfortunately it didn't pay off, resulting in "Mommy Dearest" to be promoted as a comedy in the end. What's left is a joke about wire hangers and endless slapping scenes. Such a camp classic!Lange, now she's something different, showing us a certain vulnerability to Crawford and I can't wait to see more. Still, it's hard to separate Lange, as an old divaesque actress herself, from Crawford. There's a certain comedy to Crawford's way but still I can't help getting to understand her more and more and see her humanity, as if she was just a simple person, dealing hard with age and sexism. Sarandon surprised me even more. I haven't seen her acting in a long time. Lange was present in several American Horror Story seasons, so we are used to her marvelous performance. I must say Sarandon resemblance to Betty Davis, alongside her diction and gestures, beats Lange's performance as a slow paced Crawford. I salute Sarandon's comeback to the small screen (she was in 6 episodes on The Big C back in 2012). I am positive that this season is going to be great. It opens a window to more opportunities: if this one goes well, we might see more real life stories about celebrities and they might involve even more (female) star power.


                
This is so perfect and wonderful to watch. It's captivating and opens up lots of discussions and insights to the world of film/tv production and Hollywood in general. Fantastic all around.


                
Season One Review.Ryan Murphy returns to our screens with another anthology series, this one focusing on famous true life historical feuds. This first season looks at the hostility that existed between Joan Crawford and Bette Davis before, during and after the filming of their seminal Oscar winning classic "Whatever Happened To Baby Jane". Murphy's muse, Jessica Lange, is perfectly cast as Joan Crawford. Lange, like Crawford, had won Oscar's earlier in her career only to struggle for better roles later in life but fortunately for Lange, Televisions current golden age has offered a career renaissance that just wasn't available in the seventies. It's a role filled with sadness and desperation, having spent her youth fighting to get to Hollywood, she's not willing to accept her marginalisation and is desperate for "Baby Jane" to be the hit that keeps her relevant. But it's a rounded portrayal, the series shows her as being as petty and devious as her co-star and never asks you to pick between them. Susan Sarandon is also perfectly cast as Bette Davies, the more legitimate actress of the two, witty and outspoken. The cast is rounded off by Alfred Molina, as "Baby Jane" director Robert Aldrich, Catharine Zeta-Jones as Olivia De Haviland and Stanley Tucci as Jack Warner. The performances are universally excellent and it's a testament to Murphy's drawing power that he can put together a cast like this. The plot is best described as loose biography. It attempts to capture the spirit of the feud if not the exact events that took place. They rightly choose the most entertaining version of the mythos that they can provide and the series is never less than hugely watchable. I felt that the series could have benefitted from slightly more of their careers before "Baby Jane" at the expense of slightly less after it as that occasionally started to repeat the story beats - but this is a minor quibble with an excellent compelling series that I thoroughly enjoyed. (Despite my enjoyment of this series, I can't help but feel that the controversial proposed second series - about the rift between Princess Diana and Prince Charles, prior to her death, is not going to go down anything like as well on this side of the Atlantic, but I'm prepared to wait and see).


                
To me, Feud: Bette & Joan, is a national treasure. Kudos to Ryan Murphy for creating and producing diamonds like this. Jessica Lange as Joan Crawford & Susan Sarandon as Bette Davis? Well, it screams greatness.


                
Feud is a really good show, it has all that something has to have to be good, a great cast, director or in this case directors, production design, photography, costumes, etc. But the most important, a good story to tell. It´s incredible how some things are ment to be on television, this is one perfect example. Because it present´s the point of view of both Hollywood stars very well, in a very complex and satisfactory way, something that a film wouldn´t do. The last episodes they might be a little of filling, but, considering that is the only thing that i disagree with, it means that the show is really good and worth watchin
If you want to know a little about the glamour era of Hollywood starlets and big studios, Feud is the series to watch.It's a bit dramatic and over the top but so were the days of old Hollywood. Lange and Sarandon are spectacular as the ageing starlets Davis and Crawford. Their roles are completely believable as they battle over top billing of a risky film that relies on their acting chops rather than their screen appeal. Off screen, their lives are very similar as each must face divorce, empty nests and the loneliness that sinks in when roles start to wane and all the fans go home.These are the days when press coverage was everything; so both the studio execs and the tabloids do their best to capitalize on the rivalry between Crawford and Davis as well as exploit their vulnerabilities. Although it's clear women were often at the mercy of such exploitation; it is admirable to watch these two women forge their independence one battle at a time. Sadly each actress is manipulated to believe the battle is between them rather than about the real power these iconic actresses could wield if they joined forces.Contrary to other reviewers, I think the make up was spot on and appropriate for the times. The on-screen make-up of Davis as the (ironically) over-the-hill child star, Baby Jane Hudson; was created by Davis herself. Although risky, it paid off. Both actresses created incredible roles for this iconic film that won 5 Oscars and remains a Hollywood classic to this day.Although it may not be an entirely accurate portrayal of how "Whatever Happened to Baby Jane" came to the big screen; the dramatics of Feud make the story entertaining to watch. 9/10 in my books.
