For what its worth. I am not really a fan of anime.That being said I do like well written shows. Live action, animated, and mixed. Thus I do like some anime shows. Berserk is one of the better ones out there. A fairly faithful rendition of the second story arc of the manga which has been going on since 1989. (With a small bit of the 1st)The cliff hanger it ends with, is because the second story arc is the part where readers learn "how we got here" Its all back story. And to be honest its also the least violent and disturbing section.Other commentators have said that the author must be disturbed. I have to agree. I doubt there will ever be a completion to it in any media other than the manga because simply put its to grotesque. An R rating would not cover the story. We are nearing X rated on quite a few scenes.


                
This is an anime I have been wanting to watch for a really long time and kept delaying it until recently and I feel quite underwhelmed about it.The setting between the two kingdoms fighting for 100 years tends to remind me of the war fought between England and France. I noticed that Guts and Griffith were character types that inspired the RPG games Final Fantasy 4, 7 & 9. For example noticing the similarities in between Cloud and Guts, and Sephiroth and Griffith. The character design and setting similar to FF 9 for instance look at the Knights of Pluto, the design of the castles, Kuja and Griffith etc. It tends to show how much Berserk has inspired and intrigued those who direct and produce media as well as the fans of course.Its mainly about the Band of the Hawk led by Griffith which is a mercenary force who collects loot and progressively gains honours in the Kingdom. On their way they eventfully meet Guts who in some ways is like Miyamoto Mushashi. There is a variety of characters that make the cut scenes very interesting and at times quite melodramatic. Along with that there are some moments that appear to be on the razor's edge, for some it can well excite. How much one can anticipate develops by each episode, really wanting to find out how it turns out.Just how the makers animated this is quite typical of anime back in 1997 as good at it was. What really makes this visually appealing is the cinematography, choreography and character design that tend to make the scenes strong in their feelings. The scene of Casca telling her story to Guts about how herself and Griffith met stands out right now.The ending is very dark (if depicting demons is), very twisted and very early. As I have found, the manga is still going since 1990 and that the manga picks up from the ending as well as including more characters since the start. If its one lesson I learned its that before watching anime its better to know such details before.Berserk is a very graphic and towards the end a very dark anime so if you arranged to watch this for the first time with a child you would be better off swapping out this anime for something else entirely. The dialogue tend to be very strong and may not be as easily dismissed or brushed aside as a more mature person can compared to a child after watching it.By watching this it can be seen that the makers of this understand Medieval Europe quite well in terms of living conditions, mannerisms etc. They managed to make a very good fantasy setting based on Medieval times and those who like a good story would be glad watching this, especially if you do not mind attending to the manga also. Have fun watching this!
Berserk is a very dark anime who's first episode starts with a man named Guts(Yes, unfortunately that is his name) killing a bunch of people and a snake like demon. Then the next 24 episodes are a flashback that will describe how he got to that point. The similarities with Claymore is that demons do exist(but you really don't find out that fact until real late in the series and the end), and that the main character fights them with a sword that's to big for his body. That's were the similarities end because unlike Claymore the main characters do kill humans and a lot of them, and again unlike Claymore there is no good side in Berserk. In berserk's world you have anti-hero evil and complete monster evil with the former dancing on a(frayed)tightrope in becoming the latter.For example one of the characters kills an innocent child in cold blood. On screen with nothing to the imagination. Here's the kicker it isn't the *bad* side that did this. Welcome to to the dark world of Berserk where the body count for the *good* guys is high or even higher than the *bad* ones, and these are the people we are supposed to be rooting for. Basically this anime only gives you the choice of choosing between the LESSER of TWO evils.Pros Characters- Griffith( very handsome), Guts( not bad looking himself) and Casca( pretty tomboy) are the three main,main characters and they are likable(as likable as dark anti-heroes can be) and the character development for them is not much but it's memorable.The voices for all three of them( and everybody else as well) is very good. Suits their characters to a T.Script-Surprisingly good. I liked a lot of the dialogue.Cons The animation is bad,and the fight scenes don't flow smoothly at all.As a matter of fact I wouldn't really call them fight scenes. More like really bad drawings stopped in time, and then the fight is over.Plot- Until the last three episodes the plot is on the boring side. Its basically a kingdom tells Guts and co. to go kill a bunch of people in a neighboring kingdom, and they do then rinse and repeat. You'll do well to pay more attention to the characters then the plot because that's were the interest is.Even though the three main characters are likable(and tragic) It would be nice to root for a character that doesn't have a bucket load of blood on their hands,but Berserk is a world were finding a person like that is damn near impossible.Boring invincible(anti-)hero syndrome-Guts here's looking at you.The man can plow through a 100 men by himself with no life threatening injuries.He damn near fought a WAR by himself to.Music- Horrible. Especially the intro song. Doesn't fit at all. The music in the story plays at odd times and is not good either just tolerable.The ending-It was good,dark, and leaves you definitely wanting more. It's really the point we're everything went to hell literally and figuratively,but the reason why it's in the con section is that it explains NOTHING. It ends in a HORRIBLE downer ending with NO CLOSURE whatsoever. Since this anime was made a decade and some years ago the possibility of a second season to give closure is real slim to nonexistent. So if you want that you will have to read the (unfinished) manga.I'll end the review with this.The gooder the person the darker the fall. You want understand what I mean until the end.
I'm a huge anime fan. I have almost watched everything what Im supposed to watch. Most of anime follower complain about the story line when they compared with the manga series. And I also check the manga as I thought they could be right but the whole I see is just disrespect the anime line. They really try hard most of time for an anime series in terms of adaptation period, drawings, dubbing and musics. But this time if someone said manga version was better, I would down with them. I can't tell I didn't enjoy but too many holes in the story. You can just find out the truth if you read manga version of Berserk. For instance, I forgot that little kid's name but everybody will remember what I said. He saw a monster and then we don't know what happened that kid. We thought he was dead. The other example is about how Guts escaped from reborn chamber at the end of the story. It is also related with that little kid's chapter. And we couldn't watch great fights in the dungeon while they were escaping with the Griffith. I cannot tell I regret but it was necessary to see these progresses.I hope they will remake the whole series from scratch besides Berserk movie projects.
