The Gold Rush is one of Chaplin's best films, as well as one of his most famous. It has been said that it is the film that he most wanted to be remembered by, and it's not hard to see why. Chaplin plays the part of the lone prospector, a young miner during the gold rush. After getting caught in a storm, he hurries to the only shelter that he can find, a wood cabin in the middle of the storm. It turns out that it is already inhabited, and by a tough criminal named Black Larson, no less, and the scene in which Charlie and Big Jim, another prospector, insist to Black Larson that they are going to stay is one of the countless memorable scenes in the film.
Charlie and Big Jim are left alone and without food when Larson goes off to face the storm looking for food (having drawn the lowest card in another amusing scene), and the scenes in the cabin are some of the best in the entire film. There is, of course, the boot eating scene, memorable not only because of its cleverness and effectiveness, but also because while making the film, Chaplin ate so much boot (which was made out of licorice) before he was satisfied with the take that he had to be taken to the hospital to have his stomach pumped. Another thing that was really well done was the special effects. I am still amazed every time I watch the film at how realistic it looks when there is a long shot from outside showing Charlie hanging from the door of the cabin, which is balanced precariously on the edge of a cliff. Also notice the fast paced and very effective music during this scene, the same song that is played in the best scene of the 1996 film Shine, with Geoffrey Rush. There is also a very noteworthy love element of The Gold Rush, a part of the story that Chaplin generally has much success with in his films. Charlie's amorous interests in Georgia, a dance hall girl, leads to the scene where he performs the famous dance of the dinner rolls, probably the most famous scene in the film, which was also performed very well by Johnny Depp in Benny & Joon. Charlie's relationship with Georgia is also the thing that leads to his presentation of his sympathy for the lower classes, when he meets her on the ship after having become a multi-millionaire. Chaplin's full length films are inherently more famous than his earlier short comedies, and The Gold Rush is one of the best of his full length features. A must see for any Chaplin fan, but The Gold Rush is also a film that anyone who is interested in quality comedy should watch.


                
The Gold Rush is pure gold.  It was Charlie Chaplin's third feature-length film, and marked his comeback of sorts following A Woman of Paris (1923), which he had directed to great critical acclaim but which had been unsuccessful at the box office because it lacked his signature character The Little Tramp.  This movie should be counted among Chaplin's best and most enduring works; many people name City Lights (which I've also seen) as THE best Chaplin movie, but The Gold Rush is still an excellent showcase for one of movie comedy's immortal geniuses.Having first seen this movie years ago on TV, I saw it again in October 2003 as part of my college's silent-film class, on a poor-quality videotape that often prevented the other students and I from laughing at it because we could barely discern what was happening on the screen. 
Even so, I was sufficiently intrigued to buy the GR Chaplin Collection DVD, which has a restored silent version of the film that is so good I haven't even bothered to watch the 1942 sound version that's also on the disc.The viewing quality of this restored silent version is excellent, although certain minor details are still hard to see, such as the faces of the cards drawn by the Tramp, Jim McKay and Black Larsen as they try to determine who should go out into the blizzard.  On the other hand, in the shot of the cabin teetering on the edge of the cliff, the viewing clarity makes clearly visible the wire used to pull the model cabin farther over the edge!Also, the film seems to skip in the scene when the Tramp dances with Georgia, perhaps due to a transfer problem with the DVD.  But these are minor complaints, and certainly the restoration allows for full appreciation of the film.The first half-hour of The Gold Rush is in itself worth the purchase price, as it contains some of the funniest scenes I've ever seen in any movie. Even the throwaway bits, such as the Tramp trying to use a crude hand-drawn compass, are more genuinely funny than the extreme gross-out gags offered by most contemporary comedies.  And the shoe-eating scene is so famously funny that even people watching it for the first time may feel that they've seen it already: this is in no way a bad thing, but merely reflects the fact that the best silent films long ago entered into the collective memory of our culture.I don't say this to sound pretentious.  I believe that because Chaplin had such influence on the development of movie comedy, that to a certain extent people today may take him for granted.  It's hard to approach his work with fresh eyes only because so many people have watched his movies for so many years.  For example, before the success of The Kid (1921), Chaplin's first feature film, the movie industry doubted that audiences would accept a film that blended comedy and drama.  In The Gold Rush, Chaplin further explored cinema's potential to be comedy and drama simultaneously.  Only he could have distilled humor from scenes of starvation and struggles to survive the ravings of a madman.The joy of watching this film today stems from seeing how well Chaplin, as both star and director, finds and maintains the right tone and style for his work, negotiating the fine line between comedy and tragedy.  This is most evident in the scene when McKay and Larsen struggle for the shotgun in the cabin and the Tramp tries desperately to escape the muzzle's aim: the sequence is undeniably hilarious, yet even today the Tramp's grim predicament is just as likely to horrify the viewer.One pleasure of silent comedies such as The Gold Rush is that the lack of a soundtrack leaves more to the imagination, in the same manner that old-time radio comedy got laughs from funny sound effects that showed the audience nothing.  When Black Larsen sees the Tramp in the cabin, for example, he enters and slams the door, causing the Tramp to spin around in alarm.  This is the kind of joke that could only work in a silent movie, because no door-slamming sound effect could be quite as funny as the piano score imitating the noise, as rendered by Neil Brand on the DVD.  The second act, in which the Tramp gives up prospecting, returns to town and becomes infatuated with Georgia, was probably inevitable, as Chaplin realized he couldn't sustain the entire film at the cabin.  Still, he must have drawn much of his inspiration from that one location, because he returns his characters to the cabin in the film's third act. 
I don't want to spoil the climax for anyone who hasn't seen it, but I believe that even today it remains one of the most vivid depictions in cinema history of man versus the elements, and Chaplin milked all its potential for comedy and suspense.Mack Swain is hilarious as Jim McKay, creating a memorable comic image with his ridiculously small boots and high-domed fur coat.  Chaplin generously gave him some opportunities to be funny on his own in this film, just as he was content to let Jackie Coogan share the spotlight in The Kid.  From what I've seen of City Lights and Modern Times, he was not so generous in his later films, seeming to think that he himself was the whole show. 
The Gold Rush may not be a perfect 10 compared to today's more sophisticated stories and special effects.  The ending is cheerfully cynical, improbably reuniting two characters and never revealing Georgia's true feelings for the Tramp.But the bottom line is that The Gold Rush is still funny after almost eighty years, and that's a feat few comedies in any year can ever accomplish. Chaplin, in his ability to extract maximum humor and poignancy from his material, has no equivalent today.  What a shame.Rating: 10 (One of the best movies of 1925.)


                
The 1898 Gold Rush to Alaska may have been harsh, but Charlie Chaplin makes it hilarious. As an unnamed prospector, Chaplin goes through a series of gaffes while seeking gold in the Yukon. Most famous of course are the shoe for dinner, the dancing roles, and the cabin teetering on the edge of a cliff. His companion, Big Jim McKay (Mack Swain) at one point is so hungry that he believes Chaplin's character to be a chicken, and before long, a bear enters their cabin. In the midst of it all, the prospector falls in love with dancer Georgia (Georgia Hale).A real triumph for Charlie Chaplin! They must have had a lot of fun filming it!


                
To see Charlie Chaplin's The Gold Rush is to know enjoyment. One cannot help but enjoy a film as well-done as this! Chaplin said that this was the film for which he wanted to be remembered, and I can see why. It is a masterful blend of comedy, drama, and romance, among other genres seamlessly brought together in one extraordinary picture. Like all great movies, The Gold Rush has more than its share of memorable moments, from the Thanksgiving dinner to the dance of the dinner rolls to the cabin teetering on the edge of the mountain. All of these scenes are brilliant because of The Tramp's flawless physical comedy. He was a master of comedic timing, and he was one of the most graceful physical comedians I've ever seen. Don't get me wrong, this picture is not just three fantastic scenes amongst filler. The film moves along at a brisk pace, following the misadventures of our hero, The Lone Prospector (Charlie Chaplin, of course), as he attempts to hit it big by discovering gold in Alaska. Along his journey through the elements, the prospector meets the notorious Black Larsen (Tom Murray), a wanted criminal willing to do anything to get his hands on some gold. Fortunately, our friend also comes across a fellow prospector, Big Jim McKay (Mack Swain), who has finally defied all odds and struck it rich. But the Lone Prospector's adventures take place not only out in the middle of nowhere. When he is forced back to civilization, he falls in love with Georgia (Georgia Hale), the most beautiful girl in town. Of course, it would be all too easy if no one else was interested in this beauty. Jack Cameron (Malcolm Waite), the handsome lady's man who is not content with every other woman in town by his side; he must have Georgia, as well. Competition arises between the disappointed prospector and the ego-maniacal "lady killer." All of this would be too much for any one of us, but the Lone Prospector handles it all with his uncompromising resilience in the face of insurmountable odds to bring us one of the greatest comedies of all time! I will not lie, I am a fan of Charlie Chaplin's movies, but as objective as I can possibly be, this IS one of the great movies...Essential viewing!


                
I've seen both version of this film--the original silent version from 1925 and the re-release by Chaplin in the 1940s. The difference is that the re-release was designed to appeal to a new audience that expected sound from their movies. To do this, title cards were removed--having Chaplin narrate the film. In addition, Chaplin-created music (for the most part--some were classical pieces), sound effects and singing were added to make the movie more palatable to the average viewer. I personally like BOTH versions and the one you watch is up to you if you get a copy of the Warner Brothers release on DVD--it has both plus excellent DVD extras. Otherwise, there have been a lot of public domain versions on video out there--many with terrible quality prints or music or both. The Warner version is the most pristine and beautiful silent print you can find. The version usually shown on Turner Classic movies is the 1942 re-release.I use this film for my American history class when we do our unit on the history of film, though I might, in the future, use it for my Psychology classes as well (I teach both) because Chaplin's genius came from his obsessive-compulsive nature. The movie reportedly had 27 times more film exposed than you actually see in the film and the shoe eating segment was shot after more than 60 takes!! The plot involves Charlie going to Alaska for the Gold Rush at the turn of the century. Along the way, he has a series of misadventures that have been thoroughly discussed in the other reviews here on IMDb. Suffice to say, the supporting acting was excellent and the story kept an excellent pace and had enough slapstick to make it fun to watch (something not true of all full-length slapstick comedies--sometimes, their pacing was negatively affected by the transition from shorts to full-length).This is a gorgeous, well-executed piece of American art and a must for any real cinemaniac. The musical score (arranged by Chaplin), direction, acting and cinematography all are simply perfect--making this, in my opinion, the best full-length silent comedy ever made. This is saying a lot considering how much I love Harold Lloyd and Buster Keaton's films!


                
If any single figure can fairly be said to symbolize the glory years of the silent films<U+0097>the cinema's truly international epoch<U+0097>it is Charles Chaplin's indomitable tramp<U+0085> The Little Fellow, as millions came to call him, was at once tatty and debonair, brow-beaten and irrepressibly optimistic<U+0097>and he was, without question, the best-loved international star in all of film history<U+0085> His coat was too small, his pants too large, his mustache patently false<U+0097>and the resultant silhouette instantly recognizable wherever movies were shown<U+0085> Charlie Chaplin's tramp spoke to all walks of life<U+0097>and never more eloquently than in such silent films as "The Kid," and "The Gold Rush." "The Gold Rush" is superb<U+0085> It deals with Charlie's adventures to win the affection of a local dance-hall girl, and his hilarious efforts to avoid being eaten by bears and by prospectors who are bigger and hungrier than he<U+0085> The most memorable scene is one in which he dines on an old shoe<U+0085> Chaplin's exquisite grace, turned the boiled shoe into a gourmet feast: he carves it carefully, smacks his lips in anticipation, and then eats it with gusto and appreciation, sucking the nails as if they contained the most juices and twirling the laces around his fork as if they were spaghetti<U+0085>
One of the best Chaplin movies, which means one of the best movies ever made. Good structure and a lot of  excellent classic scenes such as `Eating the shoe' and `The Roll Dance'. Both the original version and the second release have their own charm.


                
We follow "the little fellow" (Chaplin), in his trip to Alaska to find gold - which he ends up succeeding in, finding love at the same time. The first half of the movie reunites Chaplin, another lonesome gold seeker, and a moral-less scoundrel in a shelter, under a particularly horrendous snowstorm. There happens one of the most memorable scene of the movie: Big Jim's delusion that Chaplin's is a giant (of course bearing Chaplin's manners) chicken, and his desperate attempts to eat him; but Chaplin is saved by a bear showing up which they finally eat. Then, parting their ways, begins the second half of the movie: the one-sided romance with the beautiful Georgia, met in a dance hall. How funny was the scene when she invited out of despair our little fellow to dance to avoid dancing with an invading Jake! How genius showed Chaplin to use Tchaykovsky's...Beauy & the Beast's waltz! Bringing to tear and laughters at the same time. As Georgia plays nastily and mocks and fools Chaplin, with her friends, and secretly discovers his love, her heart swings. But Chaplin is taken away by his former colleague, Big Jim, to "become millionaires" (i.e. find gold). And they find it! All ends well as the little fellow & big Jim, now millionaires, leave on a ship. While dressed poorly as in his earlier gold seeker day for a photography, he falls upon Georgia, who indisputably is happy to be with him, and even more happy to find him multimillionaires, as she hears from the ship crew. The moral? Women love damned $$$...
All the best Chaplin films have one unique scene that's very memorable because it's either very funny or very touching. In this film, it's one of the funny ones.You see, in this film, Chaplin jumps on the band wagon to Alaska to participate in the Gold Rush. Along the way, he runs into some crazy characters and has to stay out in the middle of nowhere with one of them. Since they must try to survive in the cold weather, Chaplin decides to cook dinner. What he cooks and how they eat it is the priceless joke that makes this film so great.It's not just that one joke though, there are tons of laughs in this great movie. So I highly recommend it for any fan of silent films or comedies. You'll have a lot of fun watching it.As of now, this is the earliest Charlie Chaplin film that I've seen, but it probably won't be for long. I think he's one of the greatest directors and I hope to see more of his films soon.


                
THE GOLD RUSH (United Artists, 1925), written, directed and starring Charlie Chaplin, may not be the very best of the Chaplin feature comedies of the silent era, but has become the very movie in which Chaplin wanted to be most noted for by future generations. So proud of his achievement, Chaplin reissued this silent film in 1942 with a new music soundtrack which introduced a narration written and spoken by Chaplin himself, eliminating the use of title cards. Then in the summer of 1971, THE GOLD RUSH became the initial movie presented on public broadcasting station's 13-week series of "The Silent Years," as hosted by Orson Welles, from the Paul Killian collection with a new and excellent piano score by William Perry.THE GOLD RUSH, which is set in the turn of the century, opens with The Lone Prospector (Charlie Chaplin) coming to Alaska. A snow storm drives him into the cabin of "Black" Lawson (Tom Murray), an outlaw. "Big Jim" McKay (Mack Swain), another prospector who has found gold on his claim, is also driven in by the storm and into the same cabin. After much struggle, Larson finds himself having to accept the two men as his guests. Stranded due to the heavy storm, Larson, finds himself chosen to go out for help. While out in the storm, he comes upon a couple of officers looking for him. He gets away by stealing their dog sled, but is later killed in an avalanche. Back to the cabin, Charlie and Larson, almost in near starvation, eventually make a meal out of a large bear. When the snow storm finally subsides, the two men go about their separate ways. Charlie comes to a mining town where he becomes infatuated with Georgia (Georgia Hale), a dance hall girl, causing jealousy from her suitor, Jack Cameron (Malcolm Waite). As for Jim, he has forgotten where his gold claim is, and locates Charlie to help him find it, separating him from Georgia. The results that follow is classic Chaplin.Aside from a large list of supporting players, which consists of frequent Chaplin character actor Henry Bergman as Hank Curtis, "The Gold Rush" contains many now classic comedy supplements, including the starving Charlie cooking his boot in hot water, and using his shoelace as spaghetti; Charlie's encounter with Georgia; and the near end finale in which Charlie and Big Jim return to the cabin before setting out to find the claim, in which the cabin gets blown away during the blizzard that forces the cabin to be found the next morning halfway over the edge of a cliff which starts to tilt back and forth as the men make their slightest movement. There are tender moments, too, including Charlie awaiting for Georgia and her other friends to accompany him for New Year's Eve dinner, with tears flowing down his cheek when at the stroke of midnight realizes they are not coming. The most famous sequence of the entire movie is the one where Charlie falls asleep and dreams of himself entertaining his dinner guests by using two forks in two potato rolls as his feet and doing a dance for them.With THE GOLD RUSH being Chaplin's most revived and discussed movie, one must never forget his other artistic achievements that followed, including THE CIRCUS (1928), CITY LIGHTS (1931), MODERN TIMES (1936) and his talkie debut of THE GREAT DICTATOR (1940). Since the advent of home video in the early 1980s, THE GOLD RUSH consists of various editions and different music scores, ranging from the use of piano, organ or orchestra. There are even some editions that have no music track at all, along with some copies running different time lengths, and others eliminating the final closing segment set on the boat in which Charlie and Georgia walk on top of the deck to be interviewed and photographed by the press before the fadeout. The 1942 reissue, being a shorter print with Chaplin's narration, not only was presented occasionally on American Movie Classics, but can also be found on Chaplin's 100th birthday anniversary video edition followed by a 1921 comedy short, PAY DAY. Video or DVD enthusiasts out there certainly will have a major choice to consider as to which copy to have in their collection. But in spite of numerous editions, THE GOLD RUSH is a golden treasure where it had been shown on American Movie Classics (1997-2001) and currently presented on Turner Classic Movies in either format of the shorter 1942 reissue or silent print with the William Perry piano score. While Chaplin is listed in the cast solely as The Lone Prospector, avid lip readers will notice that he is called "Charlie" by his supporting players, especially by Georgia. (****)


                
If anyone doubts that Charlie Chaplin was one of the funniest comedians ever or that silent films did not require acting ability, t you a commend this film, as well as City Lights.  Modern Times isn't, strictly speaking, a silent film, although Chaplin had no dialogue there.  The Gold Rush, while not Chaplin's best film, does feature his best performance and has so many classic bits, it must be seen.  Excellent film.  1942 version redone by Chaplin is a bit better, but either will do.  Most highly recommended.


                
What a delightful film. I can see the imagination bursting on the screen in riches. Each scene contains surprises and bits of magic. I love how the film shows visually that the liquid is alcohol and how the cabin ended up on the edge of a cliff. This masterpiece is not just a comedy but there are parts that make me laugh just thinking about them, like the eating shoe scene, fighting over rifle while Chaplin tries to hide from gun, and when the cabin is tipping over the cliff scene. When the Lone Prospector finds Georgia the film unveils some truly touching dramatic moments. I love the image of Chaplin standing still outside his open door listening to the crowd on New Year's Eve knowing that he was stood-up. I genuinely felt for him. Chaplin is a auteur who can make me laugh and cry at the same time. Brilliant.


                
The eternal question for many Chaplin fans is is The Gold Rush better than City Lights?  There are some who would argue for Modern Times or maybe even The Great Dictator.  There are even a few who like Monsieur Verdoux.  But to say this film is better than City Lights is definitely inviting controversy. As a statement on social mores and values City Lights is far more indicting.  As an important piece of film City Lights shows us many things that had never been done before and perhaps may never be done again on the big screen.  But as a sheer enjoyable romp in The Little Tramp's world City Lights falls short.  It is buried in social commentary whereas the Gold Rush has some social issues to deal with but nothing much new from previous works until the end where it neatly summarizes what "Charlot" has been all about all along. It is that ending which makes the Gold Rush the best of Chaplin's works and the one I will watch just for the sheer joy of seeing the artist in his prime. 10 out of 10.


                
Just like Orson Wells, Marlon Brando and Katherine Hepburn, Charlie Chaplin is a classic in the movie industry!! The king of silent films is attributed with making slapstick humor one of the stellar accomplishments in the entertainment business!! Slapstick comedy is predicated on a lot of physical humor, often times, slapstick is underrated in terms of the immense amount of talent it actually requires!! Lucille Ball got her start by emulating slapstick icons such as Buster Keaton and Charlie Chaplin, and later, she instilled slapstick stunts in her renowned comedy series "I Love Lucy"... The film, "Gold Rush" is hilarious in it's exaggeration of calamity!! Charlie Chaplin is tremendous in engaging in a befuddled demeanor about his basic struggle for survival!! "Gold Rush" was listed by one movie critic's list as the best film ever!! Why do you suppose this is? I would say that it is mostly on account of the cunningly successful aspects of silliness that are incorporated in the making of this movie!! Another big reason would be the flippant approach slapstick artist Charlie Chaplin orchestrates when encountering one predicament after the other in this film!! These actions are so overdone that they are hysterically funny!! Charlie Chaplin executes all of the necessary acrobatics of chicanery very effectively!! In the case of "Gold Rush" Charlie Chaplin is so intense in his ludicrous actions, that he effortlessly makes "Gold Rush" a masterpiece!! Take into account that it is 1925, before the film goer was barraged with a bevy of special effects, and you, (being part of the movie audience) will recognize how well put together this movie really is!! The innocuous charisma of a Nicklelodian style film is often times mollified, and is discarded by many people as being cavalier in it's attempt to attain a recognizable prowess as far as being an assertively marvelous flick is concerned!! Nothing could be further from the truth in the case of the film "Gold Rush" This film is outstanding!! The licorice shoes were an added whimsical element to making "Gold Rush" funny as well!! I strongly recommend that you rent this movie and watch it!! This is without a doubt, an extremely top notch film!! It is not always rated #1 on every critic's list, but, it is always listed as one of the best movies ever made by virtually every movie expert!! The latest review list that AFI came out with "Gold Rush" was rated 58th out of the top 100 American films ever made!!


                
013: The Gold Rush (1925) - released 6/16/1925, viewed 8/4/05.John Scopes, a biology teacher in Tennessee, is arrested and indicted for teaching Darwin's theory of evolution in class. The Chrysler corporation is founded by Walter Percy Chrysler. Charles Francis Jenkins makes an early breakthrough with a demonstration of "radiovision," which would eventually become television.BIRTHS: Yogi Berra, Charles Chaplin Jr., Pol Pot, Malcolm X, Tony Curtis, Barbara Bush. DEATHS: H. Rider Haggard, Thomas R. Marshall.KEVIN: We now come to our second Charlie Chaplin film and quite possibly his seminal masterpiece, 1925's The Gold Rush. This movie is wonderful. I laughed really hard right from the beginning. I love the opening where the Tramp first walks on screen, still with his hat and shoes and cane even though there's snow everywhere and he really looks out of his element. I think my favorite comedic beat in the film was the scene where the cabin is teetering over the edge of the cliff. That scene is even better in the 1941 version due to the added tension of sound effects. Another great thing in this movie for me was the irresistible Georgia Hale. Every moment she's on screen everything just lights up. I hear Chaplin was quite the control freak with his films, and I'm sure even he must have been mesmerized with what she did.DOUG: In June 1925, after nearly two years of production, Charles Chaplin finally releases the film for which he is best remembered, and with good reason: The Gold Rush is not just a great comedy, but a great film. And not just because it contains some of Chaplin's best remembered scenes. The gourmet shoe-eating scene is wonderful, the way he is determined to enjoy every bit of the shoe, sucking on the nails like bones, twisting the shoe laces like spaghetti. The scene with the house teetering on the edge of the cliff is one of the greatest sustained comedy scenes ever put on film. And everyone loves when starving Big Jim hallucinates the Tramp as a giant chicken. But there's something more here. Chaplin isn't just interested in telling jokes, but there's a rather poignant story happening here in the romance between the Tramp and Georgia. The scene where he imagines Georgia and her friends enjoying his New Year's Eve party is especially poignant, as he performs the 'Oceana Roll' with a pair of rolls on forks. Interesting this is Chaplin's only silent comedy that he filmed with a complete story ready before filming; interesting too that Chaplin chose this film to redo with new sound and narration in 1942. When you watch the later version, it is cool to realize that it's really Chaplin's voice you're hearing. There were a few noticeable alterations in the two versions, one being that instead of the Tramp reading a note from Georgia that he thinks is for him, he really receives a (different) note from Georgia to him. I prefer the later version of that scene, but I prefer the ending of the earlier version where they kiss; the revised version seems to end rather abruptly.Last film: Strike (1925). Next film: Phantom of the Opera (1925).The Movie Odyssey is an exhaustive, chronological project where we watch as many milestone films as possible, starting with D.W. Griffith's Intolerance in 1916 and working our way through, year by year, one film at a time. We also write a short review for each film before we watch the next, never reading the other's review before we finish our own. In this project, we hope to gain a deeper understanding of the time period, the films of the era, and each film in context, while at the same time just watching a lot of great movies, most of which we never would have watched otherwise.


                
Charlie Chaplin's The Gold Rush is one of his best loved films. The Gold Rush, directed by and starring Chaplin, is a wonderfully captivating historical comedy about a lone gold rush prospector. The story is set in the Colorado Rockies during the Gold Rush. It was originally made without music or dialog during the silent film era, in 1925. It was an instant hit and became a success all over the world. In 1942, Chaplin had the idea remake the movie with sound and narration and to release the new version to a public that was now used to films with soundtracks. The release of the new Gold Rush followed the box office flop of his previous film, The Great Dictator, and Chaplin desperately needed something to pick up his career. The Gold Rush was just what he needed and has remained a much-loved classic to this day. The film is both touching and funny at the same time. Chaplin's character is quirky and sympathetic.Synopsis: The Little Fellow (Chaplin) is lost in the Rockies, and comes upon a cabin in a mountain storm. Inside the cabin, he meets Big Jim (Mack Swain), another lone prospector who had stumbled upon a mountain of gold, Black Larson (Tom Murray), a wanted criminal. The three are trapped in the cabin in the storm, and find themselves starved and tired. Desperately running out of food, they draw straws and Black Larson is forced to leave. The two remaining continue to live in the cabin through the storm. At one point, in a serious scene which builds to a comedic climax, The Little Fellow is so hungry that he decides to boil his leather shoe so that they can eat something. This is mocking the famous Donner Party who, caught in the Rockies, resorted to eating their boiled moccasins, among other things. Ahem. Luckily, nobody in The Gold Rush goes that far. At another point in the story, Big Jim gets so hungry, that he starts hallucinating. Using special effects that at that time were unheard of, The Little Fellow miraculously turns into a chicken and then back again in a series that taunts Big Jim. Big Jim grabs his shotgun, and delirious with hunger, proceeds to hunt down The Little Fellow. Big Jim then regains his senses just in time, and doesn't shoot The Little Fellow. After the storm ends, they find themselves at the edge of a cliff. A hilarious scene ensues and they escape just as the house falls off the edge. The pair split up; Big Jim to his mountain of gold, and The Little Fellow to a small mining town, like the many towns that had sprung up all throughout the west during the gold rush. He heads immediately to a bar, where a party is taking place. As everybody starts to dance, The Little Fellow stands in the back, watching awkwardly in his baggy trousers. This is when he first sees Georgia. (Georgia Hale) Georgia is arguing with Jack Cameron (Malcom Waite), a big, strong man who Georgia despises. He is trying to get Georgia to dance when she blows him off and asks The Little Fellow to dance just to make him mad. He takes her seriously, and they dance. When they are finished, she leaves, and Jack goes to follow her. The Little Fellow stands in the doorway, not letting him pass. They get in a fight, and just as The Little Fellow is about to lose, a clock falls on Jackís head, knocking him out. Everybody stares in awe as The Little Fellow Walks out, standing tall and proud. Later, Georgia comes to the house that The Little Fellow is sitting for money, and they talk. While he is getting firewood, The girls find pictures of Georgia under his pillow, along with the rose that she gave him when they danced. Georgia discovers his love for her.The Little Fellow invites her and her friends over for dinner on Christmas Eve. The night comes, and The Little Fellow prepares a great feast. The girls never show up, and he sits there, sad and dejected. Finally, after they are done partying, the girls come over, feeling bad. During their dinner, Chaplin entertains his guests as he hilariously brings two rolls and two forks to life in his famous "roll dance." Later on, Big Jim returns, after losing his memory, and asks for The Little Fellow's help in finding the mountain of gold. They return to the mountains, find the gold, and instantly become millionaires. As they are leaving on a ship, The Little Fellow meets Georgia and they reunite.
This little film is a great display of the true comedic genius of Charlie Chaplin and his "Little Tramp" character. The film isn't powerfully dramatic but still stands the test of the time in terms of comedy. Chaplin's elaborate and well-prepared sight gags really show how his style differed from the frantic & wild pace of Max Sennatt's silent films. Plus his "Tramp" character is a very sympathetic and human character as you do feel his emotions as he tries to win Georgia's heart. Overall Chaplin did a fantastic job on this classic and it deserves recognition as one of the best comedies of all-time. Without a doubt, a solid 10/10!


                
In a story often related by film scholars to wide-eyed students, Chaplin set about creating the comic scenarios for his 1925 classic (I would use the word masterpiece, but he seemed to have made a number of these) The Gold Rush after being inspired by the true tales of cannibalism among the stranded Donner party.  That Chaplin could take such a morbid topic and spin it into hilarious comedy is a testament to his skill, particularly as a performer -- the moments where he is imagined as a giant chicken or eats his boot and shoelaces as if they were veal cutlets are still astonishingly fresh.  Other set pieces, like the teetering cabin and the dancing dinner rolls, still delight audiences and continue to cement The Gold Rush's legacy.


                
I thought this was such an incredible film. It is definitely my favorite one of all he has made that I've seen so far. Both the old & new one of this film is amazing. I personally love in the new one when they play the theme song from the Disney movie "Sleeping Beauty." And I love the original ending when Charlie & Georgia kiss, it was so cute!!! I definitely recommend this film to EVERYONE, as well as trying to get your hands all as many of his 89 films as possible. I own about 60 as of now, and will be getting 12 a.s.a.p. I am such a huge fan of him, and this film just made me an even bigger fan. It is so funny, my favorite parts are when he eats his shoe, when he first sees Georgia(i love the little song that plays every time he sees her), when he does the dance w/ the forks & the rolls. I promise you, if you see this movie, you all will love it, it is incredible, so see it!!! LOL


                
After an unsuccessful attempt at melodrama in A Woman in Paris, a conscious attempt to break away from the silly and simplistic entertainment of his early cinematic career and say something important as a serious artist, Charlie Chaplin was forced to return to just the sort of crowd pleasing comedy he had just unsuccessfully made a bid to deviate from. The crucial difference was, despite his return to his defining genre, Chaplin had not abandoned his newfound sense of cinematic grandeur or determination to accomplish something more worthwhile than throwaway entertainment through film. This rekindled cinematic ambition, combined with inspiration from a series of slides detailing a vast march of Klondike gold prospectors and a gruesome account of an expedition leading to cannibalism, led to The Gold Rush, a picture just as grand, vast and engaging as any of the dramas Chaplin might have initially wanted to emulate. However, it is through Chaplin's commitment to mining the most humane and heart-warming of comedy out of the most unlikely sources that the film is firmly cemented as an abiding classic of the era. When recalled from a contemporary standpoint, the film is often remembered simply as a series of comic setpieces: Chaplin forced to scramble up the near vertical floor of a cabin teetering on the edge of a cliff, Chaplin cooking and eating a shoe to cope with famine, and the timeless dance of the dinner rolls endlessly referenced from sources as varied as 1993's Benny and Joon to the Simpsons. But what is often neglected is the sheer craftsmanship and incredibly dedication Chaplin invested in such sequences - the tension and sheer cinematic prowess demonstrated in the rocking cabin sequence alone are enough to still make it almost impossibly breathtaking and tense even when viewed over 80 years after the fact. Through such sequences, The Gold Rush demonstrates Chaplin's maturation as a filmmaker, from simply a skilled entertainer to a genuinely capable director capable of extracting not only laughs, but gasps of white knuckle fear, and unquenchable tears of fundamentally human pathos. As such, to reduce such a universally laudable film to a series of extended gags would not only be an understatement, but downright unreasonable, as the film pulses with vivid life, emotion and utter credibility, despite its exterior dressings as a simple silly comedy. Through reviving his immortal tramp figure, Chaplin gained a near peerless conduit for not only comedy but social criticism and satire, not only sending up the inhumane atrocities of Klondike prospecting life, but of class struggles and the adherence to them preventing proper human interaction. When the tramp enters a mining town, he is scarcely given any more reprieve than in the winter harshness of the mountain prospecting, so beset is he by the scorn and derision of the upper class villagers, adding conflict to a potentially budding romance and adding an ironic tinge to an otherwise saccharine ending. The film also excels technically to an extent Chaplin had previously not achieved, with subtle but deceptively inventive camera-work perfectly complimenting the flavour of the scene, whether creating a bold, sweeping statement through the iconic long shot of a weary train of prospectors traversing a mountainside, or with tender close-ups extracting every inch of emotion from Chaplin's quivering face. Far from a simple string of gags, The Gold Rush makes its mark as an unassuming cinematic masterpiece, both technically and in terms of emotional storytelling.It goes without saying that Chaplin's skills as a performer only continued to improve with each film, and The Gold Rush is no exception. Demonstrating not only his astonishing physical prowess and ability to meticulously undertake precarious stunts and comic gags, Chaplin also showcases an almost unprecedented sentimental side, with his beloved tramp figure proving an utterly irresistible underdog hero who, when beset by adversity, cannot help but genuinely capture the viewer's heart. Chaplin is also gifted with a highly talented supporting cast to play off of, including the admirably ferocious Mack Swain as a brutish fellow prospector and Georgia Hale, noteworthy for being a laudably ambiguous love interest rather than the one dimensional beauties often showcased in Chaplin's films.Arguably one of the strongest cinematic works produced during the silent era, The Gold Rush is more likely to evoke refreshingly genuine raucous laughter, heartfelt tears and finally leave the viewer with an unquenchable beaming smile on their face than almost any film made before or since. Chaplin's opus is a masterpiece of emotional storytelling on an impressively grand scale as well as a comedic classic, easily meriting the director/star's declaration of it being the singular film out of his entire body of work he would most like to be remembered by. -10/10


                
Oh where can I start on why alleged comedians should watch this film for inspiration? Firstly, it's just funny.Secondly, Chaplin's tramp character is a wonderful little loser, which allows him to do the most ridiculous slapstick gags. At the same time, he's a passionate fellow, determined to make something of himself. Sure, he dreams of riches and the great moment when he strikes gold, but on his quest to find the goldmines, he struggles for such basic things as warmth, food (boiling his boot and eating it for dinner is a classic scene) and love (he genuinely falls for women who are just hanging around him to make fun of him, and you can't help feel for the guy) And, of course, every scene, every gag is actually part of the story, so it's not just a series of strung-together jokes. It's also worth mentioning that he's such a generous performer, he's willing to share the screen with his co-stars and can use his character to support their moments of glory on the screen.Oh and the ending, with Georgia (the object of the Tramp's affection) sympathising with The Lone Prospector (Chaplin's character) and finally falling for him before the shock of discovering that he's now a multi-millionaire give the story a not-too-sentimental, not-too-corny ending that ensures the movie is still a comedy classic now, 80 years after the film was made.
Chaplin takes his audience on an adventure to the great gold rush. Imaginative, and brilliant classic comedy suitable for any age. Chaplin's "prospector" character takes his luck to the mines and (of course) coming up with some bad luck, gets himself stuck with Big Jim who eventually tries to eat him, then to him falling for a beautiful girl who mocks him. A great story through and through.


                
The tramp ventures into Alaska looking for gold. He gets mixed up with some burly characters and falls in love with the beautiful Georgia. He tries to win her heart with his singular charm.............
Chaplin as the tramp always looking for adventure and romance. I think this is one of the funniest movies ever made.I still think that modern times is better(my favorite film off all time) but this is a masterpiece.


                
This movie will always have a special place in my heart. This was the first 'long' feature film made by Charlie Chaplin that I saw and the first time I got to see his familiar gags (like the Tramp eating his shoe or 'the dance of the rolls') in context. It surpassed all my expectations and left me speechless.For today's audiences a black-and-white silent film may seem hopelessly outdated, but The Gold Rush is truly a timeless masterpiece that has remained just as fresh, funny and moving as it once was. It's incredibly imaginative, wonderfully structured, and despite the countless laugh-out-loud burlesque moments, it's surprisingly poetic and tear-inducing. It is very reminiscent of Woody Allen's best bittersweet comedies (of course, Allen being an admirer of Chaplin's work, it's actually the other way round), so if you like Woody's perspective (and maybe enjoyed films like Zelig or Manhattan – shot in black-and-white - from Allen's vast catalogue), The Gold Rush is highly recommended to see where he is coming from.If it's just that you have never been brave enough to attempt a silent feature, well, The Gold Rush is the perfect starting point. May it be your first step into a larger world.
Living in an age where the norm in cinema is heavy action, verbal comedy, and almost all the visuals are done with special effects, Charlie Chaplin's Gold Rush is something I watched out of boredom and did not expect to be as good as it is. It is one of the few films out there that received a 100% on Rotten Tomatoes. It was a film released in 1925, originally silent, then later music and a voice over was added and it was re released in 1942. It does not matter which version you watch, although I suggest that if you want a more immersive experience, the 1942 version is the way to go. In its original release alone, it pulled $1 million dollars into United Artists, and $2 million to Chaplin. This was in 1926!
Getting into the nitty-gritty of this film, this is some of Chaplin's best work in my opinion. Although the story is basic and scenes are easily predictable, it is still a great laugh to watch. This film has some great examples of how Chaplin liked to direct and make his films.He takes a basic scenario where we as the viewer think we know exactly what will happen. "Oh his pants are falling so he'll take that rope he eyed on the table and tie it around his waist." This is the first step of reality. Then in typical Chaplin fashion, he flip reality on us. "He's used the rope to hold up his pants, but its the leash to a dog!" That's how most if not all of Chaplin's jokes work. Camera angle also plays into effect here. We only see the rope on the table Chaplin wants to use. But what we can't see from this angle is the dog laying on the floor, tied to the rope. This how the majority of the jokes play out in this movie and although it is a bit old school to do it this way, it makes the movie great!
The characters and story in this film are also fantastic! You have the prospector (Charlie Chaplin), the disposable bad guy(Tom Murray), the friend(Mack Swain), the love interest(Georgia Hale), and the cocky ladies man(Malcom Waite). Like I said before, the story is at its root pretty basic,(boy meets girl, boy gets girl, boy loses girl, boy gets girl back) but its the jokes and how the story is played out that makes this so enjoyable. 
Closing up, this film is not only a great work of Chaplin, but of cinema. Chaplin some years later had said that this was the film he wanted to be remembered for. The filming is good, the characters, the visuals, the story. Its all a hilarious classic adventure. Definitely watch this if you have time, it will be time well spent.


                
