In Charles Chaplin's 1925 film, "The Gold Rush", a lone prospector travels to California looking for gold, and entwines himself in adventures and finds Georgia, the woman of his dreams. After many hardships, including a relocating cabin, the lone prospector, played by Charles Chaplin, finds gold and becomes rich, ending in success and unity with Georgia. The time period in which this movie was shot, compared with the technological innovation and the state of the art filming techniques, give this film an undoubted masterpiece feel. The use of up-close shots combined with comedic imagery also brought a new feel to the style of silent cinema. The scene with the cabin shifting, and the camera tilting to reflect the inner cabin, was one of the many stylistic filming techniques that gave "The Gold Rush" such artistic and ingenious appeal. Chaplin's ideas and his vision that he brought to life in the movie "The Gold Rush" make it a great landmark in the beginning of silent films and in film history. The intricate but simple story of "The Gold Rush" brought about many distinct feelings when viewing. It gives feelings of happiness, during scenes where there is comedic relief and slapstick comedy, and also can bring about sadness or pity for the lone prospector when he waits for Georgia on New Year's but she never shows up. It reveals how silent films can become in touch with a person's feelings, making them feel for the protagonist, without having to have dialogue to explain the gestures and plot. These aspects of "The Gold Rush" make it a milestone in the film industry of the modern world.
Make them laugh, make them laugh. The American comic tradition and American movies were made for each other. Gold Rush is one example that Charlie Chaplin was the father of American comedy. Even though Chaplin loves to press political, economical, or social messages in his films, The Gold Rush remains true to its genre. It is a comedy non the less. Even at the end of the film when THE TRAMP receives a kiss, Chaplin reminds the audience that she has ruined the picture with the kiss. This is suppose to be a comedy!


                
The Tramp truly was, and still is, everyman.  Simpleness is key.  Georgia barely touches the true essence of Chaplin when she says, "He's wonderful!" The brilliance lies within his ability to create cartoonish and surreal atmospheres, and imbue them with precise human nature and emotion.  The ending was a bit 'ehh', however thoughts may change as a second viewing -- the 1945 re-issue (with Chaplin narration and score) -- is forthcoming. Our (cinematic) World needs more Chaplins, and  reality needs imagination to inspire greatness.


                
The Gold Rush (1925)If you see this classic Charlie Chaplin movie, it better be the silent version, if only because this is the pure intention, uncompromised. The 1942 version is a little shorter and faster, but it has Chaplin giving narration instead of using the inter-titles, and he says unnecessary stuff, and it interferes.The best parts of this classic as so good, and so honestly original, and so perfectly unashamedly comic, there is nothing like it. Eating the shoe, or getting out of the tilting house? Sheer brilliance, even eighty years later. I laughed out loud and often.There is also that key ingredient to every great film (it seems), a romance, and a funny surprise twist to the plot in the last ten minutes or so. Chaplin the tramp rises above, and yet ends, by slight of hand, as the tramp, or as a rich sophisticated man pretending to be the tramp. Which is what he was.The plot has its slow points, and overly sentimental aspects (including the romance), and it is sometimes bordering on slapstick silly rather than elegantly physical and inventively funny. But the big effect is just joyous. Chaplin


                
"The Gold Rush," perhaps more than any other Chaplin film, best captures that elusive, sad quality about the little tramp that permeates so many of his films. What is it exactly that's so sad about Chaplin, given the fact that he's always doing something zany and laugh out loud funny? It's that he always seems to be an outsider; he never quite fits in. There's always someone bigger, stronger, richer, better looking than him. And I think that's what movie audiences responded to during his hey-day and what they're still responding to now.Perhaps no other scene in a Chaplin film (at least of the ones I've seen) captures this feeling more than the one in "The Gold Rush" where Chaplin has gone to a great deal of effort to prepare a New Year's dinner and is stood up by his date, spending his New Year's alone. This scene is almost unbearably sad, so thank God it's surrounded by scene after scene that will have you giggling. This is the movie with the famous "dancing potatoes" scene, and wait till you see Chaplin eat his boot for dinner, slurping up his shoelace like it's a spaghetti noodle.I strongly recommend Chaplin films to anyone who is moderately interested in early cinema but is turned off by the idea of silent pictures. He's so expressive and so fun to watch that I guarantee you you'll forget that you're watching a silent film. Even after movies went to sound, Chaplin continued to make virtually silent pictures, and you don't even feel the absence.Grade: A


                
I recently saw this movie with a live orchestra, and although the print itself was not the best, the experience was wonderful. Kudos to the orchestra for adding that extra dimension (The Asylum Street Spankers), but the true test of a great film is how fresh the central element remains. As I mentioned, the print was faded and scratched, the effects were primitive, some of the acting of the minor characters was overdrawn, but the character of the tramp, and the performance of Chaplin is as fresh, funny, moving, and surprising as if it were done yesterday. I take that back. I don't think there's an actor today capable of the perfectly created and executed performance of Charley Chaplin. I just hope there's a print out there which is in good shape and will be preserved forever.


                
THE GOLD RIUSH Funny and nice comedy classic from the forever Charlie Chaplin that always entertains. It is not really hilarious in any way, but it's fine and very entertaining and very choosy, to say it that way. Chaplin challenges some guys and a woman in this movie where the most of the story takes place in a cold cabin in the middle of nowhere. STARS: **** 4/5


                
One of the unforgettable film by great genius Charles Chaplin. His situation comedy is unique and I think nobody can ever reach him. Just think about scene where he was eating his own shoes. Shoe nail-delicious bone full of meat, shoe laces-tasteful Italian spaghetti, and the bottom-wonderful rare baked steak. But that's not enough for Charley. He's not satisfied with "his stomach full". He needs to dance a folk dance with forks and bread. Even this film would contain only this scene it would be more than enough to remember it together with "our Charlotte".


                
This is my choice for the best silent comedy! It is surprising that Chaplin would re-edit this in the 40s with voice over narration and removal or the intertitles and terrific ending. I keep alternating on my favorite Chaplin since Modern Times and City Lights are classics, too, but this seems like a win-win since it's stylistically groundbreaking, hilarious and with heart. The other two have that as well, but the jokes here are more relevant to the story and it ends with everything going Chaplin's way with friendship, romance and, of course, gold.


                
One of the best funny movies I've seen so far. Charlie just nails it.


                
It is truly amazing that Chaplin is able to deliver such a remarkable performance and tell a great tale through acting and visuals alone.There are some truly great scenes where he brings all of his skill to light.At 135 mins I thought that this was going to be a slog but the pacing is perfect and the story is intriguing.Chaplin's best film in my opinion.


                
The Gold Rush by Charlie Chaplin is a movie written and directed in the typical Chaplin Manner. Like most of Charlie Chaplains movies "The Gold Rush" takes you on a journey with chaplains most notable character "The Tramp". In this movie, Chaplin played the character of the lone prospector, a young naive miner hoping to strike it rich during the gold rush. the development of this character, although not very intensive was made easy due to the tramp being a very notable silent film character during this era. This is very important, even more so when cinematography was at a low due to video recording still being a new piece of technology. You could really tell during "The Gold Rush" that Charlie Chaplin was one of the great directors of the silent film era. He knew how to manipulate the actors to portray the story he was trying to tell in his story. As someone who never experienced silent film during its peak demand it is exciting and amusing to see how actors and directors can make the audience understand what is happening in a scene when there is no dialogue. One notable scene that really stuck out to me during this film was the scene when the Little Fellow and Big Jim where in the cabin during the storm. Eventually they ran out of food, and shortly after Big Jim Started to become Delirious. In a time in his life that Big Jim would eat anything (Leather shoes included) he started to see the Little Fellow as a giant Chicken. As you can probably assume if you have seen any other Chaplin movies this made for a very amusing chase scene that had me laughing along. It wasn't until after the movie finished that I realized just how much work had to go into just that scene alone. They didn't have the luxury of adding in an animation once the filming was all done. Directors had to get creative with how they were going to make scenes like this happen. It really makes you respect all the work put into something that we commonly think of as an old art form that has been replaced by the current movie era.Chaplin's Ability to connect with his audience is visible in all of his movies. He understood what his audience was looking, and made sure he delivered what they were hoping for. In many instances this desire was for the little fellow. However when the the movie industry started trending towards more talking films he realized what the demand was for and and started integrating narration into the films he had already created. seventeen years after the original version of this movie was released Chaplin re released The Gold Rush with narration done by, you guessed it, Himself. In my non-expert opinion this narration was a bit much for this movie. It seemed to distract the viewer from paying attention to what really mattered, the acting. It also didn't seem to add much detail to the silent film. It's not hard to understand what Chaplin is trying to portray during his movies so there isn't the need for a narrators explanation. I understand during the early 1940's Talking films where the new trend, However if you're planning on watching the film today and you have the opportunity to watch the completely silent version of the film watch that first.
The Gold RushI honestly don't remember when I first found out that Gold Rush (1925) was consider one of the greatest movies of all time. Now, come to thing of it, it may have been when I was on The Internet and came across one of these lists "The best 50 movies of all time" that so many people are so fond of. Of course, I knew who the actor who starred the film was, Charlie Chaplien, other than that I had no references, though. He is, by the way, also the director.His performance is the embodiment of everything a good actor should be. Simpleness, spontaneity and sweetness are his weapons to bring tears to your eyes, stir a glimpse of happiness inside your heart and make you feel sympathetic for his character. He plays a god- forgotten beggar who, following many people, heads to Alaska. The so called Gold Rush is as appealing as risky. However, our friend has nothing to lose in these adventure so the world is there for the taking. Weather his succeeds or not in doing this...well, that's not for me to say, not really. Let's just say that the plot is rich and varied enough to provide us with distinct story lines so that the story works well both on the comedy level and the adventure one. I don't want to spoil anything else about the movie but one thing. There's a bear, what does a bear in the film? That's something you're gonna have to find out by yourself. Good luck.


                
NOTE: The version of Charlie Chaplin's The Gold Rush that is being reviewed is the full-length, uncut ninety-six minute version released in 1925, as opposed to the seventy minute cut released in 1942 with updated narration, music, and several story cuts.Charlie Chaplin's The Gold Rush opens with the mesmerizing shot of hundreds of people walking along the mercilessly snowy Chilkoot Pass in search of gold, rumored to be existing by the limitless amount in California. We then cut to our lead character, nicknamed "The Lone Prospector," (or "The Tramp") played by Chaplin himself, who is dapper, determined, but lonely as he attempts to hike towards riches in California from his homestate of Alaska. Along the way, trouble ensues from fellow gold-seekers, love blossoms with a local saloon girl (Georgia Hale), who may not feel as strongly as the prospector does, and many classic silent-era magic is created.Chaplin, who directed, wrote, produced, edited, and starred in this film said this would be his opus; the film he wanted to be remembered for and it would appear he got his wish. This is one of the quintessential Chaplin films, and it also serves as the first one I've ever seen. There is a delicate approach to the material, and even at the original ninety-six minutes, it's pretty short considering all the macro-material that was crammed into this film. Love, tragedy, persistency, determination, and finally, something resembling success.One of the things I've heard from Chaplin enthusiasts is that it's difficult to analyze his films as a whole; "you're best bet is to take the funny scenes and go into what makes them funny" said one of my closest friends, so I think I'll do that. Take for example, the iconic scene where Chaplin and his pal feast on his own shoe and laces. The scene was so spontaneous, unexpected, and downright absurd that it seemed the only proper thing to do was laugh at it all. Another scene would be the dance of the dinner rolls, where Chaplin takes two of his forks, stabs two dinner rolls, and allows them to sashay on the table at his control. It's the act and the approach that make these scenes funny. The question is simply 'why?' and if there were ever to be two perfect examples of functioning slapstick, these two would be it, not just for their absurdity, but their ability to stand alone as two great comic scenes.It's also apparent that this is a film that can merge slapstick and sentimentality to a functioning, non-manipulative formula that doesn't come crashing down on the audience. There's genuine emotion in this story; true feelings that come out and realism when the prospector realizes his love may be doomed, which is even sadder than not striking any gold. The way this part of the story is handled is sublime and commendable, fore it knows when to abandon slapstick in favor of a more serious approach.And who can forget the end, where the prospector and Big Jim, a fellow gold-seeker (Mack Swain) are trapped in the isolated cabin amidst high winds and merciless blizzard conditions that are sending the shack right off a cliff. This is one of the several scenes of the silent era in cinema that should be treasured and awed for its terrific effects work and brilliant execution. To be fair, the whole film should as well. It holds up, in its eighty-eight year, where all the jokes are still relevant, the only thing that has become dated is the style, and Chaplin's tour-de-force performance still shines if anything. How many films made today can you say that about in one hundred years? Starring: Charlie Chaplin, Mack Swain, and Georgia Hale. Directed by: Charlie Chaplin.


                
I was taking a History of Film class as an EASY elective. I was not excited when this silent film was slated on our itinerary. I thought, "Boy, I'll sleep through this one." But BOY WAS I WRONG.It was the first time I had seen a Charlei Chaplin classic, and I instantly fell in love with his adorable character. I certainly KNEW who Charlie Chaplin was, but I had relegated silent film as an outdated technology. Sort of like extinct dinosaurs - no need to revisit that.But there is great humor here, no matter what the year on the calendar. Her we are 80 years later and this stuff is still funny.Who doesn't laugh at him dancing with the dog tied to his belt - or when he dances with the rolls. And the way he ate the shoe leather! He was a comic genius! If you were like me and judged all silent film as unwatchable and boring, you have to give this one a chance and you just might change your mind - like I did!


                
After his box office failure with A Woman Of Paris, Chaplin edited, wrote, produced, and directed The Gold Rush, which spent almost a year and a half in production. Chaplin did an about face from his previous film with The Gold Rush, realizing the public would not accept serious drama with his name attached to it. Instead, he returned to the little tramp character and his tried and true formula of an everyman at odds with the world around him. Although, in this film he seamlessly combines comedy and drama, as he did in The Kid. It was his first film with a prepared script before shooting began. As with The Kid, it was also another film beset with personal turmoil. Lita Grey, who eventually became Chaplin's second wife, became pregnant after being selected as the female lead in the film. As a result, Georgia Hale, Grey's friend at the time, was selected instead. Filming was delayed considerably, but the film was finally released in the summer of 1925 to instant fanfare. Chaplin plays a lone prospector who meets up at a cabin with Mack Swain, another prospector in the Alaskan Klondike looking for gold. Together they hoodwink escaped convict Black Larsen into looking for help during a snowstorm. This sets the stage for an avalanche of sight gags. From the boiled shoe, to the chicken hallucination, to the bear fight, the audience doesn't know what's coming next. Eventually Chaplin and Swain part ways at the cabin but cross paths again in the neighboring town where Chaplin takes a fancy to Georgia Hale, one of the dance hall girls. Initially she feigns interest and toys with Chaplin to make someone else jealous. Chaplin is taken as usual and is made a fool of soon afterward. Chaplin assists the now forgetful Swain back to Swain's claim in order to strike it rich with him, providing the precursor to one of the most famous comic set pieces in film history: The cabin blown to the precipice of a cliff. The climax is reminiscent of Buster Keaton's rescue of Natalie Talmadge in Our Hospitality only two years before. The film has great editing and pacing and holds up well after all these years. This film is the one where Chaplin does the fork dance with rolls, imitated many times since. Chaplin regular Henry Bergman has a brief role as Hank Curtis, and he also resembles a character aboard ship at the end. ***1/2 of 4 stars.
There are two different versions of this film.I was unaware when I rented the DVD that this was true,and the first of the two versions I viewed was the edited for sound 1942 rerelease.This has none other than Chaplin himself narrating the film.While I found the film to be good,I found myself being slightly annoyed and distracted by Chaplin's chatter,though I am sure he had the best of intentions.After viewing this,I decided to rent the bonus disc which included the original totally silent release from 1925.Though it is a restored version (the piano soundtrack is brand new),I found myself able to enjoy it a lot better.Charlie Chaplin was a genius as a film maker and performer,and it shows here.The Gold Rush is typical Chaplin with its combination of humor and romance,and it even has an edge of the seat thrill toward the end that will rival anything you see today.It's a great film,but when you see it,see it in its original and best silent form.


                
Saying classic about this silent film is certainly the most over sued term for it. This is a must for Charlie's fans & for students of film to show how much imagination Chaplin had as a film maker in this era.Some of the settings, like the cabin teetering on a cliff were created in this film & then used over & over again in other films. Never is it more effective than in this film because they really did have a cabin hanging over a cliff. A lot of later films created the effect, but they had to do the real thing here because special effects were not created fully in 1925.In fact, a lot of great comedy films of the silent 1920's are excellent for just this reason, & this one is no exception. The dream sequences with Charlie & Mack Swain in the cabin show imagination. This is the kind of stuff that is timelessly funny. The comedy at the party shows Charlie well too.Charlie was at the top of his game when this movie was produced. While there are others that are just as good, this one is one of my favorites.
This is actually one silent movie that I actually got into. Seeing Chaplin waddle around with a bear reared up behind him is funny, but seeing him dig into a boiled shoe is even better. A very well done movie, and one that I would recommend to someone who hasn't been engulfed in the world of Chaplin, yet.


                
Greetings from Lithuania."The Gold Rush" (1925) is such a warm and pleasant movie to watch. The comedy is great in here, story is simple, yet intriguing. Settings were very good, and some practical effects are a joy to watch. Charles Chaplin was a movie making genius (not only comedy), and you can clearly see this when watching this picture - although scenes look very simple, they are very smartly done. The bread dance sequence is incredible. Overall, "The Gold Rush" is a must see for all Charles Chaplin fans. It's funny, superbly created and wonderfully warm movie.


                
The Gold Rush (1925): Dir: Charlie Chaplin / Cast: Charlie Chaplin, Georgina Hale, Mack Swain, Tom Murray, Malcolm Waite: Prosperity comedy with trademark tramp venturing into the Yukon and interrupted by gold digger Big Jim McKay and convict Black Larson. He enters a community and encounters a young woman at a new years eve party. Memorable scenes involve a boiled boot, the dancing buns, and a cabin teetering on a cliff. Ripe with ideas as Chaplin was ahead of his time visually and with impressive sight jokes. As the Tramp Chaplin stumbles through life making the best of his limitations. Georgina Hale plays the love interest harassed by the town's ladies man. She takes interest in Chaplin when trying to avoid her ego driven boyfriend but feels regret when she forgot about Chaplin's new years party. Mack Swain plays the amnesia driven McKay who struck gold before being confronted by Larson. He will enlist in the Tramp's help in relocating it. Tom Murray plays Larson who is wanted by the law but finds refuge in a cabin with Chaplin and McKay until greed takes over. He will eventually take a sudden wrong turn. Malcolm Waite provides great amusement as Hale's egotistical boyfriend who takes a dislike to Chaplin. An impressive film by a director with no limits. While the constant music is off putting, this is still an astounding visual moments and a truly innovative take on prosperity. Score: 9 / 10
I must admit, I got a sense of déjà vu when watching 'The Gold Rush', and I believe it's somewhat due to impact of the image of Charlie Chaplin in the social psyche, and the saturation of skits of his work in popular media. So, while I sat watching this film, I felt I had definitely seen parts before, but I've never watched the whole film in its entirety. Judging a silent film from 1925 is a difficult mandate, but I was honestly never bored with this film, and there were so many great scenes and comedic skits. I laughed when Chaplin's tramp was trying to keep his trouser up and secured an unwanted best friend during a dance sequence.Charlie Chaplin does genius physical comedy as well as acting to boot. Add Mack Swain as Big Jim, and this film is wildly entertaining, as well as showing that silent comedies have the prospect to be comedic gold. I haven't seen the majority of Chaplin's work, but considering the time period and pioneering of visual comedy, I would recommend this to people who want to his work! I don't think is as good as Keaton's 'The General' though, but 'The Gold Rush' is highly regarded as a silent comedy classic. Glad I finally saw it! ****½ out of *****!
The Gold Rush, made in 1925, is a silent movie with a series of hilarious and bittersweet skits that are so well acted and so hard to stop watching that I was left with the feeling that I had seen one of the great classics. Charlie Chaplin is the creator of this movie, as leading actor, director and writer. The movie does what a silent movie should and that is, it left me with a visual experience quite unlike other movies I am used to seeing. In the movie, Chaplin is partnered with a character named Jim MacKay (Mack Swain)whose size and persona are the opposite of Chaplin. The dinner scene with the boots as the meal was so imaginative and realistic, that one could imagine him devouring a delectable meal. Later a cliffhanging scene shows the two of them running back and forth across a one room cabin as it teeters on the edge of a cliff. The romance with a girl named Georgia (Georgia Hale) is heartwarming and very innocent by today's standards. In one dance scene, the viewer sees the two of them as one embarrassing incident followed another with the floor filled with other dance partners oblivious to the whole scene. Another time he entertains a group of young ladies and uses two buns and forks to simulate a dance routine. All in all excellent entertainment and an example of something lost with the advent of talking movies.


                
Chaplin joins the gold rush over the Chilkoot Pass to Dawson, spends some time with a couple of rough-hewn miners, undergoes dangers of monumental proportions, falls for a dance hall girl and vice versa, becomes rich, rediscovers the girl on the ship home, and all ends happily.There's not much point in detailing the story further because the comedy -- and the sentiment -- are in the individual scenes. Some of them are famous: a starving Chaplin cooking an old shoe to provide dinner for him and his mate; Chaplin doing the fantastic dance of the Oceana rolls. They're extremely funny too. I particularly enjoy Chaplin's winsome expression as the two rolls do ballet steps en pointe.But much of the comedy is less elegant than that -- if making two rolls with forks stuck in them do a can can may be called elegant. The part I find funniest is the tipping cabin, which I won't bother to explain. And Chaplin looking and acting exactly like a huge chicken to his famished room mate, head bobbing, wings flapping. There's also the scene of two bearish men struggling over a shotgun, with the barrel waving this way and that, but unerringly following Chaplin wherever he tries to hide.His later work would introduce more sentimentality and social comment, but even here a great distinction is made between the rich and the poor. Well, that doesn't quite capture the opposition. It's between the extremely rich and the starving poor. Charlie doesn't change much in the course of the story, except that he becomes an emblem of the Gilded Age. Wealth brings happiness. Chaplin should know.It's really a classic of its kind, perhaps the funniest and most inventive silent comedy made. At the time it was made, it was recent history, too. The Klondike gold rush was only 27 years in the past. You can take the same route that the aspiring miners did, on a rickety narrow-gauge train, from Skagway to Dawson. I did it once and was left marveling that anyone, in the middle of winter, could possible get past places with names like Lake Bennett and Dead Horse Gulch. It's a wonder that Criterion or someone hasn't made a good DVD out of it. The print I saw was lousy.
The 1925 movie "The Gold Rush" is a very good movie for its time. Even though this is a silent movie, it still told a very funny comedy. Though there were no words, it was still funny through Chaplin's facial expressions and various scenes that didn't need words. For example, when Chaplin thought he hit the bad guy, but actually hit the beam instead. Also, when Chaplin thought he was tying his belt on he actually tied a dog on a leash and was leading the dog around.Though the movie was made in 1925, there were scenes that were believable. Like the live bear in the cabin, the cabin tittering off the cliff, the donkey coming into the other cabin, and Chaplin turning into a chicken. The story and the writing for this movie was also well done. Since,honestly, Chaplin was in danger for most of the movie and to have something that's suppose to be dangerous be funny is an interesting way to make a comedy.


                
