Knowing that Unforgiven made it to the top 250 movies of all time is something that left me intrigued and made me restless for quite a time until i got hold of a DVD copy of it.But after seeing it, I began to be baffled by the actual ranking this film got. Surely, this film is decent if you want something that prioritizes triumph over anything else. Seeing Clint Eastwood take on several Bad (good) guys unscathed is quite a relief after seeing what these bad (good) guys did to his friend.But let us set the triumph catharsis aside and tackle each of the issues I am dying to address.1. Direction. Bad. Just plain bad. 2. Cinematogrpahy. Average3.Story/Plot. Clichéd average 4. Dialogs. Poor. Not the ones that you would usually expect as natural. quite political, romanticized, exaggerated. Just not so natural. too deep for even the most usual of conversations. totally out of place. 5. Acting. Good but awkwardly turns bad because of poor dialogs. The actors just couldn't reconcile how to act good with ridiculous dialogs.overall, this movie is way overrated. i could not say that it was bad during its time or that it has seen better days. but i can surely say that it is not as good as a film or a western in this time.I shelled out about 20 bucks, and though it pains me to reconsider it, i somehow regret having bought this DVD


                
I don't really know where to begin. I was disappointed in this one,maybe because I expect the very best from nineties cinema,maybe because it was rated 8.3 which I think it doesn't really deserve. I was checking for old stuff I missed and this one popped out,with 4 Oscars and pretty satisfying cast.The story was just so very naive and predictable. I mean,who leaves his children at home to go bounty hunting with some rag tag teenager,especially if you've been straight for 11 years,it just doesn't add up in my mind. I can understand that money is a powerful motivator,but at least Eastwood should have stayed a mean guy made to live the way he did,possibly waiting for something like this to come up. From what we can see in the movie,there was absolutely no temptation on Eastwood part to actually go do it,no nostalgia for the old days,he just went as if he was made to. Conversation are badly done,most of them are shallow and actually quite boring to listen to. I found characters very uninteresting and poorly developed. The story,the characters,the things that movie is revolving about,just way to insignificant to captivate.Don't know what else to say really,go and see it if you're up for some western movie,but don't expect much because this one fails to deliver. After the movie just felt 2 hours older,and thats about it.And for people saying this is the best Eastwoods movie,do actually see another Eastwood movie before claiming something so untrue..
Unforgiven is Clint Eastwoods last tribute to the once great west. But whilst i thought this was going to be good and raise the bar for future westerns to come i was sadly mistaken. Unforgiven, though simple in plot it falls flat on characters and emotions and i would certainly say that Unforgiven is Eastwoods worst film to date. Eastwoods himself seems too old to play the part of acting and directing which also adds a downfall to the overall look of the film.All the characters seem rushed and ragged around the edges especially Eastwoods character. The acting doesn't seem to flow and contribute to what the characters are feeling. The direction is poorly misled by quirky shots. So overall Unforgiven is not Eastwoods best and by far one of the worst westerns around.
In an attempt to create a "different" style of Western, Clint Eastwood has made a big, boring mess.  His characters are ridiculous and two-dimensional, and his plot is non-existent.  Other than his "hero-who-doesn't-like-to-kill", every character in the film is a cliche (even Gene Hackman's sheriff, who is one of the bad guys, is just another cliched bad guy).The worst of the cliches are the hooker with a heart of gold and the young gun who is too gung-ho.  Of course he dies, prompting Eastwood's wimpy hero to go off on yet another cliche -- the rampage.Eastwood had a good idea here -- a Western that breaks through cliches. Unfortunately, all he manages to do is dress up the same cliches in different color clothing.
No, folks, we are still looking for a great western after The Wild Bunch. To slap this one in as one of the 250 greatest movies of all time, better the other way as one of the 5 or 6 most overrated movies ever made. Others here have said it with far more detail than I, since I kept fast forwarding through at least half of it. Worse there is not a single moment in the entire film I stopped for any good. What is beyond me, or wait, I think it just hit me why it was so popular, that is above the fact that it has Eastwood in it. It is NOT a western. Actually it is more a kind of Bad Lieutenant on horseback, except not even as good as that twisted morality play. Not that I liked any of Eastwoods other westerns, all derivative to the bone, which this was not, just a lotta nada. If proof was ever necessary that amnesia has set in over the western this one is it.
This movie would not be half as atrocious as it was if it hadn't won 4 Academy Awards, including Best Picture, Best Director, Best Supporting Actor for Gene Hackman, and Best Editing. Simply put, this movie is unforgivably bad. It had no umph behind its story, a retard behind the typewriter, and one of the least talented actors of all time manning the helm. The content of the film could've been powerfully put together as a means to expose the horrors of the true old west, as opposed to the many western before who glorified it. But the way Unforgiven is woven together leaves no room for the audience to admit the tragedy of the situations happening on screen or even be entertained and caught up in the magic of a western. Instead the audience is horrified by the tastelessness of the dialog, sexual references and violence. This film has no purpose. It's not entertaining, exciting, compelling, tragic, or even believable. I'm sure something like this did actually happen in the old west, but to tell you the truth, I believe more in the story told in the previous movie I critiqued. The cinematography (which was nominated for an Academy Award, but thankfully didn't win) was a complete atrocity! I believe I saw one good shot in the entire two hours that I suffered through this film. If you're famous and you want to make a movie, I have no problem with that. But when industry praises a film unjustly, while putting brilliant work down or at least putting it in the background, the cruelty of this world surfaces. Such brilliant work as Rob Reiner's A Few Good Men was not even allowed one win, even though it was nominated in 3 of the categories that Unforgiven won (including Gene Hackman winning against Jack Nicholson). Even worse is that Robert Redford's greatest film, A River Runs Through It, wasn't even in the running. I'm remembering back to one of my previous revues of director Clint Eastwood's Bronco Billy (another flop in my book) when I say that again this film isn't dramatic enough to work. I would have given this movie a quarter point higher in my rating if it wasn't held up as something so great, but no more sympathy from me. Clint Eastwood, you do a better job in the cheesy Spaghetti Westerns from Sergio Leone; they at least can entertain.


                
So I went through the terrible and horrible experience of watching this "movie". I thought "Spice World" was the worst movie ever, but Clint Eastwood now holds that title with this disgusting "movie". Easily the worst movie my girlfriend or I had ever seen. And between the two of us, we have seen some real winners. I actually enjoyed The Good the Bad and the Ugly. First, a lot of people think this is some kind of grand statement by Eastwood about America just like in The Outlaw Josey Whales. But it's not. It's a mad dash by Eastwood to show you every disgusting image he can think of. Sure it's nasty. But in a nation with G.G. Allin, Eminem, and John Wayne Gacy the shock value is gone. And disgusting for disgusting's sake doesn't make any kind of profound statement. America gives people a wide latitude to be as degenerate as they want. That doesn't make America filthy. Second, the acting is horrible. Half the lines sound like they're being read off the cue cards for the very first time. The other half sound a little better, but they all lack any kind of real inflection or feeling. And the plot... how are these people at a cross road in their life? Somewhere right now, as you're reading this, someone is plotting the torture murder of a child for sexual gratification. How is Clint Eastwood worse off than those people? He's not, and the whores are not even close. The only redeeming quality this movie had was when Daso X starts making his list of wrestling figures. I can't think of a good thing about this movie, except that I've seen it now and won't have to again.


                
There are some things in life that one doesn't forget, such as riding a bicycle, and also, since I have done/do both, sorting "Hawgs", and getting onto, and riding, a "Hoss".Will Munney seemed to possess little knowledge of either", particularly in the Hog pen. Was this movie intended as a comedy, or a tragedy ? So far as I am concerned it succeeded in being neither, just boring, with the characters poorly depicted.I would call this the worst movie that I have ever seen for both Clint Eastwood, and also for Morgan Freeman, who is one of my favorite actors.


                
A friend of mine explained Science Fiction films as torture. He wants to be grounded in reality not dreaming in the clouds. To some torture is a Foreign Language film. For me it is a Western, no other cinema is more painful. So why did I rent Unforgiven? Two reasons, one I am watching all of the Oscar Best Picture winners. Unforgiven was a noticeable hole in list of films in the past 20 years. Secondly maybe I have seen all bad Westerns and if I gave a good Western a chance I would enjoy it. Well that is a big 'no'. I had to fast forward at the half way point, the only reason I did not just turn it off was to see the credits and who have gone on to become stars in the 14 years that have past. No real break outs, Clint Eastwood continues to get accolades for acting and directing as Morgan Freeman continues to get nominated for the next ten years until Million Dollar Baby where he wins for best supporting. Saul Rubinek, a TV actor, most notably goes on to 3 years of 'Fraser' as Daphne Moon's fiancé. Richard Harris does Albus Dumbledore in the Harry Potter series among other roles. Gene Hackman continues a successful career. Frances Fisher goes on to a supporting part in Titanic. Unforginven is the story of Big Whiskey Wyoming. A cattle hand loose it when a green prostitute lets out a little giggles at his manhood's lack of presence. He cuts up her face with a handy knife. The owner of the saloon/ bordello, Skinney Dubios (Anthony James, who quits acting to become an artist after this film) complains to the Sheriff, Little Bill Daggett (Gene Hackman) about the monetary lost he will incur because 'no one will want to sleep with a cut up whore'. Little Bill decides to fine the cattle hand and his partner (I am not sure why the partner was ever brought in to this he never touched the girl and actually tried to stop his lunatic friend) in horses to be given to Skinney. The women of the brothel are outraged at the lack of substance in the justice. They end up pulling together one thousand dollars for a reward to who ever kills both the cattle hands. This brings all sorts of undesirable characters to Big Whiskey: English Bob (Richard Harris), a gunman that feels obliged to tell everyone that the fault of the U.S. is it's lack of a monarch. Wild Bill Munny (Clint Eastwood), Ned Logan (Morgan Freeman) and The Scholfield Kid (Jaimz Woolvett). All have a problem with Big Whiskey's ordinance of 'no fire arms in town'. Little Bill beats up every one who challenges the ordinance.


                
I had a hard time to appreciate what others here apparently have seen while watching this, in my opinion one of worst Western Flicks of all time. Apparently the story was sublimely told. To me it was one of the worst movies i have seen in a long time, it was that boringly bad. I had written an essay of over 1,000 characters here ... so i'm trying to "condense" everything down as much as i can. During the movie we keep getting the same information, told by Freeman and Kid that Clint use to be a bad-boy killing children, women etc.. for like five times at least, even at the supposedly great ending "duel". The Kid had no story arc, he shows up at Clint's home and offers him $500 to hunt down two bad-boys that had attacked and "stitched-up" a whore. These two paid back for their sins tenfold by handing over 6 horses, yet that was not enough for the other whores ... the one that got attacked (which by the way was the best part of the movie, the actress, not the act) was the only character i cared about.Clint is living alone with his children both not 10 years old when out of nowhere this Kid guy shows up, don't ask he must have a good sense of olfactory .. because Clint's home/farm is literally in the middle of nowhere ... well there's big tree conveniently. Kid asks Clint for help, Clint says no but changes his mind a scene later because even though he gave up his "sicario life" and decided to suddenly feel remorse ...the sheer thought of getting paid $500 for two dead cowboys was enough for Clint to leave his home and children behind, telling them to take care of themselves and the farm (again both not 10 years old yet).On his way to Kid, Clint meets up with Freeman another Ex-bad-boy that for whatever reasons decides to join Clint and Kid to hunt down those bad-boys ... but this time for $750! On the trip Freeman asks Clint when he had "intercourse" for the last time and if he was still using his hand (that something i always wanted to hear in a western film, Clint's past masturbation phase or if he is still "making love or not").In all this mess, Richard Harris the English Bob shows up ... out of nowhere and out of nowhere he vanishes out of the movie. He kills 8 birds, gets publicly shamed by the local Sheriff played by Gene and after a night in the prison-cell, Richard gets kicked out of the village. The End to his arc ... we don't see how tough his character is, like his reputation/fame precedes him (train scene). Richard enters the Town and leaves the town within 15 min...I had written more, but not going to waste more time on the final shootout (poorly edited), the pointless biography writer, the cheap death of Freeman, the cowardly Freeman running off, the constant nagging-narrative about Clint's past "Killer of Children" or the annoying "arc" of the Kid and his constant tantrums (i'm young, you two are old) or the cheap-cop-out final message of the movie "DO never ever again attack a whore .... in this town!"This movie was bad, does not deserve the best picture Oscar. The Crying Game was the much better movie. If you wan't to see a great-true-to-its-origins-as-close-as-possible-to-the-western-life- movie watch The Homesman (2014) by Tommy Lee Jones.From the terrific-looking pan-shots, to the well written characters, to the pacing and subject (which is dark to say the least) The Homesman is currently my NR.1 Western flick (one that ain't all about duels, dicks comparisons or getting drunk). I highly recommend The Homesman (2014)! Can not wait to re-watch it in 4K and HDR! Unforgiven is really unforgiving ... not a movie for the collection, maybe if i re-watch it in VHS quality the movie might look better? Can't understand how some can claim this movie had a sublime story ...
This is strictly for guys, and for people who don't believe in God. Everybody is nasty all the time, and the only good people in the movie are prostitutes. And Eastwood as a director is even more annoying than he is as a non-actor in this.  All he wants to do is focus on blood and people in outhouse and houses of ill-repute, and show everything as dark and as nasty as he possibly can.  This is the kind of movie that movie critics and Hollywood smart guys love because they get to "shock" everyone.  Well, my only shock is that they made so much money with this nasty movie.


                
This movie is just a pure sleeping potion. In the last 30 years, there has been a few movies deserving of their Oscar wins. This isn't one of them. It is slow, boring and it's supposed message is so obscure, only a person that would be clued in before the movie can decipher its message of non-violence. You can't show violence and then say the movie is anti-violence. This isn't history. The scenery is good. Morgan Freeman is outstanding as always. I think in some ways they gave this an award just to make sure Clint Eastwood got one. They did the same with On Golden Pond, a horrible bore of a movie. This does have a few redeeming qualities that save it from being just a one star movie in my book and those are the few scenes that develop the plot in between excruciatingly boring character development. Gene Hackman always does well as a really mean bad guy, this is no exception. This plot isn't very original, it's predictable poorly developed and poorly executed. It should have been a 90 minute movie which would have been a more appropriate pace. I've watched it twice now and it just didn't get any better the second time. I am placing it just one star above that Oscar winning train wreck called Shakespeare in Love.


                
