There may never be another real western. Clint appears to be done with the genre and there really isn't anyone else I can think of that can do it Properly. Sergio Leone is gone. William Wellman is gone. Sam Peckinpah is gone. John Huston is gone. John Ford is gone. Howard Hawks is gone.Kevin Costner tries hard but he just doesn't get it. Dances With Wolves wasn't really a western. It wasn't even an anti-western. It was more like a political indictment of the actions of the Americans of the time. For all that I did enjoy it.Most of the others since Unforgiven are movies where somebody decides to put the characters on a horse, but the story is just generic pap. Nobody has the balls to make something with a meaning.I will grant that Deadwood is a truly excellent series but it isn't a movie.That's why I believe that Unforgiven is a fitting end to the western genre. I won't get all rhapsodic and spout a bunch of crap about how Clint made this movie as a symbol of the end of the western. Cuz that's a load of crap. The script had been around since the early 70s when things were still going strong. What it is, is a movie that shows us that there is no black and white in any time. There are only shades of grey.It is also just as dirty and violent as things actually were for most people in that era. Life was comparatively cheap and most people didn't have much hope of justice. The middle class was very small and the upper class was tiny. The vast majority belonged to the under-classes.Good guys didn't wear white hats and not every sheriff was a good guy. Some were violent and corrupt braggarts and bullies. Little Bill mocks English Bob's self-promotion, but at the same time he knocks Bob down he builds himself up. He doesn't bother with courts or judges and he is his own executioner. He isn't motivated by any innate sense of justice when he deals with any criminal elements. It's more that he takes it as an insult to his own power.William Munny is a killer, plain and simple. He has human feelings but basically he is unrepentant. He changed for his wife, but like many changes it wasn't permanent. He won't sleep with a whore but when he needs money he is willing to kill for it. At the same time he treats the whore with kindness and is loyal to his friend. And somehow he managed to get a good woman to love him. A classic anti-hero.Rather than being about the end of the Western genre I believe that it is actually an ode to what came before it. Sergio Leone would have been proud.


                
Ford, Hawks, Leone, Peckinpah, all of them big names who have defined the Western genre in one way or another across the history of cinema, transforming what started as low-budget action films into an art itself where the American Old West served as setting for tales of mythical heroism, classic tragedies, and legendary adventures. Actor and Director Clint Eastwood is probably one of the most knowledgeable artists about the Western genre, as his acting career began as the legendary "Man With No Name" in the Sergio Leone's Spaghetti Westerns of the 60s. As a director, he somewhat continued this legacy through movies like "High Plains Drifter" and "Pale Rider", but finally in 1992, Eastwood released what many consider his final ode to the Western, and his ultimate masterpiece of the genre: "Unforgiven", an epic saga about the deconstruction of the Western myths.Clint Eastwood himself plays William Munny, a former gunslinger who is now living a peaceful life as a farmer with his two children. However, life is very difficult for Munny's family, as since the death of his wife the family has been facing financial problems. One day a young man calling himself "The Schofield Kid" (Jaimz Woolvett) appears looking for Munny. The Kid tells Munny about a bounty offered in the town of Big Whisky, and offers him the chance to join him as hired gun and split the reward between them. While Munny's days as a murderer are in the past, he decides to join him after thinking about the farm's problems, but not without calling his old friend Ned Logan (Morgan Freeman) to join them. However, Munny's past as a notorious thief and murderer will return to haunt him in this last mission, as the Kid shows a true and honest admiration for Munny's fame as a gunslinger, even when Munny himself considers his past as villainous.While better known for his work in science fiction, David Webb Peoples' screenplay proves to be a very accurate description of life in the American west, particularly concerning the aspects of the uses and abuses of violence in that era. It is in fact the use of violence what comes as the main theme of the story, as Munny is escaping from his past's violence while the Kid is eagerly awaiting the next chance to prove his masculinity by the use of violence. The duality between man and myth is explored not only via the relationship between the Kid and Munny, but also in the shape of a character who writes novels about the wild west, and sees the figure of the gunslinger as an idolized modern hero. Peoples' screenplay is remarkably well written, as the many characters and their relationships are exhaustively explored, resulting in a character driven revisionism of the western, that in many ways criticizes the genre's origins as violent "Shoot 'em up" films.Peoples' script is definitely the movie's backbone, but it is Eastwood's masterful direction what transforms this meditation of violence into a unique revision of the Western. With a gritty and realistic approach very in tone with the script, Eastwood portraits the Wild West without romanticism and leaving out the mythic aspects of the genre, taking the revisionism of the Western one step beyond. Using Peoples' script, Eastwood takes a critic view on the figure of the "hero" in Westerns, focusing on the image of the gunslinger and the use of violence to solve problems. Visually, Eastwood has crafted his most impressive movie since "Bird", with an extensive use of shadows and light in the excellent work of cinematography by Jack N. Green. Eastwood's style, originated by the influence of Sergio Leone and Don Siegel, and developed through many stages seems to finally have spawned its masterpiece in this film.As William Munny, Clint Eastwood is simply perfect in what at first sight looks like an extension of his earlier "Man with no name" persona. William Munny has a name, and a past he wants to escape from, and Estwood captures the image of guilt and regret to the letter. This is easily one of his best roles to date. Morgan Freeman is also very good as Ned Logan, although like Jaimz Woolvett (who plays The Schofield Kid), gets easily overshadowed by Gene Hackman's powerful performance as Little Bill Daggett. Hackman completely owns every scene he is in, showcasing his enormous talent in a very dramatic role. The legendary Richard Harris has a small appearance as another aging gunslinger, English Bob, in very memorable scenes where he demonstrates why he is considered one of the best actors of his generation.After starting his career playing a mythical hero in Leone's "Dollars" trilogy, it is actually fitting that is Eastwood who explores the figure of hero in his many movies. Ever since his first directed western, Eastwood showed an interest in the duality of the hero, taking a special interest in the archetype of hero portrayed in the classic 1953 Western, "Shane". Eastwood has explored this theme in many ways in the past: first as a true antihero ("High Plains Drifter"), then as a man becoming legend ("The Outlaw Josey Wales") and later as a true mythic hero ("Pale Rider"); all this culminates in "Unforgiven" as the ultimate demythologization of the concept, and his final ode to the Western genre. While the movie indeed feels a bit "preachy" at times, the story is devised in such a way that it never feels too heavy handed, as it unfolds nicely as a classic epic tale of the West.Personally, I can't praise this movie enough, as it is easily one of the best Westerns done since Peckinpah's "The Wild Bunch", and required viewing not only for fans of the genre. While some consider it an "anti-Western", I think that with this movie, Eastwood's name can proudly stand along those of Ford, Hawks, Leone and Peckinpah as a master of the Western. "Unforgiven" is definitely Clint's masterpiece. 10/10


                
This film was a revelation, a western that DOESN'T LIE. The whole theme stripping away the mythology our culture has built around the west, scraping it away like the finish on a mirror and reveling the ugliness AND the humanity beneath. I was utterly convinced, both by the portrayal of the period and the reality of the characters. A large focus was its treatment of the subject of killing. The movie SHOWS US what it is like to kill a man, a stark stark contrast to the casual attitude taken by so many other westerns. We see what we already know, wild west or no, that killing is something that most people just aren't capable of. And yet the character of William Munny shows us that in spite of the mundanity he embodies in his later life, true evil still existed then as now, and every now and then, true heroism.


                
William Munny (Clint Eastwood taking the lead and directing the piece) is an old and retired gunman who's past misdemeanours would make the devil himself seem tame. Widowed and struggling to raise his two children on a paltry farm, he's tempted out of retirement for one last pay dirt job, the consequence of which provides violence: both physically and of the soul.Clint Eastwood signed off from the Western genre with this magnificent 1992 picture, the appropriation and irony of which is in itself a majestic point of reference. After the script had been knocking around for nigh on twenty years (written by Blade Runner scribe David Webb Peoples), Eastwood seized the opportunity to play William Munney and lay bare the mythologies of the Wild West. What is most amazing about Unforgiven's screenplay is how we the audience are firmly on Munney's side, we are, incredibly, influenced by Eastwood's part in the history of the Western. In spite of Munney's obvious murky past (despicable crimes they be), we wait (and hope) for Munney to make a quip and way-lay the bad guys; actually, salivating at the prospect is probably closer to the truth. So it's with enormous credit that Eastwood, and his magnificent cast and crew, manage to fuddle all our respective perceptions of the West and the characters we ourselves have aged with. It's not for nothing that W.W. Beauchamp (Saul Rubinek) is the critical character that nobody expected. Beauchamp is a writer of penny pulpy novels that tell of derring-do heroics, gunslingers with a glint in their eye and death dealt like an heroic encore, this gives Unforgiven its excellent sleight of hand, this West is grim and a destroyer of all illusions.Eastwood is greatly served by the actors around him here, Morgan Freeman, Gene Hackman (winning the Best Supporting Actor Oscar for a script he turned down many years before!), Rubinek, Frances Fisher, Anna Thomson, Jaimz Woolvett and an incredible cameo from Richard Harris. Along with Hackman's win for his brutally tough portrayal of Sheriff "Little Bill" Daggett, Unforgiven also won Oscars for Eastwood for his clinically tight direction, Best Picture, Best Editing and was nominated for in another five categories. One of those nominations was for Jack Green's cinematography, which now, in this age of High Definition enhanced cinema, can be seen in all its wonderful glory. The Alberta location is magically transformed into the western frontier, with the orange and brown hues a real treat for the eyes. Ultimately, tho, Unforgiven is a lesson in brilliant film making, across the board it works so well, why? Well because the man at the helm knows this genre so well, having been its sole flag bearer for practically 25 years, and learning from his peers, Eastwood has crafted a thematically complex piece that for all its violence, debunking and melancholy pulse beats, is a film that is as beautiful as it is most assuredly stark, an incredible and true highlight of modern day cinema. 10/10


                
This is The movie that convinced me that "Clint" is indeed from a higher ground. Thoug, I've always considered Clint as a good actor,I didn't know about his capabilities as a director, he really never proved him self to me. This movie does all of that and more. Grovin up whit western movies, I would have to say that unforgiven is about whole new genre among western movies. Unforgiven is really a true statement of man's brutality and what he "or" she is capable of. Religion,marriage,children, doesn't change ones true identity. After all, when the "society" comes on you hard, the steps you are willing to take in real life, are sometimes desperate. I hope that this movie could be a bridge for those who don't like western movies, but do appreciate a decent manuscript and some fine acting.


                
Saw this in the late nineties on a vhs n revisted umpteenth number of times. Own a dvd of it.
Jus revisited few days back on a blu ray.
Back in those days, my grandpop was excited to see both his fav film stars, Eastwood n Hackman in the same film. The cast is awesomely strong. Eastwood, Hackman n Freeman.
This aint just a great Western. Its a great movie with awesome characters.
Eastwood playing a tough guy who has killed women and children in the past but trying to lead a decent honest life with his kids on a farm. He has become more weaker with age. His farm is going thru a loss n he is pulled into his darker side once again.
On the other side v have Hackman as a sheriff whos against people carrying guns in his town.
He is a bit autocratic n sadist when meting out punishment.
We have Freeman as Eastwood's old pal who during a shootout acknowledges that he aint no ruthless anymore.
All the performances r top notch.
Eastwood's direction is truly mesmerizing from opening shot n the editing top notch. The one liners are also memorable. Cinematography by Jack N Green is wonderful.
The film begins and ends with a beautiful wide shot, Eastwood standing at the grave near a tree, with a sunset in the background.
As a fan of Eastwood n western genre, i owed it myself to write a review of this film.


                
"Unforgiven" is arguably Producer/Director/Star Clint Eastwood's best western and perhaps his best film overall. It could be very well his last western (I hope not), and if it is he certainly went out on top.In the town of Big Whiskey a couple of cowboys are being "entertained" by the ladies of the local saloon. Suddenly one of the girls Delilah (Anna Thomson) is attacked by one of the men and is cut up and scarred for life. When sheriff "Little Bill" Daggett (Gene Hackman) refuses to suitably punish the men, the "ladies" led by Strawberry Alice (Frances Fisher) pool their funds and post a reward of $1,000 to anyone who will hunt down and kill these men.Word of the reward reaches former gunfighter William Munny (Eastwood) who is now a widowed pig farmer with two kids, when a cocky young kid called The Schofield kid rides up to his farm and proposes that they join up as partners. Munny reluctantly agrees and enlists his former partner Ned Logan (Morgan Freeman) to join in.Word of the reward has also reached other bounty hunters like English Bob (Richard Harris) who arrives in Big Whiskey first. Realizing that he has to discourage such predators, Little Bill brutally beats up the gunfighter and drives him out of town. In the process Little Bill meets a pulp fiction writer named Beauchamp (Saul Rubinek) who is writing stories about the gunfighters of the west. Little Bill is only too happy to provide him with such stories.Meanwhile the unholy trio arrive in Big Whiskey. Little Bill spots Munny in the saloon while the Kid and Ned are being "entertained" upstairs. Munny has become ill during the trip and Little Bill takes advantage and savagely beats him. The others rescue Munny and take him to safety where the "girls" nurse him back to health. The trio then hunt down and kill the two cowboys during which Ned loses his stomach for such killings and starts out for home.Ned is captured by the murdered men's friends and is brought into town where he is "questioned" by Little Bill to the extent that he is killed. Munny who had mellowed during his marriage, loses it, arms himself and heads into town for a showdown where.........."Unforgiven" was honored with several Academy Awards including Best Picture, Best Director and Best Supporting Actor for Gene Hackman. Eastwood's performance as the tragic Munny was also of Oscar calorie.Its hard to find a hero in this film. Eastwood, Freeman and Woolvett are after all, bounty hunters. By his own admission William Munny describes himself as someone who has killed women and children and just about everything that walks in his lifetime. Hackman's character has good intentions in discouraging the gunfighters but cannot control his hair trigger temper. The only sympathetic characters are the saloon girls as they try to find justice for their dishonored colleague.A great western! A great movie!
I just watched Unforgiven, and I would like to say as a younger film-buff, I appreciate the classics (such as this film), more than most new releases today. Unforgiven takes the sometimes mediocre western genre and introduces the moral questions of life. Eastwood and Freeman are brilliant together, and you can also see their vibrant yet melancholy energy also conveyed in the more recent Million Dollar Baby.This film is definitely deserving of it's ranking in the top 250. Although I found the musical score at times a tad soppy, the startling settings will compensate for any loss in that part. As previous users have mentioned, the running time may seem arduous at first, but the gripping action interspersed throughout the film contrasted with the reflective traveling scenes will keep you engaged. 10/10.


                
After a couple of drunken cowboys cut up a prostitute in the town of Big Whiskey, Wyoming Sheriff 'Little Bill' Daggett decrees that they must give the owner of the brothel a few horses as compensation for lost earnings... the other women do not think this is enough so combine their money and let it be known that they will pay $1,000 to anybody who kills the cowboys. A young man calling himself the 'Schofield Kid' hears of this and approaches retired gunslinger and general ne'er-do-well William Munny proposing that they kill the cowboys for the reward. Munny has renounced his wicked past, thanks to his late wife, but needs the money to raise his two children so reluctantly accepts. Along the way he picks up his old partner Ned Logan.In the mythology of the west the sheriff stood up for the downtrodden, the heroes didn't draw first and they certainly didn't have difficulty getting on a horse! That is somewhat different here; our hero was certainly a very bad man in his youth and while he is now a more moral man desperation leads him to kill again. The way the myth and the reality differ are perfectly illustrated during a conversation between Little Bill and a writer working on the biography of a gunslinger when Bill explains what really happened during one particularly famous shootout. We see the West as a cruel place where might is right and the good don't always win. Our 'heroes' don't call out the villains; they ambush them when they least expect it. The story is well presented with Clint Eastwood and Morgan Freeman doing great jobs as old gunmen Munny and Logan. Gene Hackman is equally impressive as Little Bill. There a decent amount of action and even a few genuinely funny moments. Overall I'd say that this is a must see for fans of the Western genre.


                
Rated among the top 10 of all time western epics.Clint Eastwood has directed a masterpiece here.The acting by him too is superb.His role as William Munny as once a notorious evil man is just the best in his career.Munny takes up a last job.He ain't that good enough now.As he used to be once.But circumstances change & then in the end we see why everyone was scared of William Munny.Brilliant character display.Morgan freeman does a terrific performance as Ned.The accomplice of Wiliam Munny.Oscar deserving role.Not to forget Gene Hackman as 'Little Bill'.His acting is just totally out of the box.All in all this movie is a success for the international cinema.A unique movie in its own.Hats of to Clint for this masterpiece.William Munny,a man of notoriously vicious and intemperate disposition.Was he??Truly Oscar deserving.


                
Unforgiven, for me, is the standard bearer for Westerns. Sure, I was born after the heyday for Westerns but this was the Western of my youth and has stood the test of time.Unforgiven is a well developed masterpiece with just the right blend of characters. Will Munny (Clint Eastwood) is the aged reformed outlaw that was made good by a good woman. Ned Logan (Morgan Freeman) is the trusty partner. The Schofield Kid (Jaimz Woolvett) is the brash up and coming outlaw. Little Bill (Gene Hackman) is the town sheriff and overall badass. All the characters mentioned and others just meshed. Not to mention that the story was superb as well.The plot is not very complex at all--nor did it need to be--although the characters are layered. A prostitute gets cut up pretty badly by a john so she and her "co-workers" gather up money and put a bounty on his head. Schofield Kid wants the money but also the notoriety, William Munny just needs money, Ned Logan wants to be a good friend, and Little Bill wants to keep all would-be assassins away from the little town of Big Whiskey.It is an excellent affair. The whole movie from beginning to end is clutching. It grabs your attention and never lets go. My favorite Western all-time.


                
This is probably Eastwood's best, as far as both directing and starring. The depth and the lack of black and white or judgment are astonishing. Every single character is well-written, credible, developed thoroughly and a *human being*. Not one of them is limited to only one side to their personality, everyone is flawed... the antagonist is arguably not a "bad guy", and you can get behind him and see things his way. This does not present us with right and wrong, it offers differing points of view, and allows the audience to decide for ourselves what we think. Food for thought, not a raised index finger. The script comes from the man who would later give us Twelve Monkeys and Soldier(no, it wasn't brilliant, but that wasn't his fault, Webb Peoples gave them a great start-off point, blame Paul W.S. Anderson), and the plot is relatively simple and easy to follow(not to be confused with predictable), so that the focus can be put on exploring the people. This portrait of the fictional William Munny is entirely unforgettable, immensely insightful and ultimately quite tragic. The level of realism that is present in every area of this is impeccable(the one thing I can think of that strains credulity is the presence of an African-American who isn't a slave, but with how incredible Freeman's performance is, I can forgive it), sets, costumes, dialog, language, relationships, etc. This has excellent and spot-on acting all the way; heck, even the kids aren't too bad. The editing and cinematography are amazing, and this holds several gorgeous and memorable images. This is not about action, it's an engaging drama set in the Wild West. With that said, there is definitely thick tension, as well as exciting scenes in this(and they neither are, nor feel, out of place in the least). There is a lot of brutal, bloody and unpleasant violence, a bit of disturbing content, occasional swearing and a little sexuality and references to such in this. I recommend this warmly to everyone mature enough to handle and appreciate it. 10/10


                
Unforgiven, a film directed by Clint Eastwood, holds a dark, brooding atmosphere that instead of holding a glamorizing gloom in the atmosphere of the movie it seems to be a regretful and honest gloom which isn't common with a lot of movies, and this subtle little thing is what makes Unforgiven one of the better films you will watch in your life. William Munny decays through his age as he reflects as a farmer on his regretful, haunting, violent past and whether or not he has changed or not, a cold-blooded killer that used to kill women and children for the sake of cruelty. In this film, William Munny one day has a person named as the Schofield kid entering his farm and asking him to go with him to achieve a 1,000$ reward, but in order to achieve that award the Schofield kid has to kill two cowboys named Quick Mike and "Davey-Boy" Bunting because of them disfiguring a prostitute. William is then told by the Schofield kid that the reason why he was being asked to help him was because of the rumour the Schofield kid heard about him being a cold-blooded killer, but William is convinced that he is not the same person as he was and refuses to help him. But some days later as the thought of returning to his old ways crosses his mind, William decides to achieve the reward of 1,000$ with the Schofield kid and sets off on his horse to find him, and along with him he brings an old partner named Ned Logan in order to achieve the reward. But as William Munny goes in the process of achieving it, he realizes his haunting decay as he sees disturbing hallucinations and remembers innocent people that he murdered inconsiderably, and so William dissolves a recognized darkness into his soul that slowly increases as the film goes along.The performances by Clint Eastwood, Morgan Freeman, Jaimz Woolvett and Gene Hackman are all according to character and both remain stable and loyal to the characters themselves and fully replicating themselves as if they were them with changes in emotion, posture, voice and personality. The characters that these actors play are incredibly good because they have personality traits that can be considered good or bad depending on what kind of viewer you are, and instead of simply giving them pros and cons they are given realistic traits that people can have an opinion on themselves, and the film itself never forces opinions down our throats and lets us see things our own way. The characters develop the film throughout just as well as the storyline does as we get to know the characters of the film as if they were our own friends, and with every scene we quietly get to know new things out the characters we are seeing with almost each scene they are in. The editing carries the development of the film all through into a carefully patient experience, and the film never uses too much lying sentimentality but with honest yet quiet emotion that unrecognizably gazes into your soul in a subtle yet powerful way. The film contains all of the key ingredients for a drama tone to please Drama movie fans and the key ingredients for a western tone to please Western movie fans, but what makes this film good is the fact that it never uses overused clichés from the genres and the film can work on it's own rather than in a 2$ box set. Some will root constantly for the character of William Munny and some will constantly hate for the character of William Munny while others will not know what to think about him, and in my horrible opinion that is what all film characters should be like: ones that you can discuss over at any time of the day and whether they are good or not. Unforgiven is a real treat and it is a big shame that most movies cannot be like this with golden, crisp cinematography, realistic characters, captivating storyline and tense moments. Before I complemented how the film holds a greatly quiet, shameful dark atmosphere instead of a boasting one, and the problem with a lot of movies is that they boast about the violence in them. If you had to watch your last movie, this would probably be a good one, and I think anybody who says that about a film proves how much of a masterpiece it is. 10/10, well done Clint.


                
Circa 1890: The American wild west has been partially tamed. William Munny (Clint Eastwood) a man once known for his "notorious intemperate and vicious disposition", having once killed for money, has now taken to home­steading in Wyoming thanks to the gentle ministrations of his wife Martha now departed three years. He hasn't had a drink in eleven years. Her tomb­stone lists her age of passing at 29 meaning she would have been pushing 21 when she got married, old enough to make a big girl's decision what kind of man to marry should the farm not pan out and he had to fall back on some former occupation to provide for their children-to-be.The west is not so tame that some men don't need killing. A coterie of whores in Big Whiskey have offered their combined savings to set things right with a couple cowboys they have it in for. It's a golden opportunity for Munny and a couple confederates Ned Logan (Morgan Freeman) and the 'Schofield Kid' (Jaimz Woolvett). They would be competing with English Bob (Richard Harris)—who has with him a biographer to chronicle his exploits. Guarding Big Whiskey is the sheriff Little Bill Daggett (Gene Hackman).The plot will bring out the true character of those involved. *Temperance*—not talking of alcoholism per se—means moderation in thoughts, feelings, and actions. The 'Schofield Kid' is immoderate in thought giving an inflated tally of the number of men he's killed. Ned is immoderate in his feelings letting them interfere with his job. And Little Bill is immoderate in his vicious whipping of (suspected) miscreants.The real cowboys set the biographer straight concerning a lot of bogus reports that had made their way into pop western literature of the time. Historically it was about the same time as another major literary sea change, the established King James Version (of 1611) being challenged by a new bible for Great Britain, the English Revised Version in 1885, followed by the American Standard Version in 1901 for America. I've always thought it curious how translators could take an authoritative book that enjoins being "temperate in all things" (1 Cor. 9:25) and be most immoderate in word substitutions. The easy answer is they substitute "self-control" for "temperance" in Gal. 5:22-23 & 2 Pet. 1:5-6. Now they don't have to feel obligated to temperance in their translation, but have put God's word into human, i.e. self-, control.Be that as it may, self-control—or lack of it—has found its way into this story, as well. A working girl is ill advised to let loose a "little giggle" when she spots her john's "tiny pecker", a house­guest is ill advised to offer as a fix to a leaky roof, "shoot the carpenter"—the owner built it him­self—, and English Bob is ill advised to insult the American president on Independence Day.In "Unforgiven" temperance and self-control (or lack of them) are both well illustrated, being two different words not exactly synonymous; you can find pertinent illustrations for your biblical injunction for which­ever of the two you would use depending on whether you use a modernized version or the KJV. The chronicler's experience might also make one want to question the accuracy of other pop literature.Unforgiven is an outstanding classic of the western genre. It somehow strikes a deep chord in the American psyche. It bears repeated viewing. It was directed by Clint East­wood at his seasoned best. There's lots of drama and suspense as well as exciting action. The humanness of the characters comes through along with plenty of irony. I highly recommend it, but not to children.


                
Unlike most who post their reviews in order to impress others with their inflated Vocabulary, I would simply say, based on my sixty years of watching westerns. This movie ranks in the top five of all time. Clint will be remembered as, The Last Cowboy. No one will ever direct and star in any future western without looking over their shoulder and seeing the man with no name in the shadows...


                
I've given 'Unforgiven' ten stars because its comprehensive excellence in terms of directing, acting, screenplay, imagery, score, etc. all warrant this maximum rating. Director Clint Eastwood has throughout his career consistently been top-notch as both star and director, and he really accomplishes greatness with this film.The movie is set during a transitional time when the Old West is rapidly turning into the modern world, but this isn't the only transition it examines. Its main character William Munny, played by Eastwood, is an aging man desperately trying to lead a life that's worlds apart from the one he did in his youth. The film opens showing him struggling to do his best as a pig farmer in Kansas, a widowed father of two small children. His wife has been dead for years. We learn early on through what he tells his children and best friend Ned Logan, (played by Morgan Freeman), that she was the reason he turned from his old, destructive ways as a whiskey drinker and killer. But things are not going well, and when the snot-nose 'Schofield Kid' (self-named on account of his Schofield Smith and Wesson revolver), shows up to enlist Will's help to kill a couple of cowboys for money for cutting up a prostitute in the town of Big Whiskey, he's faced with a decision. At first Will tells the kid that he can't do it, because he's not like that anymore; he's not the kind of man he used to be. The kid tells him that if he changes his mind, to catch up with him, and he sets off riding north. Will does his change his mind and leaves his two children at the farm, telling his young son, "You kill a few chickens if you have to; I'll be back in a couple of weeks. If you run into any problems, go see Sally Two Trees at Ned Logan's." Ned goes with him, they meet up with the kid, and for the next hour we're shown painfully thoughtful examples of William Munny dealing as best he can with his increasingly disturbing inner conflict as he remembers the promise he made to his wife while facing the imminent reality of his agreeing to kill again. As the film approaches its wonderfully balanced climax of brutal poetic justice, we learn a great deal about the darker side of the human psyche, the bad even good people are capable of, and how the ugliness of self-realized hypocrisy affects different kinds of people. Morals, hopes, memories, dreams are all masterfully woven together into a tapestry of personal journey that's made all the more colorful by its eventual display of paradoxes, simple truths, ugliness and beauty. Gene Hackman is unforgettable as Big Whiskey's sheriff, Richard Harris shines once again in a brief but necessary role, and the other characters are just what they need to be. Nothing is wasted in this movie, and certainly neither was my time by deciding to watch it. In fact, I've enjoyed it 'Unforgiven' dozens of times, and each time I find myself amazed and delighted at how I'm able to appreciate something new about its simultaneously familiar and frontier-like genius. If you love good movies, I'm sure you'll agree.


                
When I was a boy I wanted to be a cowboy. Now I am an adult and I secretly still wanna be a cowboy. And "Unforgiven" is the best reason why I still wanna be a cowboy, because which man doesnt wanna be as heroic, glorious and tough as Clint Eastwood is in "Unforgiven". There is no other modern western out there that comes even close in the true to life depiction of bravery AND cowardness. There is no western out there besides the other well known great classics that come close to the brilliant true to life dialogues of ¨Unforgiven". Those dialogues were written by the very same screenwriter that gave us "Blade Runner", which could be considered to be a science fiction western, with a little imagination...Many, many westerns have been made, but "Unforgiven" stands out among all of them. Why? Maybe some wont even notice the tongue in cheek jokes at first that are present in "Unforgiven", because the jokes are not presented as such, but they are disguised in a parody of western cliches. The parody is depicted in scenes with behaviour that normally isnt shown in westerns. What sort of behaviour? Well, cowboys become human in this movie, with all the usual shortcomings that go along with being human: like being afraid of killing someone. That's unheard of in westerns, but it happens in this one. Still it is a hardcore western, but the heroes are not the heroes we have been used to and neither are the crooks. Everything is a bit twisted, but that makes the experience more real, more enjoyable, but also more powerful in the end. I have seen it over 10 times by now, but I can clearly remember how confused I was after having watched it for the very first time, because lots of western cliches get thrown out of the window. How those cliches get destroyed is the real charm of "Unforgiven", although it still has got hardcore western guts.Eastwood dedicated this movie to directors Sergio Leone and Don Siegel and "Unforgiven" has become the most prestigious tribute one could wish for in the history of american westerns. "Unforgiven" is only the third western in history to ever win the Best Picture Oscar. The American Film Institute ranked this as one of the 100 Greatest Movies of All Time.


                
One of the best all time movies. Clint Eastwood, Gene Hackman and Morgan Freeman in their prime. So well written and acted. This movie is a masterpiece. Such a great ending. Must see and a classic!


                
I've seen this film several times, and it's not only my favorite Clint Eastwood film, it's my All-time favorite western in a genre that's packed with excellent picks. It was very deserving of its four Ocscars including best director and and best picture. Not only were the lead actors outstanding, with Hackman picking up a best supporting Oscar and Eastwood a best actor nomination, but the supporting roles were filled outstanding talent as well. So many great lines perfectly delivered. Another dark Eastwood western character with a very dark past attempts to redeem himself in his twilight years, as he is drawn out of retirement for a seemingly righteous cause. This film is why we love going to the movies. Even if you're not a fan of westerns, don't miss this film.


                
All of this because of a prostitute?!? Yes, indeed. And that alone makes this film monumental. The film has an unusual pattern and breaks some of the unspoken rules of the genre: no one is cool and they all seem like a bunch of losers. The good guys and the bad guys get killed. When you look at the equally badass characters of Richard Harris, Gene Hackman and Clint Eastwood, you can't tell who will finally come out on top. Jaimz Woolvett and Morgan Freeman are more than just sidekicks. The prostitutes are hardly damsels in distress - they can fend for themselves (Frances Fisher as Strawberry Alice is far from sweet). And they don't just provide the amusement and/or body count. They are flesh and blood and no makeup. They are treated like human beings, as well. The men don't just exchange the bullets, but also emotions. Clint Eastwood's penchant for the lone gunmen and scars is evident here, too. The moral of the story: one scarred woman is worth 9 men (total body count).


                
Unforgiven (1992)Plot In A Paragraph: William Munny (Eastwood) a retired gunslinger reluctantly takes on one last job, with the help of his old partner (Morgan Freeman) and a young man.Along with 1984's Tightrope, Unforgiven is Clint Eastwood's darkest film. A companion piece to, and dark reversal of, The Outlaw Josey Wales, Unforgiven is a journey from light into darkness, Josie Wales is transformed from brutal killer to a man at peace with himself by the extended family he reluctantly acquires, whereas Unforgiven takes a man from the family life that has redeem him back to The violence he thought he had escaped.Clint purchased the rights to The William Munny Killings in 1983, after Francis Ford Coppola let his option lapse, and then sat on it for 9 years. Some thought Eastwood had been keeping the script as an 'insurance policy' (something he has always denied) for a time when he needed a hit movie. It was certainly fair to say that in the early 90s Eastwoods box office takings were at their lowest point. His cherish personal projects had been huge box office flops and other more commercial movies (including the last Dirty Harry, Pink Cadillac and The Rookie) had underperformed against his usual box office standards. Warner Bros, who had courted disappointment by hailing Eastwood's earlier Pale Rider as 'the next great American western' downplayed their expectations for the movie. It was so successful that most of the media ignored the film in their predictions of that summers perspective hits, and those that did, made him out to be an old gunfighter hearing the footsteps of younger, faster triggerman named Costner, Stallone and Schwarzenegger making a western when (with the exception of Kevin Costner) nobody was. But Eastwood was back in the saddle and he proved the doubters wrong. Eastwood also took the rare step of making a major international publicity tour to promote the movie. Something he hadn't done for over a decade.Clint was deservedly nominated for his acting and directing here. It was a ridiculously tough year, to be nominated for Best Male. Whilst I think Clint should have won over eventual winner Al Pacino, I think Robert Downey Jr should have won that year for his performance in Chaplin. But Clint deservedly won for best director and the movie won Best Picture. Of the rest of the cast, in the late eighties (starting with 'Street Smart' opposite Christopher Reeve) and particularly the early to mid nineties. Morgan Freeman could do no wrong in my book. A wonderful actor who brought a touch of class to every movie he made. Then something happened, every movie maker and studio caught on to the fact, and he suddenly became the 'go to' guy. Then suddenly he was everywhere releasing several movies a year, all of varying quality. But this was back when he could do no wrong for me!! He is superb, and I also think he should have been nominated alongside Clint and Gene Hackman who won the Best Supporting Actor Oscar.Eastwood also composed the haunting theme for Munny's wife that forms the backbone of Lennie Niehaus score.Clint was back (if he'd ever been away) Unforgiven made back its low $14 million Budget on its opening weekend, and it went on to become the highest grossing movie of his career, and it ado became the first Eastwood movie to cross the $100 million barrier, as it went on to gross $101 million at the domestic box office, to end 1992 The 11th highest grossing movie of the year.


                
From the very first scene of "Unforgiven", you get the feeling that this is going to be an epic western tale. Two hours and ten minutes later, nothing will dissuade you from that opinion.For a basic plot summary, this movie sees retired gunslinger and rabble-rouser Bill Munny (Clint Eastwood) now raising hogs and struggling to make a living with his two children. When a cocky youngster nicknamed "The Schofield Kid" (Jaimz Woolvett) shows up one day with a killing-for- money offer that Munny cannot refuse, Munny and old partner Ned Logan (Morgan Freeman) ride out once again. What they don't count on, though, is the toughness of Big Whiskey lawman Little Bill Daggett (Gene Hackman).The reason that "Unforgiven" is such a classic movie is because every character could be worthy of "leading man" status in terms of both casting and on-screen character development. For example (some spoilers)...-Eastwood gives as good a performance as any western in his career (and that is saying something!). Coming into the final moments of the movie, you really just don't know how he is going to react to the film's climax. -Freeman plays a great sidekick with an angle (sharp-shooter, yet freezes up the first time he is needed) that again keeps you interested in just who the man is/was. -The young Woolvett provides some energy as the "Schofield Kid". A scene after which he kills his first man is one of the best of the whole effort. -Hackman nearly steals the whole show as Little Bill. He is as tough as they come and somewhat set up to be the "bad guy", but (as in most great movies) that case is not so clear. Maybe Little Bill is just trying to keep his town "clean" the only way he knows how?Overall, then, I can completely understand why "Unforgiven" has been awarded so many distinctions. Also directed by Eastwood, the film is perfectly paced and provides simmering drama that continues to increase with every scene. This will likely be the last western film that Eastwood ever acts in, and one couldn't ask to go out on a higher note.
I know he has starred in such classics as Sergio Leone's "The Dollars Trilogy" but I think this is possibly Eastwood's finest western. It really has an astounding script with a thought provoking story about a former, brutal bandit. Plot: A whore got disfigured after she laughed at a cowboy's small penis, which infuriated the cowboy and proceeded to disfigure her face because of that. The cowboy and his buddy were fined as punishment, but the whores did not find it satisfying so they offered 1,000 dollars of reward to whom can kill them. Which led to the Schofield Kid approached William Munny, a former ruthless bandit to help him get the reward. Director: Clint Eastwood; Writer: David Webb Peoples; Year of release: 1992; Genre: drama; Themes: Violence, redemption and forgiveness. I feel it is mostly because of the story and script that this is such an awesome western. Clint's character William Munny is such an interesting character, a former bandit who got married to - according to the story - the sweetest woman alive. Which people found puzzling that such a sweet person got married to a cold-hearted bastard. Which is an interesting and romantic back story.But the story takes place after Munny's wife died and he is now raising his kids alone with his pig farm. He is out of his old ways and he is trying to move on with his life with peace in mind. As the movie progresses, the unwilling Munny gets more and more forced back to the violent world he tried to avoid in the first place. Reaching his breaking point when an old friend of his got killed by a sheriff. He then confronted the sheriff and went away, seemingly back to his old self: ill-tempered, drunk and ruthless. The movie shows perfectly how violence is a chain of reactions that gets triggered by different people and no matter how passive people might be, they are still a part of it. With all that in mind, "Unforgiven" is darkly poetic. So much Kudos to writer David Webb Peoples and director Clint Eastwood for making such a fine western. But what I feel made it so fine is because how human and honest the characters seem in this movie. There is no bad guy or good guy, they are just people stringed together by unfortunate events that had violent outcomes. Compared to the "Dollars Trilogy", which has (almost) clear distinction between good and bad "Unforgiven" makes it vague. Which makes the movie thought provoking because, you are not just passively observing violent events, you are questioning man's moral and your own.Possibly Eastwood's finest western. If not the finest western ever. 10/10


                
The shots and overall style of Unforgiven is similar to that of Sergio Leone and Don Siegel. It throws us back, then encompasses us out of 1992, and brings us to the golden era of Westerns, and then it takes us to an almost neorealist aspect about our characters. Clint Eastwood successfully blurred the lines of good and bad in Unforgiven. He ties us to morally questionable yet, empathetic, -weak, but pure characters, in a seemingly unexciting series of events, and showcases the human psyche of an aged gunslinger. Unforgiven takes a tone with westerns that haven't been fully explored. It focuses on the humane aspects of the old west more than most Westerns, sought to. Unforgiven is a story about morality, regret and lies coupled with the diverse and dynamic parallels between all the characters. make Unforgiven is an instant classic that keeps the audience thinking from the beginning to end, it shines above and should be revered to most westerns.


                
Munny was a killer decade ago and now just tries to survive alongside with his little ones but then a youngster comes seeking for help into a hunt for two guys that carved up girls face. Big Whiskey is a town where Little Bill is sheriff with certain rules that no one must carry a gun into town. When money was on heads on those two guys first mans are coming and it was unpleasant experience as Bill forces his justice over Bob, beating him and establishing the order and showing us how things are going to be. It all changed after Munny was beat up to death and in cold weather looking death into eyes but recovering his justice seeking ha become. At first sloppy and with marks of time on him now has arrived into town and provides an incredible redemption and violence. Munny's character is firstly being so "rusty" and in believes and thoughts about his deceased wife that have been limiting his character but after he found his way over that it was old one scary, violent, terrifying. Light approach to subject of Munny's oldness is amazing as he constantly throughout movie has scene where he is trying to do something but it was extremely funny and once he manages to escape from that he turns into a real gunman. Clint is absolutely magnificent as he is believable and heartfelt and Gene is also great in his character of Little Bill and mind games that is playing with others. 3.5/4SPOILER: Ned's death brings the worst in Munny and it was what needed to happen if he was ever gonna surpass his oldness and habits that were stopping him. From moment he sees Ned's body it was absolute horror for everybody except Munny (Clint).
