Maybe someone would be good enough to explain to me how this is one of the best movies of all time.  It is pedantic, relentlessly slow, full of cliched dialogue, methodically acted, and completely one-note throughout.  Better Eastwood westerns include: Good, Bad, and Ugly, For a Few Dollars More, Hang 'Em High, High Plains Drifter, etc., etc.


                
I will keep this review short and simple. Unforgiven lives up to its name as I have still not forgiven it. Richard Harris portrays one of the weakest characters I have ever seen in a film. Despite being listed as a star of the film, he barely features. He arrives in town, acts rather stereotypically English, gets beaten up for said actions and leaves. The end. Gene Hackman is laughable as Little Bill, with a name that makes him sound like an Indian war chief than the hardened Sheriff that he is supposed to be. The way in which he plays his character is like a detective in Murder She Wrote...only with less life and even worse acting. When the prostitute gets her face cut up I half expected Angela Lansbury to burst in with a piece of evidence linking the saloon owner to the crime. 'Bill; I think I know who did this, but I need your help to prove it...' It would have been more entertaining certainly. This brings me neatly to Clint. Oh where did you go wrong. One minute you're a mysterious preacher in Pale Rider and then you are a cardiac waiting to happen like an extra out of Dads Army who keeps falling off his horse... The only person who brings some redemption to this film is Morgan Freeman who, tragically is killed by the producers before he can make a true impact on the film, for being mildly entertaining. The question really, is just how much worse could this film be? With its all star pantomime cast, it could be tricky to pull off, though no doubt the producers could still nick a few coins from all our pockets. If you want a good classic western, pick up Appaloosa or Pale Rider. These are far more entertaining and do not stereotype the Englishman as a t**t.
I thought this was one of the slowest, most convoluted, talky excuses for a western I have ever seen.  It was a bloody morality play without morals, just an excess of shocks.  It is also as misanthropic a movie as one could ever hope to see.  Gene Hackman is too over-the-top.  Clint is too forced. Freeman is great, but his role is ancillary.  Altogether, probably the worst movie to ever win Best Picture of the Year, and that includes Ordinary People and Cimarron.


                
I always wonder if the Academy award is blind or pretend to be. While there was so many brilliant films such as Scent of a woman and Malcolm x, the Academy Award chooses Unforgiven as best picture! I've seen the film and it is the kind of film that makes you want the film just to end because it's so boring. I couldn't find any excitement in the film or any sense. The film simply doesn't deserve the honour that is been given to it while other good films were ignored by the Academy Award.If you haven't seen the film yet, I don't advise you to see it, you'll be disappointed!


                
Initially, I was encouraged by its blackly comic promise (Eastwood as pig farmer, near sighted gun-slinger), but The Unforgiven is eventually overwhelmed by Eastwood's unadorned narcissism (nakedly revealed by the epilogue). Not since Good Will Hunting (which sounds like a western), have I encountered such shameless self-promotion.


                
Well, what can one say about an overrated revisionist western?Why blur the line between bad guys and good guys? I didn't get it. Where is the fun? We all know that those times were wild, uncivilized and brutal, so, I guess, there is no need for movies like Unforgiven, since we have plenty of examples of the darker side of human nature around us.On the plus side I have to admit that there is some good acting, specially Eastwood. Morgan Freeman in his usual kind of role is OK. Hackman, I think, overdid it a little. Needless rough on the sex department, the opening scenes were not necessary, nor the language. May be it is Unforgiven but, on the other hand it is pretty Forgettable; one wonders why it's got an Oscar. Pretty run-of-the-mill film. Nothing special about it.


                
I consider Eastwood as a top class actor and director. But even he had made some mistakes. Blood Work and this film are two of them.The Unforgiven is really bad directed, which is a surprise because Clint directed it himself and he has done some decent direction work. The plot was below average. Its premise was overused all over the years. The main character reluctantly takes on last job routine is really tiring, and it surprised me that Eastwood used it.As for the acting, it wasn't terrible but still felt forgettable. This is not by any means, a western classic. It is one of the most overrated western films. In the end it gave you nothing to think about. Even the friendship between Clint and Freeman was a little shallow. It had some moments though, but overall it was a bad movie.If you're into western I would recommend any other films. But the top are the last two in "The dollars trilogy", "Duck, you sucker" which is not a pure western, "Once upon a time in the west" or even "Bronco Billy".


                
While a big fan of Clint Eastwood, I was highly disappointed. Hearing so much about how great this movie is, I couldn't believe how bad. This won the Oscar?! Clint performance as Munny is bad all around. This is no Pale Rider or anything like that. Same for Morgan Freeman as Ned. Very stiff and artificial acting. Just about the only thing going for it is the story. The narrative with the whore being cut up and then the law doesn't do much about it, so the whores have to hire their own killer to get the bad guys... that part was good. But just something about the way it was done make the whole thing seem not real. For real good Eastwood western movies see Pale Rider or Two Mules for Sister sara. 3/10
So the time has come, I made it to my 3000th charted movie on my personal Flickchart account and therefore watched my milestone movie "Unforgiven", as chosen by the members of the Flickchart Facebook group in my poll from a few days back. Before I give up my quick review I will say that this movie would have been one of my next movies to watch anyway. Not because it was one of my most wanted to see movies, the Hitchcock choices were probably my preferred choices, but because I borrowed it from my local library for the purpose of seeing as many of the best of all time to say at least I have watched them. Anyway here is a quick review.I tried guys and gals, I really tried.The thing is Westerns would normally be my last choice in movie (even though it seems to be that I hate War movies even more). I can see where this movie can be seen as one of the best of its genre, especially in the last 30 years but still it wasn't for me. I have found that I do like westerns more than I thought I did as I have enjoyed a lot of them over my viewing since I have started my quest to see the best of the best I still need to have a western hook me early on for me to enjoy it and this one just didn't do it.Now go back 32 years from when this was made, put a "The" in front of the title and swap Clint Eastwood out for a gorgeous Audrey Hepburn and you will find a western I do really enjoy.Anyway since this was from a flickchart group I am going to end this in the Flickchart Letterboxd way by showing you all how the movie entered my chart.Unforgiven < Kept Women
Unforgiven < The Book of Eli
Unforgiven < The Road
Unforgiven < Rancho Notorious
Unforgiven > Children of the Corn 666
Unforgiven > Patton
Unforgiven > Rango
Unforgiven > Paranormal Asylum
Unforgiven > Twelve Monkeys
Unforgiven > Turbo-Charged Prelude
Unforgiven > Scarlet StreetEntered at 2816/3000


                
