Well, its hard to find any negative points in this movie. The acting is good, the story has potential and the hero is a cool guy. But while i was watching this one i always expected something to happen, but was always disappointed when nothing did. Maybe its because this was one of my first western movies and i was expecting more action, or maybe its because it was hard for me to feel sympathy for the main character, but i still feel like there was something missing in this movie. So besides the strong ending i took most interest in the character development of Clint Eastwood, who, i have to admit, plays his role quite convincingly.


                
Much is made of this film, because it appears to be a western, and because Eastwood starred in some rather important 'Spaghetti Westerns.' Some call it the antiwestern as if it were conceived by Clint to be an intelligent escalation from the ideas of 'Good, Bad.' But Clint wasn't responsible for the intelligent conception of the Leone films. This film grows more out of science fiction than westerns, and the responsible party is the writer, not the director.This isn't to take away from some fine photography and smart pacing. But one only has to look at other films from this director and cinematographer to see that they are not geniuses. No, the real novelty comes from Peoples. I assume he figured if 'Star Wars' could appropriate the old fashioned western, then he could appropriate old fashioned scifi values and toss them in western dress.Check it out. This is the 'Blade Runner' and 'Twelve Monkeys Guy.'


                
I like individual scenes in Unforgiven, but I'm not sure that I like the movie as a whole. It's got a good cast and good intentions, but ultimately I find it a little too preachy, and I'm not sure that its moral compass is pointing in exactly the right direction.Also, I just can't agree with critics who call this film a "ground-breaking" Western that "broke the mold" by condemning violence instead of glorifying it. I can think of many anti-violence Westerns that are years or even decades older than Unforgiven -- The Ox-Bow Incident springs to mind, and even Sergio Leone's Once Upon a Time in the West showed the horrible consequences of violence without getting on a soapbox about it.On a similar note, I'd like to point out that The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance had already explored the idea of "debunking" mythological Western figures, while The Wild Bunch exposed an aging gunslinger's fallibility by showing him slip and fall while trying to mount a horse. My general point -- I do have one, I think -- is that everything allegedly "groundbreaking" about Unforgiven had appeared in Westerns before 1992. This film is not some radical break with Western tradition; it owes its predecessors in a big way.Indeed, I think Unforgiven's rather obvious moralizing is vintage Western stuff. The film's anti-violence message is well-intentioned, of course, and I almost feel like a jerk for pointing out that it's hammered home with no subtlety and sometimes hokey dialog.I don't want to bury this movie, because I think some of the performances are great, the locations are perfect, and even the melancholy theme tune is well-chosen. But I do want to challenge the notion that this is some kind of totally original, really deep piece of art. It's really not that deep; it raises old questions in old ways, and doesn't necessarily suggest interesting answers or provide too much food for thought. Maybe it's thoughtful by movie standards, but it's hardly literature, is it? Unforgiven also has some problems that have nothing to do with its message. For instance, I find it a little problematic that Gene Hackman sort of steals the movie from Eastwood. Perhaps I'm being harsh, but I find Eastwood's stoic acting boring, and I frequently think that his co-stars trump him (see also Eli Wallach, Lee Van Cleef). Even Richard Harris makes more of an impression than Eastwood with just a cameo, I think. Morgan Freeman, meanwhile, is so typecast as a sagely mellow guy that I feel sorry for him.However, as I said, there are individual great scenes. The "Duck of Death" confrontation, the exchanges between Eastwood's character and the prostitute, and the various brutal killings are all extremely memorable. But I just don't think the whole thing hangs together, and I get the uncomfortable feeling that the film ends up glorifying violence anyway despite trying to do exactly the opposite. Who knows?Ultimately, I feel very little guilt in proclaiming that a fun/violent Western like The Good, the Bad and the Ugly is actually a lot better than Unforgiven, even if it isn't as self-consciously PC. I have no immediate plans to go out and shoot anybody myself, therefore I don't really need Unforgiven to dissuade me from committing murder, do I? So, I'd rather be entertained by my Westerns than preached at by them. Know what I mean?


                
As is often the case when movies are made which reflect an earlier time, little attention is given to the ways of speech of the time being presented. In this case, for instance, several references are similar to the comment by one of the prostitutes where she says, Little Bill "kicked the s**t out of" your partner. This phraseology did not gain popularity until well after WWII, coming into use in the early 1950's.Note also that Eastwood's performance early in the movie leaves much to be desired when he attempts to show his incompetence at catching and sorting pigs, and in mounting a horse which had grown wary of riders. That is, his apparent clumsiness is an example of amateurish and unbelievable "acting."Overall, the movie is absorbing and amazingly different with wonderful cinematography and splendid acting by both Freeman and Hackman. Thank goodness Eastwood's "nose for a good story" didn't involve any writing by him since we've seen how inept he can be in such movies as "Gran Turino."


                
After almost thirty years in movies, Clint Eastwood took home an Oscar for "Unforgiven". In it, he plays ex-killer William Munny, who has given up his violent ways. Then, some unexpected events force him to have to decide whether to continue his non-violent life or return to violence.It seems to me that "Malcolm X" deserved Best Picture more than this one did, but Eastwood certainly turns in a captivating performance, as do Gene Hackman, Morgan Freeman, and Richard Harris. Some people may have trouble watching this due to some of the things that happen in it, but if you can stomach it, then you should check it out. As Munny notes: "It's a hell of a thing killing a man. Taking away everything he's got".


                
With all its traditional shooting galore. Around a rather poor and somewhat unconvincing story of a group of bar prostitutes trying to hire a killer to revenge the barbarous cut up of one of them by two cowboys, Clint Eastwood made a good western movie in technical and formal terms with a de luxe cast (himself, Morgan Freeman, Gene Hackman and Richard Harris). When I say a good movie I mean a good movie in terms of images, sequences, dialogues, acting and cut. It's of course a movie full of the usual violent and tough scenes since the main characters are violent and tough people who can easily kill other people for money or pleasure. Nevertheless this doesn't prevent some of them to show good human feelings, revealing even on some final scenes curious conscience problems. The general atmosphere is one of the lawlessness that was in force in the American West by mid-19th century where law was dictated by who could shoot first and faster. That atmosphere is well reproduced in this movie. The feminine element is here composed only by the group of the bar prostitutes who show often more human feelings than men. A worthy movie, well structured, well acted and well directed and presented, to sum it up.


                
This Western-style movie by Eastwood shows that Eastwood still is a master in portraying Western-characters. Even more he knows how to create the classic-western feeling even when his plot and story are up to modern standards. He builds up his character carefully, till the glorious moment which in fact means also his downfall from the standards and moral he has set for himself. A good performance by Morgan Freeman, the most sympathetic character in this movie, and a violent and annoying as almost always Gene Hackman combined with a appearance of Richard Harris give the movie a strong foundation when it comes to acting-talents. The main disappointment is the predictability and simplicity of the story. In fact the story is not much more than a background to the character-development of Eastwood and thus falls a bit short of a 5-star or even a 4-star movie, in my opinion. Nonetheless a movie worth watching for Eastwood fans.


                
I'll be honest right now, I am not the biggest fan of Westerns, although there are a couple that I like which I won't go into.I personally thought this was a very over rated film. The reason for this is because there is another Western which was said to have influened Unforgiven, which was Tom Horn. Anyone who hasn't seen Tom Horn should do so. If you believe the reviews that Tom Horn got from it's 1st realise then you would be very naive. I can honestly say that Unforgiven was given the credit that Tom Horn didn't.I don't have too many complaints about Unforgiven, the plot wasn't bad, the acting was pretty good but I didn't think it was the classic that I was meant to belive it was. I can only really give it 7 out of 10


                
A decent enough western. Unforgiven is a classic study of characters, life, man and the real west. The whole cast pretty much shines. Gene Hackman steals the show though as Sheriff "Little Bill". He got an Oscar for the best supporting actor for this movie. Morgan Freeman does his little part with such an ease. The town of Big Whiskey also unfolds slowly as a character. The movie did have a Sergio Leone touch though I loved all Sergio movies better than this. Leone has perhaps set a different height and discovered a new formula for Westerns. The sound & music did not appeal me that much. Leone Westerns are always characterized by typical sound effects that leaves a thrilling effect and we would hardly find light- hearted characters. Clint Eastwood definitely not at his best as a director. Though as an actor, he has been brilliant always. Unforgiven is a great movie but definitely not one of the bests. It would definitely excite and entertain you. Though the movie is a bit overrated. I don't think it deserved the award for the best picture. Good one time watch...


                
I will never understand the Academy's reason for giving this wretched western any attention, let alone a Best Picture Oscar. For Eastwood, we've seen this character before and it was done much better in The Outlaw Josey Wales. Freeman's dialogue was just downright stupid. Hackman and Harris are the only shining spots within the film. Hackman's Little Bill is Popeye Doyle with an even lesser regard for humanity and compassion. Harris is showy in his brief role as English Bob. This is not the worst westerns ever made, but it's certainly not worthy of an Academy Award.


                
Firstly I will say I like this film. Its well produced with excellent acting from the main cast and supporting actors. The cinematography is at times overwhelming, the plot line intriguing.So why only a 7? Its not the masterpiece its made out to be, its been grossly over-hyped as Eastwood's Western swan song. Too much left to heavy sentiment. This three hour plus film is saved from the realms of mediocrity by the final brutal, vintage 20 minutes where William Muny is transformed again from grieving widow to brutal murderer. And its a long long wait but when it gets there, any thoughts of asking for a cinema ticket refund are long gone.The problem up until this point is the drawn out way in which the plot is painstakingly unravelled to reach this bloody conclusion . Granted Eastwood, Hackman, Harris and Freeman all act as if their reputations depend on it but this cannot gloss over the fact that for a good two hours, the viewer is left thinking where on earth is this going. Maybe this was a deliberate ploy by Eastwood as the finale certainly is one of the best in the last 20 years and the contrast couldn't be greater. Its just a shame that the audience has to be taken through this process in such a dull and plodding fashion.And just when you think all is lost, the film is plucked from the ashes of DVD oblivion with what can only be described as Eastwood at his very best. Tough, uncompromising, brutal and wonderfully sinister. A chilling, gripping, sensational and glorious end to what had been up to that point, an average if uninspiring yarn.Yes it might be an anti-western, and yes it won a bucket load of Oscars. It could even be classed as groundbreaking. But a masterpiece - I think these views owes more to the reality that a Hollywood Superstar is coming to the end of a glittering career rather than the film being 'that special'. And for this reason alone, I think everyone can be forgiven.
Generally westerns depict lawbreakers vs. law enforcers although the lines are blurred in some cases. Unforgiven wipes those lines away while failing to replace them with character or overview of anything but slaughter. People are driven by money, revenge, power, sadistic impulse and hero worship, never by love, beauty, hope or clarity. It is very well made but left me feeling empty. The movies that claim my top rating are repeatedly watchable, and that means they have an understandable human drive toward the better in some form. Even Goodfellas has an overview of humanity that offers insight into what makes those gangsters that way they are, presenting them as people caught up in a part that they can't see themselves playing. Unforgiven lacks a heart.


                
Eastwood directs what many feel to be his masterpiece, a Western which tries to be lyrical, which tries to be more real in the shadow of many that have gone before but retaining the violence of those films. Eastwood stars as a retired killer Munney, one of the most notorious and deadly bounty hunters ever. He met a woman who changed his ways, and they settled down and had kids. However, she died soon after, leaving him with the kids and some pigs. When a young prostitute is beaten, her and her friends look to their sheriff for justice. Hackman plays Little Bill, the Sheriif who wants peace in his town but will go to any lengths to achieve it. The justice he dishes out is minimal, so the women place a bounty on the heads of the two men who hurt the girl. The word spreads and young, ambitious man who calls himself the Schofield kid decides to collect. He needs a second man though, and goes to Munny who at first declines. However, he is getting old, is no good at farm work and decides to join the kid, bringing along old partner Ned to the displeasure of the kid. When they get to the town they realise what breed of men they are, and how justice is rare. Munny is caught by Bill and beaten. Later they kill one of the men in a reluctant shoot-out, and Ned leaves seeing what he is. The Kid kills the second man while he sits on a toilet. After the initial high he sees what he has done, vowing to never kill again, and leaves. Munny prepares to collect the bounty, but hears that Bill captured, tortured and killed Ned. This awakens his old spirit, and he goes for revenge.Eastwood, Freeman and Hackman are all good, but at times it seems they have little to do apart from look awkward. The film looks great, and there is good use of lighting, and sets, but it is overlong and at times too slow. Even though it is not meant to be a violence-fest, it does not compensate for this by having too many scenes which do not add anything to the plot. The sequences with Little Bill, English Bob and W.W Beauchamp are too long and only there to show Bill's supposed sadistic nature. Bill though does not appear to be particularly evil though meaning that we fail to feel much when he and Munney have their stand-off. Although it is true that the lines between good and evil, that Munney and Bill are not that different, are being blurred, this takes away much emotion. We have seen discussions on these themes in countless other westerns and it seems this film is only respected more because of its big names and budget. It is though-provoking, but not greatly so, it has a few good scenes, but many that seem like fillers, there are some funny moments and quotable dialogue, but the script is nowhere near as good as any of Leone's. A good revival of the Western which tries to offer more wisdom than is usually found in the genre, but which has become vastly overrated, and is not as good even as some of the earlier westerns that Eastwood directed.7 out of 10
This is a movie that grows on you the more times you watch it. The movie is quite slowly paced, so anybody looking for non stop action should look elsewhere. Anybody looking for a nicely played film spiced with well rounded characterisation and moments of tension will be well rewarded.
A couple of cowboys turn on the ladies at the local brothel. Not happy with the "punishment" handed out by Little Bill (Hackman) the ladies band together and offer a reward for slaying the cowboys. Little Bill in turn decides to tighten up on the cowboys who try to claim the reward including English Bob (Harris) and Bill Munny (Eastwood). All the leads put in fine performances with the possible exception of Morgan Freeman who seems to be freewheeling. 8/10


                
A very good film, don't get me wrong but I'm surprised it ranks so highly amongst Westerns. I wouldn't have it anywhere near the standard of Young Guns or Tombstone, or of the older Westerns, The Magnificent Seven.The great & high profile cast is partly responsible for the high acclaim it's got. While they act the roles brilliantly, they all seemed a little past their prime for it to have the necessary action.It was good to see more character insight & emotion in this than your standard John Wayne film & good that it was also devoid of pointless shootings but it nonetheless lacked that tension & excitement of the aforementioned Westerns and didn't cover a great deal of ground in the story.I'm not Clint's biggest fan and I never really connected with Munny or any of them here, it just needed a bit more younger blood amongst the cast and a little less dialogue.Still a good film though & well worth a watch.7/10


                
The in 'Sight' on the movieThe movie 'Unforgiven' is a heroic but tragic film. The setting takes place out in the west during the older days. It is about two guys and one younger kid who try to find two men who cut up a lady. The opening scene really grabs your attention. Two fellows were in a whorehouse when she giggles at him in the wrong way and the man got very angry. He told his partner to hold her still so he could cut her. They finally were tied up and had to give the owner something in return because that girl was no longer any use for him. All of the ladies in the house got together and decided that who ever killed these two dirt bags would then get one thousand dollars. One day while Bill Munny, Clint Eastwood, was working on his pig farm a kid comes riding up on a horse asking him questions on his past life. He then tells Bill about the guys who cut the girl face up and how they were going to pay any cowboy who kills them one thousand dollars. Bill says no at the time. Later on he got his partner Ned Logan, Morgan Freeman, and catches up to the kid. They then set out to find the guys. During the journey Ned finds that he's not cut out to kill any more so he turns around and goes home. I like the movie because it had an interesting plot. The gunfights were my favorite. Even though fake and somewhat humorous, it kept me on my toes. I also like that throughout the film, Bill's horse was acting up and being difficult at times. I love the fact that they had a saloon. You knew then that it was a true western film. Of course, Clint Eastwood and Morgan Freeman did an amazing job playing their characters. Clint was so calm, cool, and collective you would have thought it was him being himself. I would have liked to see Morgan's character be a little stronger and not such a chicken. Gene Hackman, playing the role as Little Bill Daggett, did a fantastic job in being the town sheriff. He made me believe that he did have control over their small town. It is an awesome film and I would recommend any to see this movie if you like older western ones. They did a good job at trying to make it look like the old west. I rate this movie a 7 out of 10. Word count: 431


                
Unforgiven is a disappointingly safe yet simultaneously above average film. The film falls short of the expectations one would have for a film which the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences considered the "Best Picture" of 1993. It is worth noting that Clint Eastwood also was awarded Best Director, Gene Hackman won Best Supporting Actor, and Joel Cox won Best Film Editing for their respective work on Unforgiven. These awards certainly had a positive influence on my expectations, but I remained cautiously optimistic as I also had preexisting expectations as a result of the films cast both in front of and behind the camera. I expected Clint Eastwood to put forward what would most likely be an acceptable display of directing and, if I was lucky, he would churn out a great film. As I think Eastwood is a notably better actor than director, I hoped for a strong performance in the lead role on his part and an equally strong performance by the rest of the cast, including Morgan Freeman. My predictions seemed to mostly come true as nearly every aspect of Eastwood's western. Everything from directing and acting to set design was average at worst and good at best. Eastwood's directing in this film stands out to me as his most bland and by-the-numbers performance in comparison to the other films I have seen with him behind the camera. These other films such as Gran Torino, American Sniper, and even Jersey Boys all have noticeably more character and life to them in regards to his direction regardless of whether the direction itself was even good in its technical aspects. An observant viewer can often see the inspiration, voice, and personality of the director in their work but in this particular outing from Eastwood, all I can seem to see is a lack thereof. Despite this, I don't have many, if any, objective criticisms of the direction. It may feel riskless and average, but Eastwood does not make any easily noticeable missteps. This sentiment carries over into the acting as no particular performance stands out to me any more than the rest as being necessarily great but I am left with no real complaints. The first truly above average aspect of Unforgiven is its costume and set design. Ever costume and location depicted in the film feels very authentic. There is never a moment in the films runtime in which I wasn't completely sold on the authenticity of and justice done to the setting and time period. The remainder of my praise lies with the plot, as does the first of my real complaints. The film as a whole, and more specifically in regards to the plot, seems to be stuck in a balancing act as it struggles to maintain its status as slightly above average movie. For each of the films handful of lapse in logic and moments that leave us questioning or doubting a character's motivations, there is another, equally rare, moment that leaves the viewer feeling satisfied. The most notable of these instances in which I found myself finding a characters motivations questionable or weak are when Eastwood leaves behind his very young children alone of his remote farmstead for what we can only assume is around a few weeks as well as when Freeman's character decides to also up and leave his own life and spouse with little to no need for any convincing or negotiating. One could argue against these complaints by saying that perhaps Eastwood's children were taught and excel in their independence and don't need much assistance as they live on a self-sustaining farm that it is established they assist Eastwood in tending to. It could also be argued that Freeman agreed to join Eastwood due to their understood and occasionally referenced past together but I would retort that these explanations are both primarily rooted in assumptions and that the film would have benefited, even if only scarcely, by making the motivations behind these actions more clear. Although I stand by these complaints, they are obviously in short supply and had a nearly nonexistent effect on my opinion on the film and wouldn't warrant in any notable deviation on my rating of the film. My complaints are also matched in number and impact by the moments in which I feel the film excels. These moments include two surprisingly tense scenes that I feel exceed the quality of the rest of the film. The first being when English Bob refused to give up his gun to Bill Dagget and the second being in the jail when Bill Dagget offers Beauchamp and the then imprisoned English Bob a loaded gun. In addition to these two scenes, I felt that the films conclusion and climax was overall satisfying and served its purpose well. Despite being a mostly average and generally okay film, when viewed with the knowledge of the films numerous awards and praise, I can't help but feel underwhelmed and unimpressed. Unforgiven often meets the expectations of a generic and mediocre western film but rarely exceeds them. Overall, the film is solid and mostly watertight but there is essentially nothing to it that warrants a second viewing and hardly anything to warrant an initial viewing.
Sergio Leon will not like this. This film is a true reflection of amateurs work and his useless attempt to modify a western genre. Still a amazing and enjoyable movie but it fails for me to be any great attempt. Just a nice movie i will rate it 7/10. I don't think anyone can adapt western genre in movies ever with his brain except Sergio Leon, Ramesh Sippy and Kevin Costner. Unforgiven moves through a nice path of events sometimes feeling bit too uselessly stretched. There are few moments which will make a fool think this movie as provoking about life's worth and the thoughts of man with regrettable past, but if one avoids to get entangled in such ideas of unforgiven, he can certainly enjoy a nice drama.This movie is good but yet it is easily forgettable. Nothing as enriched as rest other movies in this genre. Those who want to get any so called message in this movie for their lives i can recommend you a lot of other great movies.


                
This film is not too bad, but it's not really that good either. It reminded me of Lawman, made 20 years earlier, in 1971. Both films are heavy on what it takes to kill a man, in what you might call the everyday run of things, that is, outside a national war situation. Eastwood looks good, but he has only one persona, one expression, one tone of voice; hard, laconic, matter-of-fact. Both films focus on the killer instinct, the man who doesn't think twice about ending another man's life. Lancaster's lawman kills because it's his legitimate job; Munny kills for money, and for revenge. Lancaster ends up with nothing, but Munny ends up prospering in dry goods. Both films make you think. However, Lawman is the better film, with a better plot and script; and Lancaster is the better actor. My feeling is that Unforgiven's ratings will drop over time, whereas Lawman's will rise. See them back to back.Thinking about Unforgiven (what does the title mean?) again, I realise I've given it at least two too many stars.
Clint Eastwood, the epitome of the bad old west, brings us "Unforgiven", the story of three would-be assassins who ride North to collect a reward for killing two no good cowboys who cut up a girl.Eastwood's film is very moody, and as director he has created a very convincing atmosphere along with a dark 'feeling' about the film. The characters, created by Eastwood, Morgan Freeman, Gene Hackman and Richard Harris, are also great, and typical of the old west. Yet even with great performances from Eastwood and Hackman, and great production values, the plot is a little too wide open and one feels there is a little left unresolved. The script perhaps needed a fraction more work.Great entertainment, but lacking depth.Friday, February 19, 1993 - Croydon Twin Cinema
This is an excellent movie, for an American western. The reason this movie is so good is that its style and sensibilities come straight from the great European westerns of the 1960's and 70's.The funny/cool dialog, the ultra-violence, the bleak and unclean environment, the over-the-top characters, the deconstruction of the traditional western, the erasing of the line between good and evil, making the protagonist an anti-hero- all of these things have been done before, and quite often done better. This movie owes everything to spaghetti western directors such as Leone, Corbucci, Valerii, Baldi, etc.I don't mean to take anything away from this movie by saying that. In fact, I thoroughly enjoyed this film. Eastwood should be commended for making it, and showing that American westerns don't have to be stiff and boring. I just want to give credit where credit is due, especially since in the special feature that discusses the movie, Eastwood, Morgan Freeman, and Gene Hackman fail to even mention the Italian westerns and directors that so heavily influenced this film. Shame on them. If it wasn't for that Euro-western influence, Unforgiven would not have won an Oscar for best picture.Eastwood and Hackman were tremendous in this movie. Clint is as cool as ever here, and Hackman's over-the-top portrayal of "Little Bill" is entertaining as hell. Richard Harris is also great as "English Bob." The music is pretty boring compared to the great spaghetti western scores, but still quite a bit better than average for a Hollywood western.This is one of the very few American westerns worth watching.


                
1st watched 7/29/2000 - 7 out of 10 (Dir-Clint Eastwood): Disturbing and effective tale of old gunman(Eastwood) returning to his killing ways. A morality peace that shows that even when you think you've changed as the title character does here it's easy to return to the way that you were.


                
Unforgiven is a good movie. Clint Eastwood did a tremendous job in acting and directing this film which had a great supporting cast as well. However, I don't believe that this film is worthy of a Best Picture award or making it on to the AFI's top 100 list.I believe that this movie is an effort by Eastwood to say to everyone that he is finished acting in westerns. The story, just like real life, tells the story a man who has been out of the game for a few years and is making one last triumphant return to his old stompin' grounds. His character, William Munny, is basically a culmination of all the tough guys he has played in other westerns and the Dirty Harry films. Eastwood plays this role to the best of his slightly diminished ability and is perhaps only believable based on what we know of him in his previous films. This film is unlike many other westerns in the fact that it doesn't glorify violence. Rather, it shows its dark side and the after effects that it has on people and their emotions. When Morgan Freeman cannot bear to shoot a man, when the Schofield Kid claims that he will never shoot another after he had killed his first and the reality behind the scene when Eastwood kills the first cowboy all go towards the de-glorification of violence.This film has a great performance from Gene Hackman which isn't because of the character he plays, rather what he did with the character he got. All other supporting cast roles are satisfactory, but even Freeman's performance was somewhat lacking. Eastwood himself did a decent job, but doesn't match any of his earlier western performances. He seems uninterested in this film and it shows.The movement of the film was above average and the film went by quite quickly. I feel that if this element of the film wasn't there, the movie would have been a real dud. The cinematography and locations of the film didn't really add much either. I always got the impression that the surroundings were very cold and this really didn't suit the film that well.I gave this film such a high mark because I felt the story really worked, Hackman's fine performance and the pace and movement of the film were perfect for a western. However, this film ranks low among those I gave a 7.7/10 stars.


                
Clint Eastwood gets to play Clint Eastwood in a film directed by Clint Eastwood. He gets to be Clint Eastwood during the 90's, a slower less dynamic version of him, with a bit more maturity and humility, and a more flawed vulnerable iteration of the Eastwood character, therefor more realistic. The whole film is really a buildup where the story acts as a framework for his returning to form as the mighty Clint Eastwood gradually throughout the development, the ultimate Western badass with a grin, tough guy one-liners and an attitude every guy secretly wishes he could adopt for just a single situation in their life, once.Morgan Freeman helps the film's cause, so does Hackman and Eastwood does as well as always himself, and in this sort of film the acting and the actors' physiques are at the forefront and essential. The story is actually pretty well told, it's not profound but it's got a couple of relevant life lessons. It's a little long for its own good though, with some slower parts especially in the first half. Two hours and ten minutes for this story is probably a bit too much, although it isn't quite as vacant as some long films are. This has pretty good content and develops into a few scenes interesting in their own right, and relevant sub-pots.All in all, it does seem like a film made by a Western buff a bit infatuated with the style and its atmosphere and details, but it's well made enough that it's a pretty good watch for the more casual movie-goer not necessarily obsessed with the genre.7/10.


                
Unforgiven is a form of tribute to Clint Eastwood for classics of Western, and has to see that Eastwood learned a lot from Sergio Leone, even this film is less, at least 3 of Sergio Leone, I admit that I expected a little more Unforgiven more is a good film, photography is impeccable, the costumes are great, the cast is excellent, Clint Eastwood this great, even not being your most memorable role is among them, Gene Hackman is in my opinion the best movie actor , he is great, Morgan Freeman makes a great performance, the cast also includes Jaimz Woolvett, Saul Rabinek, Richard Harris, and etc., the action scenes are very good, and very well done, the pace is moderate, even the film having only two ten-minute film, can get a little tiring, and the script has some problems, I found some kind of hard moments happen more Unforgiven is a good movie, not among the best westerns of all time (at least for me), more is full of good times, great performances and beautiful photography. Note 7.8


                
