I have heard quite a bit for "Unforgiven", also I want to seen all the best pictures from the 90's. I was also excited to see Morgan Freeman in the cast, so I know now that "Million Dollar Baby" was not Clint and Morgan's first experience together. They work so well as a team and bring nothing but sheer entertainment and charm to movies."Unforgiven" is a very good picture that has a real story and isn't just about "cops and robbers" or "cowboys and Indians". How far would you go for a friend? I loved Will and Ned's friendship so much because you could tell how much they had been through together and Will went back to his old ways in the blink of an eye for his dear friend. I loved watching Will's story through the movie, the first time you see him, he's just so charming and you would never had suspected of his former life of crime, alcohol, and bloodshed. Through the film, you have a lot of doubt for his character if he could go back to his old life despite his promises to his deceased wife. He, the Kid, and Ned go on a trip to kill two cowboys who cut up a prostitute's face for $1,000.00. Together, they learn that this isn't going to be such an easy task when the boys they're hunting down belong to a town where guns and all arms are banned that could lead to a punishment as far as death. But Will gets sick and the Kid and Ned give a lot of talk in killing these cowboys themselves, when Will is just half himself he does the deed himself in killing one of the cowboys. He tells Ned to go back home and he'll take care of the other cowboy, he does so but gets caught and beat to death by the sheriff.The Kid and Clint do the rest of the job by killing the other cowboy and receive their reward by the prostitutes, but Will learns of Ned and goes back into his old habits. What happens next? You'll have to watch yourself. Something that I learned that was interesting, Clint dedicated Unforgiven to Don Siegal and Sergio Leone, two directors who believed in him as a young actor. Unforgive is a remarkable film: methodical, deeply felt, with a devastating emotional and moral impact. It is easily one of the best Western movies. Like I said, it just has such a classic feel to it and you can't help but enjoy it. It seems like Clint might just own Hollywood one day. :) 8/10
Clint Eastwood's storytelling gives the western genre one of its most sublime story's. Gone is the trademark mysterious hero and in its place is an ex gunman who made his peace when he met his wife. Eastwood has transcended traditional entertainment to storytelling craftsmanship. He delivers rich characters with deep rooted problems inextricably linked to the villains of the story. Refusing to wither and die away, style has been perfectly adapted with age thus ensuring his maturation into a true Hollywood legend.Besides his now distinctive storytelling, there are numerous factors that make this a landmark Western. The ensemble cast could not have been stronger and there were no weak performances. The soundtrack accentuates the intended atmosphere of the director. A single detracting factor I could find only just qualifies as such. Munny's whimsical lines seemed a little contrived at times. They droned on like pale attempts to capture the Western era. But this is a consequence of the fact that they were more to do with the character of William Munny. He is after all a reformed killer with a now passive approach to people. Given this fact and also that it may have been distracting since it was so out of sync with what we are used to seeing from Eastwood, I still have to list it as a demerit on the account it slightly jerked me out of the story.Hollywood producers have to satisfy audience preferences if investments are going to accrue profits. It is the nature of the beast. The action and more specifically the Western genre will stick to tried and tested formulas in order to guarantee audience acceptance. But every so often you get people who as a natural consequence of their unique character appeal are able to deliver a story that is outside these understandably restrictive boundaries. Eastwood is a cool individualist who normally plays characters who are not team players and do it their own way. His own way this time is to give the western genre a real story oozing characterization. A sort of ballad for the bad guy.The ballads tune provides the story with a sad, introspective mood, within the opening and closing scenes. The opening scene depicts Munny in his new found life. He is cured of his wicked ways, helped by his dear, departed wife. But men are not willing to forgive or forget his monstrous deeds and in the final scenes he is who he has to be. Such is the sorrowful life of William Munny.Westerns are typified by clearly defined goodies and baddies, but this is definitely not the case here. Eastwood and Freeman play reformed killers who find circumstances drawing them once again to their evil ways. But the older and wiser men now realize the value of life and come face to face with their troubled consciences. This is unlike their naïve, young partner who is attracted to the bravado image of the killer and relishes taking a man's life. This moral issue is virtually taboo for the classic western which glamorizes the lawlessness and the hero attraction of the gunslinger. This is also why in my view no-one besides Eastwood should have handled this movie.Then we have the juiciest character of the movie superbly played by Gene Hackman worthy of the weight of every micro granule of his Oscar. He is the epitome of every hard-line lawman that ever was. The misguidance of the so called righteously empowered, swinging the hammer against evil for good. Hackman must have salivated when he read the script since there was obvious relish in his performance. All the better for the movie, and of course for Eastwood at the Oscars. By far the best performance and the others were good further underlining the talent of the man.The antagonist of the movie is almost always the most complex and thus most interesting to analyze. His vain attempts at carpentry are his way of trying to appear to be a good man. There is purity in building ones own home and it is this wholesomeness that he wishes to capture. In that way his fellow citizens will see him as a simple man only wanting to lead a righteous life. But his inability as a carpenter is indicative of his depravity. He cannot be a good man. The source of his drive is anger and hatred. It is through this failing that we realize he cannot escape who he is.Indeed it was not only the power of the script that gave the audience a spellbinding climax, but the talents of the actors. The actors' characterizations deliver the audience a spellbinding climax. It is only through Hackman's performance that we not only acknowledge his ending as inevitable, but also as deserving. We saw him as a man who virtually thought that he was righteously empowered to rid the earth of Munny and his kind What he thought was an honorable task was one rather of abuse and suppression. He became the baddie in the eyes of the audience and it is he who the audience wants to see justice served upon. Munny was so weak throughout the movie that the eruption of his evil ways captured the interest of the audience. He transformed into the Eastwood of old <U+0096> the anti hero with a far more malevolent presence. Never could we have sensed this hatred and evil that we now see in William Munny. It is now that the frivolity of his mannerisms that I touched on in the beginning adds to the story as it helps to accentuate the turn in character. He is now only a killer, in it neither for money or fame as the writer nearly finds out to his tragic detriment.Those who have only seen his Westerns of old or the 'Dirty Harry' movies may enter the cinema with expectations of such like will either be disappointed or pleasantly surprised. It is the atypical western and an unfamiliar portrayal by Eastwood. But I believe that most people will have the latter reaction. The differences are their strengths helped by the fact that it was a superbly crafted movie with a meaningful story and thought provoking lessons for our heroes and villains. Eastwood was directly suited to the roles that we identify him with, but it is exactly because of this suitability that he eases into the role of Munny. No mellowing with age, no identification with the mainstream, he has always done it his way, and he is so good that any way could be his way.


                
Clint Eastwood's "Unforgiven" is a nod to the old spaghetti westerns from the sixties and seventies, such as "The Dollars Trilogy" by Sergio Leone, the very films that made Eastwood a major Hollywood player. But this one is more touchy than the others--it features a character who may be The Man with No Name (a.k.a. Blondie) thirty years after we saw him ride away at the end of "The Good, the Bad and the Ugly." This particular man is filled with guilt trailing him from his past, when he was a gunslinging drunkard made infamous throughout the west as a brutal killer. Now he's older and a retired cowboy--he lives with his two children in the middle of nowhere as a farmer. His name is William Munny.The film opens in a town miles away run by the evil Little Bill (Gene Hackman), the corrupt town sherriff. In the town brothel, a hooker is beaten to a pulp by two men who get away with simply having to hand over some horses to the owner of the joint. Seeking revenge, the women of the facility put together their small fortunes and put up a stash of reward money for the assassination of the two men.Enter the Schofield Kid (Jaimz Woolvet), who is eager to hunt down the two men and collect the reward money. He invites Will Munny to accompany and help him with his quest. At first Will refuses, but then he decides to put down his pitch fork and use his weapons one more time. Along the way, Will and the Schofield Kid pick up Ned (Morgan Freeman), another retired gunslinger living out west in peace and harmony. Together they ride off into the sunset in hopes of finding their targets and collecting some reward money for their efforts. Things aren't always as simple as they seem.The Schofield Kid claims he has killed five men. But Ned and Will come to an agreement that they think he's bluffing. The Schofield Kid is like an eager kid wanting to impress his role model. Whe"Unforgiven" is a tender western that isn't quite as unrealistic as you might expect walking into the theater to watch it. Clint Eastwood is famous for the cowboy roles. Now it's his turn to give a new insight into the feelings of cowboys. The underlying roots of the movie are quite simple--you can't teach an old dog new tricks. Even though Will has left his brutal and abusive past behind him, his old personality is still in there, somewhere amongst the chaos of his colliding feelings. He's a man beaten by his heart more than by any enemy he has encountered in the past.Gene Hackman is always good for bad guy roles, mainly because he can create some of the most hateable characters of all time. I saw "Crimson Tide" immediately after "Unforgiven"--his roles are often the same, but there is no doubting that he can create a truly mean character while still adding some depth to his persona.Clint Eastwood is one great director. He has created a wonderful and grim epic that transcends the genre. Westerns have always been a bit cheesy as compared to more contemporary films (after all, there's a reason they're often called spaghetti westerns). "Unforgiven" is given the regular screen treatment. This is a more accurate portrayal of the wild, wild west. "The Good, the Bad and the Ugly" is superior, but that's a given.The end of "Unforgiven" is a mix between "Taxi Driver" and "The Good, the Bad and the Ugly." It's a bit depressing, but, at the same time, refreshingly noble. It's one of the best cinematic climaxes ever created. The message behind "Unforgiven" may not be encouraging, but some of the greatest films aren't.


                
A modern classic produced, directed and starring Clint Eastwood. Eastwood and Morgan Freeman are retired outlaws that strap on their guns one last time to collect a bounty offered by prostitutes of Big Whiskey Wyoming in vengeance of a "cut and sliced whore". The local sheriff(Gene Hackman)is a thugish brute whose law enforcement is ugly and ruthless. Excellently filmed. Interesting fights and gun play. Also in the cast are: Richard Harris, Saul Rubinek and Frances Fisher. This masterpiece will stand the test of time.


                
I like westerns and I like this film but I admit this is a bit hard-edged for me. It took me a couple of viewings to appreciate it. It's a tough movie with a good cast and no nonsense. The characters in here aren't the talk-now-shoot-later variety. There are a few memorable and very tense scenes in this film, and a fair share of profanity, too, including too many usages of the Lord's name in vain.Watching the likes of Clint Eastwood, Gene Hackman and Morgan Freeman as the three main stars, however, is pretty entertaining. How often are those charismatic actors NOT entertaining? Eastwood ("Bill Munny") plays his normal type character, so you know what to expect with him. Hackman plays the bad-guy sheriff, "Little Bill Daggett." Authority figures are almost bad people to Hollywood. Morgan Freeman plays Eastwood's lower-key old partner, "Ned Logan." In the minor roles, Jaimz Woolvett, who played "The Schofield Kid," reminded me of a young David Arquette but I haven't heard Woolvett's name since this movie.Overall, a rough film but a pretty solid western which would have been better and accepted by the public better had the language been toned down.


                
Before Clint Eastwood was talking to chair, he was making good films like Unforgiven. Unforgiven is a uniquely different Western, at the time as it gave the audience the most realist example of how life was like in the Old West. A group of prostitutes in Big Whiskey, Wyoming, are looking for any bounty hunter to kill two cowboys who disfigured a woman's face. Sheriff Little Bill Daggett (Gene Hackman), is wanting to keep the town peaceful and is against any bounty hunters coming in. Little Bill had given the two men leniency, despite their crime. News about the reward reached Kansas, where a pig farmer William Munny (Clint Eastwood) is approach by the Schofield Kid, a boastful young man to collect the reward. Clint Eastwood is a great actor, who able to hide facts with his eyes, and his facial expression. Much of the charm of the first part of the movie is how unlikely he could be a bounty hunter, but he go on to do it because he's raising two children alone and his farm is failing. On the way, Munny's friend Ned Logan (Morgan Freeman) joins in for the search of the cowboys. They weren't the first to make it to the town. Back in Wyoming, gunfighter English Bob (Richard Harris) arrive in Big Whiskey, also seeking the reward. Little Bill and his deputies savagely beat Bob, hoping to set an example for other would-be assassins. When Logan and Munny got the chance—they were able to kill one of the cowboy. It becomes apparent that Logan and Munny no longer have much stomach for murder. Logan tries to return home. Logan gets captured by the Sheriff's men and this is where the story gets intense. This is where we see how bad-ass Munny is. David Webb Peoples, adapter of both Twelve Monkeys and Blade Runner, wrote the screenplay. He wrote when Munny drinks whiskey, it's like Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. The audience does truly find out whom Munny really about in the last ending scene. That was where it shined. The beat up up, pig farmer was urged by multiple consequences to take a drink and the monster erupted with horrific consequences. Mr. Hyde took a lot of prodding but his reputation was well founded and could been worse if he was the Hyde that shed all humanity. He still had a foot in his human side. There is a film noir feel to the film full of ambiguity and atmosphere. The dark Western deals frankly with the uglier aspects of violence, deep and steeped in morality. It was a perfect fit, hand for a glove. The screenplay is unique, written for Eastwood to direct. Still, the film realism is kind of distracting and depressing. It tends to break up the myth of the West. Unforgiven is a film that doesn't hold a candle to Sergio Leone's brilliant Dollars Trilogy in any way. Certainly, it's a classic Western, regardless of it not following the classic theme. There is something appealing to a film that takes an old concept and makes it up to modern standard. Everything about this movie is good, from direction to acting! Gene Hackman's acting is keyed to the film to work. The Sheriff was right. The only way to handle real criminals is to show them you are meaner and more ruthless than they are. Hackman did a perfect job of demonstrating the "style' that all good law enforcement people "should" follow to actually get the job done effectively. Today's soft, limp wrist, politically correct cops pay a very heavy price when incorrectly believing that they can warn and make friends with bad guys; and the politicians could care less how much they or their families suffer. It finds it kind of surreal that Little Bill is painted the villain of the film. Willy tried to be a family man, Bill wanted to build a house. Bill killed one man (a mercenary) and Willy Munny killed six (most of them innocents). Any way you look at it there were no heroes in this film. Clint's acting is just bar none, and it is a movie that has characters so compelling, it makes you wonder about the nature of humanity. Everybody soon learns a harsh lesson about the price of vindictive bloodshed and the malleability of ideas like "justice."
Listed as one of the best western films ever, unforgiven boast of a barrel of actors all making sure that their screen time is not wasted, Clint Eastwood is going to go down in the record books as one great movie maker because of this flick, the timing of the movie is just right at every turn, the movie plot is rich with enough events to keep you glued. The movie also boast of fine shots, I liked the cinematography of this movie and the thought of a bunch of washed out old men, just trying to get a wiz of victory again was just too much fun to want to pass off.It is third western to win a Best Picture award in the Oscars, and it is ranked fourth in the best American film in the western genre in the American Film Institute's "AFI's 10 Top 10" list.The initial concept of this film was conceived in 1976 but Eastwood delayed the project, partly because he wanted to wait till he was old enough to play his character. This was Eastwood's last western and it was a critical and box office success.The movie plot is about a town where the Sheriff 'Little Bill' (Gene Hackman) is trying to make sure that all is well and peace reigns, then some notorious cowboys go to a whore house and cut a prostitute.Little Bill implements justice in the way he felt best, but the prostitutes wanted to deal with the cowboys as they felt revenge is the best way to deal with the situation. Putting money together they placed a bounty on the cowboy's head, aging gunslinger and murderer William Munny (Clint Eastwood) heard about the bounty and decided to give killing one more go. Munny was a reformed man, who left the murdering life behind all because of the love he has for his young wife. But his wife is dead and Munny is struggling with farm life and the raisin of two children, so chasing after the bounty was a good idea to him so he called his old comrade Ned (Morgan Freeman) and they go after the cowboys.Unforgiven won four Academy Awards in its year, these awards were Best Picture (Clint Eastwood), Best Director (Clint Eastwood), Best Actor in a Supporting Role (Gene Hackman), and Best Film Editing. Clint Eastwood himself was nominated for Best Actor, but he lost to Al Pacino for Scent of a Woman.If you have not gotten a taste of this classic movie, maybe it is high time you did, Unforgiven is a wonderful movie to have in your DVD collection, the acting was second to known and the script was both funny as it was thrilling.www,lagsreview.com


                
When a reward is offered for the killing of the men who disfigured a prostitute, a young man recruits an aging former gunman who's left his violent past behind him to seek them out.Eastwood the director isn't that different from Eastwood the actor. Both simmer, with their silences saying far more than their words. A simple story that's nevertheless a deep character study, Unforgiven is just such a slow burn, exploring subjects like mythmaking, regret and aging in a world that's as gray as a storm cloud.The cast is impeccable. Eastwood does double duty as director and star, and he's surrounded by expert hands like Morgan Freeman, Gene Hackman and Richard Harris. Given a strong, meaty script they bring Eastwood's harsh frontier to life and create a modern classic.
There is much to like about 'Unforgiven', a classic Western with a difference. For the most part it lives up to all expectations. The plot is relatively simple and slow moving, featuring a climactic shootout that is typical of the genre. What sets the film apart from others of its kind is the characters. 'Unforgiven' features a fascinating and contrasting bunch of characters, ranging from complex and thoughtful characters like Eastwood's to the charismatic and entertaining 'English Bob'.Unlike the conventional Western, there's also no obvious 'good' and 'bad' guys in 'Unforgiven' and the audience isn't told who they should route for. This only works because of the depth of the characters - had they been under-developed, the blurred lines between good and evil probably wouldn't have worked. Overall, 'Unforgiven' is a very good Western and one of the most memorable in the genre.


                
Clint Eastwood directs and stars in this academy-award winning film. The film has a terrific cast with Morgan Freeman as his old buddy Ned, a perfectly cast Gene Hackman as a kick-butt Sheriff named Little Bill, and a cool cameo by Richard Harris as the assassin English Bob. Saul Rubinek from the recent Warehouse TV series plays an interesting writer character who just happens to be in the right spot at the right time.The local whorehouse gets in an uproar when one of their own gets disfigured by a local ruffian. they offer a reward to anyone who will come seek revenge for them. Revenge and money are powerful motives throughout Unforgiven. The story centers around Eastwood and Freeman getting recruited out of their now sedentary farmer lives to help the greater good of these women who have no one who will stand up for them as people.In the end, will Clint turn back to his old killer self? Will Ned be able to return to his stable friendly life? Will this young killer take over the job of killing people for a living that Clint wants to abandon for his family? Or will people end up doing what fate destines them to do?Unforgiven has great acting, with a super showdown between Hackman and Eastwood, as you'd expect. If you like this film, you should see the recent remake of the Magnificent Seven, which also has the theme of people in distress with no one to help them.Enjoy this masterpiece of Westerns. It's great to see Eastwood in his younger days deliver like only he can.


                
Happened to find this movie by chance. Beautiful masterpiece by Clint Eastwood.. Typical western cowboy movie and excellent performances by Morgan Freeman & Clint Eastwood.. Shows the emotional journey & varying perspectives of few killers - 2 experienced ones and an amateur / beginner. The experienced killers struggle with their emotions to kill people (used to be arrogant and killed people for fun in their youth); they do not gloat with glee on the number of kills they have done so far - rather they are filled with remorse and fear. Whereas the amateur has never killed a soul so far but boasts of having killed 5 people (when truly his eyesight / aim is quite bad). Surprising to find a cameo by the first Dumbledore Richard Harris in this movie :) (can't imagine him in any other role) !!
As Westerns go, this is a story of the Wild West and the colorful characters that roamed in it at large. Making it become larger than life are the actors in this movie which is a good thing because we are entertained and that is what this is all about. I personally thought it dragged a little in the beginning and it ended too abruptly. However, any critique is offset by the good time that comes from watching. Westerns always have the same premise i.e. my gun, my pony and me. After that, add a woman, some gunfights and revenge here and there and it captures us as it should. This movie serves up "comeuppance in large portions. You just can wait to see certain people in this movie get what is coming to them. Here, the movie gives closure and satisfaction but could have gone the distance and milked it more. The West was a colorful but dangerous place and the proof of that was that many back East loved hearing the tales of what was happening out West. It was the place of adventure, discovery and where men still made their own rules. That was all soon to end as we well know taking with it the Indians, open ranges, the buffalo, and excitement of exploring the unknown. Civilization has a way of taming and dumbing down even the most ornery of characters and situations. The West we see in the movies is all that is left of it. Get your fill of it here with a good snack, a tasty drink and sunflower seeds or popcorn just to busy the hands and up the enjoyment. Mount up and let's ride!


                
Unforgiven An outstanding movie to capture the old west, if you expect to see a Spaghetti Western you might be disappointed the way I see it is a beautiful last chapter to the Man with no name, which Sergio Leone created back in 1964. Clint Eastwood as Director I feel he did a outstanding job to show a man who was a thief and a killer. where his wife changing his life around, I won't say any more than that. Every Character feels authentic that they belong in the old west. Morgan Freeman Is fantastic as always, Richard Harris and Saul Rubinek are the real sand outs for me.


                
Survival on the Western Frontier depended on a combination of cool heads and calculated risks among the wild fire reputations of deadly lore. The reality of the gun and rifle played out by Clint Eastwood amongst a small town, led by ruthless Gene Hackman. Characters names only add to the myth of a time when lawlessness was the way, even when doled out by authority. Women were disrespected as branded cattle in this town and men were only as good as their last shot, when character itself takes a back seat. Sickness meant death and honor lost a lot of battles. Long in the tooth yet deep in emotion, the truth of the small and vast Midwest is injected and exposed in "Unforgiven", the last western you ever need to see.


                
Clint Eastwood is of course a true western-legend and with this movie he is paying tribute to the genre, as well as saying goodbye to it. Westerns now days are just not as popular anymore and besides, Eastwood was of course also an aging actor already at the time. This movie got made at the right time and is a great swansong for Eastwood within the genre that made him star. What "The Shootist" was for John Wayne, "Unforgiven" is for Clint Eastwood.Besides playing the main character, the movie also got directed by Eastwood himself. It was the movie that really launched his directing career and he even won an Oscar for it. He had already directed multiple movies prior to this one and also some quite good ones as well but for some reason he was never really taken serious enough as a director by the main-stream audience.Eastwood made this movie in the 'old fashioned' way, which no doubt he learned to do from working with Sergio Leone, to which this movie got also dedicated. The movie has all of the usual and right required western ingredients present in it but yet it also manage to give the movie a more of a fresh feeling and look over it.It's also really due to its approach and concept that this movie works out as a refreshing one. Even though it has lots of the westerns clichés present in it, the movie actually succeeds in it to turn things around. The line between the good and bad guys are being blurred and no one is a true gunslinging hero in this one, who blasts his way through town. It makes the characters of the movie work out outstandingly. The movie chooses to be more realistic but not without staying truthful to its genre. It's a western as well as an anti-western at the same time because it debunks so many of the usual western traditions.It's not necessarily a spectacular or exciting movie but the movie is being carried by its characters and its perfectly cast actors. Because of this the movie becomes a real compelling one. As expected, Clint Eastwood is really in his element as a reformed, aging, former tough gunslinger. He is being accompanied by actors such as Gene Hackman, Morgan Freeman and Richard Harris. Hackman also won an Oscar for his role in this movie, that is being regarded by some as one of the definitive Hackman roles.The movie got only shot in 39 days but this doesn't prevent the movie from being a good looking one, with nice cinematography, sets and costumes, which all fits the genre and time period it got set in. It's a truly fine crafted movie, that also features a nice little musical score, partly composed by Eastwood himself as well.A fine good bye for Eastwood to the genre, to which he owes basically his entire career.8/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
A very good western starring Clint Eastwood who plays William Munny, an ex-robber, murderer, drunk and a few other wicked things that we could call a man. It starts off great. In the beginning we see the act that triggered the story's course of action. As it evolves we get to meet William Munny. We get to know who he is, who he was, who changed him.Then we get to know the town of Big Whiskey and it's rigorous boss. The parts of the film I found best were the actors that played along the side. Gene Hackman was great. One of my favorite parts of the film is the disarmament of "English Bob". It looked incredibly smooth. The hard boiled nature of Little Bill was shown very well in that scene.My joy was troubled by some of the dry dialog and the loss of the excitement and tension that gathered from watching Little Bill show off. What can I say, I enjoy elegant teasing instead the movie turned out more serious than I hoped it would.Generally it's a great movie with a lot of good scenes. My personal favorite is the one where William Munny comes back to Big Whiskey and whips the crap out of the towns cream once and for all......... +4/5 ........
I first saw this movie when I was 15 as part of a media studies group at school we all went to the cinema ,I had watched a few times since but hadn't seen it for years until Sunday night it was on Channel 5 .What Really impresses me with this movie is that is trying to get a message across and I think what it is saying is something about myth the myth of being a notorious killer hardman whatever and the shattering reality of doing those things and carrying them out for example English Bob .It also quite stark in a usual Eastwood way (most of his movies are) . and it does not pull punches it isn't glamorous it isn't of Cowboys riding into town and having a showdown with the local bad guy,its about life and how hard and real a life lived like this is .Hackman is fantastic his performances to me are above everyone else although Freeman and Eastwood are great also .This is such a good film basically for it thought provoking style


                
It's the perfect western movie. In this movie a man's death means something and it's not a typical everyday thing like in other westerns. It shows you the weight of taking a man's life and you will remember that after watching this movie.


                
"Unforgiven" may be one of the best (anti) western movies made in the last thirty years. As always, when Eastwood's films are in question, narrated story does not tell much, but the movie is in fact a powerful analysis of morale and hypocrisy of the old West, about "killing or being killed", about the difference between myth and history.


                
Just finished watching. It starts slow and calm, you think that it's going to be a movie like that, but when it gets to about the middle, things start to change, and it really pays out your time. Excellent ending and amazing cast.


                
I agree that this is a great Western movie of the 20th Century -- it is certainly not typical with the reason for the Action and Conflict being the aggrieved women themselves. The cast of characters as developed by David Webb Peoples and director/producer Clint Eastwood are a sordid bunch. We see the earthy and grim parts of a lot of the "Wild West" and learn that Gun Control is not just a measure of the contemporary U.S. political groupings. I don't quite think that the main character is an anti-hero but he does seem a bit like a reformed addict pushed to the breaking point. It is not for the young and over-sensitive. UNFORGIVEN (1992) is a good example of a two-hour feature that doesn't need the big tech-effects to keep us thrilled and on the edges of our seats. It does reflect a kind of critique of gun violence while showing that guns can provide a kind of means of revenge where the "bad" people get their comeuppance. I rate it an "8" *


                
I found this movie to be very interesting and see how far Eastwood would go with one of his first own directing movies. It is a great depiction of a man who once lead a violent and evil past but has changed his ways. It is also the story of his partner Freeman who has agreed to join in on there worldwide redemption of killing. And the young killer who has lied about killing so many. It is a great movie about characters and goes very deep. Eastwood finds himself in a spot where he is faced to confront a man who has wrongly killed his partner and he ends up turning into the man he once was int he past. It is a great movie with a great script and fantastic characters. But if your looking for a western with a lot of action or a very active script you are looking in the wrong place. I give this movie a 10 out of 10.


                
I had watched this film before, back when I was 17 or so, expecting a gunslinging, foul mouthed, cool, action-filled western similar to A fistful of Dollars, For a Few Dollars More or The Good the Bad and the Ugly. Of course I was disappointed back then when I saw the product. There just was not anything I had expected there to be. No cool Clint slingin' guns and shootin' off worse guys than himself from the first minute to the last. No cool music by Ennio Morricone. No duels. No abundance of one-liners. So understandably I didn't like the film that much. But now, I'm six years and since I like Clint Eastwood I thought I'd give this film a second chance. On top of that can over twenty-thousand people visiting IMDB and giving this film a 8.0 be wrong? Well I found out that they are not. Unforgiven is a good western, but only for those out there who are prepared for a bit of storytelling. If you're looking for action and one-liners pick up one of Clint's films that I mentioned earlier or their 1990's equivalent: Desperado. You could try to convince yourself to watch this because it has won 4 Academy Awards, but if you're looking for fun and action, do you really care about artistic quality in Directing or acting. I know I didn't and I know most other folks just want to see a lot of shooting as well. This does not mean that there is no action here, or no shooting, it's just that it is not the focal point of the movie. The focal point are the characters here. The professional gunslingers, the starting gunslingers and the retired gunslingers. Good, mature western, made by a matured Clint Eastwood and although I enjoyed it I thought that there was something missing. I know I searched, but I could not find it. Maybe it was because the intro and the text in the end of the film were scrolled onto the screen in dutch. I really hated that!
7,5 out of 10


                
Most people would say that if you want realism, go outside. But sometimes it is just want a particular genre needs, and the Western needed it. After being saturated by innumerable implausible one-man-against-many plots, Eastwood delivers a wonderful-realised conclusion (or so it would seem) to his Western career. It could only really be Clint, the star of the Sergio Leone spaghetti westerns, who manages to mix into the usual gunfight glamour and clear good guy/bad guy mix the realism of sleeping in the rain and the past that you sometimes cannot escape. Ignore the people who bleat about how un-Western it is. Just enjoy the fantastic performances from Freeman and Hackman; and possibly the last time you'll see Eastwood in his natural habitat of the Western


                
This isn't the best Western around, but it is good, solid fare. Clint Eastwood reprises his role as the quintessential gunfighter, here retired from gunslinging, who is forced by circumstance into buckling on his gunbelt again.From the start, of course, you know that Clint will go on the warpath, it's just a matter of time. However, when things really do take off there's an element of darkness in Munny (Clint's character) that rises to the surface rapidly and quickly dominates the rest of the movie. Not that this is bad in any way. It really serves to show how thin the veneer of civilization really is with Munny. His character goes from the affable, gunslinging Clint we all recall from earlier Westerns, to the dark and menacing murderer we are told he was in his youth. And Eastwood handles this acting challenge superbly. He's someone you really don't want to be around.That said, there are a few comic lines in the film. I'm not sure if they were designed to lighten the mood, or just to remind the audience that it's just a Hollywood movie, but they work. My favourite is after Munny shoots a man dead. Someone says "You just shot an unarmed man!" to which Munny replies "Well, then. He should have armed himself."The other actors give great supporting roles. Hackman's villain is oily and obnoxious - he always seems to play those roles well - and you dislike him right from the start.But on the whole this is a darker Western than the usual Hollywood stuff. Well worth a watch if you are a Western, or a Clint fan.


                
