Unforgiven is about as far from the fantasy mythos of A Fistful of Dollars as Clint Eastwood could get.  No pin-point accuracy with 19th century technology, no desire to 'play fair' and face the enemy on even terms.  If you can shoot him in the back...then do it.Eastwood puts in an astonishing performance as the retired killer Muny, saved from his life of thievery and murder by his late wife.  Now, desperately trying to support his children with no income, he is tempted back to his killing ways by the bounty offered by the women of a brothel, one of whom's number has been savagely beaten and disfigured by a drunken ranch-hand.The film follows Eastwood as he wrestles with his desire to honour his wife's memory and his need to feed his children by returning to the killer that, he fears, is his true nature.  Meanwhile word of the bounty has spread and the events spiral out of control as the sheriff (Gene Hackman) deals with the guns for hire that ride into town.While all the supporting cast are excellent Gene Hackman's Oscar winning performance even manages to eclipse Eastwoods as the brutal Sheriff. He beats one of the bounty hunters, English Bob (Richard Harris) almost to death and then explains to a journalist, in one of the film's stand out scenes, how men like he and Muny are so successful at killing. The mood moves from light banter to life threatening seriousness...and back again, with just one move of his head.One of the greatest Westerns ever made?  Certainly. Although the fact it's a western is really secondary.  In truth it's a tale of the nature of evil and the nature of man.  Eastwood uses the gap between the western myth and reality as an arena to play out his story and does so with consummate style.


                
"Unforgiven" may well be Clint Eastwood's greatest triumph as an actor and director.  In this grim, dark, and yet strangely beautiful story of former gunslinger William Munny (Eastwood), who comes out of retirement for one last job, Eastwood deliberately sets out to demystify the old West.  This is evident in the conversations between Munny and the Schofield Kid (Jaimze Wolvett), who has a romanticized image of the old-time gunfighters, and between sheriff Little Bill Daggett (Gene Hackman) and hack journalist W.W. Beauchamp (Saul Rubinek).  Yet the "demythologizing" message doesn't feel forced; it is woven effortlessly into a gripping story that powerfully conveys the human cost of violence.Moral ambiguity pervades the film, which has no easy resolutions and no customary clear lines between good and evil.  Will and his friend Ned (Morgan Freeman), nominally the heroes, have clearly done many bad things in their lives.  When they come to Big Whiskey as hired killers, it is ostensibly for a just cause -- to punish two no-good cowboys who slashed the face of a prostitute.  Yet, as we know from the beginning, the version of the attack that is reported to Will and Ned is highly and grotesquely exaggerated. While the cowboys certainly should have been punished, we may legitimately wonder if death is a punishment that fits the crime.  The agonizing death of the younger of the two cowboys, who didn't do the slashing and clearly felt bad about what his partner had done, certainly doesn't look like justice.The ostensible villain, Little Bill, is not just a villain.  He is a sheriff determined to preserve law and order in the town.  One can't blame him for wanting to keep paid assassins out.  In a violent society, there's no way he can do his job without using violence.  Unfortunately, he also takes a sadistic pleasure in his brutality -- even though he also seems to want a peaceful, quiet life in the house he's building.One might say that Munny's heroics in the guns-blazing climax undercut the film's purpose of dismantling the mystique of the Old West and its gunfighters.  But the truth is, "Unforgiven" is both an homage to and a deconstruction of that mystique.  While Munny acquires almost mythic stature in that scene, his actions are still morally shady, and his exchange with the nerdy Beauchamp quickly dispels the romantic aura.  What's more, his "rise" to heroism can also be seen as a fall from grace and a reversion to his old ways.The film may be just a tad slow at times, but at 2 hrs 10 minutes, it remains nearly always gripping.  (As for those IMDB reviewers who've knocked the movie because there are too many scenes where Eastwood's character is weak and pathetic, falling off his horse or getting beat up -- why don't you just go see some Arnold Schwarzenegger flick!)  Not only are the principal characters well-developed, but even minor characters come across as real people with individual traits; the credit is due both to the excellent screenplay and to the superb cast.  The scenes between Will Munny and Delilah, the prostitute who was slashed, are very touching without being at all "sappy."  Eastwood is simply superb as the tortured and self-loathing Munny; Gene Hackman fully matches him as Little Bill; Morgan Freeman exudes a quiet dignity as Ned; Wolvett acquits himself well as "the Kid."  Add to this a scene-stealing performance by Richard Harris as the elegant, vicious gunslinger English Bob, and terrific work by Saul Rubinek, Frances Fisher as the prostitute Strawberry Alice, and Anna Levine as Delilah."Unforgiven" is a modern classic, a must-see for those who appreciate intelligent, high-quality filmmaking.
Unforgiven will always be the last Western. No matter what comes after it, Tombstone, The Missing, or Wyatt Erp, Unforgiven has the final word. Not that I wouldn't characterize those films as Westerns, but the spirit of Unforgiven, from the opening shot of the house with the scrawny tree and lonely grave, to the end which returns there, is imbued with the finality of a spent genre. The feelings evoked are ambivalent and distant, much like the characters within Unforgiven itself. Perhaps Clint Eastwood's genius lies partially in that he doesn't allow for us to mourn. It wouldn't be western to cry because a story-form is over, it wouldn't be leather to empathize for a broken man who doesn't want your sympathy, it wouldn't be spurs to despair about the implacable and corrupt forces of life which turn men like William Munny into killers. Clint Eastwood presents to the audience the most distorted configuration of the western; the most disfigured example of a genre whose classical conventions were untouchable and sacrosanct. We have no heroes and no villains, only a protagonist and a puffed up sheriff who thinks he's doing the right thing (and does in fact have more moral vision than the dried out killer) The movie itself is riddled with identity crises, the killer has turned into a farmer and a father, the young gunslinger is a virgin to bloodletting, the sheriff shows signs of being a slave master, and the innocent one gets it first and gets it dirty. Gone are the days of the Magnificent 7 where one rode into town, rallied the brave cowpokes with shiny silver pistols, and dispatched an easily recognizable enemy. Gone even are the days of Bonnie and Clyde where gunslingers were attractive and fascinating to the audience, exuding flair, charisma, and sparking the imagination. They were legends; William Munny is a sad bit of history. He is presented with deadpan honesty, not as a caricatured Tarantino assassin, or a misunderstood old man who has atoned for past wrongs. He is a broken human person, so lost along the moral frontier that the only compass he can grasp is more killing. Throughout the movie, we are reminded again and again of the stark contrast Unforgiven stands in to most other Westerns, by the obsequious scribe W. W. Beauchamp. He was the one who wrote the John Wayne stories, (the ones with ethical clarity at least). He was the one who coined phrases like "high-noon" and "hot lead". In Unforgiven, Clint Eastwood, takes apart the classical western narrative piece by piece allowing the audience to inspect the illusion. Characters like English Bob are unscrupulous frauds, ladies in distress are revenge bent whores, and old men really don't ever change for the better. They become that way when sensationalized by hack storytellers like Beauchamp. And when the only character materializes who seems to at least fit the description of gunslinger, Munny is so empty and hopelessly unheroic that we begin to reconcile ourselves to the end of the Western. Where else is there to go? We understand how the old stories were crafted thanks to the insider's view provided by Beauchamp, and what's left is a craggy faced cadaver with a dead wife, a dead friend, and two forgotten children.Every character within Unforgiven inhabits a gray zone that clouds the audiences's ability to easily categorize them as good or evil. We are forced to come to a more nuanced understanding of each as a human being with redeeming as well as corrupt qualities. The two cowboys committed a horrendous crime by knifing the prostitute, but did they deserve death, especially the young one, who didn't do the knifing, clearly felt remorse, and tried to make a peace offering? The whores are right to demand justice, but do they ever take into account the wishes of the victim, who if anything seems to strike some romantic sparks with the young cowboy. By the film's end, they are bloodthirsty sirens screaming at the body of the dead young cowboy. The sheriff Little Bill, compounds the opening crime by allowing it to go unpunished, but later exposes English Bob and tries to keep people from getting killed--(is he protecting unrepentant criminals, or is he allowing old wounds to heal?) And of course there's Munny himself, who won't pay to touch a woman but will kill prolifically for a purpose that is murky at best. By Unforgiven's end, the audience feels alienated from characters and message. The conclusion of William Munny's life is narrated by a cold, impersonal voice that labels him a scoundrel, but doesn't care enough to waste much breath condemning him. We are left with the image of the homestead, the center and heart of the Western film, where man attempted to master the wildness within his environment and himself. This house is empty and abandoned, its only companion the forlorn grave memorializing a genre which has passed away.
I enjoy the transformation of Clint Eastwood's character throughout the movie. In the beginning he reluctantly becomes a gunfighter but as the movie progresses you see how he slides down the slippery slope of wickedness to become the cold-blooded killer needed for the task. Morgan Freeman's reaction to the transformation is well played also. Richard Harris' character is colorful as is his sidekick. Gene Hackman's sheriff is pleasantly atypical of the role. All these actors and their characters effectively leave the viewer with a myriad of directions from which the movie expertly entertains. If you are expecting anything like Clint's "spaghetti westerns" you will be disappointed. If you are looking for an excellent story with characters that all have varying degrees of wickedness, you will be satisfied when its all said and done.


                
"You just shot an unarmed man!" "Well, he should have armed himself..."Plenty of films have tried to examine the human side of violence. This is especially appropriate for westerns, where very often rows of men are gunned down without a thought. 'Unforgiven' does better than most, but where this differs from other films is that at the end this whole theme is flipped around as the outlaw William Munny (Clint Eastwood) pulls of a truly legendary piece of shooting. This scene though only emphasises a great sense of failure for the characters, which for me is the most prominent theme of the film. For most characters, their failures are obvious, but I won't give too many examples for fear of spoiling it. Look at the way the trio of Munny, Ned Logan (Morgan Freeman) and the Schofield Kid (Jaimz Woolvett) are slowly whittled down to just Munny, as the others realise that they just don't have what it takes to kill people anymore. Munny, although carrying out his task to the full, has equally failed in his attempt to reform himself as he proves to himself that he is not a pig farmer after all, but still the legendarily cold blooded killer from years ago. Westerns have had different ways of looking at violence. Leone looked at the build up. Peckinpah looked at the violence itself. Eastwood here looks at the moment after the violence and shows the heartbreaking consequences. Given this it is all the more shocking to see just how merciless and devastating Munny's furious assault on the saloon really is, with him shooting unarmed and wounded men just for the sake of completeness. There is a question of motivations though-before he was in it for the money, but when a personal element is added to the mix the results are volcanic. But this is no blaze of glory for Munny, but something that has to be done, and although treated in a callous way there is a sense that this will have consequences as far reaching as before. Munny has failed in his attempt to reform himself, and the purpose of his life is defeated. There is a suggestion that Munny is damned-there is a moment in the carnage where Munny stops for a drink. The scene is shot so that Eastwood appears to have no reflection the large mirror placed above the bar.  More obvious is the following exchange between Munny and Sheriff Dagget (Gene Hackman):"See you in Hell, William Munny" "Yeah."The way the climax is presented would be perhaps more appropriate for a more lurid western, with most shots going wild-far more shots are fired than are strictly necessary, in true action film tradition. This is just the point though, as the end is supposed to be at odds with the grittily realistic nature of the rest of the film. The end result is a powerful message powerfully put across.That is not to say that other westerns that do not necessarily share this sentiment (at least to this level) are less powerful-the theme of 'Once Upon A Time In The West' is equally strong and affecting, but the message is different and presented in a different way. 'Unforgiven' proves though, both to the writer W.W. Beauchamp (Saul Rubinek) and to the audience, that there is a flip side to every story and a dark side to every man.
In 1992, Clint Eastwood created the last and greatest western; 'Unforgiven'. A tribute to the previous masters, Sergio Leone and Don Siegel, who died within a mere 3 years before this brutal masterpiece.Eastwood stars as William Munny a retired gunslinger with a guilt-filled past. He lives alone with his two children and grave of his young wife outside. One day a young cowboy, The Schofield Kid (Jaimz Woolvett), comes in need of his service to hunt down some men who cut up a whore. William reluctantly accepts and with the help of Ned Logan (Morgan Freeman) they work together to track down the criminals. Meanwhile, the sheriff of the town, Little Bill Daggett (Gene Hackman) is also looking for them. This then leads to a bloody showdown climax, welcoming back a sort of 'Man With No Name' character to the genre.William Munny is a cold-blooded killer. The Schofield Kid wants to be one. But, all the murders and sins Munny used to commit has affected him in an extraordinary way. He takes no hesitation in killing. In the climax he just walks past a man he shot who didn't die and shoots him dead. It may sound like nothing now, but he just took a life for no apparent reason. When the Kid kills his first man, of which deserved it, he hesitates. This is The Kid who is so eager to kill people as he thinks it will make him a man. But after the assassination, he breaks down. He realized what he had done. He had wiped another man of the earth. And Munny does it with ease. So does Little Bill. He is a violent and brutal cop who uses torture to get what he wants from the prisoners. Logan also finds it hard to take lives.The film studies on how much a life is worth. Sometimes it is worthless (see Tarantino or Scorsese films) and sometimes it is a major feature. Usually a film only does one. Unforgiven does both. A life isn't worth the same amount to each person. When a life is taken, it is the killer who decides how much it is worth by how much it affects him. Whether he just lets it slide (Munny and Little Bill) or kills someone and calls it a day (Kid and Logan), because they can't bring themselves to forgetting it. This is the most thought-provoking thing for me personally, ever.Unforgiven in my opinion is the greatest western. Actually, its the greatest film of all-time. It shows how violent it was back then, and the fact everybody was beaten. It is more realistic than any of Leone's 'Man With No Name' films (though I will admit they were set in a sort of fantasy land). But, Munny is not proud of his violent nature. He blames it on alcohol; which his wife persuaded him to quit to explain why he also gave up being a murderer. The film shows the cowboys as they really are, either cowards or killers. The choice of word 'coward' is to say that they should be killers, as that is apparently what a man is (an exaggeration) as most westerns glorify violence, but the men can't handle it.Clint Eastwood did an amazing job as William Munny. He showed how he regretted his past very well by admitting to it in a shameful way; like when asked if he killed women and children he replied "I've killed just about anything that walked or crawled at one time or another, and I'm here to kill you<U+0085>". He even admits that he will meet Little Bill in Hell. Gene Hackman delivers one of the greatest performances of the decade, the tension he makes is incredible. Woolvett and Freeman remain in solid above average performances throughout.The script, written by David Webb Peoples, buzzed around Hollywood for nearly 20 years, even being rejected by some of the cast, before Eastwood picked it up. Clint Eastwood deserved his Oscar for best direction. The plot flowed fluently with some surprises and memorable lines. An instant classic. The cinematography is much different that of 'The Good, The Bad and The Ugly' or the others westerns Eastwood appeared in. It is a much cleaner and crisp view, yet also being extremely raw. The score, though not used often is very refreshing and moving.'Unforgiven' is an unforgettable look on life, man and the real west. One of the most powerful films of the '90s. A true triumph exploring important morals. Do not miss it.9/10


                
Unforgiven is Clint Eastwood's tribute to his mentors, Sergio Leone and Don Siegel. Regarded by many as the last true Western, Unforgiven is truly unforgettable. Though, it being the last true Western is subject to qualification, but it definitely consummates the genre. In fact, it will easily make it to the top 10 of the decorated genre, a genre illuminated by greats like Ford, Wayne, Leone, Peckinpah, and Eastwood himself. The movie not only revived Eastwood's career as an actor, but also certified his directorial prowess. Unforgiven doesn't embody righteousness, but projects domination, based on ruthless opportunism. It is a clash of egos, a battle of icons in Gene Hackman and Clint Eastwood, each ubiquitously acclaimed for his idiosyncratic style and delivery. The two scenes that they share in the movie are exact antithesis of each other, giving them a chance to display their protean skills. The first encounter between William Munny (Eastwood) and Little Bill (Hackman), portrays Munny at his most vulnerable, pitted against a brutally dominant and unforgiving Bill. The second encounter is a completely different affair, with Munny calling the shots, against a helpless Bill. The other scenes are equally brilliant, especially the one between English Bob (Richard Harris) and Little bill. The entire cast has performed really well, with a special mention of Morgan Freeman as Ned Logan. Unforgiven is undoubtedly, a quintessential Western and a must for the fans of the genre.http://www.apotpourriofvestiges.com/
'Unforgiven' is a magnificent piece of film-making, yet a dark and troubling study in violence and machismo... It revels in memorable statements of crudeness and cruelty... Munny sums it up best: "Hell of a thing killing a man. You take away all he's got. All he's ever gonna have."Aided by Jack N. Green's cinematography and Lennie Niehaus's music, Eastwood gives the film an ensemble portrait of sorrowful beauty... Clint Eastwood shows another face of the Old West... He is perfect as the unforgiven, the stone killer, whose eyes are full of brutally painful memories... Will Munny (Eastwood) is a retired bad man desperate for the 'whore's gold' to save his shabby farm, two kids, and sick animals in the vast emptiness of the Colorado range... Munny had a monogamous devotion to the wife he'd lost, and is forced to confront his own past no matters how he tries to avoid it...Eastwood is supported by some quite outstanding character actors whose performances are impeccable:Gene Hackman plays Little Bill Daggett, the town sadistic sheriff who rules with an iron fist, forbidding anyone to carry guns across the town limits... He is a lawman cold as ice, who hates "assassins and men of low character." He also despises reward-chasers and tries to humiliate them, revealing their cowardice and indecision... In his judgment, he declines to punish a crime in a way that the hookers consider appropriate...Morgan Freeman plays Ned Logan, Munny's longtime honest partner, who ensures the compassionate balance that keeps his friend from sinking in a self-pitying haze of recklessness and bitterness, but he also launches Will into one of the bloodiest shootout in that untamed place... Richard Harris is English Bob, the egotistical gunfighter who desires to leave the hospitality of Big Whiskey behind him... He now lives off his publicity, and is followed everywhere by W. W. Beauchamp (Saul Rubinek), a writer of books, glamorizing the cover scene for purposes involving the market place...Frances Fisher is Strawberry Alice, the outraged brothel's madam, who has raised, with a group of oppressed women she works with, a thousand dollars to anyone who punishes the two attackers who slash her working girl's face...Jaimz Woolvett is Schofield Kid, the ignorant young rider who tries to make a name for himself... He shows up at Munny's place offering to split the reward, just for killing a couple of 'no good cowboys.'Anthony James is Skinny Dubois, the owner of the bar and brothel, who pays good money for Delilah, and wants compensation...Anna Thomson is the 'damaged property,' Delilah, the pretty prostitute whose disfiguration serves as the starting point for the story...Nominated for nine Academy Awards and winning four major ones, "Unforgiven" becomes only the third Western ever to win the Best Picture Academy Award after "Cimarron" (1930/31) and "Dances with Wolves" (1990).On screen, Eastwood dedicated the film to Sergio Leone and Don Siegel, his master directors and professional mentors...
To say that this is the best western ever made, or to say that it's Clint Eastwood's best film, would be wrong. Why? Because such droll understatement would be woefully misleading. This film isn't just those merely those things. Unforgiven ranks as one of the greatest films of all time. Period. No delimiters or qualifiers apply. And what follows is my view of this film's place in Hollywood history.When John Wayne died in 1979 it was emblematic of the state of the western genre in Hollywood. In fact, Wayne's last film, The Shootist, dwelt on exactly that, and indeed that was what The Shootist was all about: the end of the wild west, the end of westerns in Hollywood, and, of course, the impending demise of John Wayne. Hey, to say these things --to make these statements-- is precisely why they ever took the time and the bother to make The Shootist. So then when the Duke really did die, the keys to Hollywood's westerns kingdom were handed off to Clint Eastwood, a bequeath almost by default. Through the 70s Wayne and Eastwood were just about the only ones left making westerns, and The Outlaw Josey Wales (1976), his then most recent effort, was arguably Eastwood's best film to date. But Clint deserved receiving those keys, because he had earned them. Clint patiently waited nine years to release his next western, Pale Rider, a homage to the western classic, Shane. In 1985 the general consensus was that Pale Rider was Clint Eastwood's finest film, his defining masterpiece. But, as it turned out, Clint wasn't done. Seven years later, in 1992, he released what is now said to be his last western, Unforgiven. And with Unforgiven Clint hits all the classic western themes. I won't belabor retelling the story, because that's been done very well elsewhere in other comments. Nor will I dwell too much on the myriad layering of the characters. I will say that in watching and re-watching and re-watching numerous more times it became quite clear to me that Unforgiven was Clint's labor of love. It's the little things, subtleties, that reveal that truth. Things like the classic cowboy lines that roll off the character's tongues, without a second thought, but which reach deep and stay with you. Too many of those to list, but just read all the other reviews on this site, where they are recounted nicely. One striking thing is the implicit irony that the characters, as ostensibly depicted, are to a one exactly opposite of their true nature, or of how they themselves want to be. The Schofield Kid, blustering braggadocio notwithstanding, is no killer. "I ain't like you Will," a chastened Kid says as he departs. And Little Bill Daggett remonstratively represents law, order, and justice, the supposed peace officer keeping the peace, is in truth corrupt and sadistically violent, unable to rise above his own vicious lawlessness. English Bob, the erstwhile cosmopolitan gunslinger, is a fraud and a coward to boot. And William Munney keeps saying he's a changed man, that he "ain't like that anymore." But, oh yeah, he is. The only honest character, the only compassionate character, is Ned Logan. He's the only one who kills no one, because of all of them, he really isn't like that, and yet he is the only one of the hired killers to get killed and to suffer the consequences of being a supposed killer.To tell this story that plumbs the depths of human depravity, telling it convincingly, exploring various relative degrees of the human character, holding the requisite feet to the fire, and doing it all tightly in 131 minutes, Clint assembled great cast to work with: Morgan Freeman, Gene Hackman, and Richard Harris. All are marvelous. The film is a masterpiece.Is Unforgiven to Eastwood as The Shootist was to Wayne, i.e., his own swan song of sorts? Well, certainly Clint, unlike John Wayne, wasn't dying, but the fact is Clint has never made another western. It appears that he has said all he has to say in that genre, and is finished with it.And to the critic poseur who suggests that Dances With Wolves was a slightly better western, puh-leeeeze. Kevin Costner can't carry Clint Eastwood's jock strap, literally or figuratively. At least couldn't back then, at that point in his career. All too often, and certainly in Dances With Wolves, Costner's main attribute is his gargantuan --yet wholly unwarranted-- ego, and a self-absorption that runs amok, chewing scenery and stepping all over everybody else. And Costner's dime store cultural anthropology, while earnest, is laughable. The combination of Costner being Costner, a corn pone and contrived story, and the 4 hour length of the movie is a definite mind number. Dances With Wolves's real value is as a sleep aid. None of which is to say that Kevin Costner did not possess the capacity to make and leave an indelible mark on Hollywood's westerns. He did, and he did. But it wasn't with Dances With Wolves that it happened. In 1993 Costner's career took a fortuitous turn when he worked with Eastwood in the contemporary western, A Perfect World. There Costner learned and showed an ability to sublimate himself into a role, and to keep his egocentric tendencies in check. Immediately following that experience Costner released Wyatt Earp, a better film and a better western than Dances With Wolves. Then, in 2003, Costner, working with Robert Duval, made Open Range, arguably Costner's best work to date, and certainly the best western made since Unforgiven.We can all hope that Clint has more westerns in him. If he doesn't, the keys he inherited from John Wayne appear destined for Kevin Costner. Again, by default.
Contains SpoilersWho would have thought it? During the eighties, when the cinematic Western was at its lowest ebb, I doubt if anyone could have predicted not only that two of the best films of the early nineties would be Westerns but also that both would go on to win 'Best Picture' at the Academy Awards, something that only one film from this genre had done previously. Yet that is exactly what happened. First came Kevin Costner's 'Dances With Wolves', then Clint Eastwood's 'Unforgiven'. In both cases the star also acted as director. In Eastwood's case he was returning to the genre in which he first made his name; this was his first Western since 'Pale Rider' eight years earlier, which in turn was his first since 'The Outlaw Josey Wales' eight years before that.In 'Unforgiven', Eastwood plays a former gunfighter and robber named William Munny. (Pronounced 'Money'; there seems to be a tradition in Westerns of giving characters surnames which suggest they are for hire. There is Charlton Heston's Will Penny, and in 'Hannie Caulder' Robert Culp plays a hired gunman named Price). In his younger days, Munny was a hardened criminal, but he abandoned his life of crime when he married and settled down to life as a farmer. At the beginning of the film he is a widower, trying to raise two young children on his own. He is tempted to return to his former life, however, when he hears of a bounty of a thousand dollars which a group of prostitutes have placed on the heads of two drunken cowboys who badly injured one of their number by cutting her face with a knife. Abandoning his children to fend for themselves, Munny sets off to try and claim the money. He recruits a former associate, Ned Logan, and they are joined in their quest by a young man who calls himself the Schofield Kid and who is eager to make a name for himself as a gunfighter. They are not, however, the only men in search of the reward; an eccentric Englishman named English Bob, who has won himself an undeserved reputation as a Western hero, is also trying to track the cowboys down.The film reminded me of another Western, Michael Winner's 'Lawman' from the early seventies. That film has at its centre a sheriff whose inflexible determination to uphold the letter of the law at all costs leads to tragic consequences. 'Unforgiven' approaches the question of law enforcement from a slightly different angle. A key role is played by Gene Hackman's sheriff, Bill Daggett. Unlike that of Burt Lancaster's character in 'Lawman', Daggett's approach to the law is arbitrary and inconsistent. He can at times uphold the law with savage zeal. He is determined to protect the two cowboys from vigilantism, but in doing so, he transgresses the law himself, dealing out a brutal kicking to English Bob and an even more brutal flogging to Ned which results in the latter's death. Moreover, Daggett has himself created the need for vigilante justice by denying the full protection of the law to the injured prostitute. (The only punishment imposed upon the cowboys is an order to pay compensation to the woman's pimp for the loss of her economic value to him). There is, in fact, no character in the film who is entirely sympathetic. Munny starts the film as a reformed character, but slips back into his old ways when he is tempted by the prospect of money. He becomes, to borrow the title of another Eastwood Western, a man prepared to kill for a fistful of dollars. The lack of an easily identifiable hero is a common feature of modern 'revisionist' Westerns. Unlike some such Westerns, however, (Sam Peckinpah's 'The Wild Bunch' is a good example), 'Unforgiven' does not lack a moral centre. The Schofield Kid and English Bob have both been seduced by the dubious mythology of the West. The Kid, as his nickname suggests, is an inexperienced young man, but would like others to see him as a hardened and ruthless killer because he regards killing as something glamorous. Bob takes the credit for acts of violence which are wrongly attributed to him but which in reality he would be too cowardly to commit. Munny, for all his faults, can see Western mythology for what it is. Even when he is setting out to kill for money, he remains uncomfortably aware that "to kill a man, to take all he has and all he's ever gonna have" is a desperately serious business. In Ovid's phrase quoted in the title, he sees the better path, and approves, but follows the worse.The first half of the film can be slow-moving, but the second half is gripping, as the death of his friend Ned leads Munny to seek a bloody revenge. As with many Westerns, there are some attractive shots of the local scenery (the film is ostensibly set in Wyoming, but was actually shot in Canada), but the overall tone is a dark, claustrophobic one in keeping with the film's theme. Many scenes are set in gloomy interiors, whether bars, brothels or ranch-houses. One of the villains is actually shot dead in an outside lavatory. Of the two great Westerns of the early nineties, I would, marginally, prefer 'Dances with Wolves', which to my mind has a greater epic sweep, but by any other standard 'Unforgiven' is a very fine movie indeed, wonderfully acted, especially by Hackman, Morgan Freeman and Eastwood himself. (Freeman's role is a rare example of a black actor taking a leading role in a Western). It also asks some searching questions about the nature of law and justice, revenge and the roots of violence. It is interesting that Eastwood has not made any films in the Western genre since this one; perhaps he feels that it has set a standard that cannot be surpassed. 9/10
A violent story of revenge set in the cold and inhospitable town of Big Whiskey, Wyoming, with touches of the earlier High Plains Drifter, it revolves around the disfigurement of a prostitute and the inability to find justice through the law. It becomes quite a convoluted story, given each of the characters backgrounds and personalities. The traditional good guy, the sheriff, is here a sadistic monster, while what was always portrayed as the bad guys, hired killers, are now wearing the white hats. The girls in the brothel have to pool their money in order to pay for the killing of the men responsible. Paying proves to be the easiest part while carrying out the mission makes a repeat offender of one of the men, and a first time killer of the other while the third, who never really did anything to deserve it, is captured and tortured to death. At that point the operation takes on its own life and leads to a final scene in the same darkened saloon where the girl was attacked. Eastwood makes it all very apt to happen in the stark and brutal environment he creates with great camera, acting, and music.
1992 eh? I watched this today,Aug 24 2005. Worth the wait and i should have watched it about 13 years ago.I like westerns but felt the days of good ones were long gone( with the exception of Maverick and perhaps young guns in a bubble gum sort of way, but those are separate reviews...on to this one.The story is good but not relevant to this piece of art work any story with this quality of feeling would be a winner. This is about morals and perceptions of them.Yes it is only a movie but for a movie it is touching and intense.The basic story is about a retied "bad guy" needing money and pulling one last mission to make right a wrong done to a prostitute.From there it just gets better, lots of amazing characters, good bad but mostly just normal in a tough time.I wont tell you much of the story..i rarely do in my reviews, but I must say for a Drama this thing rocks.Highly recommended ,it has a slightly melancholy feel to it.I loved it.


                
Clint Eastwood's first movie as a Director (also Producer)it was a coup. Much in the mould of McCabe and Mrs Miller, it gives a reality of what the West might have been like living in a world without effective law, and an ultimately moral vacuum After shooting his first victim (when his old time bandit mate, refuses to) who dies slowly from an abdominal bullet wound, crying for 'water'and sobbing. After listening to the slow death unfolding for what seems an age Eastwood calls to the victims friends, 'Give him a drink for Christ's sake; we won't shoot'. Later, after his companion kills the second victim at point blank range sitting on the loo, (and becomes distraught at what reality of what he's done) he says to Eastwood, 'Well, he had it coming'. Eastwood, framed against a blue sky, face in shadow, replies; "We all got it coming, kid" It's a Western with a difference, but not without the Good Guy (who's actually a Bad Guy) winning out. Hollywood couldn't really step too far outside the traditional pattern. But it's well worth a look.


                
Most westerns are presented with the typical good guy vs. bad guy images,and that is true here as well,but with a twist.There is a heavy dose of reality here that you won't find in any other western. The good guys are not as good as we make them out to be,and the bad guys are not entirely bad.That is the reality,and Clint does a great job of driving this point home.Excellent work here by all involved,including Clint Eastwood,Gene Hackman,and my personal favorite actor,Morgan Freeman.We are all,whether good or bad,at the very root of our being, human.Great film.


                
Every now and then you come across a film that you watch and at the end your jaw just drops and sits there in awe of what you just experienced. This is one such film.The story is not deep. A guy does some damage to a prostitute, which goes insufficiently punished and brings on the bounty that some people try to collect. The story is not that central to the movie, it is more like the canvas upon which the characters are painted and this movie is all about them.I wonder what if anyone else could have directed Clint Eastwood, Gene Hackman, Morgan Freeman and Richard Harris besides Clint Eastwood himself. Well, either way, he did a hell of a job because this one of the best acted movies of all time. If acting was food, this would be a yummy cake made by angels, which only makes you want to eat more of it the more you eat it. Even the extras in this film are also really good, all of them.It is not just the actors but the characters they play that makes this film really interesting. Unofrgiven is the Western for the modern age with an accent on gritty realism. There is no hero or villain in a traditional sense. It is not about who can shoot well and therefore call themselves cool. Characters are not archetypes but people with realistic behavior and depth of character, with their own special quirks and weaknesses, especially the weaknesses. In fact, people's weaknesses is a theme this movie explores a lot: and strengths and how neither of those are what they may seem.The acting is great, the characters are great and the dialogue for them is great. The film has a few memorable quotes for the ages.My only issue is that Richard Harris does not get nearly enough screen time. He plays a clean guy with British civility on the outside and a deadly criminal core on the inside. The movie spends some time developing this character and in the end the guys does not do anything and is sent away shortly after his appearance.There is something really freeing about watching a movie like this where there are no bad or good guys but characters. Something about everyone just being human is just makes it easier.The movie is excellently shot. Being a western, it takes you to the pretty outdoors: the grassy plains and the snowy highlands. It feels quite cold and sobering. Having said that, there is nothing particularly innovative about the way it is shot, just good old quality and sense brought in by the experienced Eastwood.As for music, there is not much of it. There is some tension music, but the one memorable tune is a heartfelt central theme consisting of a lonesome guitar tune in memory of a character's dead wife.In short, I cannot find any real flaws about this film. This is rightfully seen by many as one of the greatest movies of all time and is highly re-watchable.


                
Unforgiven is a kind of movie that is building up till the last five minutes. The present condition of will munny contradicts to the talked about past of him which is considered a fabrication by most of them in the movie except a few who has really known him.And even us sometimes. As you can never accept those stories of will's past life because it seems quite impossible for a man to do and yet become something like that how he appears. He never talks about his bravery nor confirms his acts of courageousness. He is not sure of what he has done. Yet when he is really challenged he shows them what devil of death he is. This kind of story puts you on hold till the last five minutes and as those minutes starts and what you get to see as climax your mind keeps saying awesome every second of it. I am really out of my words to praise for this movie and the kind of act everybody has put on. The film says the person who praises himself to be great is not great but the person who is praised by people is actually great. This is a must watch movie for everybody. I don't think there is or would be any movie like it.Clint Eastwood is always excellent in doing this kinda of underdog roles where he is always under estimated. I will happily give this movie 10/10 and more if anyway possible. A must watch. And when you have seen this want to see more of Clint Eastwood go watch Gran Torino. He never lets us down.


                
With all the fine westerns that have come out in the history of film, Unforgiven is only the third one to win the Academy Award for Best Picture. Following in the steps of Cimarron and Dances With Wolves, Unforgiven finally got Clint Eastwood the Oscar recognition for one of film's great icons. It's also one nasty and uncompromising look at the old west with people neither all good or all bad, usually reacting to the time and circumstances they're in. And the reputations they've had built for them by the various dime novelists whose work littered the land during the last half of the 19th century.A former border raider back in the wild days of the Civil War, Clint Eastwood's William Munny is our protagonist. He gave all that up and got married, fathered two kids and has been living peaceful and quiet as a farmer. He's also given up the drink, because it was demon rum which helped him overcome a whole lot of inhibitions about violence.But a few states over, a cowboy being told about his shortcomings from one of the town tarts, decided to cut her up. After doing so, he fled to the safety of the ranch he works for. Town Marshal Gene Hackman, also a violent man in the past tries to play the whole thing down. But the women raise a bounty in the only way they know how to take vengeance on behalf of a colleague. One of the great examples of women's liberation in the old west.News of it is carried to Eastwood by old friend Morgan Freeman. Reluctantly because he does need the money, Eastwood, Freeman and young gun Jaimz Woolvett decide to go after it.Gene Hackman won his second Oscar to go with his one for Best Actor in The French Connection. His town marshal is another uncommonly vicious man who now that he is on the side of 'law and order' has some grand pretensions about himself. It's also a fascinating look inside the character of someone like Wild Bill Hickok or Wyatt Earp and what it probably took to keep 'law and order' in frontier towns. It was a well earned Best Supporting Actor performance.Part of the reason some folks in frontier America have the legendary reputations they do is the fact of those dime novels I mentioned before. Ned Buntline, the leading purveyor of this literature made the reputations that so many frontier icons have today. One of the most interesting roles in the film is that of Saul Rubinek who is such a novelist.When we first meet Rubinek he's traveling with English Bob, played by Richard Harris in another fine performance. Hackman who knows of him and knows he killed a friend of his way back when, takes it on himself to expose and thoroughly humiliate Harris. He then takes on Rubinek as his scribe because he fancies the kind of reputation that Earp, Hickok, and Bill Cody et al are now enjoying.Of course in the end when Clint delivers a bloody reprisal to one and all, Rubinek who now has seen such a scene of death and destruction that is having a lot of second thoughts about his profession. It's my favorite role in Unforgiven.Unforgiven in addition to Best Picture and Best Supporting Actor for Hackman got Clint Eastwood his first Oscar in the Best Director category. He's won two of them now also for Million Dollar Baby. He was up in the Best Actor category, but lost to Al Pacino for Scent Of Mystery. Unforgiven won its fourth Oscar in the Editing category.Unforgiven isn't John Wayne's kind of west, but it's a fitting climax for Clint Eastwood in the genre that launched his career. I don't think it's an accident he's not done another.


                
I really liked this film but can't see exactly why it won the Oscar for Best Picture, though I gotta admit that none of the nominated films really stand out in my mind. In a way, it would have been interesting if they'd given out no award in that category, though that will never happen.Now I am not saying I disliked the film. It was exceptional--just not exactly "great"--especially when there were other Clint Eastwood Westerns before this that were about as good or better. Maybe this is a lot like the film TRUE GRIT. Not a super Western, but John Wayne got the Best Actor Oscar more because of his amazing body of work BEFORE this film than the film itself.What the movie does excel at is creating an aura of an "anti-hero" style Western. Not one where you exactly hated all the characters, but one that calls their motivations and actions to question and asks a lot of questions about what makes a hero. And, in this light, several of the characters really stand out in my mind.The most intriguing is Gene Hackman as the sheriff, Little Bill. He is not the typical sheriff-type character. He is neither the consummate hero or an inept jerk that looks the other way when trouble comes--the two most common types of sheriffs in film. Instead, he is a very pragmatic sadist. Pragmatic because he NEVER faces his enemies alone, but always has a well-trained gang to support him--like most bullies. And, with this gang giving him the upper hand, he show that down deep he is a sick and twisted man who takes pleasure in torment.I also liked the young punk gunman (Jaimz Woolvett). At first, he was very annoying and brash, but that really helped in the development of his character. He reminded me a lot of the guy Richard Jaekel played in THE GUNMAN--a young punk trying to prove his masculinity with a gun (wow, Freud would have LOVED that symbolism). But, unlike Jaekel, he eventually showed a very likable and believable bit of humanity.Clint Eastwood was also not the same typical character he usually played. Not "the man with no name" like so many Spaghetti-Westerns, but a complex and cold man who used to be a drunken #@$%!& but had reformed when he met the right woman. Then, years later, when he strapped his guns on again, it was pretty unusual and refreshing to see what a bad shot he initially was and how much trouble this old man had getting on the horse. This old and somewhat broken-down tough-guy was also reminiscent of John Wayne's last film, THE SHOOTIST, in that although the body is achy and tired, there is still a lot of man hidden underneath.Morgan Freeman's role was very ordinary and he shows once again that he is a supremely capable actor. The best part about the role was that not once did anyone mention that he was a black man--a bold move in many ways. Instead, he and his quiet dignity was what was front and center.Richard Harris and the rest of the cast did fine jobs and I have no complaints about the acting. In fact, I have no real complaints at all about the film.The movie deserves its R-rating for graphic language and a lot of extreme violence, though it is not as graphic or offensive as many similarly rated films. With a parent, this might be appropriate for some teens, though you should think twice before letting them watch.
Eastwood's final western is the antithesis of his iconic career and perhaps even the American western as a genre. 'Unforgiven (1992)' is a sombre and reflexive piece that isn't afraid to be morally complex and presents all its characters, along with their callous acts of violence, with an objective honesty so that the viewer can draw their own conclusions about who is 'right' and whether violence is ever an appropriate response. It's a refreshingly intelligent picture that never spells anything out and is all the more compelling for it, easily becoming one of the most emotionally investing and riveting films in its genre. This is rare, challenging stuff that treats its audience with respect and is accomplished storytelling on many levels. 9/10


                
Unforgiven (1992)This is modern western produced and directed by Clint Eastwood. The story is about an aging outlaw and killer who takes on one more job years after he had turned to farming. It stars Eastwood in the lead role, with Gene Hackman and Morgan Freeman. The film won four Academy Awards: Best Picture and Best Director, Best Supporting Actor for Gene Hackman, and Best Film Editing. This is a shining example of Eastwood's abilities as a filmmaker. It's more than a western, it's a movie about redemption. This is an excellent fit and paved the way for the modern western as an art form.


                
I'm not a huge fan of Western flicks, but this one was a hit for me and a big winner from director and actor Clint Eastwood. This all star cast consisting of (in addition to Clint Eastwood) Gene Hackman, Morgan Freeman and Richard Harris was excellent. The writing/screenplay deserves mention as the vision of this screenplay was adapted through Eastwoods directing perfectly. An amazing ending for a film that is a must see! It's a 9/10 from me


                
I'm approaching this critique through the eyes of a script writer, since that is what I teach: The craft of screen writing. Although marketed as Drama/Western, this is really a story about a Hero that the writer has imbued with elements of Mythology. For the Western is really the American Myth story. The Hero in Myth starts out reluctantly on a physical journey, only to return home a man changed forever. The physical journey represents the internal emotional journey of the Hero in the genre of Drama. Story World here represents the emotional, flawed inner world of the Hero. The West is changing- It is an irrevocable change. Many writers have glorified The Old West and simplified the moral dilemmas that people were faced with- a romanticism of sorts, where the white man was evil and the Indian and nature were pure - The evil vs. the pristine. Not so with Unforgiven. The elements of Drama are the intimate moral dilemmas of each of the characters. The stereotypical romanticized old West does not play in this story. Each character has a decision to make: Shall I honor the law of the land/society or shall I allow my basic human instincts to dictate my behavior. The sheriff decides to use his badge to unleash his basic instincts for brutality- But he uses this same badge to proclaim that this here town won't tolerate vigilante justice. This here town follows the law. The scriptwriter has given a great deal of thought to the moral dilemmas and choices of each opponent in the story. That is a huge reason this story works so brilliantly. Each opponent has made a choice: The pimp treats his girls like baggage and makes money off his chattel in the bargain. A defaced whore loses dollar value to the pimp. The Main Opponent, accurately named Little Bill (he is big and brutal), is building a house that leaks and that has as many flaws as he does. He builds a house to simulate the future, but his brutality and desire to manipulate through fear override civility. Also, each opponent works to block the Desire Line of the Hero. This becomes a punch-counter punch between Hero and Opponents. By crafting opponents who are strong and who constantly, if not obsessively punch at the Hero, the story line builds, tension builds, and that Narrative Drive, so important to any genre, builds. And then in the Climax/Battle...Boom! With exposition and a changed character arc in the Hero, everything blows between Hero and multiple opponents. It's totally believable because the writer has crafted Opponents who each have made a moral decision regarding the crime committed in the first few pages of the story. The defacing of a prostitute: What does this represent? Loss of income to her pimp. For the prostitute, a woman who sells her body, she now feels that her soul has been crushed. To the Hero, who has just buried his wife, the crime represents a time of reckoning: He is a deeply flawed, unlikeable character, albeit Mr. Clint Eastwood. He not only wants to bring the bad guys to justice. He struggles with his own inner demons. He states the Tagline over and over (paraphrased): I used to be this way (evil), but my dear wife, she kept me on a straight path. I used to drink. But not anymore. I used to steal. But not anymore. I was a bad person. But not anymore. Shakespeare said it best of Lady Macbeth (paraphrased): Methinks the lady doth protest too much. So the writer has crafted a deeply flawed, unlikeable Hero with Myth elements to his journey, and his Desire Line of going for the bounty because his family needs the money becomes a much more profound Desire Line, along the lines of the Drama genre: To reckon with his soul. For the Hero understands that this bounty is not being offered by the lawmakers- This bounty is being offered by the victims of the crime, the prostitutes. The law, in other words, is lawless. Values are upside down. All Opponents have made their moral choices. The Morality Play, a popular allegorical Drama genre in the 15th century, was an anomaly. For Europe was plagued by a time of lawlessness, disease, abject poverty. Kings reigned over peasants; bestiality was commonplace. The Story World of Unforgiven is much like a Morality Play: Dark interiors; characters in the shadows; characters who have decided to live and accept leadership by a barbaric sheriff. It is the Designing Principle of this story that so powerfully moves the characters in the Climax/Battle Sequence: Shall I honor the law of the land/society or shall I allow my basic human instincts to dictate my behavior. Morality in a world of barbarism is the theme of Unforgiven. Blending Myth/Drama/Western is an embodiment of this theme. The Western, therefore, is a misunderstood Genre, if it could be called a genre at all: It's really a sub genre of Action with elements of Mythology. Myth has been around for thousands of years. It is a universal art form, received by worldwide audiences with archetypical characters. Unforgiven is a brilliant blend of the aforementioned genres, and it is also Mr. Clint Eastwood at his quintessential best.


                
There's little to say about this supreme western that hasn't been said already, but I'll try anyway. It's a spellbinding film, and nothing like what you'd expect from the rest of Eastwood's career. This turns out to be both an ode to a dying genre (the central characters are old and regretful) and a film with a powerful, anti-violence moral. Eastwood is at the top of his game both in terms of his screen presence (never has he played such a fragile, human character in a western) and as a director. This is one of the most beautiful westerns I've ever seen, with extraordinary lovely landscape shots which look fine when played in high definition.The plot is fairly slow and laced with moments of shocking violence – none more so than the opening sequence, in which a cowboy slices up a prostitute's face with his knife. It's this moment of brutality that sets off the chain of plot, eventually culminating in a well remembered showdown between our ageing hero and, well, just about everybody else. Gene Hackman is particularly good here as a sadistic lawman, gloating in his heavy-handed violence and building himself a home in his spare time; Morgan Freeman appears in his ascendancy to fame, doing the kind of quiet dignity that he's so adept at. Eastwood also finds time to give strong roles to the likes of Richard Harris, although I could have done without Saul Rubinek's comical character.In the end, though, it's the script that makes this the masterpiece which it is. Eschewing the action formula for a quiet contemplation of western themes, it really says everything there is to say about this particular genre of film-making. It says something about UNFORGIVEN that every Hollywood western that's come along since has felt more than a little passé.
Every character in this film is not simple to grasp as one fiction character. What I think about characters at first is always betrayed in later scene about them. In this film, there is no completely good person and bad person. I dare say that one of the main characters, William Munny is a good person relatively, because he goes to kill cowboys for the prostitutes. However, that thought changed later by the scenes that William and his partners try to kill others who are not completely bad persons. I wonder what this title, Unforgiven means. At first I thought unforgiven person is the cowboy, but later I also thought there would be another. So there is no one who can punish others, although someone looks a good person.
Westerns, it seems, present an unobstructed view of human motives and the reality of things more than most movie genres. There is no fluff, ulterior motives or stupid dialogue from any parts in Unforgiven. Here we see an older widowed man who has an unexpected yet dreadful opportunity fall into his lap to provide for his young children, a younger short-sighted man looking to prove himself, an old faithful friend who wants to support his widowed friend, etc. Every character has a noble motive BUT as life is, circumstances cause these motives to clash and deathly calamities ensue. This movie is a perfect blend of casting, acting, directing, cinematography, and plot. No wasted scenes, no unnecessary plot lines, no superfluous explosions - simply a perfect movie. I am sure Eastwood, Freeman and Hackman (and Harris in a lesser role) would find it difficult to select a film that captures their acting in a better light, especially with such actors in a cast.Most good movies will leave you impressed as it presents the human heart as what it is. My takeaway from this movie is that human nature is fallen and as much as we try to forget or grow from our past mistakes, or uphold justice, or try to make ends meet, or seek glory - we all fall short. We each see ourselves in the best light possible BUT the truth of who we each are is will ultimately catch up to you. If you do not deal with your past, you may cover it up with a new present but it will still haunt you and the glory you seek may not be all it promises! *** Minor Spoiler Alert *** Interestingly, the title alludes to being forgiven and without seeking proper redemption outside of ourselves for all of our sins, like Will says in response the Schofield Kids' idea that the guilty man he had shot had it coming - "We all have it coming, kid". I hope this movie serves as a springboard to each viewer to look into the ideas it presents about human nature and the need to be forgiven. God bless.
