I just came off watching Deathnote looking for another good show to watch came on IMDb saw it had a 9 out of 10. So I got all 74 episodes. The first 20 episodes were OK. after that it got terrible and Redundant. the creator could off knock it out in half the episodes but drags it on forever for no reason. Doctor Kenzo Tenma had a couple times to kill johan and froze up but turns around and keeps trying to find him only to freeze up every time. They try to explain why johan was so evil so he could build up the courage to kill him. Yet it just got to point where it didn't matter why johan was evil he had to be kill and if not stopped he would go on and kill hundreds if not more of people. his sister anna knew he had to die too but every time she ran into him she would freeze up too. what really made me mad was the numerous time tema and anna would try to stop each other from killing johan but when it came down to it neither could do it. i waited through 74 episode and finally get to the last two and tenma and his sister didn't let me down the froze up and this is after johan wiped out a whole town but both wanted him to live. Then in the last episode he comes out of his coma in which tema turns around and saves his life again! Escapes the hospital to probably go on another killing spree which left me wondering why the hell did I waist a week of my life watching this. At the end of the day it doesn't matter why johan was evil there was no reason to keep digging up his past when there no way he was going to change or stop doing what he was doing or even reasoning with him. Then the shows make you think if tenma because he's a Doctor kills johan he'll become bad himself thats some BS! If hes the only one that can stop him from killing hundreds to thousands of people it should be justified!
Disappointed the anime had many wrong turns i was expected a smart anime like death not but apparently i was wrong it was a very stupid anime there have been many mistakes and many chances to end the anime earlier by killing Johann the only reason i saw it till the end it was that something might change but the only thing i got is that i lost 1480 minutes from my life for a stupid anime that was supposed to be a smart one like D.N... Very disappointing... It is a very slow going and plot unveiling anime it has many side stories only for one big scene which isn't as big since u expect it... Its like i was watching an anime to describe smart persons to a stupid audience...


                
