People traditionally associate Japanese animes with the likes of Pokemon and Dragonball Z and it is often very difficult to convince non-anime fans that there's more to them. I'm no exception! Luckily, Monster was the third serial anime I was introduced to after Death Note and Fruits Basket (odd combos, I know). And to be honest, I was not expecting this.The series starts off ordinarily with the traditional story of a doctor forced to prioritize between patients and his career. The story of two traumatized children is introduced along the way and things start becoming rather interesting. By the time I got to this point, I had completely forgotten I was watching an anime. See, in traditional Japanese animes (and no disrespect to the fans), the writers have no idea how to develop the dialogue and make it work with the story. The height of a character's shock will be repeating somebody's name in a low, gaspy/raspy voice. Among the millions of other queer things, I never got why anime writers felt that was a good emotional expression. I simply dismissed it as another odd Japanese behavior.As a pleasant surprise, Monster does almost everything to stray from that. At so many points during the story, I wondered how brilliant this would've been as a non-animated series. The character development is interesting and not muggled up or confusing, the songs/music make sense for a change, there are no irritating characters trying to be funny and the plot keeps thickening ... although slowly, and that might be a flaw. But to be honest, the gradual development is what keeps you so attached to it.So in conclusion, if you're a japanime fan and want to introduce the haters to the club, I highly recommend you make them watch this as their first ever anime. All in all, a 9.5/10 score. Definitely worth the watch!


                
As An Anime Fan I have watched a lot of anime, until I felt a little bit bored, there are a lot of things that you see in every anime show you watch, until you feel all anime kind of look like each other, this where Monster comes to show you something more serious and more action more thriller, the story of monster is about making bad decisions,regret and then trying to make it up, Doctor Tenma is a very famous Doctor who is engaged to his Boss's Daughter and lives a very good life the only problem he only he only treats or heals Rich and famous people, he doesn't pay any attention to the poor ones, Once a poor woman Begs him to heal or treat her husband and at the same time Dr.Tenma's Boss refuses and asks him to heal another VIP Person and that what happens, the poor Husband dies, the wife blames Dr.Tenma, this is the basic start of the anime, after that Dr.Tenma's Life Changes to the better ? the worse ? you watch it and judge it your self, This anime is a new experience, pretty much thriller and suspense, it feels that it is a Tv Show not an Anime, That what made this show special, I watched this anime and I loved it, I Totally enjoyed it.
And yes, that is how good it is. Can a movie question all the human natures yet still promoting good values? Can a movie be smart and mature as well as being widely understandable? "Monster" has it all, yet it's only an ANIME.Don't be surprised. If you think low of animes, I am definitely not gonna persuade you into any. The only thing I want to say here is fact. And the only fact is, "Monster" almost made all the mystery thrillers fade away, real-set productions and animes alike.All those ordinary mystery thrillers before Monster, were only selling the performances, the production values and gores. That could even be said about Silence of the Lambs. After all, it's not anyone's fault. It's the nature of any feature-length movies. No matter how many dimensions can you put inside a feature length film, it's still so hard to pull every threads ahead easily. The other problem is you won't have enough memorable characters to talk about.(L.A.Confidential is the rare case that overcame all these barriers) It almost feels like we are crying for a great series in this genre that gave you enough time to connect, to digest and enjoy the subtlety of realism behind it.Ironcially, the one that stood out was made in Japan, about a story in Germany. There is no need to mention the connections between the two countries, but if you have an eye for history and social context, "Monster" is for you. Don't worry it's only about the length of a full season of "24". Let me also tell you about the other bottom lines. Most obviously, "Monster"'s concentration is not the stylish drawing. It's certainly not competing with "Naruto" or this kind of anime in terms of number of colors and CGI utilization. But this is not to say that Monster is inferior artistically. Ordinary people is the only thing it is trying to do right, and they did it right. You will probably see some of the most fascinating human expressions as well as interactions in any art form. Another bottom line for Monster is that it's NOT FOR CHILDREN. Try to make children understand "Monster" is as cruel as putting them in the illusion of the Revelation. So, if you are not sure you can handle all the dark sides of human nature, don't watch it either.Actually, for those who have seen "Monster" they don't need the Joker to tell them how weak is our daily morality. But "Monster" is illustrating this problem with one exception--our own dedication to make things right. It is discussing this topic in a more detailed and socially responsible way so it also can be very educating after all.I will give no further story about "Monster" and suggest any IMDb user over 18 years old to give it a try. At least, rent the first 10 episodes to decide if you will like it. Although, the answer is almost for sure.The only reason I deducted 1 star from my rating is its ending, which could have been so much better. Anyway, it's already a very satisfying story with a lot to reflect on. Thanks God I saw it when I was morally confused. It really gave me some clues.


                
"Once upon a time, in a land far away, there lived a nameless Monster. He was dying to have a name, so the Monster made up his mind to set out on a journey to look for one <U+0085> At last he had found a name, but there was no longer anyone around to call him by it." As his protagonist and antagonist, Urasawa's Monster is highly intelligent and fascinating. The characters are complex and believable, the dark style in animation fits the tone of the story and its progression which could be described as a downwards spiral from a seemingly bright place into a pitch black abyss. And so it's only logical that one of the series' main question is, how long can you look into that abyss until it looks back right into you? This is the story of protagonist Dr. Kenzo Tenma, a brilliant and promising neurosurgeon, who could have it all if he could compromise his values just a little bit and try to fit into the superficial, ignorant, but pretty comfortable world around him some more. He cannot (or does not want to) do that anymore and, following his values and principles rather than the instructions of his superiors, decides to rescue a badly injured little boy rather than a wealthy and influential politician, loosing his status, privileges, fiancé and future in the process. Little did he know that what he perceived to be an act of principle and morality (after all, aren't all lives created equal?) would not only cost him deeply career wise, but would literally come back and haunt him in person, as that little boy was and will become an even worse sociopath and serial killer who would set out to murder dozens of innocent people. Tenma, feeling responsible for saving the boy who would otherwise have died and been unable to kill all those people, sets onto a quest to right his wrong, knowing he will loose everything and likely himself in the process. Doing so he is being hunted by the police for crimes not be, but that very boy committed. On his journey he discovers things better left undiscovered, as this monstrous boy, now grown into a young, beautiful and deeply frightening man, is a man-made monster with a rather horrifying past and history.The themes and questions asked in the series are for an 18+ audience: Are some people just born or predestined to become monsters, or are we really all innocent and equal in the beginning? If so, what does it take to irreversibly destroy a person's soul and create the ultimate monster? Can anyone be turned into a monster, or are some people untouchable by evil? And if a monster was not born, but created, does that really justify forgiveness for his actions? Are we allowed to feel pity for such a monster, forgive him even, or is there a darkness where there is no coming back from, where it does not matter anymore how the darkness was created originally? Are we responsible for everything we do, or to what extent? And does one have to become a monster in order to be able to defeat one? The series does explore these questions in a very adult manner. The characters are very believable in their motives, actions as well as inactions. Tenma's journey from the gentle, selfless, compassionate, and caring doctor to the homeless, hunted, lonely outlaw (fantastically shown in the character design), his struggle to end a life, even if it might safe countless more, is more than touching. What annoys me in so many books and movies (the good and morally untouchable protagonist being unable to do what's necessary, leading to even more innocent people getting hurt), this problem was nonexistent for me in Monster, as we get to know and care deeply for the characters and their motivations, main ones or sidekicks. While deeply wishing for the monster to die, I found myself urging Tenma not to do it.8.5/10 only because it sometimes got a little bit too repetitive for me and some of the flashbacks and foreshadowing built up expectations that didn't hold up to what we got to see and experience in the end.
After ten days, I finally watching all 74 episodes of Monster. It's a very interesting, thought-provoking story addressing social issues, such as false accusation, bizarre murder, medical ethics, power struggle, humanity, child abuse, adult children, and trauma. In 1986, Dr. Tenma, a brilliant brain surgeon engaged to Heinemann's daughter, Eva, has a bright future ahead of him being next in line to become the director of neurosurgery. One night, a boy called Johan, one of a pair of twins, is brought to the hospital in critical condition after being shot in his head. Nina, the other twin, is also being treated for shock. Ignoring the order of the hospital director, Dr. Tenma performed an operation to save Johan's life. This leads to a series of murders involving all of the people connected to Tenma. Regretting his part of the creating of the most terrifying "Monster" on earth. embedded inside Johan by the operation, Tenma tries to thwart his crimes."All life is equally valuable," "everyone is born being wanted," "no one wants revenge," and "we can create happy memories starting today." - Tenma reproves other people to prevent further tragedies.Meanwhile, the story is closing in on the mystery of why Johan became the Monster. How did the experiment performed by the orphanage, 511 Kinderheim, after his personality? What did those adults who were from 511 Kinderheim lose? This is a mystery that was born from the chaotic society of the former East and West Germany before the fall of Berlin Wall, and should have never happen.It's a long story with 74 episodes, but each episode has a sort of ending until around the 55th episode. If you set your own pace, you can watch the entire series. I recommend this anime also to those who haven't read the Monster manga, since the story in the manga seems to be almost identical to the anime. The opening song is good and the ending one is scary, but it suits the story. Although there are different interpretations of the last scene, I don't think it is the start of another tragedy.


                
Elfen Lied, Shiki, Black Butler? Out of those three--well two because Black Butler had dark tones but there were a lot of corny moments in it also--which are good, this is by far the darkest and most suspenseful anime I have ever seen in my life. There are no fantasy elements, no vampires, werewolves, witches, wizards or anything that seems far from being realistic except for science fiction, of course. But science fiction doesn't take away how brutally realistic this show is. It has a great story, great voice acting, great animation, and great atmosphere. I love the opening to this show. Unlike most anime openings, it definitely fits the tone of the show and has an unforgettable soundtrack to it. Most openings would be all action packed, corny or just weird and isn't honest to the shows tone like Shiki or Black Butler. And, I swear to god, it has probably the scariest villain in all of anime and TV shows nonetheless. I won't tell you who it is but every time I hear this guy's voice it sends shivers down my spine. Definitely one of the best and scariest villains of all time since Hannibal Lecture (which is whom he reminds me of) This show is also thought provoking. Even if it's for the greater good, do we really have it in us. It's a very hard and controversial choice to make. Until something else comes up, MONSTER is my favorite anime of all time.


                
I must say, this anime is a masterpiece. The story is well crafted and all the elements of the plot are beautifully interwoven. As the series progresses and everything falls into place, the horrific tragedy surfaces to leave the viewer speechless.I managed to finish the series over a period of three days. Personally, I thought that it was a bit too stretched. If I had to wait for a week for another episode to be telecast, I would have lost interest somewhere near the 10-15th episode. But, I'm glad i did not have to pull through the wait. I would have really missed out on something extraordinary.My Suggestion, hang in there, and pull through some of the unnecessary stuff and you will truly be rewarded.


                
It was the best anime i ever seen i was just SO FU..ING GREAT


                
A slow paced series with a nice build up and with psychopath makes you think what he does questions everything on his reasons on doing things. In this mind twisting tale of mystery the music in the series is fantastic and as u watch the dark secrets behind the tale of darkness lying ahead for the main hero. It's tale of a hero trying to find a man to stop from spreading darkness.


                
Doctor Tenma saves a child's life (Yohan) ... The child overhears Tenma confessing his sins about his enemies - and as payment for saving his life , the demon child takes the liberty to eliminate all of Tenma's enemies . Tenma (under suspicions he may be the murderer) treads down the dark path of Yohan's past , uncovering a mystery of a doctor-sponsored monster-breeding medical institute --- and Yohan was the leading star in chargeExcellent Supporting Cast and Background Stories


                
