This anime has everything. Plot: The story is absolutely beautiful. You have epic fights combined with deep emotions and unpredictable story changes that will blow your mind. The only critique I could find about the story is that in the anime some parts are described in very simple pictures, f.e. after a character pulled a very cunning move within combat, in order to let the younger audience understand what has happened. But then again I wouldn't want them to miss out on this anime just because they feel it is too complex, so I guess one can overlook this. (It doesn't happen too often to be really bothering anyways.) Everything that happens also fits really well into the universe of Naruto, meaning that within this world's reality everything that happens makes sense. It is also amazing to see the different characters evolve and grow both in maturity as well as in strength. I have even caught myself cheering like a total nerd when a character has learned a new move or went over his own boundaries. However, I feel that the side characters are being neglected in terms of development, since they really can't compete with the main character's strength at all after a certain point. Character design:Marvellous. There are dozens of different characters and everyone is unique. Even the side characters have distinguishable features, and the main characters show a character depth that many Hollywood movies could learn from nowadays. Let's take the villain Orochimaru for example. He is easily the most well-designed antagonist I have seen in any motion picture, even in all the books I read I can't find a character like him. Pure evil. Cunning, bizarre and frightening. On top of his unpredictable actions and twisted motives, the music appearing together with him just rounds up the presentation of this character, and to me, makes it unforgettable. Music:It's pretty simple: The music in Naruto is incredible. When I showed some of the tracks to a friend who doesn't watch it, even she was amazed. If you don't believe me go to youtube and check some of them out, but be careful, it might lead to you watching the whole series if you haven't already! Animation:They did an amazing job animating Naruto. It's really beautiful to see how everything comes to life after reading the manga in black and white, and the animation of Naruto can compete with most recent animated movies. Many scenes are animated so well that you just want to watch them over and over again, especially some of the fights where the graphics and "camera angles" really come to shine. All together, I would give it a 10/10 currently, as the overall experience with this show has simply blown me away and I can't really find anything really bad to say about it.


                
Well the story starts with typical story start lines introducing us to the Naruto universe telling us the story of a boy. Whoa but when it goes on it completely turns into a thrilling nail-biting, heart-touching, mind-teasing epic series taking us deep into humanity through the imaginative Naruto universe questioning our view on the world and people.This was one of the most influential stories I have ever witnessed. I wanted more, so I looked for best anime around to see if I can find something even better. What I found was, most of the other anime are bound around power, adrenaline rush, love and sacrifice, .etc . But in Naruto, apart from the all the things that I mentioned above it mainly focuses on what humanity is, where can it go wrong and what it might take to fix it.That being said, don't misunderstand, the battles are epic. When I mean epic, I mean EPIC!!! For me the best part is, no matter how powerful opponents are, the one with the sharp mind comes on top with mind-blowing strategies. For nerds who watch Anime like me, this is the best part.And oh! to see the maturity of the characters in the series from the childhood of being total knuckleheads to genuinely matured full fledged Shinobi(Ninja) is surely an amazing journey to take. One which must not be missed by the genuine minds around the globe.


                
Before Naruto, i was a die-hard fan of Dragon Ball series. I thought no anime would be as great as it is. There are Many people who still consider it to be superior of all anime shows. But In front of Naruto Shippuden, nothing is better.Naruto was good, but it aimed for children and +. But the sequel Shippuden, has aimed for Universal Audience. Naruto has grown more mature, and he is not always running behind Sakura. In this series you'll get to know more about the characters past, especially Naruto. The Antagonists are more deadly and powerful. The series has some HEART WRENCHING MOMENTS in it. I had to see them at least 100 times per day. In certain scenes, i almost cried. Major Plus point is the Background Music. It is OUTSTANDING. No anime had/had this type of Music. I admit that certain Filler episodes are just boring, but they always carry certain TYPE of message with them. This anime is the GOD of all anime's and NO other anime will ever defeat it.... No.1 anime.I give it a solid 10/10...


                
Had to add a review since some of them I read were quite frankly ridiculous.The story continues were it left off and takes no time at all in getting right into it. It then goes on to get better and better and better. Character growth, development and change is incomparable to any other manga/story/book you will ever read, with some serious plot twists while constantly offering reasoning and back story completely justifying them all. Reviews down rating due to fillers is ridiculous, obviously the studio and channels need to make money and fill air time, and obviously 1 manga is not as long as 1 anime, common sense should then counter any grudge held due to fillers. Other reviews stating it's gone on for too long or stories/characters are being recycled - I wont go into too much explanation on flawing this review, it's so far off the mark all I need say is this individual has clearly not understood the intricate's of the characters and the history. In summary it's my opinion that Naruto is one of the most epic and dynamic stories to exist to this date. It is not anything like DBZ or similar 'OP Powaz anime'. Though it does have a large emphasis on fighting, Naruto is primarily about characters and story. It is a must watch AND a must read to everyone with above average intelligence. Others will enjoy it immensely too, but without a doubt the more intelligent you are the more you will enjoy it.


                
"Naruto: Shippûden" keeps up with the original series. With a bigger budget now, the drawings and effects are improved, music once again is excellent, so the quality of the overall product is impeccable. As for the story itself: Naruto comes back from his training with Jiraiya (one of the legendary ninjas) and has grown, so he is more mature after those 3 years. Now we get to see the old characters again, so finally all that time expecting with the "filler saga" has come to and end, this is the original Naruto, the hero's come-back. Sasuke Uchiha, Kakashi Hatake, Sakura Haruno, Tsunade etc., are all back. All the things we liked from the original series are here and we will get to know what happens with all the story arcs we love, Specially what happens with Sasuke.


                
I had to make an account just to write a review about this show. I feel an 8.1 is an outrage because Naruto is just something so special.I use the term genuinely amazing to describe it because it honestly manages to amaze me at every turn, not just because of the crazy things that happen or the fighting or the the deeply complex story, but because of a subtle touch in all those things. Every time i get comfortable with what's going on it just puts me on another ride i didn't even imagine, even the portions of the story where i can predict something it somehow manages to surprise me still. The "number one at surprising people" motto is a perfect way to describe Naruto as a character but more importantly as a show.So many amazing characters with such interesting back stories, every fight is so well thought out you don't know how the next one will top it, music is beautiful and spot onn, but i think the best part of it is the story. It incorporates such dark themes, discrimination in a world where everyone actually isn't equal, and how the characters deal with each other with so many different powers and abilities, is almost overwhelming.I could go on and on but i'm gonna stop now and just say SKIP THE FILLERS. It's really not that hard, just google it and skip those episodes. They are probably the sole reason the ratings aren't as high as they should be, and they just totally dilute the amazingness of the real story.


                
Its a great and amazing story to be seen. An outstanding feeling to view the characters, their lives, emotions, decisions, etc. The whole story as suggested, revolves around the main character Naruto. Shippuden means hurricane, that symbolizes the strength Naruto gains over the years of training. He is supported various friends, teachers and other characters who are even strangers to him. Being an underdog in the early years, desperate to be recognized, works harder than anyone. Due to certain internal powers, he creates magic every time, he is tested. By deeds, he shows the others the way to be chosen i.e., not by tradition, etc. but by your heart. Even the psychology behind the friends' behavior, enemy behaviors are explained in such a simple and emotional manner that you also believe that these things are bound to happen even with you in the given situation. With action packed animations, stories & bonding, the series distinguishes itself with others.


                
Naruto Shippuden, or roughly translated, Naruto Hurricane Chronicles, takes place 3 years after the original anime left off. As you can imagine, all of the characters are a bit older, a lot stronger, and there are tons of new abilities and techniques to watch for.The plot advances quickly, and though they're only into episode 10, it's entirely gripping. Having read most of the manga (Japanese comic) thus far, I can say that you're in for lots of action and surprises.3 years have passed since Naruto set off to train with Jiraiya, and since then Sakura, Neji, Lee, and even Gaara have grown much, much stronger. Naruto has learned to master his techniques even farther, and it isn't long until he begins training to learn a new one. Like the first 200-some episodes, Naruto Shippuden appears to be a glorified Dragon Ball Z. In spite of this, Naruto Shippuden seems to be taking DBZ's gripping fights and adding much more. Plot development is much greater, and the character development is more than sufficient.I highly recommend Naruto Shippuden to any fan of the first Naruto series. Naruto is a great series to start with for any viewer.
This is the best anime iv'e ever seen and i highly doubt i will ever stop watching it. i will continue to watch as long as it airs. I do not know why it has a lower rating then one piece. it is definitely better than one piece. i am also a fan of one piece and i agree it is good and i am updated on its episodes but Naruto is definitely better than one piece or even bleach which I've watched. I know that there are quite some fillers but bleach has way too much fillers and a lot of them aren't even good. Many people think that it is a kids cartoon at a first glance but once you watch from the beginning . you are definitely going to get hooked.


                
i was very skeptic about watching an anime even though my friends recommended it. i was busy in watching some other serials. then one day i watched one of its most emotional scenes (naruto meeting his mom for the first time). even though i didn't know the history of any of the characters, still it made me cry. but, it was this scene that forced me to watch the entire naruto and naruto shippuden . i recently completed watching the whole series for the 3rd time and i think i will watch it again for the 4th time. its not just a regular anime its a life changing experience. you would be able to see characters being shaped, morals being established, the bond of friendship being forged and experience the will of fire.music is addictive, sweet, emotional, and the best among all the other anime i have watched.fillers make the show a little slow, you may skip the fillers but some fillers are awesome too. if you have not watched it yet, you have no idea what you are missing. watch it immediately.


                
Masashi Kishimoto - the man who made a whole new world. I am watching Naruto almost 14 years and i can proudly say that it is in top 3 of movies that had the huge impact on me. A lot of people all over the world started following that 12 years old boy until now when the last episodes are going on. I want to write this as i had 14 years of waiting 1 week to get the new episode. At the time when i was a child i got some DVD discs from local shops (There were no mach of them in Armenia at that time) and i watched every episode more then 4-5 times. I even wrote down lyrics of openings and endings and then translated them for myself.AT THE END - ADVICE FOR ALL PARENTS - JUST GIVE YOUR CHILDREN THIS ANIME.. IT WILL EDUCATE THEM BETTER THEN ANY OTHER FILM.


                
Very good and long anime, but there are some blunders, as always. I totally loved it! One of my favorite anime's, definitely. It is very emotional, tragic, dynamic, exciting, fun, you name it! You fall in love with a lot of the characters and gradually find out their dramatic life background which makes you even more attached to them and then you see how they mature and (most of them) heal.BUUUUT, the ending (MANGA) was so....mneah...bleah, really??!??! Totally disappointing :( Everything was so good up to the very end...... then it collapsed all of a sudden (and i am part of a great majority that thinks that way). It was a very childish stupid and hurried ending, while we were all expecting an amazing awesome super ending, at least at the same level we were kept until then :( Even so, even so, it's totally worth watching! :) totally!


                
this includes breaking bad, the wire, dexter, American horror story, band of brothers, even shindler's list ... yes i said it. (simply because they don't stop developing characters, so you become so involved with their back stories and their links and conflicts with other characters that you fall in love with every one of them. on top of that the narrative is compelling and simply fantastic.towards the end i hate to admit it but i actually cried, and not out of sadness. out of happiness, and i can honestly say that I've never had that reaction to anything I've ever seen before.the filler episodes tend to drag a fair bit, but as you become addicted to the story you'll take anything you can get, but if you don't have a lot of time on your hands its no problem to skip them,


                
It's a mistake that i didn't watch this anime when i was child.... Such a beautiful anime with various characters, all characters were shown important instead of protagonist alone! Each and every scene was perfect according to the Manga! Some fillers were great to watch too! You guys must watch if you haven't! It'll change your way of thinking towards our humanity with those motivations given on this anime. Cheers! :)


                
naruto best anime ever Why I think Naruto is better than bleach . Better story line . Is not all about The main character . Cool villains yet smarter . Cool fighting scenes . Never runs out of ideas . Tells you the reasons of character has his powers . You relay to one of the character sooner or later . The main character doesn't waste time speaking while fighting nor is bi polar like Ichigo . Characters die unlike bleach . Is funny, cool, and sad all the good characteristics of a good anime . All the characters have a good history background, . Naruto has a reason to fight and become some one in the future, becoming hokage and saving a friend . To finalized this I hate bleach
I tear up when I think of the will of Naruto. Naruto Shippuden teaches you what relentless love, hope, and friendship can do for the people around you once you decide to try and care. Naruto is an orphan expected to wither away and essentially become a loser, but the fire inside of him never ceases. He overcomes all obstacles and makes new friends while defeating all the negativity with love. Inspiring people and trying your hardest isn't something many people do, at least not around me. I wish as individuals, families, communities, states,and nations we would give life our all; Naruto has taught me to want to do that. Best show I've ever seen.


                
Naruto shippuden is amazing. The story of naruto uzumaki the nine tailed boy continues with the akatsuki finally starting to reveal themselves. The shippuden series is much more intense and has a good story line but it also follows with the deaths of major characters like Jiraiya, Asuma and various other ninjas. For a little while kakashi, hinata, shizune and other ninjas are also killed but are revived by pain the former akatsuki leader who switches sides before dying. The story is also interesting and the major characters like shikamaru, choji and various other ninjas like Genma are shown more often and play a bigger role in the series.
Naruto, a simple, sometimes daft, but very caring person who would give his life to save his friends. This series I have watched from the beginning, to see this little guy turn into a full blown shin-obi in such little time. Now he is learning to use his inner demon called the nine tailed fox. A demon which was sealed into his body when he was a baby by his father to save the hidden leaf village, and also, so other shin-obi nations could not attain the power within. Yet as he grew up, he was ostracized by his own people, and classmates when he entered the shin-obi academy. Looked on as simply the class clown because of his continuous pranks, he felt alone with no one to guide him. However through his antics, he still felt close to his fellow classmates because of it. But would always go home alone to an empty house. Through out his life, his education basically sucked for bad grades. But always seemed to become something of an enigma because of his strong desire to help others. Thus starts him on his path to become the next Hokage of the leaf. Now in the present, he is seventeen years old. And learning to delve deeper into his own soul to overtake and control the nine tailed fox within. With this new powerful weapon, he can have the advantage against a long time rival ex classmate named Sasuke Uchiha. A person who has gone beyond evil in his attempts to destroy the hidden leaf at any cost. Naruto with his friends defeated a section of a group called the Akatsuki. A group of powerful members who have been more than a handful for the leaf. Including one which completely levelled the leaf with one strike. As rebuilding of the leaf started, Naruto then discovers through help of some strange looking sage frogs, that he can attain full control over his Demon. But to do so, would mean to beat his other evil half. With his victory in hand, he now becomes a new transformed man, from a simple shin-obi to a sage, and soon to be Hokage in the near future. His powers grow even more now than ever since his battles within in soul. With his close friends, teachers, Tsunade, and past masters who helped him become a true shin-obi, Naruto is now on the verge of clashing with Sasuke once again. Whether or not he defeats his foe, he simply will not allow Sasuke to hurt those he loves. Especially Sakura. This is a great series, lots of fights, comedy, great music, laughs, sadness, and the ability to show what family is all about. Even though he grew up without parents, he still has more than his share of family within the hidden leaf. Recommended for all to watch, quite possibly the most successful series next to bleach and one piece, and now among the top three to be the longest running anime series to date.
This is by far my favorite show of all time. It's a a huge commitment you have to make by watching it, but in my opinion it's well worth it! It's well thought out and has no convenient plot writing like a lot of shows, it actually has lots of emotional depth despite being an animation. I have found myself crying a lot while watching it. I also love how it emphasizes the stories of other characters aside from the main protagonist. The Antagonists are also well developed and thought out. Kishimoto goes through lengths to make us sympathize with them a lot because they believe their methods are truly right. Naruto himself is a very inspiring character and role model for anyone in my honest opinion. 10/10.


                
To those who haven't watched this my words may seem massively exaggerated, I'm not usually one to review titles but if anyone does happen to read this then I could not recommend highly enough that you watch this. I won't even bother to give any descriptions just have faith in this post and watch it. Honestly you'll thank me for it.


                
OK, i have never, EVER seen better soundtracks on any, ANY anime series whatsoever, i had to download lots of them cuz they are just waaayyy too amazing, then there comes the heart-touching moments which make u feel like it is ur own grief. naruto first series was OK, but SHIPPUDEN surpassed all other series, first, u get to know a lot about the characters and u grow to care about them in a way which sucks u in without u noticing it, the little boy that u knew has matured and got everyone's respect, then the training just sucks u into the actual moment of how naruto is getting stronger not just showing u that later he got some technique out of nowhere like one piece does, and then u learn facts about characters past that u could never imagine, why things came to how they are now, THIS IS A MUST WATCH ANIME, and for the haters of naruto, haters PLEEAASE, this is a mastermind's work. this is the 4th time im re-watching the series and i enjoy it every time a little more, my kids will definitely watch it when they come to existence
I started following this series at a relative young age. Needless to say, I grew a little bored with it. At first, the characters were inspiring and relatable but now some characters with integrity turned into senseless killers or were forgotten/wasted. Narutos talk-no-jutsu got old right after the Pein arc if not before. Sakura was never given any interesting development. All she does is compare herself like an insecure little girl, it seems rather shallow. And no other girl character is ever deep or like-able (maybe Tsunade for like a moment). So our attention is usually focused on the rest of Team 7 and the Akatsuki. Like others have mentioned, new characters and issues spring up out of nowhere preventing actual concern to grow from the audience. Having said all that, I still give this series a 10/10 because unlike any other form of entertainment, its actually kept my attention for this long. Some fights and moments make the otherwise random plot redeemable. I still wanna know how it ends and Im sure there's a list out there that says which episodes to skip, so if I ever recommend this, I'll be courteous enough to give them that list. Nobody has the time to watch the whole thing (unless you're a kid but this show isn't really PG) so it can get frustrating but there's so many characters you're bound to like a few. I still like Naruto and Sasuke even though they can get ridiculous and over-the-top. Overall, this series is worth a try for everyone, it has taught me a lot of values and kept me entertained with its occasional witty badassery.


                
Above One Piece and Bleach I like Naruto Series way better because there is a beautiful detailing about The Hidden Leaf Village Konoha and their WILL OF FIRE and there is more than 15 individual characters that are so strong in to their beliefs. Above all what they are convincing the world with their story about Love, Friendship and Pain are so speechless. The very angelic soundtracks and themes are just the same level as the storyline what is hard to achieve. The Voice Acting of the characters are so magical.They convinced message of this series very deeply and from the heart.Naruto Uzumaki is now matured and skillful in shipudden and so the guts to Never Give Up. Anyone would be so curious to see every next episode of the season.I must say the story writers, the directors, actors and the musician must have work it out of the heart. 100/100


                
I am semi-new to the whole anime world but i have gone through like 16 different anime series so far after Naruto and none of them have been able to come even close to how great Naruto Shippuden is. If you love an awesome adventure-dramatic type show, Naruto is perfect. There is the slightest hint of a bit of romance but Naruto is, thankfully, not a romantic show. Be warned,however,you may cry. But it's also really humorous and you really come to love all the characters. The story line is also really complex and very well written. I don't know of any other show that is quite like it. There are over 500 episodes (if you include Naruto)and i can tell you that every episode is so worth watching. Some episodes are absolutely ridiculous fillers that will drive you nuts but you will love it. I have never cried over any TV show characters before Naruto and when i say cry, i mean sobbed. An 8 is not nearly enough what Naruto Shippuden deserves. On a scale of 1 to 10, Naruto Shippuden is an 11.


                
I watched this anime consistently for 10 years and I barely regret much in that span. Way better than it's prequel series, this anime builds upon already established characters as they mature through age and experiences. This is one of the best anime of all time that has as many as 500 episodes. Unlike it's other shonen counterparts; it doesn't rush itself, it doesn't take too long, and most importantly it has a planned ending which is something I don't find in long animes such as this one. This was a hell of an anime.


                
