This cartoon blasts every other modern cartoon right out of the water. It's even better than Family Guy (another great show, but which tends to get too sporadic, and even just plain dumb at times). It has hilarious characters and plot lines, and a razor wit. I love how the characters get put into all these horrible situations, and they each react in their own unrealistic but hilarious way.The jazzy music and voices are also top-notch. Unlike many other cartoons, the voices are funny without getting unbearably grating. Speaking of which, when I first saw this, Brock Samson sounded really familiar... turns out he's none other than Patrick Wharburton (aka David Puddy). They could not have picked a better actor for the part.If you like dark humor, satire, and overall zaniness, it doesn't get better than this.9/10 stars.


                
Adult swim's shows have gone off the deep end of fairly entertaining nonsense to just pure absurdity. I do not see the appeal to any of them anymore and I do not often watch the programming block anymore. Venture Bros. However stands apart from the rest and provides truly intelligent, well thought out, over-the-top and hilarious entertainment. The show is a perfect balance between tasteless humor and really clever subtleties. The homage/lambasting of early adventure animation/comics is spot on. The characters are full of depth and they're engaging. Brock Samson could pwn Chuck Norris any day of the week. What more could one want?When I first saw this show I thought it was one of the more ******* up shows I'd ever seen. I was surprised just how graphic it was with particularly disturbing images(guy getting his eyes gouged out, watching a henchman struggle with his last breaths as he's strangled to death by Brock, poll vaulting off henchman's jugular...etc.) I was not turned off though because aside from the surprising imagery, the jokes and references were all spot-on. I was laughing the whole way through and intrigued around every corner. Truly, my only real gripe with the show is that it has a hard time taking itself seriously and often resorts to fairly flippant endings and/or resolutions that sometimes I feel aren't necessary. I think the show could support itself just fine with a persistent story arc, which I think we are starting to see more of in the new season anyway, so that's good.And again, Brock Samson, there could hardly be a better cartoon character.Check out this show, it's well worth it. I hope that it continues for a long time.


                
I'm having a hard time imagining people actually voting for this below an 8. It may very well be the most perfect cartoon I've ever seen.When I was vacationing in America, I had the chance of seeing The Venture Bros. on Adult Swim. After watching only one episode I already decided to buy the DVD. I've been in love with the series ever since.The humor is everywhere. It's in the dialogue, it's in the story, it's in the characters. The show contains many and many parodies of movies, comics and other cartoons. Sometimes there are even straight rips. And yet, The Venture Bros. cartoon manages to stay unique and original.I recommend this to everyone.


                
This is one of the best animated shows ever made, so it is kind of sad to see that its score on this website has gotten lower over the years. It's still ranked as one of the best and it deserves it. What makes this show great is probably the wonderful cast of characters with tons of great jokes and voices. Seriously, this show has some of the most suiting voices I have ever heard. They all sound hilarious and suit the appearances of the characters perfectly. This show tells the story of a guy named Dr. Venture and his two sons who regularly get their home attacked by the Monarch and various other villains.What's great is probably how a lot of these parody shows would make the villains more interesting than the good guys. That's not always a bad thing, but the awesome thing here is that the good guys are just as funny and entertaining as the villains. It's just great seeing them all play off of each other given how different their personalities are. It's dynamics like these that make for a great cast of characters. As one of the greatest adult cartoons ever made, it's also great that it doesn't go too far with its obscenity or violence.Some adult cartoons like modern "Family Guy" just try to disgust their audience to show how edgy they are. True, we get into some pretty dark territory in this show every now and then, but it never really goes too far. It portrays the characters realistically and never has them try to gross out the viewers. We really do see character development and more of a story go on. Every character has their own quirks that it's hard for me to pick a favorite one. Maybe Henchman 21? He went through great character development. While not as good as "Rick And Morty" still awesome. ****


                
Jackson Publick and Doc Hammer are entertainment geniuses. There is nothing about this show that is predictable. Each episode surprises with it's characters, plot, comedy and outcome. In a world where no matter how "good" a show is, they end up doing the same thing every other show has done, with the same rehashed plots and jokes, or just pull plots from the newspaper headlines, this show is fresh. And that's hard to achieve when you start as a parody like it did. But at this point it's advanced far beyond parody. This show is so faithful to it's universe, the world Hammer and Publick created in season one, with such well drawn characters that continue to develop, each distinctive and layered with real personalities despite their comical stereo-archetypes, and with so much going on in 22 minutes, this show should be studied by all aspiring TV and film writers to understand the state of the art in screen writing.


                
I was skeptical when a friend/co-worker let be borrow his Venture Bros. DVDs. I was absolutely hooked while watching "Tag Sale, You're It". The Depeche Mode conversation between Dr. Girlfriend and The Monarch is about the funniest thing I had seen ever.I was a little concerned about how they would top Season 1, because that set the bar extraordinarily high. I was not disappointed as Season 2 was AWESOME. Brock: Hank, no! It's suicide!Hank: Well then I'll see you in Heck! Good stuff...Thank you, Mr. Publick and Mr. Hammer.Marjod-


                
The show is a parody of 60's cartoons and their seriousness, the format adopted from Johnny Quest...an excellent humanistic portrayal of people who live too much of their lives in their imagination (a huge theme running through the show). A really funny show for fans of comics and or cartoons that can see the depth of them and would enjoy a candid look at what these things might be like if they were a reality. Very funny dialog composed well within the plot when good, and forgivable when it misses, excellent imaginative characters and rich personalities permeate the show, with much of it yet to be uncovered (as of august 2006). Shows the random incidents and moments that make up life, translated into a superheros world, making for some moments of real hysteria.
You can tell that the two creators inject an enormous amount of love into this show. I don't know of any other tv show where the creators have so much creative control, and use it so very well.
It's amazing how every season is very different, but still true to the heart of the show.
Everybody should listen to the commentary tracks of the DVD's. They're very unconventional, but very interesting. They never seem to directly talk about The Venture Bros, but if you listen carefully they tell you an enormous amount about the show. Far more than in other tv show commentaries that directly cover their subjects.


                
Venture Bros. finales are always something special, but quite frankly, the last 10 minutes or so of the season 4 finale set a new watermark for an already spectacular series. This show does at a glance run primarily on comedy/obscure pop culture references, but really it's all about the characters - who, in spite of our own expectations, we really do care about. Watch the series from the beginning, in order, and you'll get it. This show truly transcends anything else in the Adult Swim lineup, and it's a shame it doesn't get more recognition for it.Doc and Publick might jerk us fans around quite a lot. But I love these characters, they do grow in huge ways, and at the end of the day, "I'll come running, just to do it again."


                
This show is probably the best mix of action/adventure and comedy for Adult Swim. The Venture team consists of brothers Dean Venture and Hank Venture, along with their father the once noble scientist Dr. Rusty Venture and their insane, tough as nails bodyguard Brock Samson. These four star is probably one of the funniest shows I have ever seen Adult Swim put on the air. Throughout the series so far they have fended off such hysterical villains as Baron Von Underbite and the always hysterical Monarch with his butterfly henchman. The episodes are always met with some high intense animation action and then some of the hugest laughs of all time. Check this one out, it always delivers a very stellar performance.10/10


                
I may not have grown up around the time of Johnny Quest, but I clearly see the subtle jabs at the series (which are numerous) and I can't help but laugh.At first glance, I admit I didn't initially understand a lot of this series; but let's face it, how can anyone understand a series at first- glance? You have to watch further... which is what I did.The storyline is great, the characters are well put together and (aw hell, I better just say it or it'll back up on me)... Brock Sampson kicks major ass! Time has taken its toll on Adult Swim, but this definitely stands the proverbial test of time.One more thing: GO TEAM VENTURE!


                
Johnny Quest meets Scooby-Doo meets The Addams Family. Doctor Thaddeus "Rusty" Venture and his two sons, Dean (The more intelligent of the two) and Hank (Somewhat dim-witted and brash) along with OSI Super Spy Brock Samson go on a series of "mis"-adventures, meeting along the way characters from other shows such as Johnny Quest (Now a painkiller popping pill addict) or the parodied "evil" twins of the Scooby-Doo gang. This is, without any hesitation, my favorite cartoon show ever. Not only does this show effortlessly keep my attention, but also delivers each of the situational elements with flawless timing and comic genius. The characters, though some derived from the parodying of other shows, are all quite original and each brings a flare to the show that would otherwise be sorely missed. Time will seem to flow much too slowly until the beginning and release of the third season of this amazingly funny show. Remember the days that cartoons were geared towards children and the only adults to watch them were either parents or those who refused to grow up? Those days are long dead. If there is one new show in which you decide to indulge yourself in, make it The Venture Bros. You will not be disappointed! ~Revan Eli DayeHawke~ - Dusty Road Publishing
From the first episode I watched, the Venture Brothers has been a sure favorite. With it's wide range of humor, fun animation, and occasional David Bowie references, it never disappoints. The characters are vivid and endearing, and even some of the more gimmicky characters have surprising depth. The animation, which draws from classic cartoons such as "Johnny Quest" is polished and easy on the eye. All in all, the show has a little something for everyone. Complete with nostalgia, violence, and hilarious wit, both older and younger viewers will find something to love. As the title says, more people should see this show. It's a true gem among the hordes of reality TV stars and crass humor that television tends to resort to.


                
I've watched The Venture Bros, since I was kid and always enjoyed the series, even though I didn't completely understand the show until I was older I appreciated it for the adventurous Dean and Hank, The kill crazy, caring, and sociopath Brock Samson, and the second rate genius Rusty Venture. Over the years The Venture Bros have changed from a cliché, yet unique and similar version of an adventure show like "Johnny Quest Show" to a modern style show with secret agents, better graphics, more and new detailed characters and backgrounds. Also, along the way "The Boys" Dean and Hank Venture have not only become funnier and dynamic duo, but they've matured quite a bit and developed more distinct personality, while they still possess their child like traits. They've both grown past their previous personalities as two naive and home schooled boy genius kids. For example, throughout the series the boy's begin to interact more and more with reality and realizing their's more to the world than studying. Dean faces heartbreak and goes through a emo stage (most likely because he and Hank are the longest living venture clones, so they've had more experience with the real world. Then Dean transition into a young intellectual whose begun to find a purpose and in the world and following a path of his own, but still is that happy kid we remember him as.Then Hank starts to become more athletic and taking on the role of a young playboy/billionaire, and performs more daring and risky stunts. Each becoming more heroic and realistic instead of Hank pretending to be a Hero and is actually making it a reality. Finally, The Venture Bros take on a more modern world view because they start relating to people about college, new technologies and etc.
One of the great challenges for entertainment creators catering to an adult audience is that adults are harder to amuse. The Venture Brothers does a great job of always delivering material that is uniquely entertaining. The show uses a combination of absurdest elements, sci- fi, and action to keep every episode just as wonderful as the first. Animation can often be a less dynamic medium which makes it less appealing to adults. However, the Venture Brothers' excellent writing and voice acting will hold your attention and make you hungry for more. If you are a fan of "Archer" I would strongly recommend you check out the Venture Brothers. Like Archer, there is strong character development, action, and comedy that will keep you entertained.


                
This is one of my favorite shows. While the reviews below speak for themselves, I want to sum up the many reasons to watch this show.Watch this series if you enjoy: strong plot and story structure, adult humor, dark humor about failure, absurdist humor, the spy and superhero genres, sci fi genre, serialization that at the same time doesn't require past knowledge for enjoyment, references and twisted takes on old school cartoons and well-known superheroes, inventive retcon, top notch execution and attention to detail, entertaining and unique characters, clever and quotable dialog that doesn't rely on catchphrases for laughs (also applies if you are sick of nonsensical and windbag cartoons), high-caliber writing that doesn't sink after a few seasons and constantly seeks to expand and try something different. I can see why this show isn't that popular or well-known; The most difficult thing for me to watch was the first episode because of all the absurd and cheesy characters introduced, making it seem like a childish animation for a very young audience- but once I realized that the show is making fun of itself (and its characters and genre at the same time), there was no looking back. In fact, this is a very adult animation and I imagine a young audience would lose interest quite quickly because they wouldn't recognize the humor, references and appeal of the show.The only problem is that each season takes a year and a half to come out, most recently this amounts to only 10 twenty minute episodes a season (techincally 8 as two were combined). This is because the animation is produced on the cheap the old fashioned way, making this the slowest Galapagos tortoise on television. This is very frustrating and for many creates an ambivalence towards the show further adding to its lack of popularity. What comes out is pure quality over quantity, but at this rate I would be willing to sacrifice some quality for more episodes. Damn you, Team Venture!


                
Been watching this show since I was 13. It still remains one of my all time favorite cartoons. The characters in the show are diverse and plentiful. The humor is just my style. It ranges from stupid, witty, satirical, dark, blue, and surreal. It also covers many more, but I'll spare writing them all out, because the show covers just about every area of comedy there is. The one and only disappointment I have with this show, is the small number of seasons it has put out since its premiere on Adult Swim back in 2003. It's had a 10 year run so far and has only produced 5 seasons. The Venture Bros. is a show that I love and keeps me wanting more. Every episode just keeps getting better and better.


                
A great adult cartoon in any sense; but I think it really appeals to people in their late 30's - 50 years old. Why? As other reviewers said, this is the best blend of Johnny Quest, Family Guy and Jerry Springer that we will probably ever see. So, those who saw Johnny Quest in it's original form can really relate to how the writers have shaped this cartoon from that 60's original into one of the new millennial "new wave" cartoons (Family Guy, redone Space Ghost, Aqua Teen Hunger Force - hell, Robot Chicken) I will not write a spoiler except to say that the way the characters relate to each other seals the deal.PS: What is the post baby boom generation? For me (45 years old) it's the people sensible enough to know we aren't baby boomers (like Bill Clinton, George Bush and other 60's/early 70's greats that were going to change the world...ha, ha, ha!); but not young enough to be Gen X (thank God!). If you can relate to a certain Soul Asylum song, you are one of us.


                
This show is, along with the Boondocks, the best thing to come out of Williams Street. Being an Adult Swim Junkie is difficult for people like me since the advent of complete absurdist humor to be found in shows like ATHF. Hey, I love it too, but I find simple math much more difficult after watching an episode of Aqua Teen. That's not to be unfair and suggest that Venture Bros. always manages to avoid the low-brow. However, it always manages to put the toilet humor in an actual context rather than base itself completely around it. Venture Brothers brings back the Adult Swim fan in me, a person who felt a bit left of center for being able to appreciate the clever but odd humor found in Sealab 2021 (Season one-two)...and being happy out of the midstream. The new shows seem to reach for the lowest common denominator and cater to the kinds of American brains that put Bush the Second in office. For new viewers, simply watch "Careers in Science" and you will recognize the genius of this series. Oh and you'll laugh a hell of a lot, too.Thus, I agree with everything that the previous person stated about the show , but I must point out one error: Dr. Orpheus, like Dr. Venture, did not actually obtain a PhD. He received a Masters and claims that the "Dr." title came to him from a "much higher power." Other than that, dead on, fellow fan.


                
There have been whole slew of original shows to cross the boards over at adult swim. Some of them have been sub-par, random, plot less wastes of time but there are a few that are so amazing it surprises even me. Venture Bros. is one of these shows. It is extremely well-written thanks to Doc Hammer and Jackson Publick. Publick used to write for The Tick cartoon series and he seems to have lost none of his zeal. The Venture Bros. is one of the few adult swim originals that actually follows a comprehensible (and hilarious) story line. The setup itself is great: Dr. Venture is a failed super scientist constantly living in the shadow of his father, the late, great Jonas Venture. He lives with his two twin sons, whom he sees more as annoyances than sons, Dean and Hank. These two walk, talk and even dress like 60's cartoon clichés. They also spout some of the funniest lines I have ever heard in a television show. They're constantly running into trouble and often lie in the hands of The Monarch, Dr. Venture's arch-nemesis. The whole Venture family is in safe hands though because they're being guarded by the biggest badass of a bodyguard that's ever worked for the government, and my personal favorite character, Brock Samson. He is expertly and hilariously voiced by Patrick Warburton, who (not coincidentally) portrayed the Tick in the short-lived live-action series. The characters are hilarious, well-executed and completely unique in both design and persona. The story is great and it keeps getting better with every episode of season two. I love this show and you should too.


                
It really is refreshing to see something clever and original on television these days. "The Venture Bros." continues to produce episode after episode of simply the best television has to offer. I write this having just watched the conclusion to the second season. There is little point in laying out the plots of each episode, as knowing the basic plot would not reveal the sharp wit contained within each. The best part of this show are the little jokes, jokes the creators were almost trying to slip under the radar of the average viewer. I applaud Jackson and Doc for their creative spark and will be counting the days until the Season Three Premiere!


                
I love this cartoon and Adult Swim on Comedy Central is turning out to be the channel for adults who love cutting edge cartoons for the new millennium.The Venture Bros is an obvious reflection of a favorite baby boomer cartoon of the 60's, but this is 2005 and things have changed. That's what makes it funny. You know what the references are. And you know if they made that cartoon today, it would be the Venture Brothers.Now, lets say you aren't aware of that particular cartoon. No worry, this series can hold its own without it - that is if you don't take it too seriously. You have Dr. venture, his two sons and his body guard. They travel around for...??? And they battle nemeses because...??? And Dr. Venture's arch enemy the Monarch is his arch enemy because...??? Well, that's part of the fun of the Venture Bros. And it is -- fun. And adult cartoon for goodness sake! And a wonderful addition to the Adult Swim line up.As they said in the old days of the 70's - try it, you'll like it!
I'd hate to break it to you, but if you fit the 17-34, college drop out but smarter then some of your peers slacker that stays up at night and thinks they know everything about pop culture, AND you've never seen Venture Bros., you're suffocating on what you think is good.Venture Bros. relies on quick jabs to 60-70's cartoons like Jonny Quest, blended with neon punk status of the 80's, a fine mist of the 90's smothered with present day appeal of adventure and/or sci-fi comic books, fads, movies, and TV, and then pasted on with futuristic leaps of almost surreal mechanisms of failure. Lots of failure, but in a very good way.The pokes and prods are endless. Sean Connery. Doc Savage. Clones. The Legion of Doom. Robots. The pot-head/lesbian/abusive version of Scooby-Doo. More Clones. Blacula. Gay Monks. Sexy Russian Spies. Doctor Strange. Charismatic bad guys. Self-serving over pompous good guys. David Bowie. More 'effin clones.About the only bad thing about Venture Bros. is that it's on at night, very late night, which minimizes it's viewers. But, hell, we live in the land of Tivo's, DVD's, Blurays, so, yes, do what you have to do to see it.


                
Ever since I first saw the pilot episode I've been addicted to The Venture Bros. It has yet to disappoint my wanderlust. Unlike my own writing it is fantastically written, witty, intelligent, and non-stop laughs make this the modern day equivalent of a funny cartoon. Dean Venture is a dork, wetting his pants at every turn. Hank Venture is a moronic wannabe tough guy, jumping of roof tops dressed as Batman while holding an umbrella. Doctor Thaddeius (sp?) Venture is a pill popping has been that can never live up to his family name. Brock Samson the Swedish murder machine voiced perfectly by Patrick Warburton. Doctor Orpheus, the over the top Necromancer with the lusty pig-nosed daughter Treana, and the Monarch, always my favorite. The Monarch is by far the greatest cartoon villain of all time. He's so fantastic that if I tried to explain his incredible delivery, fantastic lines, complete ineptitude I think your very head would EXPLODE!!! I highly recommend watching this film video entitled "the VentuRe Bros." on the network of cahtoons


                
In a time when cartoon humor has gotten out of hand and relies far too much on sporadic and disconnected humor, Venture Brothers steps up and restores faith in the medium. Each episode is a *bona-fide episode*, complete with a motivating storyline or exposition that supplements the humor rather than distracting from it. The best part is that the humor is situational and unique to each episode, and does not fall prey to topical modern humor or social commentary, nor does it go outside the boundaries of the storyline in which it is contained. The writing is superb, and I can honestly say that this show fulfills everything I've been looking for in a humor series. From the very first episode, each character is quickly developed and we get some very unique back-stories. The back-stories are woven into the episode seamlessly, and unlike other shows, become a boon to the episode and the character, rather than an interjection.Besides the flawless composition, the humor is spot on and does not fall to sophomoric levels of other shows like Family Guy or Aqua Teen Hunger Force. Every episode is hilarious, and yet you'd be hard pressed to find any humor in this series that has been borrowed from another.On top of all of the great writing and humor, the series just looks and feels great. The animation is high quality and well-finished, and lends itself to the action of the series very well. However, the most notable production value of this series is the voice acting, which is phenomenal. The characters' already great lines are enhanced just that much more by a recognizable and spot-on cast.In short, Venture Brothers is more than your standard "quality" cartoon humor series. If not for its adult content, it could be featured on prime-time mainstream television because of its production value. It is almost strange to see a cartoon this well constructed on Adult Swim alongside shows like Perfect Hair Forever and Squidbillies. Let's all be thankful it is, however, for it is quite rare for cartoon humor of adult subject manner to be presented in as fabulous a manner as this.Without a doubt, 10/10.


                
