After the wake of horribly incomprehensible cartoons that followed in the success of Aqua Teen, a show with continuity and humor that doesn't rely on catch phrases and absurdity emerges. The humor and characters can be a little forced and juvenile on occasion, though, but it doesn't affect the overall feel or drag it down.Hank and Dean, in their naivety, work perfectly as counterparts to the bodyguard, Brock Samson, and middle-aged, scientist father, Dr. Rusty Venture, who constantly have to look after the boys well being even though they have extra "copies" of them. Though, in my opinion, the real driving mechanism of the series has to be The Monarch, at least from a comedic perspective, especially in episodes involving the love triangle with Dr. Girlfriend and Phantom Limb. In the end, we have a gaggle of characters that seem as though they were created by a bored junior high student during a free period who are all woven into a parody of Johnny Quest that is surprisingly enjoyable and better than most of the Adult Swim lineup.


                
I originally started watching this show because Foetus did the music, well, the great man who is Foetus does the music. I've been listening to Foetus since 1986 or so. It was good to hear that underground musicians can eventually rise into areas where they can actually make money. Gives me hope with my own artistic pursuits.But, I am not sure if it was my TV at the time or what, the J. G. Thirlwell soundtrack overpowered the audio of the voices in the cartoon when I first tried to view the show. I waited for a while to buy the DVDs, because this chaotic audio setup made it impossible to hear what was going on. Sometimes I would just listen to the Foetus music anyway, the muttering voices underneath creating a nice surreal environment for me to make jewelry or paint by. The cartoon became silent filmy as far as plot.I bought the DVDs not too long ago. It was only then I realized that Doc Hammer was Eric Hammer of Mors Syphilitica and RIW fame. Yes, it took me awhile. I never heard his voice before the new Weep CD came out, so now I assume his natural voice sounds like a guy in the mafia and has a cigar dangling out of his mouth at all times. I mean, I am thinking maybe the true voices of all those neo-Victorians in the 80's-90's goth scene in NYC like Rasputina and Dame Darcy are Dr. Girlfriend deep throat type gangster voices. Must make for great parties.Anyway, the addition not only Eric Hammer, but his ex wife (I am assuming this since IMDb can be mysteriously sketchy) Lisa, made this a must see for me. I mean, people in goth bands or people who do underground art shun the whole selling out thing in their 20's but then their 30's come around (or 40's in Foetus' case) and then you really want to eat and get a job that can offer you retirement. Oh, so you are saying by now, you like music, but what about the cartoon itself? It varies from very good (the peak of this being for me the Klaus Nomi henchmen of David Bowie, the wedding crasher) to the amusingly OK (a lot of the 3rd season). I can actually tell if Doc Hammer wrote the episode or Christopher McCulloch wrote it. The insert of certain words over and over denotes the Hammer episodes. I won't go further because I don't want to insult the writers, since I am a writer myself. I think it is best when both of them write and bounce ideas off each other. I like the wit and parody of the series, reminding me of many cartoons I watched in the 70's and 80's as a kid. The look of the show is fantastic. There is a plot line that goes through all the episodes, yet you can watch them out of order and not be lost, since Adult Swim doesn't show them in order once the initial new play is done.This is probably a cartoon best enjoyed by those my age (gasp). I'd say I am probably Doc Hammer's age. It would help to be well read and have a good record collection, yes records. I doubt 15 year olds, unless they are precocious, would get a lot of the references and I wonder if the 3rd season wasn't an effort by Adult Swim to widen the audience by making it less witty. Or maybe it's losing steam, I don't know. There aren't enough shows that feature Devo references (I mean General Boy here) or Aleister Crowley/Oscar Wilde references (via their take on the League of Extraordinary Gentlemen), so to have this in a cartoon is delightful. I like how the character of Dr. Venture isn't super successful, living under his dad's shadow. There is a lot going on in the show, but I do have a wonder-filled affection for Dr. Girlfriend, since she has the voice of a man and dresses like Jackie O. I'm not a huge fan of Hank or Dean, but I like Brock Samson who is voiced by the very talented Patrick Warburton.It takes a lot for me to watch Adult Swim shows. I like their current Brit shows, like Mighty Boosh (again with its jazz and Gary Numan references) and Look Around You, along with Family Guy, Lucy the Daughter of the Devil and Robot Chicken...but other than that, I watch shows on there only once because they aren't that imaginative or smart. But the Venture Bros. was good enough I bought the first two seasons on DVD and probably will buy the 3rd. I hope it lasts a few more seasons without it having to cave into dumbed down syndrome (DDS).
Can't believe that the previous comment doesn't mention that "Venture" is a dead-on parody of the original "Jonny Quest".Dr. Benton Quest, the world-saving red-haired super-scientist with a Van Dyke beard, has morphed into Dr. Venture, the totally-selfish red-haired pseudo-scientist with a Van Dyke beard.Race Bannon, the blonde uber-macho Quest family bodyguard, has become Brock Samson, the blonde uber-macho Venture family bodyguard/pscho-killer.Jonny and Hadji, the pre-teen adventurers who are smart enough to constantly outwit criminal adults, have transformed into Dean and Hank, the clueless teens who constantly get killed.Forty-two years after it was made, the original "Jonny Quest" still stands up as a top-quality action cartoon. ( Ignore the lousy remakes from the 80s and 90s. ) Sadly, "Venture" has shown Race Bannon as dead and Jonny as a drug addict.If "Venture" weren't so hilarious, I'd hate it for messing with "Quest".


                
