I have to say to make such an impressive trailer and such an uninteresting film, takes some doing.Here you have most of the elements that would make a very good film. You have great special effects, a sci-fi conundrum, beautiful visuals and good sound. Yet the most important part of the film is missing. There is no plot, character or soul to this film. It's like having a beautiful building on the outside with no paint or decoration on the inside.It's an empty shell of a film. There is no tension; you couldn't care less about any of the characters, why were they even motivated to do what they did. Helping a corporation get "one over" on another corporation is hardly saving the human race.When you operate in a dream environment, where you can't die or be injured really it means there is nothing to worry about, who cares what happens. All the explosions and actions sequences are just meaningless. By the way, why does Hollywood still keep filming action scene's an inch away from every characters nose? It's impossible to see what's going on, so many films are ruined by this. Watch and learn from the Matrix, take the camera backwards a couple of feet and we can actually work out what's going on.So 2 and half hours of looking at my watch waiting for the very predictable ending, is a million miles from being a good film. How anyone in their right mind can give this 10/10, it's boring and pointless. A film has stir the soul, has to grab you, you need to feel for the characters. Can anyone, honestly say, they cared about anyone on show here.By the way, here's an idea, why don't you bring the children (who haven't aged a minutes since you last saw them) to you, if you can't go to the US.I know the end scene was trying to be ambiguous, but the fact his father, who lives in Paris, is bizarrely there in the US to meet him (how did he know) and the children look identical to every dream sequence they appeared in, means there wasn't much doubt.In the end there is nothing at stake for anyone, so a pointless movie. I suspect Nolan will continue to get praise, but I can't really say I've got excited about any of his movies. They all leave me cold. They are not terrible, just there's nothing really there, no substance.
Christopher Nolan has done some great work.His ideas and direction singlehandedly gave new life to the beloved superhero Batman.While the film Dark Knight will always be recognized to the new dimensions it added to the classic Batman series of movies and comics, Inception was nothing more than a dull and linear plot, surrounded by and an even duller and more linear plot.The centerpiece of this movie was supposed to be its convoluted storyline which was scattered across multiple levels, in essence puzzle that forces the viewer to think through the movie and decipher the ending.The concept of "levels" and or "interconnected plots" worked very well for such great films such as the Matrix, 2001 A Space Odyssey, Logan's Run, or Total Recall. Inception not only miserably fails at this but it also lacks in other places as well.-Characters: Great actors, whom have all done great work in many movies spanning decades. However the characters in this movie came off as neutered eunuchs who lacked sense, emotion, and any sort of cohesiveness. (Sir Michael Caine and Tom Berenger's performances were appalling and the "team" of dreamers lacked screen dynamics and chemistry.) -Action: For a dream world, the action in this movie is very unimaginative and is well within the typical Hollywood bounds. Car cash scenes where the heroes drive and shoot, building shootouts, and melodramatic bullet wounds (as always one character is wounded critically, the team must save him; however the character can still "fight".) -Plot: This movie could have easily been over within 1 hour of rolling. Not only was Inception's "puzzle ending" blatantly obvious 40 mins into the film, but the storyline it self lacked any substance or draw. The overly complicated "puzzle piece" effect which Nolan was trying to achieve, was nothing more than the main story line being surrounded by excessive fluff and whimsical bullplop.*I will credit the movie with one notable mention. Nolan managed to work a Matrix style fight scene (which have been overdone by Hollywood since the early 2000s) into the small confines of an elevator.In the ending, Inception is not the great rave that many make it out to be. While the movie takes place in a "dream world", where bounds are limitless, the movie itself is sterile, cliché, repetitive, and unimaginative. This is even further compounded by one dimensional characters, and a drawn out storyline that pretends to be an enigma.Perhaps Christopher Nolan's true intent was to make a sterile and lack luster movie aimed strictly at making today's self-absorbed and obtuse Facebook-hipster generation feel "smart".Inception can be compared to a class presentation where the student is unprepared. To hide this, the student uses convoluted and circular logic to stammer through the presentation and pass the time. It is obvious that the student knows nothing and has wasted several minutes talking about a subject that could have been explained in seconds. Nonetheless, since the student used "big words", talked excessively, and is deemed to be in the "mainstream" the class gives a standing ovation regardless...
easily one of the worst films ever made, that some critics fell for it, just shows how bad today's professional critics have become. no doubt all the 14 to 18 year old Nolan fan boys are going to attack all of us, that have seen through this psycho babble non sense. ultimately the worst thing about the film is that it was utterly boring, from start to finish. at no time to you feel anything for any characters, the dialogue is of such a juvenile nature he must have got a 14 year old to write it. the guy has no idea of what dreams are what takes place during them, i will not go into any philosophical or psychological discussion here as the film does not warrant them, giving there is no sense in anything that is said or done. like dark knight this will have its time in the sun and in a few years the very same people who raved about it will wonder why. as for the ending with the top still spinning telling the audience that anyway it was all still a dream, totally makes the whole exercise futile. shame that a once good film maker has gone right up his proverbial
This movie is so predictable that it takes all of 10 minutes to figure it out. At that stage you know you're going to waste another 2 and a half hours watching the nonsense where people slip in and out of dreams in an attempt to fabricate a story where there was no story.The plot starts in the first few minutes and ends in the last few minutes, everything in between... well... is better left unwatched.If you haven't figured it out immediately, then chances are you won't by the time it's over, in which case you're also wasting 2 and a half hours of your time.The only thing I got from watching this horrible overrated bloated cinematic experiment was a wish to kill myself. Maybe I'm dreaming, too?
UNDERWHELMING, LITERAL AND PRETENTIOUS.. These 3 words pretty much summed up the whole of Inception. Why populate the dream world with the same landscape and tone as the real world? Why the dreamers and their subconscious armed with real-world accessories and firearms? Why must the travel initiated with the actor's pretend sleep? Why does the levels are differentiated with only different decor? (Except the LIMBO realm) WHERE IS THE IMAGINATION? Nolan has the perfect opportunity to execute his wildest imaginations and he messed it up and served us mediocrity. Apparently, he only has the most literal interpretation of dreams. No quirky visual manifestation (mirror-world? top-down switched?), no mystical representation of the subconscious (shadows, shades, animals etc), No difference between dream levels (tones-darker?grayer?more grotesque?), No symbolic representative of weapons ( energy? aura's? light? dark? ). AND OF COURSE, the travel method!NOLAN could've presented a more sophisticated facade. Maybe a dream room with vivid machines powered with mysterious matter. Or for mobility, more visible contraptions for head, neck or body. Then, the transition can be cued with portals, or one's self entering the target's body or....to be more fantastical; the reality bleeds or tears itself into an underworld which is the dream.INSTEAD, what we've got is inferior chase and action set pieces. Save for the gimmicks of collapsing the landscape onto itself, making pathways, the movie's rather bland. It also features too many characters - the forgers, architects, point man, sedative-man, corporate-sponsor man.......you get it. IT SHOULD be anchored by one solid protagonist that's let say have a latent talent for some form of ability (dream-walker but is named with Latin words), his target and the source of his internal conflicts (family, lover, friend).This movie fools layman into thinking that they're smart.IT is basically an inferior imitation of Michael Bay's summer blockbuster disguised as a thinking man's movie. IT'S ABOUT CORPORATE ESPIONAGE - Tell people that and it would be 100% true. CERTAINLY NOT travel between dream worlds....
Alright, so here's the thing; yes, it was cool that there was all that complexity. Yes, it was cool that there were so many layers of thought both on screen and off to what was going on. Yes, it was cool that Chris Nolan managed to make something unique and fairly independent in just one movie that was complex enough to account for a whole trilogy of movies in almost any other genre. But here's the thing; it had some rather alarming logical leaps that I could not get over.1.The Projections; Okay, so the things that inhabit the streets of the person's subconscious are manifestations of the various components of their brain as evidenced by the fact that when the characters need to find something out about the dreamer's perception of someone else they just follow that manifestation in the dream. Makes sense, because that thought does what the dreamer thinks it would do, not what the real person would do. When I saw that I went 'wow, that makes sense! Clever!', but then towards the end of the movie they say 'nevermind, they're just projections; they don't actually mean anything, and parts of their minds aren't being killed.' That was a little too convenient for my liking.2.The Totems; WHY doesn't the top fall over in the dream world? WHY does it keep spinning perpetually? Everything else obeys the laws of basic physics, so why wouldn't that? That was probably the dumbest thing I've seen in a movie this year; there wasn't even an attempt made to explain it. I can honestly say this was just as bad as 'only a prime can kill a prime' in Trasformers 2.3. The Architect/Dreamer Relationship; Why can only the architect choose the world they enter? And why is the only person who 'projects' characters into this world the person that's 'the dreamer'? They are ALL dreaming, every single one of them, so they should ALL be both altering the world they're in and the characters in it. And why can't the projections do anything cooler than be normal guys with guns? If I detected intruders in my mind I'd summon a nuke or Godzilla or Optimus Prime to get them out, not boring henchman who probably wouldn't be able to get the job done anyways.4. The Script, and it's supposed 'surprises' I felt kind of talked down to when they honestly expected it to be a surprise when you discovered that Molly's death was as a result of Cobb's previous inception. If ANYONE made it through that movie without figuring that out they deserve to be jettisoned into the sun for their stupidity. I caught on the moment he mentioned that inception was possible.5. Waking Up/Dying in the Dream When you die in the dream world you come back up a level towards consciousness, as evidenced by the fact that they wake up when they get shot in the face in the first scene. But wait! When they die in the dream you actually go down to limbo as evidenced by that happening to the oriental guy, which sucks because that's where it's just 'pure subconscious' and you wake up a vegetable. But wait! You actually aren't in an endless limbo because Cobb and Molly went there once, but you still wake up a vegetable. But wait! You actually don't wake up a vegetable because Cobb and Molly didn't when they killed themselves on the train tracks. But limbo is still bad.......right? Because you can't get out without becoming mentally handicapped, but if you can kill yourself to get out at any time just like a normal dream then why is limbo even bad? And isn't inertia supposed to wake you up? Technically the van falling off the bridge should have woken them up, or even it rolling, not it hitting the water. If the force of hitting the water is what woke them up, then shouldn't anything like a slap to the face do it? In the end the movie suffered from the EXACT same things The Dark Knight did, and that is Chris Nolan's conflicting desires to make something believable and for sensationalism, and both cancelling out the other. If you wanted to compare it to the other obvious similar franchise,The Matrix actually is believable. Oh, yeah, now that I think of the matrix, how does a tiny needle plugged into their wrist plug them into an alternate reality in Inception? The base of the skull made sense, this is just silly. People keep saying this is the next Matrix, but the difference here is that literally twenty views later everything in the Matrix STILL makes sense, and I punched holes in this latest Leonardo Decrapio movie in one sitting. Pathetic.
I would have honestly given the movie a 7 but the current rating is very undeserving and I had no choice but to make the least contribution I could make to it. The writer/director of Inception thought if maybe they pretended to have a very complex plot and great special effects, the audience would not realize how pointless the whole story is. The audience were like; "OH! Such a complex plot! A Genius!! A Masterpiece!!" The first hour and a half all they do is explain the whole inception system without moving the plot forward. I am sure most of the audience didn't get what the movie was about but they pretended so they would not look stupid. And Christopher Nolan is going;"I don't really think of films in terms of light and dark...blah blah blah! I am a genius! blah blah blah! ...thriller that takes place in the mind...blah blah blah! I am a genius! blah blah blah!" The intention of the film clearly reflected on itself. The point was not to entertain audience but rather it was a show-off of what artistic capability the director/writer possesses. It tried to point out the fact what a movie genius Christopher Nolan is. I mean I love this guy. The Prestige was great and so was the Dark Knight. But Inception was really showing off. Look at Kick-Ass, Watchmen and Scott Pilgrim vs. the World. They were complete honest movies. Their intentions were clean and they reflected in the movie. They were meant for pure entertainment and that's what we got. On the other hand Inception was trying too hard. I could really point the fact on how the intentions of the movie was showing off but I would rather suggest the audience to watch the movie once again. They said the movie was very unpredictable. Suppose there is a man chopping onions in the movie and suddenly the chopped onions turned into a chicken. Now would that be predictable? They might say Cobb's wife living with him till old age in the dream was unpredictable. Are you serious!! How come you haven't seen that one coming!! It was so obvious! It is only the fact the way it was dramatized that made it seem unpredictable and shocking. Top 10 in the IMDb chart!!! Are you kidding me!!
Wow what have we here? What hast thou put before our eyes? Could it be Christopher Nolan's boorish tripe 'Inception'? I myself could not tell as the movie was far too low brow to make even the slightest impression on my vastly superior intelligence. Nolan is an amateur who makes movies based on blatantly foreseeable childish artifices that only the most unintelligent boors would find the least bit amusing. 'Inception' is the kind of film designed to make lamebrains feel like they are intelligent. Nolan's intellectualism-for-dummies should be the main title of his biography. Luckily I am smart enough to see past this charade and give the people their fair assessment of this tripe.'Inception' is built upon the notion of traveling through dream like spaces that bend time, space, and reality, yawn. It's been done before Chris in a much sounder fashion in Charlie Kaufman's epic masterpiece 'Synecdoche, New York'. That film is an orgasmic experience while 'Inception' is just beyond words describing it. I mean you might conclude that the inner subconscious would be more creative in coming up with better metaphors for security than guys with guns who chase you. The lengthy exposition- oh I mean training montage, despite having a semi-acceptable computer effect, was way more boring and less engaging than the scene it stole from 'The Matrix', and at least that scene didn't have Nolan's pretentiousness. Larry the Cable Guy is less insulting to the intellect. I mean Sarah Palin sounds smarter than Christopher Nolan's dialogue. ( Conjointly, the Herculean careener of mesh networks is titled Ariadne? Really? None of the juveniles that give you your millions will get that reference Chris but I'm glad you know how to use wikipedia)
I have never lost interest in a film faster than this one, and I have watched some pretty terrible movies e.g. paranormal activity! (like when the girl gets dragged a...way! OMG never laughed so much in my life b4!) . It was a ridiculous waste of resources that could have been put towards ... I dunno folding socks? How they managed to make it so "popular" I do not know.It was pretentious more than anything. It had this strange, "this is the best film of all time because we folded a street over" vibe to it. It was nothing but special effects which i must say were nice but the actual story itself was perpetuated with unspecified technology, chemicals, rules and really bad acting from some really good actors! When you watch a film of this caliber and I use the term lightly, you should be entertained, not bored and scared. They told the story in less than five minutes!***** Don't read this bit if you plan on watching the film ******* They have to change the mind of a guy whose dad is dying; for money and they do it by going into his brain in three levels THAT IS ALL IT IS! SERIOUSLY THAT IS THE WHOLE STORY ALL THE REST IS FILLER!!!!!*******************************************************************They might of as well put in Peter Griffin grabbing his knee in pain and the naive audience would be none the wiser. It isn't a clever film! It isn't even entertainment. It's just noise!
Inception no more explores dreams and the human mind than Star Wars explores outer space. Inception is a rip-off of the novel Fireflies in the Shadow of the Sun (FSS), published in 2004 but preceded by a web site on dreams (2001-2009), the thrust of which is about how dream experiences are the source of ideas and other changes to waking life, including personality development. The broader point is that like his character Dom Cobb, Nolan himself steals the ideas he needs to create Inception from a novelist and life long dream researcher.Chapter 7 titled "Journey by Deflection" occurs entirely in a shared dream in which 2 protagonists ascend / descend through "levels of dreaming" in action-oriented sequences and even a "dream within a dream," addressing how intermittent awareness of the dreams affects the dream. But Inception does not (a) intrigue / illuminate as to how these levels are distinct and yet intrinsically related or (b) draw from real dreams and real similarities to waking life. Inception is just an action film set in dream space that neglects the essence of dreaming in dream symbolism. The dream space featured in Inception is fictitious -- a contrivance of both Nolan and of the architect in Nolan's story. Inception would have benefited by emulating FSS in the one way it did not emulate it. In FSS the characters trapped in the shared dream have to solve the dream's logic in order to wake up. This plot is much more conducive to an education of the language of dreams, which FSS author spent an entire lifetime understanding from the time he started a diary of his own dreams at age 13 to his doctoral dissertation at age 27 exploring the relationship between dream experiences, coping strategies, blood chemistry, and symptoms in terminally ill cancer patients. Like FSS however, and this is yet another coincidental similarity between the two works, in Inception the characters are thwarted by a dream that is plugged into their mental efforts to understand it. Also as in FSS, the dreamers have to deal with the denizens of a dream world that react to periodic episodes of lucid awareness of the dream. In FSS, the whole script, including objects and aspects of the environment, respond to the awareness, but in Inception we get the juvenile and scientifically ignorant development that other characters in the dream respond to Dom Cobb and his team like white blood cells to foreign pathogens. The bottom line is that FSS teaches us things about dreams and Inception will impress only the most psychologically unsophisticated among us or those who have never remembered a dream in their life.Also like FSS, Inception makes the point that much of the bizarreness of dreams is attributable to a higher-order thinking. It does this using a statement very similar to one from the former FSS web site, which maintained that while dreaming is a whole brain activity, the conscious person uses only about 3-5% of his or her brain. FSS author remarks that experiencing and trying to make sense of a dream is like trying to fit 100% of something into 3-5% of itself -- there will be distortion!The subject matter notwithstanding, Nolan's storytelling and direction are designed to give artificial weight to the real value of plot twists. In Nolan we have a director who conceals and compensates for second-rate thinking with CGI and high-octane action that detracts from the story without getting the blood flowing. The action in the film was supposed to create a sense of time-sensitive suspense, but came across more like the dull dishwater backing up in my sink than a raging river.There are also inconsistencies in the film. Nolan wants us to invest in the idea that everything that happens in a dream has an effect on the waking life of the dreamer. It works -- until Dom Cobb dismisses out of hand his shooting of all these dream characters like they were throngs of disposable orcs or storm troopers, claiming its OK because they are "merely projections of the subconscious." Suddenly, what happens in dream Vegas stays in dream Vegas. And where did the idea of "limbo" come from -- introduced as a patchwork device for a poorly articulated plot.And much of the film's premise is contradicted by real research which shows that the relationship between perceived and actual dream time is roughly 1:1.
Philosophically it was absurd. Here were the main points I gathered from it:<U+0095> Faith and doubt are discussed, but the conclusion is that having faith doesn't matter because you can't know what's real anyways. What did the Japanese businessman's non-faith avail him or di Caprio's character's faith avail him? They both ended up having the same destiny, no? So, freewill is an illusion, too.<U+0095> Skepticism is the only valid approach to life.<U+0095> Existentialism is true; we really do make life to be whatever we want it to be. Top remains spinning at end, or does it eventually topple? Was it dream or reality? Who knows? Does it matter? No, existentialism says we can define our own reality to our liking.<U+0095> Relativism of truth: i.e., truth is whatever you make it up to be.<U+0095> Subjectivism / idealism / Cartesianism / Kantianism, i.e., ideas are all that are real. If the senses are to be 100% distrusted for determining what is real, we might all be as insane (possessed) as the Dark Knight's Joker.<U+0095> Objective reality, for all practical purposes, does not exist. Every subject just makes up his or her own reality. This leads to solipsism and ultimately a suicidal nihilism.<U+0095> Murder can be justified as long as the person you are killing is someone's "projection." Di Caprio's character snipes men in the snow scene to the architect girl's surprise; he justifies this by saying they are just another man's "projection."<U+0095> Magic potions (i.e., potent drugs) are the solution to anyone's problems.Christopher Nolan should brush-up on some real, Aristotelean-Thomistic philosophy, but then maybe the movie would not have fooled the audience into thinking it is profound instead of absurd. There were good parts—the importance of fatherhood and family, for example—but they were overshadowed by ambiguity for the sake of ambiguity.Also, artistically, it could've done without most of the car-chase and shooting scenes and confronted more head-on the philosophical issue it was raising, i.e., "What is real? What is being, existence? Etc," rather than hiding its ignorance in a silly plot scheme involving "kicks," "inception," and other Freudian, postmodern rubbish. If it were 1 hour shorter, it would have still been the same: absurdity at its best.
People who are reviewing this as the best movie they have ever seen seriously needs to wake up from their dreams. I don't know who planted this idea in their brain that this is directorial tour-de-force by Nolan but one thing is for sure, Ledger saved Nolan's glutes bigtime. His screen writing technique is feeble; creativity doesn't merely consist of just going berserk with visual treat and showing whatever comes in a ten second unchecked, brainstorming session rather creativity requires constraint. And this movie lacked any constraint whatsoever.If it wasn't for the ultracool visual effects and graphics this movie would be nothing but a vacuous thought bubbles of a person. Whereas Nolan's Dark Knight, instilled by Ledger's genius, was entirely character driven, this movie was entirely fueled by graphical eye-candies. A movie resonates over time when you want to watch certain scenes from it over and over and over again in youtube or your blu-ray disc rented from your local Chinese 99c video store. There were no witty dialogs or any memorable scene in the film that will compel me to stay transfixed in the screen and rewind it over and over and over again.Movies like Vanilla Sky had the same concept yet was made more artfully where the director didn't go overboard with visual scenes while having barely substantial plot.People need to seriously have a reality check. But if majority of the viewers are giving positive reviews, and if you are the only one going against the crowd that surely means there is something "wrong" in your system? Tsk, tsk, tsk what naysayers won't realize is that it would be more comforting to delude oneself and jump on the bandwagon saying it was great film, than admit that they got "jipped" $10.00 for some Sony Vegas type of wizardry. Hey it's the summer after all and it's not "cool" to say things which may otherwise offend your friends!
This tried to be another matrix - but a) there was already one matrix b) as silly as the matrix is, this is much sillier c) the matrix had some personality, this move has no feel whatsoeverBest example of the lameness would be the "introduction scene" where Dicaprio's character (totally forgettable) shows the young architect the dream world. This scene was totally forgettable compared to the epic action scene between Morpheous and Neo ("Stop trying to hit me and hit me")Also - there is hardly any build up - it goes from 2 layers of dreams to 6, whats the build up? more layers of dreams? Ridiculous.
Don't get me wrong, Christopher Nolan (writer, producer and director of this movie) is a very, very talented filmmaker. He will undoubtedly make that masterpiece for which he will be remembered. But that's just my point: he hasn't made it yet. The Dark Knight wasn't it and Inception certainly isn't it. Inception is a product of a director who has been given carte blanche. His vision has been put on film without someone ever saying: 'Chris, that's not going to work.' For that matter, Inception should have been Nolan's Heaven's Gate. But Inception will probably make Nolan a even bigger star. He better check his totem<U+0085> I felt compelled to write a review when I found out this movie had a 9.2 rating and a 3rd place overall in the top 250. Let me say: that is ridiculous. To balance the scale, I have rated this movie (a ridiculous) 1. I agree with some posts on the message board of IMDb: complex does not mean intellectual or smart. And for that matter, I don't think this film is very complex. It just asks what most movies do: go with it.DiCaprio gives a pretty good performance (with leftovers from his role in Shutter Island) as Dobbs, a person who is able the penetrate someone's dream and see or steal his secrets. Recently Dobbs lost his wife and he has not seen his children in a long time. That is because the authorities think he has something to do with his wife's death. Watanabe gives Dobbs a chance to get his life back. He needs to plant an idea (inception) in the mind of a competitor. Like a seed, it will grow. And the inspiration for the idea will seem real.One of the problems for me with the movie was that the dreamworld felt pretty flat and boring to me. Unlike The Matrix (a inception for this movie), the inhabitants of the other world do not bend the rules of gravity. The laws of physics do apply. That's not a bad decision. But I agree with one reviewer: 'Nolan's dreamworld looks like a mediocre action film from the 90's.' The bad guys walk around like video game characters with an AI set on level Easy. I almost shouted in the theater when Eames went Rambo in the snow scene. I understand the decision. Look at The Cell to see how wrong you can go if you explore the subconscious on film. But still, for me his decision to keep the dreamworld neat and clean is a cop out. Dreams don't look like this. Hopes, fears and experiences mix with (the conception of) the real world and you get a pretty original result sometimes. None of this in Inception. Oh right, the architect is in control. How convenient<U+0085> The whole dream within a dream concept was a little far-fetched for me. Have you ever had one? Probably not. So why, when you have a pretty basic dreamworld go with a concept this unreal? The real world does influence the dream the character's have. But they feel it and are conscious that it is the real world. That's a missed opportunity. A dream influenced by factor's unknown to the dreamer could have made it much more enjoyable for the audience.Maybe it's just not my cup of tea. Like Nolan's former projects The Prestige and The Dark Knight: I don't get all the hoopla. Yes, these movies (like Inception) are well made. They are original, have refreshing ideas, are technically good and have decent scripts. But they are not the best of the decade. And this one really is not a 9.2. I'd say a 5.5. Barely...
Terrible film. There are way better iterations of dream films than this. Mulholland Dr. by David Lynch is one of them.Like some others have posted around the web, it was too long, and too confusing. Not that there was any depth or cleverness to the film. Too much repetition. They kept 'trying' to explain everything over and over again. It was just a stream of Hollywood trash. Didn't really seem like any of the subjects were dreaming at all. Just explosions and dumb dialogue, with shallow characters and a convoluted storyline.SPOILER ALERT...The film is a film about a man, Leonardo... an Architect, who falls asleep on a plane in first class. It's a long flight to LA, so the movie shows what he is dreaming about during that time that he is asleep on that flight. The only real part of the film is when he wakes up at the end in the plane. He looks around, sees a cabin full of people in first class, then gets off the plane, and goes home with Michael Caine, either his father, grandfather, or caretaker for his two children.The people in first class were in his dream because he saw them in the cabin before he fell asleep. They then each took on a part in his dreaming, but none of them have any connection to his real life. And no, he is not a thief. He is not hired by some black corporation to extract information from people through dreaming. There is nothing of the sort. The movie is just a dream.Supporting evidence:1. First, the movie is just shallow trash. Horrible illustration of a dream film just down to its core. It's so bad that it is obvious how hard they tried to make it look like a dream.2. Reference to Architects... a dream architect is simply what Leonardo is in real life: an Architect.3. Projection... they must have said projection 100 times. It's obvious that the movie is telling you that Leonardo is just projecting his own subconscious onto the others in his dream. This is the only part of the movie that is decent academically. The fact that the filmmakers understand what psychological projection is. But also, the fact that they repeated the concept of projection so many times it just lost its value. Anyway, Leonardo projects his wants, fears, and desires, in a convoluted way, onto the other subjects. For example, "Fischer" takes on his own self in relation to his father. Also, the girl who keeps telling him to move on is another projection of his own mind telling himself to move on from his wife's death...The movie progresses and gets ever more deeper into Leonardo's subconscious, where the root of his anxiety resides. He finally discovers that it is OK for him to be his own man, to be an Architect, and not try to live up to what his father was. So we have a set of problem(s) that reveal themselves ever so slightly as the dream progresses, in the form of Leonardo projecting his fears, etc. onto other subjects, until he goes so deep as to arrive at a place where he has a feeling it is really about him. Like a sort of solution. But like anything, the problems need to be apparent before a solution can be revealed. Dreaming is like this. Your mind weaves together a series of experiences, and projections, and if you understand them enough, you'll know what the problems really are, and you can then begin working on a solution in real life...He then wakes up. Reality is there. It was a cathartic release.4. The dream sharing... there is no literal dream sharing, getting into the minds of others and extracting their thoughts. This is a metaphor... the movie is telling us that there are a group of people in a small area (cabin of a plane) who are all dreaming... and they may have a bit of a spiritual connection to each other... so one person feeling anxious, another may 'feel' this while dreaming and some sort of shared experience results. It's a bit of a play on the idea that people can dream together and sort of experience similar or even the same things. But that's pseudo-science and mostly fiction.5. Recurring nightmare about his wife. Obviously this is another clear marker that it is just a dream. His recurring nightmare about his wife. Looks like she killed herself, perhaps jumped out of a hotel room window because Leonardo didn't show up for their anniversary. Perhaps he was not a good husband and wasn't around enough... he then blamed himself. The girl in the film kept telling him to move on... So Leonardo's major life issues were revealed in a convoluted way within a long dream. Like any human being, those issues are complex. The ending showed how he seemed relieved when he got home to see his kids. It looks like it was a very important dream because it pushed him over a threshold and helped him to realize a set of things to make his life better.Also, can we please stop with all the discussion about the tenability of the things seen in the film? Most of it won't make much sense: it was just a dream. Therefore, defying gravity, ending up in different stages of life so quickly, etc.... it all makes sense when understood from the perspective that: it. was. just. a. dream. Now, after such a lengthy review and explanation, you might be wondering why I only gave it 1 star. I'll end how I started: it's Hollywood trash. Too basic. Too stupid. Too obvious. And to someone how dreams every night, and the fact that there are way better films about dreaming out there, there is nothing to see here...
I was on the verge of leaving the Cinema on this completely ridiculously story. I hung in there (also despite the insanely annoying music) though, and am simply shocked that the film has (currently) a top 3 position of movies ever made. Perhaps I have entered a (bad) dream and have not yet woken up...So the backdrop of the story is basically that a bunch of guys drug people and enter a dream world using a plastic box with wires attached to those entering the dream. In this dream they use the same technique (the box and drugs are now just apart of THIS dream..) to enter another dream. This process can be repeated a number of times - and in the movie they go to the fourth dream-layer. If you are killed while dreaming you will wake up - unless you are too heavily sedated (in real-life, or also in one of the dreams?..), which will then put you in a "limbo" state - which can potentially last for years. If you want to get out of a dream safely - you need to be "kicked" (sharp acceleration) in the dream-layer above the one you are currently in. If you are unsure if you are dreaming or not, you have a "totem" (a physical object that for some unspecified reason behaves differently in a dream - why?) that you can examine.I just hate it. Simply hate it...The only good thing I see in this movie is the ending: DiCaprio sees his kids again - but they look exactly as they have done in his dreams - they have not aged at all. This means that he is still dreaming and he is therefore stuck in a new limbo dream world - and will be there for a LONG time. Phew... that means there won't be a sequel until he wakes up again. Unless it is me that's still dreaming.
At one point Cobb tells us that despite his best efforts, he cannot create a dream wife with the depth and complexity of his real wife. Could this be Nolan's own subconscious, commenting on his own limitations as a writer and director?Cobb undertakes to plant an idea in someone's head so that Cobb's employer can monopolize an industry. Cobb succeeds, and thereby recovers his own life. No one in the film questions the morality of this; the film doesn't really question the morality of this, or invite the viewer to do so. Apparently, it's just business. Although in a way that is often thin, banal, or hypocritical, usually the sentiments offered to us in movies managed to stay aligned with basic ideas of good and evil. Not in the case of Inception. The popularity of this movie is a little frightening.
Ten years he did about this story, Christopher Nolan. I hardly understand what is so difficult to understand about this would be intellectual piece of rubbish about a dream within a dream within a dream. This is just what Night M Shyamalan has done in all of his movies. Boring us to death with a boring story for about 9/10th of the movie and then to give us an 'amazing ending', the ending here being that in fact it is not a three layered dream but about a dream within a dream within a dream within a dream so 4 layers, at least that's what my impression is as the spinning thing at the end is the talisman of either the wife or Leonard di Caprio.From the trailer this seemed to be a brilliant movie but I should have been warned by my colleagues from work, one leaving the theater before the ending and all of the others not understanding what the fuss was all about and right they are.Before this year I never believed that Leonardo di Caprio was able to play adult characters (if any at all) after watching Titanic years ago. Now I'm dead sure of it after watching Shutter island and Inception this year.Characters without character so you don't give a damn about them; endless ridiculously action scenes certainly towards the end working to an action climax that is incredibly foreseeable (dream layers ending at the same time); heavy pseudo sophisticated acting that gets on your nerves quickly. In one sentence: the biggest scam since The matrix though the Wachowski brothers are even bigger crooks as they scammed the world three times. What idiots us the public are, are we not? I have no problem with 'amazing ending' movies at least if they would make the effort to give you a story leading up to it. Here there is none.I agree there are really serious bad things to get offended about in the world, but when we feel offended in real life about being conned with situations or a product, we should be too when we are scammed in the movie theater.The 1 point I give for this movie is for the 'street bending' special effect (the other effects being rather tedious and pure special effects for the effect).
some people, who liked that movie wrote that we all have to "understand" this movie to find it good and those who didn't, are rating it as awfulDAMN these inception lovers are wrong i understood this AWFUL movie, he (cobb) is a dream extractor who extracts the thought and other stuff of ppl and this time he has to put a thought in.....bla bla bla at the end (which is damn ****) he doesn't wake up from this dream zone(dunno the English word) and i ask myself : where the **** are the bad guys?? ahh there aren't any... what are you freaking kidding me??? its a dream so there is no need for bad guys... BAH i really was disappointed cause i expected some BAD GUYS and some more special effects CAUSE THEY WERE IN A ******* DREAM in other words the move is awful its waste of time and the money in to worth it
But not for me. The movie unmasks itself as a very uninspired convoluted pseudo something when the protagonists have to find an alternative dream-tactic because their target protects himself. What they consider to be a new psychological trick is so plain and unoriginal that becomes clear with a 'kick' that Nolan was absolutely unaware of any scientific profound background by developing the plot. The plot within a plot within a plot is not automatically an "intellectual" challenging procedure when one plot is the exact mirror of the other. The challenge for me was to stay awake whilst the plot stumbles from one hole to the next:How do they get connected so that can dream the same dream? Chemically, physically?? How can they transport their conscious plans into their unconscious dreams and execute them there? Etc., Etc.I can't help it, but Nolan is one of the few directors in Hollywood who can direct any script as tedious as you can imagine. There are so many moments in that movie where i thought Wow, that could have been much more suspenseful if, for instance, Cameron or so had directed it.This movie is stupid. You can make a stupid plot 'intelligent' by nesting it multiple times, it just multiplies its stupidity. In this sense the next Nolan movie could be a even greater "masterpiece" for meat heads: when it has a dump base plot every fool can follow, but this time the plot is the plot in the plot in the plot in the plot in the.....that's challenging isn't it?
I cannot understand why this movie is rated so highly, it is infantile in its storyline and soooo boring. My young teen son was raving about it and forced me to go to it, he was very happy that I was there the 2nd time as I was able to wake him up from the total brainwashing of modern movie making Hollywood style. First of all take a very lousy infantile script and dress it up with all kinds of jargon about dreams and subconscious but in fact the story makes no sense at all and has a crude central storyline that is ridiculous - a teenager could make it up. Next take a good smattering of Hollywood A list actors to make it look slick. Get a fantastic stunt crew and great special effects team to make this silly stupid storyline look amazing and keep a bunch of immature easily duped people in their seats for two hours thinking they are watching ground breaking cinema but in fact are watching a story that does not have any substance and a plot that is fit for a 14 year old. Meanwhile the 14 year old mindset believes in the illusion of the picture and gets 'hooked in' with the violence and the extra wow factor of Hollywood over the top visual blackmail. Once I had exposed this trickery to the 14 year old who by the way woke up and saw it for what it was, meaningless tripe, it was worth the entrance fee just for that. Don't waste your time.
I sat in disbelief while watching this movie and when it had finnally finnished i registered to IMDb to slate this mess of a movie.i really cant be bothered going into the whole story etc because i'll be here all day.the main downfall of this movie is the Robert Fischer character,his subconscious was trying to defend the so called inception and what did he do? well he just imagined a few soldiers and a train to annoy dicaprio and the rest of the get along gang. BORING!!!! surely his mind could have thought of a few monsters or flying turds or anything other than what goes in normal every day life i mean it was meant to be a dream and uurrrgghhh i cant be arsed going on any more . why was there no drama or excitement to this film? why was this movie not like a dream at all? why did i actually sit thru this movie? why why why? Christopher Nolan and dicaprio i want my 148 minutes of wasted time back
I must admit I was really looking forward to this film but as with most of the big blockbusters in recent years it was a rather overrated experience. A good cast and some good acting but an overly complicated script and convoluted way of going about stuff using ideas from a lot of decent films that have gone before. The argument that if you don't like it you are too dumb to understand it does not wash as it's easy enough to understand what's going on but why it's going on does not make that much sense. One example is that for no sensible reason Leo is involved in a domestic situation that results in his wife's death and now seems to be worldwide public enemy number one?We have the usual assembling of an elite team to go in and carry out the usual impossible mission with consequences that are unknown to most of the team members that will impact on their success or not. Well that's original.Chucking sci-fi babble into a story does not always enhance the story and most of the inception idea tech talk is boring and nonsensical.The 'shock' ending is predictable and has been signposted since pretty much the start of the film which was overlong and overcomplicated and not at all as intelligent as it was made out to be. Like Shutter Island Leo is once again involved in a film that promises a lot but delivers not a great deal. Some spectacular sets and nice effects cannot cover up an ordinary fun bit of sci-fi nonsense passed off as genius. Like Avatar before it thinking it is some kind of genre changing piece of film when its just a half decent bit of entertainment that will linger with an audience until they get to the car park of KFC.Thought provoking cinema seems destined to be left behind for this kind of multi layered pseudo sci-fi babble which looks pretty but is not as clever as it likes to think.
My high expectations of this movie based on its no. 3 position in the Top 250 lasted for about 2 seconds into the movie. What a disgrace! And so childish. And Tiring! How can it be that everyone likes this movie. It's absolutely overloaded with bizarre and completely arbitrary turns of plot that have to be explained for about 75% of the movie. No character! No excitement, I could not even tell who were the bad guys. And yet again a few seconds of Michael Caine to camouflage the complete cardboard appearance of the entire cast! What is the meaning of this movie? What is it about? Uhhh???? Its internal logic is utter bullshit. Its emotional significance is zero, empty, frightening.Can please somebody agree with me, I feel so sad.Kurosawa come alive!


                
Contrary to the opinions of the deluded army of comic reading Nolan fanboy geeks who have descended on IMDb, Christopher Nolan has entirely and irrevocably disappeared up his own self inflated backside with this movie. I say The Emperors New Clothes because the director will sneer at anyone who doesn't understand the film and he has thus created a perfect defence mechanism. I'm sure Di Caprio et al had in depth briefings about the narrative and can explain it verbatim but us viewers are left to work it out for ourselves. And it's so full of holes, so full of irrelevant tripe and so full of itself that it isn't easy. It's incredible that its been voted the 3rd best film of all time by IMDb users. I mean seriously, that's a joke. The fanboys all want to laud Nolan as the new Kubrick (another joke) but in doing so they have voted this tosh above ALL of Kubricks work. It's such a smug self congratulatory film from the get go and it just gets smugger as time drags on.Now of course I appreciate that you can go too far in explaining every detail to the viewer with unnecessary script mechanics that insult the viewers intelligence. However, although you can go too far in explaining, you can also go too far in NOT explaining and expect the viewer to grasp in a single viewing what is a massively complex concept film - and one that's so badly flawed in so many areas for it to undermine the whole 'intellectual' nature of it. The idea of the film is OK and the film does have its moments but there are so many scenes that don't make sense that it spoils it entirely. I appreciate that 'heist' movies are usually procedural and that Nolan wanted to avoid that but in doing so he's created the most self-indulgent picture ever.I could go on about the snow scene, the thoroughly implausible way these people not only do what they do but 'assemble' as a team, the oh-I'm-Christoper-so-considerably-cleverer-than-you-are-Nolan backstory with Di Caprio's wife but I'm not going to pick apart the scenes because I'd be here for hours and I haven't got the energy left after enduring this nonsense. Besides; everything could be spun that he meant this or that (he isn't as deep as he likes you to think). Inception is all fur coat and no knickers. It explains so little of what is going on that I left feeling angry. And I generally get these films so it's not a case of me being some moronic fool who struggles to follow the weather. And billed as a completely original idea? Nah. There's obvious similarities with The Matrix, Dreamscape, Total Recall, Flatliners, Vanilla Sky, Pan's Labyrinth, Dream Demon and even one of the Star Trek Next Generation Episodes centred around the holodeck, all of which I've 'gotten' - the good ones, the bad ones, the ones you ponder for days afterwards. The fact is with this abomination I simply can't be bothered to think about it because I really don't care. I don't care about the characters, I don't care about the ending (which was excruciatingly predictable) and I don't care about how clever Nolan thinks he is. You're not mate. You've pulled a massive con with this film by creating a movie where you can call people stupid if they don't get it / like it. You get to sneer and snigger at the stupid little people. You've taken your previous successes to the movie execs and they've foolishly allowed themselves to fund your rampant self indulgence. That's what irritates me the most about this utter piffle. I understood what was understandable about this film and there are of course films where the intention is to purposely let the viewer fill in the gaps with their own imagination (generally a nice touch) but that simply isn't the case here. The story script and indeed most of the awful acting (outside of Di Caprio, Juno girl and Cillian Murphy) neither holds it together nor papers over the cracks of a weak script that's trying to be oh so deep... and badly failing.This is over 120 minutes of my life that I will never ever get back and I simply couldn't wait for the film to end. I had lost all interest in any of the characters, their backstorys or indeed the 'mission' after an hour once I woke up to the fact that he was clearly unable to pull the film together into something coherent and genuinely contemplative. And judging by the rest of the audience and the people I was with, I wasn't the only person who left feeling bitterly cheated. I congratulate Nolan on creating hysteria, mass hypnosis and hype because he's clearly managed to brainwash a lot of the audience into making them think they've seen a clever film. That's the only inception.Go and see this insidious fluff for a visual experience perhaps (even then; visually it's pretty overrated). But don't be surprised if you feel a strange peer group pressure to tell whoever you go to see it with that you understood it all when you probably didn't (or if you did; that you actually care and did so in spite of a dumb script).Nolan is not nor ever will be Kubrick. Kubrick would have done this film justice - after he had rewritten the script, changed half the cast, removed 45 minutes of length and replaced it with sensible content that made the film engaging and cohesive. I fear the next set of people to be duped will be those who vote for this trite idiocy come the Oscars.BTW I wager that Nolan watched Guy Ritchies Revolver and liked it. Congratulations Christopher, you have just descended to his level of filmmaking.Meh.


                
