I'm nearly at a loss for words. Just when you thought Christopher Nolan couldn't follow up to "The Dark Knight", he does it again, delivering another masterpiece, one with so much power and rich themes that has been lost from the box office for several years. Questioning illusions vs reality usually makes the film weird, but Nolan grips your attention like an iron claw that you just can't help watching and wondering what will happen next. That is a real powerful skill a director has. No wonder Warner Bros. put their trust in him, he is THAT good of a director, and over-hyping a Christopher Nolan film, no matter what the film is about, is always an understatement instead of an overestimate like MANY films before.Not since the eras of Stanley Kubrick, Andrei Tarkovsky and Alfred Hitchcock has there been a more brilliant director than Christopher Nolan. He is, undoubtedly, one of THE most brilliant and gifted Hollywood filmmakers in history. Filmmakers like him come but just once in a lifetime. He has the ability to seduce our eyes, ears and most importantly, mind, and then delivers what he intends to deliver in full blast. Rarely have blockbusters have the gall to deliver such amounts imagination and intelligence at the same time. And yes, it is similar to the excellent anime film "Paprika" in the whole "invading dreams" plot, but the similarities end there as Nolan brings the film to a whole different level.Visuals and intelligence rarely come together in movies at the same time, it's either all-visuals-no-smarts ("G.I. Joe", "Transformers") or the exact opposite ("Doubt", "Invictus"). In this film the excellently directed action sequences combined with immensely groundbreaking and jaw-dropping visual effects are combined smoothly with a heavy dose of intelligence and believability.Although having an ensemble cast and financed by a Hollywood giant studio (Warner Bros), this film is a very personal film for Nolan, he wrote the film as well as directing it, and as you watch the film you get many glimpses of Nolan's perplexing, increasingly imaginative thoughts and dreams in the dialog that he writes and the plot that he sets up. Ideas have never felt more interesting and put to good use than in this film. This film is NOT for the popcorn muncher, rather it is a film for thinkers. Honestly I can't explain the plot for fear of spoiling the movie for you readers. Even the slightest hint will ruin the experience. The viewer will walk out of the cinema feeling dazed, confused and ultimately breathless. It's like a puzzle, both physically and mentally, and you have to pay attention throughout the film for the clues. However Nolan controls the spectacle of the film and is careful not to let it overwhelm the film's humanity, and this is where "Inception" shines. It is a very deep film that will have one thinking and asking questions for years to come. That's right, years.Once the film ends, you'll want to watch it again, for there's something new every time. This is a film that requires multiple viewing for someone to truly comprehend the film's ambiguous themes, and will be discussed by many in the future. This is an original film, no adaptation, no sequel/prequel, no remake/reboot, which is extremely refreshing having gone nearly three years of mostly unremarkable visual effects roadshows ("Avatar" be damned).Of course, a film is not complete without the actors. Leo DiCaprio delivers an Oscar worthy performance, similar but better than his previous effort "Shutter Island". He shows glimpses of a flawed, grim, fragile man, who has knowledge about everything else but yet can't seem to come in grips with himself and his demons. Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Ellen Page, Tom Hardy, Ken Watanabe, Dileep Rao, Cillian Murphy, Tom Berenger, Michael Caine, Marion Cottilard, Pete Postlethwaite, Lukas Haas... Nolan really brings out the best in this unusual yet extremely talented group of supporting actors who make their roles their own.Nolan is of course, a master behind the camera, a real virtuoso when it comes to film. His direction is taut, focused, gripping, and extraordinarily fascinating. The detailed and complex original script is no surprise from Nolan, considering the fact that he turned Batman the superhero into pop-culture art two years ago ("The Dark Knight"). The action sequences are unique, exciting and fresh, something absent from the cinema which has since been interested at things popping towards the screen and stuff blowing up every two milliseconds. The visual effects are awesome and imaginative, and best of all they do not bring down the movie's quality one bit, rather it makes the movie more fascinating to watch. The cinematography is absolutely, beautifully shot, so we can see the action and emotion in all their glory. Production design is top notch, with terrific design of sets and locations. Hans Zimmer's complementing music score is simply outstanding, and knowing the man, that's really all I have to say. Together all of these elements combine to deliver a mesmerizing movie experience like no other this year.Christopher Nolan has once again outdone himself. He truly is a gifted filmmaker, arguably the most imaginative in Hollywood today. And "Inception" can proudly stand alongside "Blade Runner" and "2001: A Space Odyssey" as science-fiction masterpieces that push the boundaries for movie making and become a different experience altogether.There are two types of films: the crowd-pleasing blockbuster and the intelligent indie/art film. Nolan has combined two of these tropes together into one exceptionally brilliant package, pulling off that rare, now nearly-extinct Movie Magic that has since been wiped off the planet by sequelitis and reboots. Movie of Summer 2010? Movie of 2010? Heck this is possibly the first masterpiece of the decade! Nolan is a genius and I applaud him for treating his audiences as intelligent people.Missing this film and not getting the film's point is a crime.Overall value: 9/10 (Excellent)


                
Nolan is careful never to let the scope of the film overwhelm the human element and this is a key reason Inception works as well as it does. The acting, from a great ensemble led by DiCaprio, is as good as it gets. In terms of sheer originality, ambition and achievement, Inception is the movie of the summer, the movie of the year and the movie of our dreams. world need directors like Nolan,Spielberg,Cameron, As with his previous movies, Nolan displays a knack for choosing actors who can best embody the characters in his films. While DiCaprio's role here may be reminiscent of that in his earlier Shutter Island, there's no question that he anchors the movie with a perfectly calibrated performance that is equal parts intense and heartfelt. The rest of the supporting characters fill out their roles just as vividly- Joseph Gordon-Levitt radiates confidence and suavity, Ellen Page displays suitable wit and grit, and in particular Marion Cotillard exudes both sultriness and danger in an edgy yet eventually heartbreaking performance.But "Inception" is Nolan's vision through and through- and in fact, a visionary director and a master filmmaker at that. Many years Nolan spent refining his screenplay, and it shows in the great detail and complexity that makes "Inception" both an intellectual and visceral enjoyment- just take the names of the various characters, each of which have a special significance. With "Inception", Nolan invites you to open your mind to possibilities- possibilities of alternate realities, of complexities beyond the conscious mind to grasp and most importantly, of the power of imagination. It is that rare gem of a film that is so multi-layered, so profound and so fascinating that you'll want to experience it again immediately after you've seen it- just so you can fully appreciate its genius.


                
This has to be for me one of the biggest load of monkey crap i have ever seen.i was bored throughout the whole movie.The best part was when the credits rolled.I enjoy movies like time cop and total recall etc,but i really couldn't enjoy this no matter how much i tried to.I don't know how this got an 8/10 rating to be honest.If you are bored and have nothing else to do,you will just be even more bored watching this.I enjoyed Leonardo DiCaprio in movies like Titanic,Catch me if you can,The Beach etc.But this is one of his worst for me personally.I have now wasted two and half hours of my life, which i will never get back.Watching this movie makes me think comeback Steven Seagal all is forgiven.I think i need to lie down after having watched this awful film.I love films and have watched a lot over the years.And sometimes if i like them i will watch them again,This i definitely wont be watching again.I don't drink,but this movie would drive you to it.


                
Acclaimed director Christopher Nolan scores with the general movie-going audience once again with his highly anticipated film INCEPTION (2010). The hook for this film is it's exploration into the concept and idea of "dreams". Frankly, my immediate response when I saw this film was that the it's definition of dreams seems to be more based on NOLAN's interpretation and not the general consensus! Some of it sounded correct, while some of it sounded like mumbo jumbo! At the same time, Nolan essentially executes the dream aspects of the movie within his own set of rules and more or less does not violate them, which is actually part of the problem. In the big picture, I don't think dreams work the way this movie portrays them.INCEPTION stars Leonardo DiCaprio as dream expert extractor Cobb. DiCaprio gives a passable performance, but it's not anything mesmerizing or Oscar-caliber. Frankly, I think that this actor is probably the most overrated major star of the last decade. It's partially that he's a victim of his eternal youthful look, so it makes it hard to take him seriously in these "adult" roles; I feel like he's being forced upon me as a star, rather than truly being one! Unlike when he was a teen actor in the early to mid 90s, I don't find him very engaging as an adult actor. He simply doesn't draw me in. And, actually, in this movie, I was more engaged by the other ensemble's performances more than his. He felt like a 5th wheel, especially since it was his character that was actually an impediment to the mission succeeding.The real acting standouts in the film for me were Cillian Murphy and former Best Actress Oscar winner Marion Cotillard. Murphy plays the team's target Robert Fischer, whose billionaire industrialist father had recently died, so Cobb's team was on an assignment, paid by Fischer's main competitor Saito (a solid Ken Watanabe) to implant an idea in his mind to liquidate his father's empire. Murphy did a much better job showing depth and character detail than DiCaprio, whose tale was actually more tragic, with his dreams haunted by the memory of his late wife Mal (hauntingly played by Cotillard, and I actually didn't realize it was her until the end credits rolled!). The capable supporting cast playing Cobb's "dream team" is led by up and coming star Ellen Page (as Ariadne, a specialist in architecture, who constructs the dream landscape for the film's big mission). Although she was underused mainly as a fascinated observer and Cobb's support, I found Page to be very engaging. After constructing the dream landscape, Ariadne's assignment was to protect Cobb from his demonic subconscious in the form of his late wife Mal. Joseph Gordon-Levitt is fine also as Arthur, Cobb's sidekick who monitors the dreamers to ensure that they eventually get "kicked" (treated rather flimsily in this movie!) out of them. Tom Hardy is also good as Eames, a forger whose expertise is needed in the dreams to shapeshift his appearance to the dreamer. Dileep Rao soundly functions as chemist Yusef, creator of the drug that will allow the team to go into 3 levels of dream states in order to execute the mission.Where INCEPTION actually drew me in was in the last half, with it's steamrolling action sequences as the dreamers went from level to level, which I did not expect at all! I thought this was going to be some kind of mind-bending, trippy exercise, which it really wasn't. The way the movie portrays dreaming is actually very pat and linear, and the miniscule complexity is what allows the viewer to follow and be more engaged in the action. That is, while not completely mindless (pardon the pun!), the dream state stuff is pretty easy to follow. Also, Nolan did a good job of defining how the different levels work in the film's opening sequence.My biggest complaint about the film is it's rather simplistic way of describing dreams, and this ties in with the DiCaprio character Cobb, who was the biggest detriment to the mission because of his subconscious drawing his wife Mal into the dreams at inopportune moments. Other than the dreamer himself, why weren't any of the other teams subconscious in the dreams coming into play? Basically, Cobb was the only team member whose subconscious posed a wild card threat, which is hard to believe. If you take Cobb out of the equation, the mission runs a lot smoother than it actually did. Cobb is the only reason for a true threat to exist and for there to be any suspense, and after a while, I found the Cobb-Mal stuff to be more of a distraction than an important plot point. Minus Cobb, the movie is really just a simple action flick with no true threats in the dreams other than the main dreamer's typical subconscious threats, which were basically a bunch of useless gun-toting brutes who couldn't hit the side of a barn! Again, it was all very entertaining, but definitely not groundbreaking.INCEPTION was nominated for Best Picture, in part I think due to the fact that there are 10 nominations now. Chances are it would not have been nominated if there were only still 5 since Nolan himself didn't garner a Best Director nomination. Enteraining experience, but definitely not Oscar-worthy.
Great ideas grow like a cancer. Sometimes you never really know where they come from.Chris Nolan has never really had a totally original idea. Like Tarantino, he knows other movies so well, their ideas creep into his work, either intentionally or not. While my words on originality may come as inflammatory, my feeling toward his talent, and films is quite the opposite. He's good - real good. But he isn't original. Nobody is. This is the 21st century folks and its all been done. It is the way he's showing us these familiar things, that keeps us coming back.Except for Di Caprio, who never really convinces as a brooding widower/father, the rest of the band is perfect. Not that any of them are actually interesting, the plot is the real character in Inception. Hans Zimmers score is majestic and hugely epic and Wally Pfister's familiar clean visuals make it easy on the eyes.Much like a new roller-coaster at 6 Flags, Inception is a ride we've been on on before. Dreams, reality and all that jazz, but this one has a deeper dose of rabbit hole. We have a heist film set in the frame of corporate psychological espionage - whatever the hell that is.We get Matrix style pseudo reality and weightless gun fights. We get The Game and Total Recall style onion layers. We get the old man in the bedroom of cubist proportions from the Kubrick 2001 finale. Maybe one too many James Bond ski battles. And I'm just getting warmed up. The wife story rings hollow - in fact, it's downright boring. Exposition goes in circles and we never do get enough Watanabe Ken. But it's that layered time of the tiered dreams that makes this one go boom. The elevator that can't drop and that van that just falls forever with the cameras over cranking at 150 frames per second or more. But we don't want it to hit the water. Go deeper Cobb, cause I don't want to get off this one yet. The final joke with the unending spinner? This is Nolan's dream, not Cobb's.It's not visionary, it's not original, but just like the meandering Dark Knight or the wretched nonsense of the Prestige, or the titanic plot holes of Memento, Inception is a rabbit hole that owns you til it's over. This ain't art or philosophy to ride to the top. It's just one great kick all the way down.8/10


                
'Inception' has already been defined by its makers as a mixture of James Bond and 'The Matrix'. I was hoping that it would be more, and it was, but not as much as I would have liked it to be.Conceptually it was fascinating. Dreams are fascinating in themselves, and the idea of being able to enter and manipulate the sub-conscious has been around for awhile in movies: 'A Nightmare on Elm Street', 'Dreamscape', 'The Cell', and 'What Dreams May Come'. The best of these is 'The Cell', which spins a horrific tale. Yet, as a dream-concept film it is the most visually interesting because it gives us the kind of abstractions that are associated with dreams; abstractions that can make sub-conscious sense, particularly to the dreamer. 'Inception' initially depicts some dream abstractions, but conveniently overrides this by introducing the 'dream architect' whose job it is to make the dream as real as possible. As a result, as our actors jump through dream levels, in which there are four (psychology has determined there are primarily two sub-conscious levels) we observe commonsensical realities - for the most part. Although this is significant to storyline development, it unfortunately means that we are left with familiar visuals (chase scenes and shoot'em- ups) that merely differ from level to level. Soon we find ourselves watching two to four recognizable action scenarios that are implied to be transpiring simultaneously.Since this can present the possibility of confusion for the viewer, the film often becomes visually redundant and subsequently monotonous. This was the major flaw of the film, so much so that I almost nodded off. Myself. Yet, the concept of the film overrides this flaw, and much of the imagery is particularly stunning.
This review is being written by a 46 year-old guy. I mention this because clearly this is a film where age is important, as younger folks probably will enjoy the movie more--and can take the fast-paced action and frenetic pace. I assume older audiences probably will be a little less amazed and a bit overwhelmed with the film. Just something to consider as you read this.As for the movie, I'll be up front about the fact that I did NOT love this film. It's just not the sort of movie I'd usually see and only went because my oldest daughter nagged me to go. I am glad I did, however, as I really could respect the movie in many ways. First, the story is wildly original (though, also quite confusing). Other than the Matrix films, I can't think of anything that even comes close to it in style. Second, the production looked and sounded great. The music was intense and worked great with the amazing, totally amazing, special effects. Third, it was nice to see so many kid actors show that they are NOT light-weights and could act. Leonardo DiCaprio is no longer the pretty young thing he was in "Titanic"--his maturity and grit were welcome. Also, seeing the kid from "Third Rock" suddenly playing an action hero was great--you'd barely recognize him--or the other grown child actors. Fourth, I loved the ending--it really pulled everything together very well.So why am I not giving the film a glowing review? Well, I am simply not an action film fan. And, the insane pace, TONS of shooting and crazy plot simply lost me at times. I much preferred the slower and more introspective moments of the film. Also, while Ken Watanabe is a fine actor, I had a devil of a time understanding a lot of what he said--to the point where I wish they'd either dubbed him or had caption! Now this is NOT just because I am an old crank who is slightly hard of hearing--my daughter, too, found his thick accent difficult. On the other hand, Ms. Cotillard was VERY easy to understand and I was surprised how well she controlled her lovely French accent.I could probably go on and on about the film--as it's long, complex and VERY prone to be one to watch and re-watch and discuss with friends. However, at this point, there are already a bazillion reviews and 7 billion people have already gone to see it, so I'll call it a day.Well worth seeing....but perhaps too frenetic and confusing for many.


                
Inception is a movie that works outside our logic. We feel like our mind had been played all along, it's like the movie contains some puzzling, undeciphered codes scattered all over places. The moment we walk out theater, our mind process the movie, we interpret things, looking for many many possibility of answers over the questions we've just experienced. And this is why Inception works outside our logic; because no matter how hard we think and discuss this movie, we won't go anywhere. It's a decent analogy of a tricky labyrinth.Like a discourse that some elements - I would say some key - had gone missing, or simply were not even there at the first place, Inception is a piece that Christopher Nolan as a director creates and how he wanted it to be: To create questions in our head. While I think these questions aren't supposed to be vital, but this makes Inception special on a very intriguing level. Dom Cobb (Leonardo DiCaprio) is a thief who works with stealing another person's mind. He used a special method by letting himself into a person's dream, hence explored those dreams while in the same time took a very important information that those persons won't share to any one. Once, a billionaire named Saito (Ken Watanabe), whom supposed to be his victim, offered Cobb a very interesting idea about doing his work differently. Instead of stealing thoughts, Saito asked Cobb to plant idea, to incept something in a person's mind. The logic is - according to this movie - if it's possible to stole any thought, it would also be possible to embed a whole new idea into a person's subconscious.To make it all happen, Cobb needs to recruit a bunch of people with their specialty. There're Arthur (Joseph Gordon Levitt); a guy who always worked with Cobb all the time, Adriane (Ellen Page); a brilliant architecture student whom able to create dream's environment, Yusuf (Dileep Rao); a chemist whose drugs are able to provide a powerful sedative, and Eames (Tom Hardy); a forger who stands like an actor on every person's dream. These experts has one objective: to incept an idea into one mind: Robert Fischer Jr (Cillian Murphy).The film rolls with how these experts trying to deliver this inception. Later on the movie, we would have a perception about how complex and intricate this inception method is, and how dangerous a dream could be. Apparently Cobb is keeping a dark thought on his deepest subconscious, this one includes Cobb's two children and his former beautiful wife, Mal (Marion Cotillard). Mal has been disturbing Cobb's mind, it's almost impossible to get rid of her from his dream. Every time Mal appears, his work and life are in a great danger.Without giving too many spoilers, I would continue my review concentrating on how I perceive Inception holistically. Inception goes in a way that it looks very complicated and confusing, and it'll makes us believe that we have to think hard in order to understand anything this movie delivered. While the truth is, in my opinion, Inception is a complex-looking movie with a very simple concept underneath it. The movie looks very confusing at some point, and then later on it'd become clearer, and then it looked like it's very surprising and mind blowing at the ending scene, it's something that Nolan creates on purpose so the audience would think like they'd been mind-tricked.And that preceding paragraph would come to my early statement: Inception works outside our logic. No matter how 'ambiguous' the ending is, no matter how detail the script looks like, we as an audience simply won't solve this puzzle because Nolan won't let us do so. It's impossible to conclude a research if we miss some data, so to speak. I'm not implying that Inception is a waste of time, or saying that this is a movie that doesn't have a true meaning. On a contrary, Inception is a work of genius. Instead of making a movie that goes over every one head, Christopher Nolan produced something simple that would be taken very seriously with the audience.I believe, on the first 30 minutes of Inception, lots of people are trying too hard not to get lost. While the story is going to automatically solve its puzzles on the next two hours, we as the audience is preparing ourselves hard to understand it. Once the ending came, the movie ended, we felt satisfied and intrigued. We felt smarter. We opened our interpretations, threw some insights and reasons, while the truth is actually been there all the time. I myself don't count the ending as ambiguous, since to be ambiguous the story needs to support its ambiguity. And in my opinion, while there are hints here and there, it's not enough to make it ambiguous.We don't need an extra intelligence to understand this movie. What we need is to relax, throw away our preconceptions, and let the next two and half hours entertaining you on its own tricky way.


                
Leonardo DiCaprio is on a 'good movie' streak. The Departed 9/10, Blood Diamond 9/10, Body of Lies 8/10, Shutter Island 8/10, Inception 10/10.I went to the midnight showing of Inception at my local theater, and it was jam packed. I had been waiting for this movie ever since I saw the first preview a few months back, and now it was finally time. The lights dimmed and a wave of "shh!" swept through the room. I prayed silently that Inception wouldn't disappoint. The movie began to play.The ocean. That's the first shot of this movie, and the last thing you see before Inception literally destroys every other movie that's come out in the past 10 or 15 years.Every actor in this movie is brilliant and no one is miscast. Every shot, every angle, every sequence of this movie is absolutely stellar. Every plot twist, every line of dialog is sheer genius. The pacing is perfect, and the story is destined to become a classic. Honestly, I have never been in this much awe of a film. The characters were engaging and had depth. You feel like you know each and every one of them, the suspense was awful (but in the best way possible). If I had to put the title of 'prefect' on any film, Inception would be it. It is literally flawless.I have never seen a movie that actually made me sit on the edge of my seat sweating and sipping on my Coke like a nervous wreck. I have never seen a movie where I literally wanted to jump into the screen and save one of the characters, I have never seen a movie that could make me want to cry one second, shout out in anger the next, and rejoice the next. That was the power of Inception.To say that this movie was good, or even great is a enormous understatement. This move was without a doubt the best movie I have ever seen in a cinema. Quite possibly the best movie I have ever seen. I am going to see it again today. I recommend you do the same.Final Word: Simply Perfect. 10/10.


                
It went too big. Personally there was just something wrong with Nolan's interpretation of the whole dream thing. I got uber bored and i thought most of the stuff was too predictable. People were freaking out saying this was the best film ever and it was mind-blowing and all that jazz. i FELT THERE WERE TO MANY PLOT HOLES AND GOT SICK OF THE FILM ABOUT HALFWAY THROUGH. It was truly not even remotely as good as it was made out to be. 1. It wasn't as good as it was supposed to be. 2. I didn't end up liking any of the characters that much. 3. Nolan's fan-boys get on my nerves. 4. I have a friend who obnoxiously is obsessed with Nolan, and that makes me biased. 5. I had higher expectations based on Nolan's previous films.


                
First off, this is indeed a really good movie, probably the best I have seen this year. I can't wait to buy it on Bluray and watch it over and over. However, let's not kid ourselves, it falls very short of masterpiece/all time classic status.When you think of this genre of movie, you can't help but think of The Matrix. That was a masterpiece in my opinion. And you can't help but draw comparison between these two films for many reasons, including the character of Arthur being made up to look like Neo and even having his wooden characteristics, not to mention that Arthur is in a scene obviously borrowed (cough, cough, stolen) from The Matrix's subway fight scene. What I love about The Matrix is how its universe is well explained and there's a solid logic behind everything. Notice I didn't say "perfect". You can go back and watch the movie and it all ties in together nicely. On the other hand, "Inception" explains the rules of its universe to the audience (quite a lot in the beginning) and I kept finding myself rolling my eyes and thinking, "that's convenient". Worst example is the "projections". Without these characters conveniently chasing people around, a lot of the story goes down the toilet, but the logic behind their actions is simply non existent. Another one is this whole thing about the "kick". Sure, gravity can wake you up from a dream. If you fall while asleep, your body will feel it and you will wake up. But please, to suggest that this concept would just magically work in a dream within a dream, within a dream is just ridiculous. There's the illusion of gravity in dreams, but no actual gravity, so wtf?Then there are a lot of things not even explained. How does Cobb's dad spot someone who would be able to build multi level sets in a dream really well? Why does the chemist come along in the dream? You would think a strong action type guy would greatly advance the mission more so than a geek who doesn't add anything inside the dream. Why did Fischer go as far as to get training for fighting people who could invade his dreams, which means he fears his enemies, YET he has no problems getting on a ten hour plane ride BY HIMSELF!!!!! I was also bothered by two other things that do not belong in a movie that wants to be labeled as a "classic": 1) Ken Watanabe is a good actor, but for the love of all things holy, can someone get this guy better English tutors? His English is worst than Jackie Chan's!!! You can tell he's saying something extremely crucial to the plot, but you can't understand any of it! 2) I know that a lot of action movies (yes, including The Matrix) take liberties with scenes featuring a shoot out. You always see the bad guys shooting away at the good guys at infinitum, yet not a single scratch on the good guys. We have now almost come to expect that in action movies, sadly. However, Inception abuses this concept beyond any reason. Bad guys empty machine guns within two feet of the good guy's vehicles, you see the bullet holes everywhere, YET, not a single scratch on anyone, except for one bullet. I don't mind suspension of disbelief for a good movie (which this is), but it got so bad that I was beginning to take it personal that a movie would try to insult my intelligence that much.You will have a good time watching this movie, but like they said in South Park, just because there are a lot of twists, doesn't mean it's intelligent, and it's definitely not a masterpiece.
Inception, Christopher Nolan's seventh-feature film is in many ways a summation, of sorts of everything his cinema has strived to achieve for in the past decade or more. The detailed intricacies of human mind and the sheer complexity of all the layers that lie beneath it –such themes have often played a frequent role in his movies. A magnum opus of epic proportions, Inception is the kind of a movie that is a sign of director reaching his artistic peak. It's like Kubrick's "A Clockwork Orange" or Hitchcock's "Vertigo" in many ways where the meaning the director has been trying to strive for reaches it's complete realization. In the follow-up to the much-adored Dark Knight, Inception is a rare big-budget cerebral blockbuster built on strong foundations of it's original, mindbending concept in today's age of sequels and "inspired" remakes. Leonardo DiCaprio plays as Dom Cobb, an "extractor" who is paid to invade the dreams of the minds of various corporate giants and steal their ideas in a fictional setting of the future. When he is challenged by Saito (Ken Watanabe; understated for most parts) to attempt an inception –which is the planting an idea into someone's mind, he accepts the challenge. Backed by a powerful ensemble cast including the likes of Joseph Gordon-Lewitt, Ellen Page, Tom Hardy, Dileep Rao and the ever- dependable Michael Caines, Inception drives forward often with the speed and intensity that can only be helmed by Nolan. Using mind-bending visuals and top-class special effects to create unforgettable dream scenarios, Inception is the movie that involves the viewer, challenges them throughout its entirety and rewards them with believable logic and dazzling imagination throughout its entirety. Inception never loses its emotional core despite all the twisted logic and mindbending space between dream and reality. A special mention should go to Marion Cotillard whose haunting portrayal as Mal sent shivers down my spine with dread every time she appeared on-screen. I would also applaud Nolan for keeping the "craziness" factor low for this movie (something which many critics complained about). I preferred the believable factor and how nothing ever seemed over-the-top mostly which further distorted the difference between reality and dreams further more. I preferred this rather than the movie taking a crazy Kubrick turn somewhere in the middle. In the end despite few rough edges and leap of faiths, Inception is a dazzling achievement in every right. It challenges the viewer with every sequence to suspend their belief on what is dream and reality. It is an achievement in the fact that original ideas when supplied with big- budgets can turn into incredibly powerful movies such as this one. But lastly and most importantly, it is an achievement of the fulfillment of the vision a man set to fulfill a decade back with an idea. The idea which has synthesized with the kind of cinema he has gained mastery over to form this single movie. And what a movie it really was.10/10


                
Christopher Nolan in the past has established himself as one of the best directors working the circuit, equally able to balance the delicacy of smaller pictures and the sheer constructive size of summer blockbusters, making them equally engrossing as a viewing experience.However, as even the best directors do, you have slam into a brick wall somewhere along the career path. Inception is Christopher Nolan's first brick wall, really.In one of those weird complexes of stage and screen, Inception has far fewer flaws as a film than most summer blockbusters, yet is not anywhere near as engrossing as its compatriots trying to dominate the summer ticket aisles every year. The Dark Knight, Nolan's previous outing, was a very flawed film but had me and all of my fellow viewers staggering out of the cinema from the, well...awesomeness of it all.However when I walked out of Inception, the exit doors acted as two erasers, wiping what had happened in the film and refocusing my attention on how I was going to spend the rest of my Friday night.Here are my biggest problems with the film. Firstly the plot. The idea here is a very good one, and the first thirty minutes are the best in the film because it is time spent exploring the dream infiltration, its various levels and the implications of flogging off ideas to the highest bidder etc. etc. But then Nolan makes his biggest mistake of the film, using this high concept into the basis of a soap opera - albeit a soap opera with best visuals ever. This suspended my interested because with all his golden properties one thing Nolan is not good at is emotional storytelling. And so this means the film becomes a battle with trying to keep the plot intensity up and somehow squeezing some emotion out of the beast. In the end the emotional transfer on to the audience gets lost and the 'mega-cool' plot becomes horribly clichéd.The dialogue isn't great either, and the only people who can drag something out of it are Joseph Gordon-Levitt and Tom Hardy, and only because they are mega-cool. MC DiCaprio and the rest of the cast are not, because they rely on emotional impact for their performances, as above mentioned something this film does not have.Speaking of casting, it is on the majority fine. However Ellen Page is not treated with respect by the script and as a result I became annoyed by her rather than inspired by her. DiCaprio is once a again the workhorse, as he usually is in these films, but really does not suit ensemble casts. My biggest difficulty with casting is not who is cast but who Joseph Gordon-Levitt, and to a lesser extent Tom Hardy, are cast as. If I was doing this film I would have had the script rewritten and JGL cast as Cobb and TH cast as Arthur. I have absolutely no Problems with DiCaprio, but I can't shake the feeling that he just doesn't fit in this film, and JGL and TH are class acts.So in the end a film with enormous potential doesn't quite make it is hailed the next big thing because of an excellent marketing campaign but is really quite mediocre.
But it's got its heart in the right place. First it's too long by at least a half-hour. Second it relies too much on frenetic activity to cover up its more grievous shortfalls. And third it's not really sci-fi, it's more a psychological thriller. But despite all that it is what it is portraying, an attempt to implant a notion, and that's highly commendable on several levels. Also a few of the scenes are both memorable and essentially flawless.The acting's all there too despite what some critics claim. DiCaprio is capable and fully invested. Joseph Gordon-Levitt's performance is especially engaging, but the casting of Ellen Page was a near fatal mistake if you ask me. I can see why she made sense to the director and producers, but she's a drag on the movie as is Ken Watanabe who I could barely understand half the time. Still I like his acting and I can tolerate his pronunciation here. Page I don't like for some reason. Perhaps it's just too distracting and/or annoying to see her exude an almost pre-adolescent lack of experience again. If they needed an 'innocent', and I don't really agree, I would have preferred Dakota Fanning. Marion Cotillard does the exact opposite, she's worldly and knowing, but her I'd like to protect and get to know personally.I would have liked to see a slower more moody treatment of this topic. Though at least one of the chase scenes is masterful and hair-raising, the real pay dirt would have been imagining trying to enter another person's mind. In fact the separation between our minds is the bedrock on which most of our problems lay. A 'shared dream' as portrayed here would have been several notches more paradigm breaking than depicted here, I think, and that's no small flaw in this film.


                
Like many people anxious to watch Inception, I spent many hours online reading news, watching trailers, and just sharing my enthusiasm about it. Then I began reading weird rumours about the film involving time travelling (it doesn't) and other potential spoilers, and I decided it was time to get away from the hubbub and wait for it in isolation. I wanted to watch the film as purely as possible. I only allowed myself one treat; I didn't resist listening to my beloved Hans Zimmer's score in advance. I never imagined my feelings about the music would reflect my feelings about the film. I expected an exquisite delicacy and instead got a steak with fries. And afterwards I was still hungry.By now word of mouth has taken all the secrecy away from the story, so let's be brief about it. Leonardo DiCaprio plays Dom Cobb, the leader of a criminal crew that infiltrates the minds of people during their sleep to steal their ideas and sell them. After a botched assignment, Cobb and his partner, Arthur (Joseph Gordon-Leavitt), are hired by Saito (Ken Watanabe) to do the reverse: instead of stealing an idea, they must implant an idea in a victim's subconscious, implant it so deeply that he won't doubt it came from himself. The victim is Robert Fischer (Cillian Murphy), the heir of an energetic mega-conglomerate that threatens to have monopoly over half the world's energy supply. The idea is to convince him to dismantle this empire. For this epic assignment Cobb hires the architect Ariadne (Ellen Page), the forger Eames (Tom Hardy) and the chemist Yusuf (Dileep Rao).Inception has the best ensemble cast I've seen so far this year. That doesn't mean it has the best acting – I think that honour still goes to Shutter Island, which had heartbreaking performances by Ben Kingsley and DiCaprio himself. But the viewer can be sure that a film that contains all the talent mentioned above plus Marion Cottilard plus cameos by Michael Caine, Lukas Haas, Tom Berenger and Pete Postlethwaite, is at least captivating on account of all the charisma walking in and out of the screen every two seconds.I think the film needs all this charisma to satisfy because it doesn't offer much else in terms of entertainment. One of the greatest crimes a film that takes place in dreams within dreams within dream within dreams (yes, you counted it right), can be accused of is being visually dull. Anyone who saw the trailer has nothing else to look forward to, it's all there: the zero gravity hallway fight scene, the city folding, the snow power station attack, the collapsing urban landscapes. The film only expands on the trailer, it has no other impressive scene. Any artist worth his salt only uses dreams as a theme if he wants to show something visually interesting. Dreams aren't held by physical laws; they're limitless, strange, threatening. In Christopher Nolan's world, however, I can see stranger dreams if I just look outside my window.Christopher Nolan is not a particularly inventive filmmaker. There's no visual exuberance in his films. I noticed this when he turned Gotham City, a wonderfully Gothic and oppressive landscape in the Batman comic books, into a replica of any American city. Midas' touch turns things into gold. But Nolan's touch turns uniqueness into banality. Not even dreams are safe from him. Defenders will rise to say that the realism of the dreams is the point. But then why dreams? Who makes a film about Mozart to ignore his music? Many will also say that Inception is a strange film. That's arguable, of course. It's ambiguous enough to allow several interpretations. But it makes sense most of the time. Good writing and good editing contribute to that. I think this is also what made Nolan's previous attempt at a mind-boggling film, The Prestige, so satisfying. He's a fair director. He takes time to show everything the viewer needs to know to understand what's going on, and the film's rhythm is slow. Inception is strange in the sense that other mainstream, but quirkier than average, films are called strange, like The Imaginarium of Dr. Parnassus or Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind. It's strange in a very limited way, custom-made for audiences that have been deprived of strangeness for so long that they can't recognise it anymore; it's a strangeness that hardly brings dignity to the true strangeness unleashed by Wojciech Has' The Hourglass Sanatorium or Jan Svankmajer's Faust.This banality applies even to the action. There are directors who've revolutionised the way action is filmed: John Woo, the Wachowski brothers, even Michael Bay. But Inception, with the exception of the inventive hallway fight scene, leaves much to be desired. Car chases and gun fights play out much the way we expect, with little elegance or imagination.Inception's saving grace is that, for an action thriller, the main character is far more complex and engaging than usual. Cobb is a man tormented by past horrors, separated from his children, running away for a crime he didn't commit. When he enters dreams his subconscious takes the form of his dead wife, Mal (Cottilard), always ready to foil his plans. Cobb isn't just a cool thief but a man trying to get his life back and DiCaprio makes him effortlessly sympathetic.I don't know why, but I feel bad for not liking Inception more. Cinema certainly needs ambitious films that mix intellect with action; that dare to be unique while being familiar. Inception is a respectable failure, in my view, but is a step in the right direction. I hope at least it inspires other filmmakers to move in the same direction.
What drew me to watch this film on the very first day of theatrical showing was the cast, which was an incredible array of some of the most intense actors in Hollywood today. We have Ken Watanabe, Cilian Murphy, Marion Cotillard, Michael Caine, Tom Berenger, Pete Postlethwait, and in the lead, none other than Leonardo di Caprio. The director and writer Christopher Nolan also comes with a very impressive oeuvre behind him, with "Memento," "The Prestige," and most recently, "The Dark Knight."This film is one of the most complicated films I have seen. A fair summary is almost impossible to put into words. It is challenging to follow all the jumping into and out of dreams, in dreams within dreams. I won't be surprised if you do not completely understand everything that was going on by the end. However, the visual experience of being in this multi-layered dream world is unmatchable in any recent films.I thought of "The Matrix," and even Leo's latest (excellent) work "Shutter Island," as this film proceeds to disorient you about what is and is not reality. However, "Inception" goes several levels higher in the hierarchy of convolutions in film. There are at least four levels of simultaneous dream upon dream happening at one time at one point. Amazing film editing work!Then there are technical aspects which were mind-boggling indeed, as Nolan's bizarre script required. The audience is brought inside buildings, rooms, elevators, even entire cities where you lose the sense of space, time, gravity and logic. It is a dream world--you need to see it to fully appreciate what I just wrote. The musical score of Hans Zimmer was strong and dramatic. These are definitely contenders by Oscar time.This film is not for everyone. There are those who would dismiss this as impossibly pretentious and pointless. But for me, "Inception" was very stimulating and challenging -- a film well-worthy to spend two and a half hours of our valuable time. Be ready to face this challenge when you go watch it. I won't be surprised if you feel you need to watch it all over again.


                
And by deception rather than Inception I am referring to the title of this movie as although the film is good, it's far from brilliant and I have to say I left the cinema feeling rather deceived by all of the great reviews out there from the public and critics alike who had heralded this flick a masterpiece. But a masterpiece it is not. In fact, it's rather derivative from other films Christopher Nolan has directed, including Memento and The Prestige, with shades of 2001 A Space Odyssey permeating the picture as well. Now DiCaprio, of course is mesmerising as always, yet he doesn't really have a lot to do as he mopes about missing his children without really expressing the distress he feels to the audience very well. Sure he anchors in the film, and in a very subtle way, but to subtle for me - almost boring subtle, which really griped me as I prefer his more flamboyant and boisterous roles. Roles he has played in films such as Shutter Island and Blood Diamond really allow him to work those acting chops of his and usually make for a very entertaining film. This film just didn't let him do that. The film, although visually superior to most others out there on the market today, left me with a feeling of boredom at times and by the end I felt the pay off I had been desperately waiting for didn't arrive and instead of sharing the elation of the critics and audience alike I was left with a "O my God, was that it" replaying in my mind. So my advice...watch this film by all means, but be warned, that although it is at times intriguing and thought provoking most of the time it's meandering, plodding and ultimately quite pointless. Good but not that good. 6/10 (3*)
There is a clear hole in the plot, that is when Murphy(the subject/victim) makes a transition back from Level1 to Real world Level0. Here is the explanation stimulations.blogspot.com/2010/07/ is-there-hole-in-plot-of-inception-or.html what follows is my understanding of the chronology of subject's state of mind and his perceptions during the length of the story. From what is being presented in the movie, i see that the objective of Dicaprio's team was not actually met!! Why i think that way would hopefully be apparent towards the end. May be i am missing some point but please feel free to comment.Objective of DiCaprio's team: Implant a new idea/thought in the mind of Subject at Level 0. That is- by the end of the process, the subject in Level 0 should be aware/know with authenticity, about a NEW important information 'xyz' previously unknown to himSubject's/Victim's(Cillian Murphy) State of mind:Level 0: Traveling with bunch of guys in a plane. Duration of journey is 10hrs.Level1: Doesn't know that he is dreaming. He thinks it is real world. Inception team is his enemy and is harmful to him. His Godfather/Adviser(Tom Berenger)is a good man.Level2: Initially doesn't know that he is dreaming. He thinks it is real world Later, Dicaprio convinces him that, -this is a dream world, where his godfather is trying to extract info from him and Level 1 is the actual real world. -and that subject's Godfather knows some very important info relating to Business empire, which need to be extracted from him.Subject friends with DiCaprio's team.Level3: Knows he is dreaming. But still thinking that Level1 is real world, Level2 is Dream and now thinks he entered into Level3 which is the Dream of his Godfather(Berenger), to extract some valuable info.Level 4: Dead/Inanimate Ms.Page gives him a kick so that he could wake up/go live and continue on with his work back in Level 3Level 3:Now he extracted valuable info from the subconsciousness of Berenger. Goes through some Father-child emotion and changes his future direction. (From Dicaprio's perspective, New thought implanted into Subject's mind.(But notice new thought which is real with respect to only Level1 subject but not Level 0 subject ))Level 2: Knows he is dreaming. Thinks he is Just one level from Real world which for him has been Level 1. Thinks that with the help of his friends, he successfully extracted some valuable info(previously unknown to him) from his godfather's dreamFriends with DiCaprio's team Equipped with New info he extracted from his god father's dreamLevel 1:Friends with DiCaprio team. Thinks he is back to real world with the new thought carried from his Godfather's dream to Intermediate dream to real world. Ready to implement the thought in this Level 1 real world. He is not aware of the existence of any Level 0.Level 0:No relationship with Dicaprio team. Just Remembers about the new thought as a part of the dream(s) he had. But he comes to know that he Level 1 is just a dream but not real world .The new through is not from a real world experience.(This is the transition i would like to question. The movie doesn't show what the subject was thinking when he is back to this level 0. Everyone starts walking as if objective was achieved )what's not convincing is: The subject thinks that he just had a dream and the idea he had was part of just a dream. But not part of some REALLY planned extraction from his Godfather, which means there is no authenticity associated with the new thought he now has. But for the Subject who lived in Level1, yes since it is real world to him he would have followed the thought that is being implanted into him. But isn't the objective of Dicaprio team is to implant the idea with authenticity, into the mind of subject in Level 0 ? The subject would not follow the implanted idea in Level 0 because, he knows that the idea belongs to Level 1 which he consciously knows is a dream, meaning DiCaprio team's objective is not met.Am i missing something?


                
Inception Nolans latest effort is a cleverly constructed and beautifully executed sci-fi thriller, apparently he first pitched the idea to WB in 2003 and then went away to write a script he thought would be finished in a few months, 8 years later the film is released and it's no wonder it took so long to complete. The film follows Cobb (Leonadro Di Caprio), who specialises in entering people's dreams and stealing valuable secrets his employers. We open with Cobb in the mind of Saito(Ken Watanabe); a business tycoon he needs to retrieve secret documents from, but things go horribly wrong when the subconscious projection of his former wife enters the dream and betrays him. Cobb and his partner Arthur (Joseph-Gordon Levitt) are forced to flee the country as their employers will not tolerate failure, but Saito tracks them down and makes them an offer; Inception. If they can successfully plant an idea into the mind of one of Saitos competitors Saito will pull the strings necessary to grant Cobb the freedom to go back to America and see his kids again. Cobbs team is consists of Arthur, Yusuf the chemist (Dileep Rao), Eames (Tom Hardy), Adriadne the architect (Ellen Page) who is responsible for creating the dream. Nolan not only manages to create a wonderful story, but also adds his own cyberpunk dialogue to the mix. 'Riding the kick', 'Totems', 'Projections', they all add substance to the world he has created. The origins of this technology are not explored, in fact it's more of an alternate reality than a story set in the future, but it's a world constructed with such attention to detail that it feels real. What follows is a complex but not overly contrived series of dreams within dreams in order to plant the idea deep enough for it to stick. It's a mixture of theft and business espionage that provides a setting for some wonderful visuals, and in the end the only limitation is the mind of Nolan himself. One scene where Arthur is fighting off the projections of the target inside a rotating corridor is thrilling to watch in all its nauseating vertigo, whilst Cobbs training of Adriadne provide the artistic license to pull a whole host of crazy special effects. Cities bend in half, mirrors smash and turn into streets, it's a world of unlimited potential. Di Caprio once again proves that he knows how to pick a movie, his Scorsese partnership rarely disappoints, but Nolan has provided the platform for another successful performance. Joseph-Gordon Levitt is able to play his role with both suave coolness and perfectly timed comedic relief, whilst Ellen Page uses her indie image to convey a female lead devoid of the usual stereotypes. The rest of the supporting cast all do a fine job, especially Cillian Murphy as the mind-invaded and emotionally manipulated target of the Inception.After watching this film I'm still convinced Nolan boasts a flawless oeuvre, every one demonstrates a clear talent for script-writing. Insomnia may be the weakest of them all and it will come as no surprise it's the only film he had no hand in writing in. Nolan however could not resist one final teaser to the audience with Inception. As the film concludes and we are left satisfied with the arc of our protagonist, the camera pans away on to the perpetually spinning totem. As it is about to topple the film cuts away, now I don't think Nolan is seriously trying to imply that Cobb is dreaming, instead I think it's his own clever Inception. To plant an idea into the minds of the audience and watch it grow.
I tried not to let the preposterous build up and hype for this movie influence me before I watched it. I'm glad that I did that because my expectations really weren't that high. As a result, I enjoyed this film quite a bit. I'm not sure about its "rewatchability" but it certainly keeps you interested throughout. It's captivating on two fronts. One, the story itself and two, the fear that there's something else going on and that the "other shoe" could drop at any minute. Nolan plays it masterfully. There were shortcomings for me, however. Minor inconsistencies (falling "kicks" were happening every five seconds) and shifting between dream world and movie world time frames made it awkward at times. Also, the action sequences featured that poor shaky cam quality that I've really come to loathe. There was even some poor use of the steady cam on regular shots. Minor quibbles aside; I loved the theme they tackled and the trippy nature of the film itself. Anyone that has lost someone close to them knows the frustration of trying to keep a firm memory and those little nuances of them alive. For me, the bizarre concept and why they can even do what they do is secondary. What carries the film are great performances mixed with an emotional impact mixed with its unique plot angle. While not THE greatest thing ever put to film as some may suggest, it certain was an entertaining film to say the least.


                
This movie just ruined my imagination as it is so complex and thrillingly amazing it will get on one's mind and word as an adhesive making you stick to the edge of your seats till you give up in front of its elegance maturity. A wonder full screenplay and a cinematic extravaganza. a movie to be preserved. Leonardo Di Carpio is amazing. It is a clear ace. Watch it for his story and the wonderful concept of an idea being a crime scene. this is heck of a good thriller... good.. this is the best of the best. Kudos to Christopher Nolan for gifting us with the following, memento, insomnia, batman begins, the prestige, the dark knight and his best inception.


                
I'm sure I'll revisit Inception, sooner rather than later. Christopher Nolan's film has its ambitions, oh sure to be sure. But when one looks at what he is really trying to accomplish here, it's to tell a story and with verve, originality (or at least taking solid cinematic forms and archetypes and using them originally), and a point of view that is astonishing. I still have scenes and images, performances and moments, shots and details of the plot (and a kick-ass final shot especially) rolling around in my head, and I don't want them to go away. Even things about the film that I should find flawed, such as a little clunky exposition and some edits that go by lightning fast work because of what does count: we care about what happens to these characters, or at least Dom Cobb (Leonardo DiCaprio), and whether or not they'll achieve this "mission" of putting an idea in someone's head.To explain all of the finer mechanics of the plot... just go to wikipedia, or IMDb's plot synopsis. I'll just say for here that the film takes its own creation of science-fiction variety seriously. And seriously enough to take jaded moviegoers of the cineplex variety along for the ride. It's kind of like a heist plot, though not really, in that "idea" thieves- people who use dreams, shared via inter-connecting tubes (like the Matrix only more complex)- are recruited by Saito (Ken Watanabe), a big businessman of some sort to plant an idea in someone's head, or 'inception', which has not been done except for once when Cobb did it to a certain someone (he won't mention why, for a big reveal in the last act, though not a twist). That's really what you need to know - that and Ariadne (Ellen Page) will act as the audience in a sense to keep exposition going... sometimes too much on a first viewing.And yet, for all of the characters standing around explaining things, which should be (and is) a big no-no in movies (SHOW don't TELL, remember), it can work here because a) it is such a complex concept, considering all of the calculations of time, as well as the 'rules' of sort, which are laid out so well that nothing can be too confusing for anyone, even if one wanted to, and b) the acting is so good in doing it. There is genuine emotion as well, which is something that some of the so-so or negative reviews find is lacking here (there are a handful out there if you'd believe it Nolan-heads). I say simply that if you don't find emotion during those scenes between DiCaprio and Marion Cotillard, who used such a one-dimensional character to her total advantage here and steals all of her scenes with a beautiful face and haunting delivery- then, well, maybe you got the wrong movie.Sure, there's lots of pyrotechnics and big gun battles, but they work for the sake of this story and the circumstances too. I was worried they wouldn't, that things might be too rigid in the sense of it being dreams, why are there all of these guns and violence and whatnot. But, for me, it ended up making much more sense, in a non-sensible "Hollywood Movie" way, watching it unfold within the rules. It is much more sci- fi-thriller than a David Lynch surrealist trip anyhow, and on Nolan's terms he bases his own sense of lucid dream logic. I also really liked how the stakes were so high for the characters in dreams: if you die in a dream, for example, what if you don't wake up, but end up in a kind of dream limbo, or something bizarre like that? How do these levels affect you if you're injured or dying? This is not as simplified as in the Matrix, albeit with less 'tells' than showing it happen. Aw hell, who cares? This is creative summer entertainment on one hand, and a brainy-emotionally-psychologically engaging story with a melancholy core. When it gets thrilling, it thrills (hallway fight, anyone), and when it needs to move, it does so, or when it needs to provide little "ooh" visual wonders like Joseph Gordon Levitt floating along and doing his part in the time-frame, Nolan comes up with wonders there too. It shouldn't require a repeat viewing, yet I do want to go back again, not to have things re-explained to me, which is unnecessary, but to revisit the characters, the multi-layered (literally) story structure, and the intensity of the direction. It's a helluva trip through the "architecture of the mind", and a very fine return to form to the 'early' sort of mind-f***er movies Nolan's made in the past.


                
Inception is one of the more enjoyable films that I have seen in some time. It falls somewhere between the Matrix (methodology), Vanilla Sky (multi-layered realities) and the Usual Suspects (densely-plotted, begs more than one viewing.)The result is a thrill-ride that will leave most viewers pondering long after the credits have rolled. It is both provocative and at times mesmerizing, albeit a bit over-thought at times.Though the idea of "dream hacking" is hardly new, Nolan's layers to the idea make the concept seem quite fresh and the result is something unique. Instead of relying on one "plane" of consciousness or dreamscape, Nolan has included "levels", which dictate different levels of a dream and each team member has a role to serve in navigating its murky and at times unnerving landscape to accomplish their mission. Timing is critical at every level and the story is weaved together rather well, though at times it can feel a little overwhelming.In fact, the only complaint I have about the film is that at certain moments it bogs down under the weight of its own complexity and at times, unnecessarily.Part of this is because Nolan is a little unconventional in terms of how he handles exposition. Instead of laying out the rules of the world in one part of the film, he chooses to add more rules as the film progresses.In a more conventional scenario, consider the Matrix:1. First part, we are as disoriented as Neo and do not understand what is happening. 2. Second part, the rules of the world are laid out by Morpheus and suddenly we understand what is happening. 3. Finally, the action takes place with the audience in the full know of the established rules.With Inception, these rules unfold throughout almost the entire film, much like the plot points. The result is a double-edged sword: On one hand, it keeps the film moving swiftly and you continue to have "ah-ha" moments. On the other hand, it makes one feel like scorekeeping is in order to keep everything straight as you watch it.It's not so much that Nolan gives us TOO MUCH INFORMATION, as much as it that he gives us CRITICAL PIECES OF INFORMATION in VERY SMALL WINDOWS of screen time. This means one ill-timed bathroom break could compromise your entire understanding of the film. Even paying strict attention the entire time, there are still times when details lost because we're too busy absorbing info. Another common complaint is the "ambiguous ending", which has sparked raging debates. I personally don't mind such endings. I like coming to my own conclusions, but that's just me. Unfortunately though, I found more ambiguous moments throughout the entire film, which doesn't work as well. Again, the "rules" get fuzzy at times, which one should always be avoided when doing science fiction, especially as layered as this.That being said, you still feel like you've seen a "complete film" at the end, and it should resonate one way or another, good or bad. No one and I mean NO ONE can dispute Nolan's ambition here. It's one of the most ambitious concepts and films I've seen in years.PERFORMANCESI don't consider myself a huge DiCaprio fan. I love much of his early work but don't remember him in a memorable role since Titanic (I have not yet seen Shudder Island, which I am told he is good in.) I thought he was very strong here, with much of Nolan's script playing to his strengths.Supporting performances were exactly what I expected -- nothing Oscar worthy, but perfectly capable. Cillian Murphy is teamed up with Nolan again, and serves his character well. I feared Ellen Page would be a weak link in the film, but I was wrong. Also refreshing were the performances of lesser known talents such as Tom Hardy, Ken Watanabe and Dileep Rao. Michael Caine also has a small part and it's always good to see him.My biggest disappointment was Marion Cotillard, who I thought was rather one-dimensional here. But that may have been more of a symptom of her role. CINEMATOGRAPHYIn standard Nolan fashion, Inception is generally gorgeous and well- shot. I love the fact that Nolan relies less on CGI than the average Hollywood director and still understands the value of organic action, scenes and stunts.MUSICFrankly, I was under whelmed with the score, but less because of the score itself and more so because it seems too loud and overwhelming at times. There were even times when I couldn't even hear dialogue. This is either a mixing/editing problem OR possibly because I was sitting at the back of my theater and it seemed too loud.IN CONCLUSIONI found Inception to be exciting and captivating, and easily one of the better films of 2010. Where does it rank among the all time greats? I cannot say. I do consider it a top-flight science fiction film, but I struggle to think of it as a cinematic masterpiece because I really do think it out-thought itself on too many occasions.Do I suggest you go see it? Absolutely, no questions asked. In parting I'll leave you with....RECOMMENDATION FOR FIRST TIME VIEWERS:1. The first 10-15 minutes are a little disorienting. Be patient, things will fall into place soon enough.2. As mentioned above, try and avoid bathroom breaks. It really can be the difference.3. Sit in the middle or front of the theater. As mentioned above, either by design or because of my theater, the music was too loud at times and dialogue was lost.4. Be prepared to be absorbing a lot of input. You won't have much time to process that input until the film is over.
What should I say about this movie..?? Trust me, there's no other movie in Hollywood that makes you so involved in it and there's no movie such interesting and fantastic as this..Its the future..Its the masterpiece..Spectacular, Extravagant, and Magnum Opus.There's no need to tell the story because whether you know the story or nor you'll not understand the movie unless you watch it. Though the story seems little bit confusing and we can't understand what actually it is, Nolan's direction eliminates this confusion. It looks more easier and simpler to understand when we see the film. We will be completely involved in it and our brains will have no other thought except the movie. Even I was unable to believe that i really watched a film that is 2 hrs 28 mins long. There's no problem if it is more lengthy and we would have still enjoyed it.All the actors did their maximum. DiCaprio balanced all the emotions intelligently and i could say he's the perfect match for the character.I would say Joseph Gordon-Levitt and Tom Hardy are the special attraction for the movie. Nolan extracted a great level of talent from Ellen Page and it was her best and convincing performance till now..Other actors also did well but it's a disappointment for me to see Marion Cotillard for such a short period of time,because I'm a fan of her. But however it was meaningful why her role appears for very less period of time and the character 'Mal' had its own importance in the plot.All the technical dept. worked well enough to make the movie more appealing. I'm slightly disappointed with the background score, i think the movie requires more better score. Visual effects are great and it appears as if everything is really happening.Screenplay was wonderful and made the movie more simpler to understand.It's a Nolan's movie guys. One by one there's much improvement and perfection in his films. After a few films I don't know how he could make films more perfectly because when he goes on and reaches 10/10 and we all increase our expectations,how will be the next one.? Its the magic of Nolan and he know how to impress us. Never in history was a director like him.I'm very much eager to see more and more of his films.


                
This is a breathtaking science fiction film to watch and its 2 hours 20 minutes sped by for me. Even if it borrowed a lot from Matrix, Orphee, even Kane at the climax, and others, it was so confident and assured in the depiction and dissection of its nonsense world I couldn't help but be very impressed. So what if the plot apparently bulges with Real World non sequiteurs and Dream World paradoxes – as recommended to a character in the film (and by Cocteau in Belle Et La Bete) we have to take a leap of faith. It's why so many people believe in a God.A team of mind altering thieves (Extractors) are recruited and hired by a billionaire capitalist to plant an idea via dreams (Inception) in a rival billionaire capitalist's mind to break up his empire and thus preserve profit margins. As you might or might not imagine it's not so straightforward, leading to a dream within a dream within a dream within a dream within a dream and limbo <U+0085> at least. The acting was good, however the characters were basically 2D and although DeCaprio's was fleshed out a little more I didn't empathise with any of them, but the plot was the thing after all! There's no compromise: it's tortuous to follow at times and relentlessly fast paced throughout – the first 10 minutes were incomprehensible to me but gradually it became as clear as mud, until even I saw the ending coming. My modern-film-savvy daughter was on hand to act as interpreter but we had to lean on each other and promise a re-view next year sometime. I would add that the actual process of putting people under was thankfully skipped over and Michael Caine's usual death-touches were blissfully brief.On first and second thoughts I recommend this as a film made in 2010 that has absolutely no swearing, no sex, not much violence, a "realistic" amount of cgi cartoonery, but a well made engrossing storyline instead.


                
