I'd like to keep my review rather to the point.Pros: 1. its theme - dream is a fascinating topic to say the least. There are a lot of unknowns in dreamworld. 2. its plot - there are several sweet twists and unpredictable turns. 3. its edgy drive - although you know what's coming next, still you feel jumpy about it when it does.4. its rapid storyline - the story moves fast from one scene to another, making the viewers feel like on a roller coaster ride. At times, it's hard to keep up, even after watching it several times. 5. its sophistication - there is a lot of information to remember and digest. This is the very thing the modern moviegoers are after, I believe. 6. its realism - okay, pun intended. The movie explains (or at least tries to) the ins and outs of what dream is about and how it functions, some of which are very familiar with and dear to us.Cons: 1. its poor character development - although the acting was convincing enough there was not enough of character development. I wonder how many people really felt connected to the main character(s) after watching the movie. Yes, the movie talks about emotional struggles but it was more of an action film than anything else, if you ask me. 2. too many distractions - I found that the movie had more characters than necessary. They may play certain roles in the plot but they seemed more of distractions than anything else. I wish the movie was more focused. 3. a bit preachy - I noticed that the characters would explain things about dreamworld and then the exact things happen later in the movie. I'm afraid, Inception overused this trick. In conclusion, its theme is fascinating but its delivery is not without room for improvement. I highly recommend you to go and read Somewhere carnal over 40 winks, if you dig this kind of flicks. Cheers!
Inception is written, produced, and directed by Christopher Nolan. The film stars Leonardo DiCaprio, Ken Watanabe, Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Marion Cotillard, Ellen Page, Tom Hardy, Cillian Murphy, Dileep Rao, Tom Berenger, and Michael Caine. The musical score is by Hans Zimmer and Wally Pfister is the cinematographer. Plot finds DiCaprio playing Dom Cobb, a specialised spy for hire who steals ideas from the dreams of people. But one day he gets a different offer, one that will enable him to see his estranged children. To get his reward he must enact Inception, the planting of an idea in the mind of the selected target. But Inception is thought impossible and should Cobb and his selected team fail? The consequences are unthinkable.There has already been much written and pondered about as regards Inception in the relatively short running time of its life. One can only imagine what will be written and said about it in ten years time. For although it's arguably a bit too early to be talking about it being held in such high regards as the likes of 2001: A Space Odyssey, it's inescapable that Nolan's movie is this current generation's sci-fi classic. That Nolan has managed to make it accessible to the mainstream, and dazzled the eyes as much as the brain in the process, is close to being a piece of genius craftsmanship.Inception is a film that it's better to know nothing about before venturing into it, and then it asks, well Nolan asks, for your undivided attention. It's neither as confusing as some have painted it, nor does it have any tricks-peek behind the curtain type-up its sleeve. The truth is is that Inception has something for everyone; thematically speaking, and that's before we pore over the special effects that sees Nolan raising the bar considerably. As is the case with twisty high concept movies, interpretations are many, with the director rightly abstaining from discourse about his movie. What forms the basis is your basic life and death struggles, with the grey areas during and after given a clever cinematic make over. There's also meditations on grief that this reviewer personally found easy to get involved with; that of course wont work for everyone, but that is just one of many strands that Nolan dangles for the discerning viewer.If that all sounds a bit too serious for the man who has redefined the Super Hero genre, rest assured thrill seekers, Inception is also a loud swirly spectacle. The action is raucous, be it gun fights or zero gravity punch ups, Nolan has not lost the ability to take the viewer on an action fuelled roller-coaster ride, aided superbly by Lee Smith's editing and Pfister's perfectly broad photography While Zimmer's score blends electronic action pulse beats with saddened guitar strains (ex-Smiths guitarist Johnny Marr on 12 string) to craft one of the best scores of 2010. As I said, there's something for everyone here, making it perhaps one of the leading nominees for title of ultimate modern day blockbuster.Then there's the strong ensemble cast, led by a quite scintillating performance from DiCaprio. Following on from his cards played close to his chest turn in Shutter Island, DiCaprio has given 2010 two of its best lead performances. Here he gives real depth of emotion, the kind that makes it easy for the viewers to hang their hats on. His unfussy acting is easy to buy into, giving the character the air of believability, he is the glue that binds the whole film together. Murphy is wonderfully vulnerable, very much an axis in the narrative, while Levitt almost usurps DiCaprio with a neatly layered portrayal that carries a delightful whiff of duality about it. Special praise, too, for Ellen Page. Still in her early 20s, she exudes an intelligent sexiness that shines bright in a role that could have been boorishly played as a cipher in a lesser actress' hands. While Hardy provides brawny levity and Berenger leaves a favourable mark.The Matrix meets Heat and Mission Impossible, only it's written by Phillip K. Dick and Richard Matheson; or something like that. A cracking hybrid movie that's fit to grace any summer and sure to improve and enlighten with further viewings. 9.5/10
Surrealism can appear to be ineffably bizarre, or inquisitively titillating, depending purely on the viewer's intellect. Though the realm of surrealism is highly nebulous and complex, but even a slight attempt at improvisation can sometimes go awry and open a Pandora's Box, making the task highly improbable and nigh impossible. This facet of reality may pose a handicap to the most gifted of the directors, but not to the genius of Christopher Nolan, who not only dabbles with the concept of surrealism, but also ingeniously blends it with the elements of Science Fiction in his latest wonder named Inception. Nolan created a niche for himself a decade back by unleashing a monster of a movie called Memento. He further substantiated his status by conjuring movies like Insomnia, The Prestige, Batman Begins, and The Dark Knight. His unremitting desire for innovation and uncanny craving to foray into the unexplored realms of imagination deservedly earned him an auteur tag, which gave him the carte blanche that a story-teller like Nolan desperately needs. It's highly apparent that Nolan takes every possible advantage of this liberty while filming Inception. Inception is not only dreamlike, but is a dream in itself and is superior to any other thing conceived on the silver screen. With its entwined layers, the movie for the most part serves as an unfathomable riddle and makes multiple viewing extremely essential. It incredibly does extremely well on both the humanistic as well as the technical fronts. In fact, the balance between human emotions and the elements of Science Fiction is so adequate that it's impossible to separate them. The movie is about a futuristic world where the human mind can be intercepted through dream invasion. Cobb is an expert in the art of extracting information (stealing valuable secrets) from deep within the subconscious in the dream state. His proficiency in extraction is marred by a turmoil that begins with his wife's untimely death. He is forced to live the life of a fugitive away from his children. His only chance for redemption lies with a Japanese tycoon named Saitu, who wants him to do an inception (planting information into someone's mind). In order to accomplish this unprecedented task, Cobb and his team must overcome a labyrinth of unforeseeable challenges, where even a slight miss could trap them in a perpetual limbo. Any further revelation would be remissness on my part as the plot is filled with such intricacies that even expatiation would be incapable of justifying its profundity. Leonardo Dicaprio gives a solid performance in the lead role, following his memorable performance in Shutter Island. He has brilliantly depicted the complexities and limitations of Cobb's enigmatic character highlighting his pain and mental trauma. Marion Cotillard is ravishingly scintillating as Cobb's whimsical wife, Mal. The rest of the cast has given a thorough performance with special mention of Ken Watanabe, Ellen Page and Joseph Gordon-Levitt.Inception is incredibly brilliant as a movie and is a breakthrough in contemporary cinema. Nolan's creativity and his unparalleled execution definitely make it an object of great cachet, but whether it would become Buñuel's 'Un chien andalou' or Kubrick's '2001: A Space Odyssey' and serve as a prototype for the movies to come is for the time to decide. Irrespectively, Inception is sine qua non not only for an aficionado, but also for the average viewer, who is willing to delve deep enough to savour the delight.PS: One has to imagine it to believe it. 9/10http://www.apotpourriofvestiges.com/


                
Have you ever felt like waking up from a dream to see its continuation? This idea disturbs Christopher Nolan ever since he was 16. Already in the future, as he developed this idea in his head, he was visited by another captivating feeling. And what if it were possible to study and manage the place of sleep? Now the British cinematographer is 39 years old, and the world has finally come to the opportunity to get to know what Nolan was so stunning, fast and loud all these years. "The Beginning" is a sci-fi thriller about the architecture of the mind. If for some reason this has not yet become a reason for the strongest intrigue, it is never too late to recreate it.Philosophy of Nolan. It is simple and at the same time terrifyingly exceptional. Making your environment think like you. To share all the events happening together. Experiencing the same difficulties. Strive to hold together for the hands to achieve the impossible. Making unusual things happen in the usual way. The topic can be continued, and its brief description will remain unchanged. Any person with whom you work, whether an actor or someone else, will always be completely imbued with the material that you yourself wrote, if this material is perceived by every person at the deepest personal level.Fans of the series "LOST" could have done the same thing with "Star" as they did with every series of the popular, now in the old days, series. Probably, for a reason, at the end of the day, a percentage of people will be drawn, what from wild ecstasy after watching will obviously lose consciousness in the most positive sense? The name of the film company Nolan "Syncopy" from the ancient Greek era means the medical term of fainting, loss of consciousness. I'm not talking about plot similarities with the term. And the logo of his film company, whose foundation happened in the year 99, has absolutely identical design as the "Start" screensaver. In the picture, the characters Paige and DiCaprio get acquainted in the same place where Nolan once met his future wife and constant working partner. And this is not all "Easter eggs".
From the skyscrapers of Tokyo to the snowy peaks of Calgary, from the exoticism of the Moroccan Tangier to the picturesque streets of Paris, from historic London to modern-day Los Angeles. The scale that Nolan saw from the emotional journey of his painting could not fit in a modest framework, so the shooting process affected 4 continents and 6 so different countries.To make the dreams look as real as possible, the director once again followed his eternal principle and tried to maximally abandon computer graphics. Whether it's a revolving corridor 30 meters long built in Cardington, or the busiest street in Paris, mass explosions are caused by nothing else than nitrogen under high pressure. Impressive buildings in the Canadian Calgary provided work for thousands of local residents for six months. Their efforts could not justify themselves fully due to the fact that on approaching the crew to the place of direct filming, for a long time there was not much needed snow. He "fell out", creating for the creators is another problem due to the fact that did not stop a very long period. Arriving in early August in Morocco, a big unexpected success for the creators was the acquaintance with the local team, with whose help Hollywood partially took off more than one blockbuster in the territory of this African country. And the street traffic of Los Angeles was cleaned by the railroad train, behind the wheel of which was everyone's favorite Jim Wilkie. The same guy who ran an eighteen wheeled wagon in the "Dark Knight". This is only a small part of what the "Beginning" shakes.DiCaprio amazes us with one of the most difficult characters of recent times, which is largely due to the care and personal affection that Leo showed to Cobb. Together with Marion Cotillard, they create a screen couple capable of enveloping the soul of any viewer. I've never seen anything like it and close. The talented Hollywood youth in the faces of Page and Gordon-Levitt demonstrate a full understanding of the color range and levels of brightness of the characters assigned to them. Tom Hardy, performing the imitator, brought to the picture a significant share of charisma. And Killian Murphy finally embodied an image that has long been very curious to him. In May 2009, Nolan offered him absolutely any role, and he chose the "Client". And Ken Watanabe ... As in the case with the other images, we all will long try to disassemble this character, which is a very important and charismatic question for us. Each of his actors, Nolan asked not to tell anything about the plot, even to their families.Quite symbolic is the fact of the presence in the film of the song of Edith Piaf. After all, for the image of Edith Piaf in the film "Life in pink" in 2007, Marion Cotillard received a statuette of Oscar for Best Actress. Hans Zimmer paid close attention to the creation of the track, not so much to the stunning visual component of the picture, but to the emotional world of the main characters. It's always evident when Hans is captured by the storyline of the picture for which he is going to work, and "Beginning" is no exception. Filling the rich sensory undercurrent on the screen with a wonderful musical series, Hans did not leave behind his own imagination, allowing himself to go beyond the usual framework in the hope of looking where they would lead him. From here came the guitar, played on which none other than Johnny Marr of the band "The Smiths".
For any of us, there is a difference in choice, when deciding whether it is worth chasing us for a happy moment or total happiness as such? Also here. Despite the speed with which you develop on the screen a completely different action - you want to keep up with it. Our feelings are awakened in the most active ways because of the resource that causes in us a similar instinct to comprehension and further awareness. This tape is a symbol of the whole structure of our everyday perception of what surrounds us in the material and immaterial world. A symbol that is itself the architect of a bridge connecting two opposite sides.Incredible and colossal, difficult-procedural result of the most outstanding artistic production in all spheres of film production. A movie that will never leave your mind, demanding from you its regular revision. The movie, which you will discover with each new show for yourself in a new way. A mad, multi-level, impressive plot production, attached to the deepest actor images. Infinitely rich semantic context and visual component. All this is a combination of the greatest cinematic experience that Nolan dragged through all these years. He would never have become a director of N1 in the modern world if he were not true, loving his family by a man. And this is the most important thing. That - with what all "Begins" ...A rare dream that survived so many years ...Film of the Decade.


                
Inception has a problem that I cannot bear: the constant that someone comes to explain the laws and how that world works. The creation of the character of Ellen Page (Ariadne) was for the sole purpose of explaining that to moviegoers. Not that it's bad, but at certain moments it seems like the movie becomes more class at school, to know how that universe works, instead of the characters in this movie live the adventure for themselves. In this aspect the film is didactic. And the space for the imagination is limited. In this aspect everything in this film is chewed, everything explained, where are the possibilities? I do not want someone to explain the universe, I want to see the characters live and react in this universe.Yes the ending leaves open the question whether that is a dream or reality, but it is a cheap gimmick instead of letting them our imaginations fly. If at the end of the movie the experience of the characters was a dream, so it was waste of two and a half hour, at least the Matrix shows the characters in the real world, and that it was not a dream inside a dream. The tension and time invested would not be a waste of time Not that it spoils the experience of the film, but it disturbs in some parts, mainly in the middle of the film, when the group is preparing for the assault. The concept is good, but it should be presented in a simpler way. Clearly Nolan was very ambitious in the concept of this film. But Nolan is quite integral in the proposal of his films, and he tries to put unknown concepts to the general public in such a cohesive way, even with the problem of trying to explain everything and other problems of pace are easily forgiven. Nolan tries to do his best in each of his films as if his movie was his last, as if his life depends on it. A great honesty on the part of Nolan, and this I can and I want to enjoy. Nolan is such an honest guy and scores points with me. It's the difference between the lousy movie director and an excellent director. The bad elements of Inception are not enough to spoil its qualities. The ambitious ideas of the filmmaker and the great sequences in parallel assembly that characterize his works. Not that the idea of Inception is innovative, this idea has been copied many times in other works (Paprika, Synecdoche New York and The Matrix are the most practical and common examples). But it's the way Nolan puts these ideas in the big budget blockbuster. Let's be honest here. Smaller or lower budget films are not seen by the general public due to the absence of of large production values (a great soundtrack, great locations for filming or great special effects, etc). See these ideas or concepts in a great Hollywood blockbuster made with such quality and care, it is amazing. And these ideas are embedded in the drama of the film in such a cohesive and exemplary way; it is applauding Nolan's professional integrity. This is why Nolan movies are so well received, he tries to put in these Hollywood blockbusters something more, something common in indie or smaller films, but with the financial aspect of the great studios to provide a better technical quality.Obviously there is quality on this movie; the large parallel sequences are exemplary. The parallel between the Van sequences, the hotel with the Joseph Gordon-Levitt (when character is awake in the elevator), the peak at the military base in the snow and the desolate city of Cobb and Mal is almost perfectly made with an all- encompassing soundtrack. Of course the sequences of action are lousy . And many dialogues are very weak. Two weaknesses in Nolan's movies.Bad things come with the good things. I suspect that the bad action scenes of Inception and Dark Knight were the reason why Nolan turned DKR into an action movie instead of trying to tell a good story, Nolan's ego should have been hurt by the criticism as he directs his action scenes in these two films. Particularly Inception and the action sequence in the snow with Tom Hardy. Too bad, sorry.But the performances are amazing, particularly Marion Cotillard as Mal. There are many layers in the various characters which Nolan conducts with mastery and the way they are inserted into the film is almost perfectly. Particularly in the initial sequence (which I thought would be a scene to showcase special effects, and Nolan proved me wrong). Or in the scene between Ariadne and Cobb, when Cobb tries to explain how his wife dies, and then discovered new layers of the character to reveal that in fact, he did have to do with the death of his wife. Of course this will be important to the outcome of the film. It is this ability to put the scenes and the flashbacks in certain key moments of the plot that Nolan shows much quality, and one of his long lists of virtues. Inception is a movie like any movie; it has its flaws, but also its virtues. But, for me the qualities overlap the defects, and in the end the movie is well worth watching. But is its legendary statute being worthy? If Inception was released in the 1980's would it have the same impact in that decade, as it had in 2010? Currently the commercial movies in Hollywood are in crisis. We live in an era of remakes, superhero movies and franchise fatigue without the studios or directors making an effort to improve with originality or at least with a little more original concepts. Inception's credit could be lower if today's Hollywood was not in such a decadent state. But nonetheless, Inception is still a good movie.


                
Sci-fi films are loved all around the world these days. 'The Matrix', 'Donnie Darko' and my personal favorite 'Brazil'. But here comes another film by director Christopher Nolan who finished 'The Dark Knight' 2 years ago and now is ready to do another movie. The critics and the audiences loved it. While I consider it as the worst Christopher Nolan film ever. And here's why.Now I must say that I don't think this is horrible. There are quite a lot of good things in this movie. First of all, the special effects are amazing. There's this scene where the other side of the street starts to bend and it meets the other side of the street. Cars are driving upside down and all those crazy things are happening. It was awesome. Second, the music is ground-breaking. There's always this big boom that comes out in the movie and it just makes your heart rattle. Third, the premise is brilliant. The idea of going into a dream and stealing somebody's thought is a premise that only Christopher Nolan can write. It is amazing at those points and I could've liked it.But there is one big problem I had with this movie. And that was the acting. The acting was horribely bland. It has no taste and I just think that the acting starts to get boring. Leonardo Dicaprio's acting has hardened as time went by. He was amazing in one of his first movies 'What's Eating gilbert grape' which is one of my favorite movies of all times. And of course I had a problem with Ellen Page who I thought was so good at acting after I watched 'Juno'. But no, she is so boring in this movie too. The characters doesn't help much. There is not a bit of character development is this movie. And I want good characters when I watch a movie.On the whole, I don't think this movie is terrible. It has its bad and good. I think he should go back to this days of 'The Dark Knight'. I know a lot of people loves this movie but for me, it's the worst Christopher Nolan film ever. But it's worth a watch if you know what a good movie is. I give it 6/10!
I walked into the theater knowing relatively nothing about this film, and I walked out...knowing even less. From the moment it begins to the moment it ends, you will be wondering what is going on. These initial questions are simply because those trailers we've been watching all year have hardly prepared us for what is about to happen. Most of us just buy a ticket on our faith in either Christopher Nolan or Leonardo DiCaprio. (In my case: both.) As the movie progresses, your questions grow deeper, more layered, just as the dreams you are viewing excavate the furthest reaches of the unconscious. It's an absolute ride, and in IMAX, it's astounding.It's easy to see how this is the product of Nolan's work in Memento. It deals with the same issues of our narrator's reliability and questions of reality. Both main characters have a tragic self-awareness that seems like a plus in the beginning of the movie, but by the end, you'll wonder if what they trusted to be true and what you trusted to be true is even true at all. Like the dreams themselves, the plot lines and characters begin to fall apart, but our Architect, Christopher Nolan, is the one pulling the strings. This is a film that moves beyond its medium and pulls you in. I'd almost say it breaks the fourth wall without even trying to.It goes without saying that the special effects are one of the highlights of Inception. This will probably be The Matrix of our time, but in a much subtler way. As Dom says, "It's only when you wake up that you realize there was something strange." This strangeness is embraced and pulled throughout the film. However, the mazes, infinite staircases, and alternate realities these special effects create are not limited to just providing an aesthetic wonder, but they serve to symbolically reinforce many of the main issues of the film. The paradox of an infinite staircase will be itching your brain for a few hours after you finish watching.The performances are pitch perfect. I initially thought that the characters were a bit one- dimensional and not incredibly developed. Don't be alarmed though. Nolan hasn't lost the touch that created his Batman and his Joker. I believe there are deliberate reasons for this lack of background, which will surely feed into the theorists that will begin sprouting all over the internet after this weekend. Leonardo DiCaprio and Marion Cotillard provide the emotional and narrative center of the film. Being the Oscar winning and nominated actors they are, these roles are played beautifully. It's as if they don't even realize they're the ones we're all focused on. I would've given this a 10/10 if it weren't for the excessive use of Hans Zimmer's music. I'm a major fan of Zimmer's work, but I believe music in a film is instrumental when trying to give your audience some sort of cathartic release. At the moment I needed that from the score, it had already been playing non-stop for an hour, so it really made no difference in my emotional response. That's my only complaint, but I'm a film score nerd so don't worry about it.I'll end this now before I start confusing myself even more. It's a privilege, though, to see an auteur like Christopher Nolan working today, using the summer blockbuster as his medium. You'll leave the theater feeling as if you just "witnessed" something.


                
Inception (2:28, PG-13) — 9 — Science Fiction; biggie; original2009 was an amazing year for SF&F movies, with 7 original films (Avatar, District 9, Inglourious Basterds, Inkheart, Star Trek, Up, and Watchmen) getting my top rating of 9. 2010 so far has been disappointing, with only 4 (How To Train Your Dragon, Kick-Ass, Shrek Forever After, and Toy Story 3) getting as high as 8. But the dry spell is finally over, and in absolutely smashing fashion.Christopher Nolan has a grand total of 9 films to his credit, but they include such outstanding productions as Memento (2000), The Prestige (2006), and The Dark Knight (2008). Furthermore, in addition to directing, he co-wrote the screenplays for those movies with his brother Jonathan. They were marvels of intricacy, with layer upon layer of hidden meaning and nuance, slowly revealed as the story progressed. Now, as solo screenwriter and director, he has produced a masterpiece, the mind-blowing Inception.He takes an idea which I 1st read about in Douglas Hofstadter's Pulitzer Prize–winning 1979 book Gödel, Escher, Bach: An Eternal Golden Braid, and turns it into a riveting drama. Hofstadter wrote about a storyteller who gets his protagonist to a cliff-hanger point in a story, then has him start telling another story, which in turn leads to its own crisis, and then again, and then again. After the crisis is resolved at the final, deepest level, we go up and up and up again, and finally out. Only then does Hofstadter call our attention to the fact that we went down 4 levels but only came back up for 3 of them.Nolan uses this same idea (along with some Escherian visuals) with a wrinkle: It's not a story, it's a dream, and the dreamers are wired together so they share each others' experiences. Furthermore, there's a time-dilation effect (familiar to most people from their own dreams at least as far back as Mark Twain's "The Great Dark") in which an hour in dreamland is only 5 minutes in the real world. And if a person in dreamland goes into a deeper dream, the effect is compounded, so that a seeming lifetime can pass during only a short nap.In the near future, a small coterie of researchers has gotten good at this, and they make some shady money extracting hidden memories from the subconscious of people whose dreams they invade. Then a new proposition comes along. Wealthy power-company tycoon Saito (Ken Watanabe) wants to do the opposite — not to retrieve a memory but to plant one in the mind of Robert Fischer Jr. (Cillian Murphy), the heir to the rival Fischer-Morrow Corp. Dom Cobb (Leonardo DiCaprio) is confident it can be done, despite the misgivings of the rest of his team, but he warns that it will require going down multiple layers, for 2 reasons: (1) the new idea has to be so subtly insinuated that the target will think he came up with it himself, for reasons he would find credible, and (2) Fischer has undergone training to resist this very kind of dream incursion, and his subconscious comes equipped with alarms and security guards to snap him out of any ordinary dream state.But wait, there's more! Normally, when you're "killed" in a dream, you just wake up. But this endeavor involves not merely multiple levels but also a powerful anesthetic, and the combination means that anyone "killed" in dreamland will stay there forever, in a kind of limbo, lost to reality.And still more! Cobb's dead wife Mal (Marion Cotillard) shows up every time he enters dreamworld, whether he's the primary dreamer himself or piggybacking on someone else's. Even tho she's just a figment of his imagination, he's got a really GOOD imagination, and she has her own reasons for wanting to keep him in the dream state, so she's always trying to thwart his best-laid plans. So Cobb himself can't have TOO much knowledge, in his waking state, of whatever imaginary world they're planning to take the target into. But, while he recognizes this in himself and compensates for it, he has other blind spots that could endanger his entire team. Fortunately, he's engaged the brilliant young architect Ariadne (Ellen Page) to design his mazes for him, and she tumbles to some of his personal demons.But wait, there's STILL more <U+0085>And so it goes, layer upon layer, complexity atop complexity, and you start to think you shouldn't be able to tell the players without a scorecard, but somehow Nolan gives you just enuf visual cues to help you keep straight at least 4 simultaneous story threads, as he intercuts rapidly between them.It is a tour de force, the best SF&F movie of the year. It's not for slow learners, but anyone who's easily bored will have absolutely no problem staying awake. Indeed, after this, you may be reluctant to ever fall asleep again.
The Best director and The best Casting Specially Leonardo DiCarpio and Tom Hardy. Firstly the movie starts with the great Twist. After that story begins.The movie is about a story of Thief and his Team who steal secret information through Dreams of the Victims. Actually the theme of this movie is about the dreams. There is lots a of real facts about dreams and I have never seen such a great movie about dreams.Leonardo Plays a main part.He shows glimpses of a flawed, grim, fragile man, who has knowledge about everything else but yet can't seem to come in grips with himself and his demons. Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Ellen Page, Tom Hardy, Ken Watanabe, Dileep Rao, Cillian Murphy, Tom Berenger, Michael Caine, Marion Cottilard, Pete Postlethwaite, Lukas Haas... Nolan really brings out the best in this unusual yet extremely talented group of supporting actors who make their roles their own.Actually I have no words for this movie.Once the film ends, you'll want to watch it again, for there's something new every time.I highly recommended to everyone to watch this great movie.
When I first saw the early 2009 trailer of this movie I was intrigued because I knew this time Nolan will not repeat himself in a brilliant breathtaking action movies like he made before in his new Batman or the deep thriller he represented in "The Prestige" or the mind-blowing "Memento"No, This time Nolan will make his crown jewelry his own masterpiece.This time Nolan will teach us how to make a thriller-action-psycho-mind blowing with intelligent science tricks movie .And when I saw "INCEPTION" yesterday I wasn't disappointed. In the first few minutes you will be bolted in your chair trying to get the grasp of what is going on around you. I can only describe it as the same reaction when you first saw "The Matrix". There is certain rules going on you can't understand, which will begin to reveal its meanings after a while.Cobb "Dicaprio" is a strange character-reminds you of "Teddy Daniels" at his last " Shutter Island"-his job is stealing the ideas from the industries' pioneers by tricking them in their dream state to reveal their secrets.This is the main character the film is all about, around him a clever cast of Joseph Gordon- Levitt, Ellen Page, Tom Hardy, Ken watanabe, Dileep Rao and Michael caine to support him in his new "mission impossible-like" job.The job is instead of stealing an idea is to put a new one in the mind of a rich industry heir "Cillian Murphy" by putting him in a deep three level dream in order to reach to the core of his mind to plant this idea.During the film you will discover the danger they put themselves into by doing so, and that Cobb "Dicaprio" is hiding a secrets of his own. Also a several shift between different dreams happening in the same time away from what is happening in reality with a time perspective change which was a surreal experience. A twist of brilliant camera,visual,action & science tricks is the main theme of this movie, you can't trust any of your senses, you can't make the difference between dreams and reality, you are caught up in-between all the time. I can't describe it really only by that you don't know if you took the blue pill or the red one as like in "The Matrix", and maybe it is much worse because during the movie you won't know whether you are dreaming or watching a movie in a cinema - or maybe its just me - :)The final words that Nolan has answered the question of why the cinema won't die, by showing us that there is still a huge creative space waiting to be discovered.


                
I haven't done a 'movie review' in a while, basically because we've had quite a lot of rubbish recently. Well, either rubbish, or clichés. Gone are the day's of the 90's, with great movies that were actually intelligent, like Fight Club, Pulp Fiction, Sixth Sense, and so on. Now all we seem to get is more of the same dumbed down movies, over and over again, and so on for the past decade (sure, there have been a few good movies here and there, but that's all they are, a 'few').This year seems to have made a comeback, though; is this decade going to be a good one for movies? Shutter's Island at the beginning of the year with it's crazy multiple psychological twist, trailers for Salt showing a clever WTF plot line, and just yesterday, Inception.Wow. It's not often I sit and watch a movie in the cinema gripping the edge of my seat, dreadfully anticipating the next few seconds. Not often that a movie ends and everyone in the cinema starts clapping.So what is this Inception business? Well, to actually review the movie without spoilers is kinda tough, and even though it's kind of immune to spoilers (telling you the ending would not take away from the story, as it's the point of 'how they got there', and even if I tell you 'how they got there' it would probably make you more confused) so if you haven't watched it yet, read until the ---Spoilers--- tag below. The movie has a cast that basically drove it to perfection; Michael Caine, Joseph Gordon-Lewitt, Marion Cotillard, and stars the lovely Leonardo DiCaprio, who got famous from the cheesy "I'm the King of the World" scene in Titanic (well, that and getting it on with Kate Winslet in the back of a steamy car). Let's just say back then he was a little, what's the word, soft.But over the years, he's gone from some young and pansy romantic actor into my top 10 list (along with Al Pacino, De Niro, Brad Pitt, etc), and again that's partly through his mind blowing performances in movies that again, blow your mind; from Gangs of New York, to The Departed, to the recent Shutter's Island, and now this? I must say, we're far off from that little kid back in Titanic.Inception is basically about dreams, how you can actually enter someone's dreams (through a physical connection while you both sleep), and from there steal hidden ideas and thoughts from their subconscious. DiCaprio plays an expert thief at that game, and along the way is forced to take a pretty tough mission (details of which I can't discuss, see spoiler part below).The acting was high quality, graphics amazing without making it seem over-done, and the plot-line way above anything you've seen in theatres over the past few years. This being said, it's not a movie most people won't get, but if you are a dumb viewer who can't grasp more than your typical straightforward storyline, don't bother watching this. I counted at least 8 people leaving the cinema half way through the movie. Many others would probably want to watch this a second time due to the complexity and number of levels this movie hits.I've always had a fascination with dreams, and how the dream world works in comparison to the real world; dreams within dreams, the time aspect of it, controlling your own dreams, or even being aware that you're actually in a dream - I wrote about this a while back, read it here (http://www.ammaro.com/2007/08/dreams-reality.html) It does raise multiple questions about your life, dreams, what is real and what isn't. I would go as far as say that it brings about that same feeling you get when you first watched 'The Matrix'. Everything in the real world seems kind of blurry for a while. And this movie makes you think, oh yes it makes you think. I couldn't find much to fault with it, except that even though the whole thing lasts about two and a half hours, I felt a few parts were rushed, and probably needed a little more development, while others dragged on a little. Overall, this didn't deter much from the enjoyment, I give this a 9/10, a definite must watch and so far the best movie of the year! Continued with spoilers at http://www.ammaro.com/2010/07/inception-2010.html


                
A few years back when I saw The Dark Knight, I thought now thats what made me fall in love with Hollywood. However, Inception made me remember what sheer brilliance this movie industry can create and puts it worlds apart from our Bollywood. SHOCK and AWE !!!! That sums up my experience. As many have already said this is Nolan's masterpiece. The CGI just took it to the next level. I don't favour the recent 3D trend and I thank the producers for not doing something like that to this movie, but considering the story and cinematography I wouldn't have minded, if they had. The acting is not the strongest part of this movie, most of the characters have very little to showcase in this movie. Yet, Joseph Gordon Lewitt,Ken Watanabe, Marion Cotillard did justice to their roles. Leonardo DiCaprio's character was the only thing that had some weight and he performed Brilliantly. (I wish he gets an Oscar nod at least). Brilliance is the only word that can define his performances these days. Nolan has become the go to guy for many new projects for Warner Bros. these days and this is just proof of why it is so. The way this movie has been presented, I cannot give it another name rather than A MASTERPIECE. It shakes you, makes you think and amazes you with the effects, the performances and the story. Nolan deserves every credit that he gets for making such a beautiful and mind boggling movie.The reason I compare it to Matrix is because it makes you think and imagine beyond your normal horizon. It actually requires you to sit and take in everything that is given so that you can enjoy it to the fullest. The reason why I love it even more is because these days with movies like Twilight and all in which you don't have to use your head, this one actually titillates your mind and senses. Now usually when I see such a movie I'd suggest everyone of my friends to check it out. But I caution you to only go watch this movie if you plan to take your Brain with you. It ain't that, keep your head out of the theatre, movie. So if you end up disliking it, Its purely due to lack of concentration.It's simple you would either call it ridiculously Awesome or just plain ridiculous, it all depends on you. The Special effects are outrageous, Leonardo Dicaprio is as usual Unbelievable, the Action sequence is Thrilling, Nolan has gone Over the Top. Yet, what everyone should look-out for is, the story. Note: I haven't seen Paprika and many have complained about it not being credited. I cant say if that is right or wrong, however I personally believe that no anime has yet found a better big screen extravaganza. All I can ask, is for Nolan to watch Death Note. We'd all love that. wouldn't we? The Best Part: The Climax of the movie was the best, I have seen in ages. The audience is devastated, amazed, given hope, rejoiced, then practically left jaw dropped and hung; asking just one question: WAS THAT A DREAM?
Without exaggeration,i can say I had never waited for anything in my life like i waited for Inception.I was keeping update of every single development and news about the movie,i can say i was getting hysterical ,and the reasons are quite clear as both my favorite actor and director of my generation ,Leonardo Di Caprio and Christopher Nolan come together ,my favorite newcomer actors Ellen Page and Joseph Gordon Lewitt they are all together in one movie,it is like a dream come true and the movie itself explores the world of Dreams,the boundless world of dreams where you are free from any limitation of real world to imagine and create anything you want.It is action,sci-fi,romance,you find everything here,every grand scale entertainment that we experience from watching different movies brought in a single movie(as Chris Nolan said),a movie we all dreamt about and Christopher Nolan made it real.When the movie released and after reading dozens of reviews,i came to decision that i will not see this movie till the hypes get over so that i could make own point-of-view on the movie.But i was unable to control myself.Now,the movie has released in my city,the dubbed version actually,in Hindi and they also renamed it in Hindi as "Chakravyuha" which means "Labyrinth" which also seemed quite sensible to me.The dubbing was perfect,with brilliant translation and synchronization, and the selection of voices for actors were also fantastic.In short,they didn't spoiled the movie like they did to Harry Potter and Avatar .We watched the movie in empty cinema hall(there were only 40-50 peoples present in the capacity of 300) which was not surprising for me,as no one care much about Christopher Nolan movies here,except few movie aficionados like me.Watching Inception was the experience like seeing a miracle from you own eyes ,a entertainment for your mind, body and soul.This movie satisfied me completely from every point of view,like i said before this movie is a complete package,this movie makes us think deeply and explores subconscious of human mind and make us realize the power of it.The completely original and personal work of Christopher Nolan with some inevitable influences of other movies like Matrix but this doesn't make this movie unoriginal ,the idea of traveling into the subconscious of human's mind and steal his idea or even seeding an idea in his subconscious is completely new,mind-blowing and ground-breaking concept,the brilliant action and chasing sequences maintained adrenalin rush in your body,and also a very heart-touching love story that doesn't seemed out-of-place but the vital part of the movie.This brilliant concept get the full support from Warner Bros. who can take such a high risk and give full freedom to their director,grand scale production which made the sets and special effects looks so real. Brilliant performances from every single cast as they were portraying the beautifully created characters with such depth that made their work very challenging.The soundtrack of the movie is mesmerizing and added great feel to the movie.Inception may not be the best,may not be the most perfect and flawless movie ever made but certainly it is the most complete grand scale entertainment movie,so far.


                
All of the complaints that I have seen about this movie were ones explaining how viewers did not understand the movie. Honestly, the movie is really simple to follow, if you pay attention. I've only seen it one time and I understood everything. Many are saying that they want to see it twice in order to grasp everything, but one viewing is enough if comprehension is all you want to get out of the second viewing. This being said, I would love to see this movie a second time. The acting is outstanding and the chemistry between the actors makes the movie so pleasant to watch. You instantly forget that these are actors. The chemistry between Ellen Page and Joseph Gordon Levitt is phenomenal. Also, Leonardo is unbelievable as always, and no one can look better in a suit. The topic is so engaging and I would recommend this movie to anyone. It has been my favorite movie so far this year, and I will definitely be purchasing it as soon as it comes out onto DVD. Spend the money, see the movie, pay attention, and everything will be great.


                
The moving is a'Maze'ing and you will come out of the maze (read cinema) in just a tad less than 2 and half hours, fully refreshed and satisfied. Watched the first show of the day at 12 noon (India Time) which I guess means it is yet to be released in US while I am writing the review.Another DiCaprio thriller after Shutter Island and that too in the same year. DiCaprio has done just 11 movies since Titanic came out in 1997 and probably you can name them all, he is that selective). Too good to be true. Actually it is too good as although you cant and shouldn't compare, Christopher Nolan has matched Martin Scorsese and has probably outdone himself compared to TDK. Forget the complexity about the plot of a dream within a dream within a dream, what will linger are the amazing visuals caught in slo-mo. Everything seems to fall in place like a Swiss watch that by the end of the movie all your questions and 'how did that' gets answered.There is a lot of similarity between Inception and Shutter Island and the similarity is that they are like North and South Poles. That different yet nonetheless they are poles, right.I do not want to give the story one bit because that is the beauty of this movie's concept, the story unfolds with almost every scene and there is always the suspense that the story just might take a dramatic turn in each frame and does it take the turn or turns? Well, go watch for yourself and you will feel like writing a review yourself.All the actors are good and plays to the character, but the thing is the movie is so damn brilliant, I guess Nolan could have just about cast anybody and it would still have turned out a'Maze'ing.


                
If you liked Nolan's previous films "Memento" and/or "The Prestige", you will love Inception. Like those films it does a good job of setting the ground rules for the world so you are never confused but at the same time reality can be distorted but it never does at the expense of the story. Deep down this film is about forgiveness and letting go but also has a great sci-fi sheen that never takes that idea away. Even if the story doesn't hook you than you will be in awe of the set pieces that put many other films to shame where you never can predict what will come next. Overall this is a great film that will stand out this summer of lackluster films by being smart, action packed, and containing real emotion and heart. I can't recommend it enough.
In this movie, Nolan picks up the Freudian Theory of dream and pens an intelligent and surreal script from it although he seems to borrow some of this ideas from a Japanese anime movie Paprika. However, to condemn this movie as a Hollywood CGI polished ripoff of Paprika is preposterous. Inception stands on his own because it has an entirely different plot and characters.The best thing about this movie are the settings, with a ton of dream within a dream within a dream worlds, for me at least Nolan successfully presents us with a fairly coherent state of one's dream (coherent enough to be filmed with CGI at least) without losing the glorious incomprehensibleness of dream itself. However, sadly all of the best CGIs and dream worlds stuffs here on this movie has been spoiled in the trailer, the folding city, the zero gravity hotel room and the icy fortresses.The acting quality of what could be considered the best all-star casts in any 2010 movie complements the set and plot nicely without any particular character chewing the scenery. However, somewhat annoyingly in my opinion DiCaprio's acting falls short and feels a little bit dull compared to the sheer awesomeness of the environment. His character seems distracted and somewhat bored throughout the movie. His inner struggle projected in the dream settings throughout the movie in my opinion totally distracts the flow of the plot and completely unnecessary since we have already seen DiCaprio struggles against his own mental projection and questioning reality in another movie. Shutter ** cough.. cough.. Now that I've written three paragraphs about this movie, I felt that I'm somehow being to harsh. This is a really good movie, for me it holds a respectable second best movie in 2010 after Toy Story 3 and definitely a top 10 movie in this decade. The action is really intense and the dream worlds presented by Nolan are really top notch. Although the sub-plot DiCaprio's mental stuff kinda drags a little bit, it doesn't decrease the sheer volatile awesomeness of this movie.


                
According to macmillan English dictionary inception means '' beginning of something '' , but here the word is used to mean something like the rhyming word conception .Just like conception means planting of seed in womans womb ,here inception is taken to mean planting of an idea in someone's brain .........and the idea is planted by going into his dreams.......by dreaming together.Loenardo goes into other people's dreams and finds out their secrets .......but is hired this time for .........inception.......what else..........to plant into the brain of the heir to an energy conglomerate the idea that he must divide it instead of strengthening it after his father's death ,in order for its rivals to survive........the hirers are the rivals ,but of course.........But does inception work ?Leonardo is near perfect for the job as he knows the answer to this very question .........though only he knows that he knows........because he's tried inception on somebody very near and dear to him.........and it worked.................And for this very reason he's not really perfect ........for trying inception led to disastrous effects .........not only on his life ,but also on his mind..........and now those very effects threaten to upset and unsettle his dreams ..........i mean not only when he is actually dreaming as part of his job of sharing dreams with other people , but also his real life dream of getting back to his land to be with his mother-less children..........confusing ??........well ,so is the movie.........confusing and complex both......but what a movie........and as the plot gets more intricate ,and the characters begin to dream ,and dream in those dreams ,so does the action hot up..........as all the laws of physics ,and those of gravity too .......go for a toss ,we get to see breathtaking special effects that light up the screen........... .........and fast-paced action sequences that make you miss your heart beats.......director nolan has pulled of a triumph that outclasses other special effects movies of the year like avtar and 2012 ,which look so so shallow in front of this incredibly cerebral thriller............the ending ,of course is deliberately vague.........to keep discussions rolling ,and tongues wagging long after you have walked out of the big screen cinema.................yeah ,thats where you need to see it .........on the big screen ,with digital sound and all that........shame on those who want to see it on the small screen.........my bet is that it has some awards...................or i will eat my words........
Watching Inception with its futuristic emphasis on getting inside people's heads through dreams, especially hearing Leonardo DiCaprio explain the pitfalls to newbie Ellen Page, I couldn't help thinking about Forbidden Planet and that warning about monsters from the Id. Did earth manage to conquer what the Krells could not?Christopher Nolan wrote and directed Inception and though it gets a bit heavy at times, it still is an unmistakable masterpiece. Leonardo DiCaprio stars in this and he's essentially a cat burglar of the mind. His mission usually is to invade people's dreams and steal ideas which makes him an invaluable espionage agent. But Leo's also a wanted man.Some problems Leo has relating to his Id have forced him to rely on others to create dream worlds. He was working against Japanese billionaire industrialist Ken Watanabe and got caught, but then Watanabe likes his style and hires Leo and his team to do a job on the young heir to a communications conglomerate, Cillian Murphy. It's not to steal anything, but to plant an idea in his brain with the dream team. The film is essentially how DiCaprio and his crew go about this job with Watanabe incidentally along for the ride. And its how Leo has to deal with some real demons involving guilt that force him to rely on others.Very nice computer graphic generated special effects characterize Inception and it will probably earn an Oscar nomination next year in that category. Director Nolan gets his talented cast to read writer Nolan's dialog with verve and conviction. I truly hope this technology is not in our near future that would be a frightening thought.


                
In Chris Nolan's films, the narrative (and not anything else) is the main character, the center around which all else assembles. In terms of narrative complexity, this film doesn't really hold a candle to what 'Memento' and 'The Prestige' (or even 'Following') gave the viewer. The narration is linear, and the story ultimately harbors no mysteries. None at all. My guess is that all potential complexities were ironed out in order to secure finance and avoid risk. Even the human drama is totally unengaging and non-complex. This film doesn't give the viewer anything non-filmic to think about. Its a decent thrill ride, albeit with a new concept.The "money idea" here is the notion of nesting dreams within dreams in a potentially infinite sequence, like a Russian doll. This part of the film is really done well, and I'm sure everyone must hold their breath at the moment when all four (five?) levels "synchronize" and the "kick" is transmitted top to bottom.I suppose Nolan and his group must get credit simply for attempting something like this. Unfortunately there are problems here. The biggest one is how the dreams are constructed. They are mere action set-pieces. This is certainly not how we dream, not at all. Even allowing that, the dull and careless way in which the film is shot and edited is jarring. Worse, all the different levels are shot in the same visual style; there is no way to distinguish a dream state from reality, even when the viewer knows its a dream. Compare this with Martin Scorsese's use of two distinct visual palettes in 'Shutter Island' : one was surreal, and one prosaic; to denote two different states of mind. 'Fight Club' and 'Matrix' come to mind too.Nolan prefers an extremely wordy exposition over showing things visually. He expects viewers to understand concepts like the "unconscious", when truly speaking, few understand it well. Everyone has heard the word; how many people have studied it as a psychoanalytic concept proper ?? Even the particular interpretation that the unconscious and lucid dreaming are given, it is all just way too literal.With all due respect, someone needs to tell Chris Nolan to allow the use of second units. I'm sorry, but it seems he just cant shoot a decent action sequence to save his life. I'm surprised how no one has pointed this out.'Inception' was financed for one reason, and one reason only. Think of the amount of money that Batman 3 will make, if only they can get Nolan on board. It will obliterate any losses that 'Inception' may make.


                
A movie is not only about ideas, but the way in which it is delivered and this piece is living proof. Christopher Nolan personifies the idea that every one of us has experienced at some level in the form of dreams and creates an unprecedented and mind-numbing story. The human mind is so dynamic and creative that when uninhibited can create powerful alternate realities in the form of dreams.This dream draws its details from memories, logic and most importantly ideas that can shape every perceivable outcome. The story hinges on the perception that ideas are resilient parasites which when implanted in the brain, grows indiscriminately like a tumor and can supplant commonly held beliefs and force the dreamer into revealing personal details to the supplanter/extractor called "Inception". Leonardo DiCaprio (Cobb) plays the part of a world's best extractor who gets a contract from a powerful executive to perform inception. This is insignificant, as the real story is about Cobb (DiCaprio) and his personal journey into becoming the thief he is now. Everything else that is shown portends the complexity of his past that has been a melting pot of love, hate, loss, regret and anger. In fact at the end of the movie I completely forgot the cast of characters other than DiCaprio and rightly so because of the significance placed on the life of Cobb. Christopher Nolan uses the most compelling images in the form of special effects and a layered, interconnected plot that challenges your mind to think unconventionally. I realized that most of the negative reviews results from a poor understanding of the underlying theme and the inability to make out the fast paced changes that occur in the movie. But it's not that complicated and as described in this review, has very few underlying thematic points. Just sit back and enjoy the mind shattering experience of understanding what dreams are all about.


                
An amazing thing happened to me with this film. Never before have my views on a film shifted so dramatically as with Inception. In fact it is my second review of it, I edited the first which was very unflattering. What happened? Well, by chance I read an eye-opening analysis at chud.com, and then I went to see it again, this time in IMAX and with better sound. Chud's piece on this is quite brilliant and profound. I also shows that sometimes it is not enough to see a film, especially such an ambitious one, it is important to read about it, for example what the director says about it. Chud explains that in an interview Nolan reveals this is kind of autobiographical film for him, in a metaphysical sense. It is about... making films, about creative process! Yes yes, not about Matrix so much. DiCaprio confirms it, he says it is much more like "8 and a 1/2" was for Fellini than it is another Matrix. Cobb's team is like a film crew: a director (Cobb), producer (Saito), screenwriter (Ariadne), actor/ actors (Eammes, Fisher). And then there's Mal: a director's or artist's fetish or obsession, something that an original artist usually tends to bring into his work, for better or worse. That is why some good directors should not write scripts, like Cobb, you see? Chud then explains that seen this way, the ENTIRE film is a dream, Cobb's dream. We cannot be even sure that his wife is dead in his "real life", maybe she has just left him? The purpose of such a film for Nolan: analysis of why films work for us or not, why we identify with characters and feel for them or hate them, even if we know that what we r watching is unreal (a dream?). Chud brilliantly writes that some people can shed a tear or two during sad moments of the animated "Up" (or Toy Story), which does not diminish their emotions and does not make them untrue, even though they r reacting to pure fantasy. I for one was deeply moved when the young Fisher discovers what's in the safe and has a catharsis. I was moved with him, and I think Nolan tried to show us that such is the worth of good art and performance. Plus he included in this film elements from melodrama, heist movies, Bond movies etc., all in one. He could not include much of a comedy because it is supposed to be a dream of a sad character, someone who has apparently lost his wife. And when we know the entire film is a dream, many of its apparent inconsistencies or unlikely events do not trouble anymore, because it is Cobb's subconscious we are watching. And if Nolan says Cobb is like him we can guess Cobb is a film director in "real life", dreaming like a film making and about his wife that left him. Details start to make sense: bad goons cannot hit good characters - like in a dream or a bad action film, Cobb attaches the rope onto a chair in which Mal is seating though he has said he could not trust her, Mal is seating on a ledge opposite their hotel room and that room is like a copy of their room, the children look exactly the same and are dressed the same during the ending as before, the narrow alley moment in Mombasa, the explicit names like Ariadne (Greek mythology, the maze) or Mal (evil in French and Spanish), Ariadne asking Cobb what's in the snow castle FOR HIM when it was allegedly Fisher's dream... So I upgraded this film from weak 4 to a very strong 9 after that, for originality, ambition and high production values. Thanks to Chud, the film critic. I do not give it a perfect 10 because I still think the first hour is a bit flat and they talk too much in it.


                
With all the big budgets and technology Hollywood can get, what did we the audience get? Many sequels (And I dislike Dark Knight, being just a little better sequel).Since the Matrix was released more than 10 years ago, what did we the Sci-Fi film fans get compared with a decade or two before that? Chris Nolan delivered on these two accounts, and fewer and fewer directors in Hollywood can really master in commanding a complicated project and a good story telling, at the same time. I want more films like "Inception" coming to theaters here, which spent a lot of money making one as well as taking us to experience something other media, such as TV, games, can't offer. That is what we trade for paying the ticket to get in a theater.There is also a philosophical angle for the audience, I think. When we moviegoers are used to be overpowered by technology hard to distinguish among themselves, like computer graphics, animation, special effects, ..., unavoidably we find ourselves attracted to those with a "FORM" standing out among all, on top of such as acting of any particular roles, words of power of any particular scenes. "FORM" of this film will be something many to follow. If the derivatives of "FORM" to this film lead to a new spectrum for film makings, then that will be something interesting for us movie lovers to know first.The only thing I don't get it though - why did Saito and Fischer not recognize each other when they both waked up in the airplane? Aren't they supposed to know each other, being major competitors in the business they are respectively in?


                
From Memento, to The Prestige, to The Dark Knight, Christopher Nolan is quickly becoming one of the premiere directors of intellectual, yet crowd-pleasing entertainment. Now, just to jump right in, Inception continues this trend, while demonstrating more creativity than perhaps any of his other films.If there's one complaint that I can imagine people having over this film, it's that the plot can be particularly difficult to follow. And while I feel that this is true to some extent, that's because Inception is, in and of itself, a puzzle. All of the pieces are presented to you, and solving it depends not so much on intelligence, but on whether or not you find that sort of element appealing in a movie. It's a film in which much of the dialogue is spent simply explaining the rules of this complex dream world, and therefore demands that you be wide awake.Even so, there had still better be an endearing cast of characters to follow, especially with this being a two-and-a-half hour experience, and thankfully, Inception delivers. While none of them, outside of DiCaprio's character, have much back story to speak of, they all feature exceptionally likable personalities, so by the time that the stirring climax hit, I was concerned about the fate of each and every one of them. Joseph Gordon-Levitt's performance as DiCaprio's right-hand man, Arthur, blew me away in particular. The guy doesn't have a ton of screen time, but damn, does he leave an impression! Ultimately, however, Inception is the story of DiCaprio's character, Cobb. Now, I won't say much, as giving any plot details outside of the synopsis would be a crime, but suffice it to say, it's some pretty engrossing stuff, and DiCaprio definitely brings his A-game here.Also, as expected, Hans Zimmer proves once again that he is the boss when it comes to musical scores, as each scene is enhanced tremendously by his material. He's the sort of musician who can make even the simplest of actions seem more important than anything else that's happened in human history. If only you, sir, could score my life.With its challenging narrative structure, likable characters (if somewhat lacking in depth), and sheer visual splendor, Inception is easily among my favorite movies of the year, second only to Pixar's latest classic. It's been a rough summer movie season, and while we've still got quite a few weeks left before it's officially over, Inception succeeded in reminding me why I dig this medium so much.


                
I'm gonna go with the former, although something in my brain pan keeps coming back to the movie's casual mention (twice) that the rich and powerful central figure who is the target of Cobb's team of dream invaders carries a $500 wallet. Who would pay that much for a wallet? I mean, what could a wallet have that would make it worth that much? I couldn't shake this question about money foolishly spent.Watching this, admittedly, amazingly entertaining but absurdly complicated movie does make you stop and say, "Wait a minute, I want to see the flow chart." Plot points race past at breakneck speed. Do they go down three or four dream levels? Why did Leo inception his wife? Was the eroding seashore city limbo? Why were they all tied together and floating in the elevator? How did Cobb "betray" the team with memories of his wife?Perhaps repeat viewings will make all this clear. If anything, Inception is a movie that will have audiences back for a second viewing to try and clear things up.In a word, Inception is a movie that has its way with you. You are helpless in its clutches. A freight train crashing through rush hour traffic? Check. Siege of a mountain fortress with avalanche thrown in for good measure? Check. Paris folds in on top of itself? Check. Volcanic Hans Zimmer soundtrack? Check.Oh, and machine gun warfare. Lots of machine gun warfare.And then there's that hotel hallway fight. Whoa. One for the books.
