I'm sorry, but it has to be said. This is a boring show if you ask me. Hate me all you want, but I just don't like this show. It's boring. And who else noticed that Mabel likes VAMPIRES. Now what recent movie series features a girl who likes vampires? Ya know, the one with Kristen Stewart as Bella Swan? No? Well, it's TWILIGHT. They ripped it off! Oh, and guess what else, Mabel also loves PIGS. What's the wonderful cartoon in which a girl rescues a pig from getting killed just because he's a runt? Released in 1973, with a sequel 30 years later plus a remake released in 2006 (three years after the sequel) starring Dakota Fanning and Julia Roberts? Why, that my friends, would be Charlotte's Web. They ripped it off too! Mabel and that pig is an obvious ripoff of Fern and Wilbur from the classic cartoon based on an equally awesome book! Oh yeah, and Mabel OBVIOUSLY has ADHD. And of course, that can only mean one thing: that Dipper (her brother) is a total wimp, without a spine or any courage. Oh, and that reminds me! This show also has too much in common with Courage the Cowardly Dog. And Scooby-Doo. Also, the creepiness of this show also reminds too much of another classic cartoon. One from 1977 called The Rescuers (it also had a sequel 13 years later). It might also be a rip on the very first Disney film ever made (Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs). Bottom line: this show can't compete with any of the classics that I already mentioned, but it CAN compete with that popular-but-also-unpopular movie about vampires. I think the rating this show received should switch with another movie that I reviewed, and that would be Gordy. And one thing: Did I mention that the show's titular location of Gravity Falls, Oregon does NOT exist?


                
Overrated dribble this show gets high marks only because it is a children's show and yet most of the fans and critics says it's for adults which seems to be like having your cake and eating it too which too me seems ridiculous. This show is nothing special it steals most of it's ideas from either old TV melodramas like twin peaks or murder she wrote terrible show full of bad acting some overacting some underacting but mostly the prior. It also steals a lot from other american sitcoms like the Simpsons which has a similar wacky city where extraordinary things happen.It even stole it's main characters from the Simpsons dipper is a combination of Lisa Simpson and Bart Simpson being a whiny know it all brat who has to be the center of attention and a stupid little boy who for some reason wants to have a girlfriend who is many years his senior. The sister is Lisa if she had suffered a brain injury and had suddenly become infatuated with pigs and glitter or Bart as a girl but much less likable and also probably suffering from a brain injury. The old man with the stupid nickname (I refuse to say it's too stupid) is basically the old man from UP mixed with the personality of homer Simpson and the charm and wit of a rock.Then a tortilla chip tries to take over the world but is fooled by said idiot who looks the old man from up with the wit of a rock and his slightly more intelligent twin brother. You also have an even uglier and stupider version of Chris from the equally overrated plot-less humorless and idiotic family guy. Gravity falls has none of charm humor or creativity of the classic Simpsons some of convoluted plot and bad acting from twin peaks and murder she wrote an idiotic villain who is easily fooled and defeated and a cliche boring ending.
