Okay, I'll be the first to admit that when the promos for this show first aired on Disney Channel, I wasn't interested. I hadn't particularly enjoyed Fish Hooks, and I figured Gravity Falls would be more of the same. I was so wrong. This show is full to bursting with fantastic and lovable characters, witty humor, great writing, beautiful animation, and mysteries, fantasy, and little Easter eggs around every corner. In addition, there are a few elements that could easily give me nightmares, but which, oddly enough, the kids I babysit find more hilarious than anything. Guess it's the age difference. If you haven't yet, you definitely need to give this show a shot. I know Gravity Falls fans from age two to fifty, and I'd recommend it to anyone.


                
Very few shows have the capacity to entertain 8 and 10 year old girls a 13 year old boy and their 27 year old woman. Like the Shrek movies it has humor for youngsters and a stealthy adult humor. Definitely has elements from many cartoon predecessors and often times will ground a plot on a real life issue. My little cousins love it and when they found out I was watching gravity falls at home they flipped out. Now when I go visit we will sometimes watch on episode from the DVR. I literally can't stand most Disney programming but the style and creativity of this show caught my eye one day channel flipping. It is worth checking out and you will most likely be extremely surprised.


                
I hate the Disney Channel and what it's become, however I watched this show, and was very entertained! It's not just the humor, but the mixture of surreal situations that connect with the story. Not to mention, THE CHARACTERS! They're all simply fun and the way they get along and interact with each other is great! The setting is pretty cool too, there's always the potential for something completely new and supernatural to occur. I've seen all the episodes so far (all 7) but for the time being, I will continue to keep up with the episodes, and altogether I'm just happy to see that there is still hope for the cartoons of today and the future cartoons.


                
This show is really great, the writing is great, the characters are great, the humour is great, its the BEST written show storyline wise i have ever seen, the plot is so well thought out and so many secrets and codes to look for in every corner as part of the overall mystery. The characters are all very entertaining and funny, and the humour is very funny, quick, and breezy. The ONLY problems with the show is that it's rated tv-y7, it should really be rated p.g, if it were it would bring in the crowed it is more suited for. Some things in the show make me think "wow they got away with that?! In this day and age?!". Not only is there several jokes that would fit just as well in the simpsons, there's references to the simpsons too! Even a couple jokes that hint at pornography. The other problem is it airs on Disney. This is NOT a Disney show nor should it be treated like one if this show doesn't last long, its because its on Disney. It would be much suited to a p.g rating and on CN. Or at least if it was Disney, rated it p.g and air it late at night. Overall, a really really great well written show that is just not rated properly or on the right network. Do check it out though! Teens and adults will enjoy it.


                
By far my current favorite cartoon! This show is really clever, mysterious, funny, and great! When I first saw commercials for this show I didn't think it'd be special, but I was for sure wrong! Once I started watching it I just could not stop. The characters act like real people and are relatable to. When you watch Gravity Falls you feel the suspense and mystery but will be laughing as well. The only thing I think I'd want different is more of it! But it takes time to make such a quality television show. Overall Gravity Falls is in my all time top 5 favorite television shows and I hope they continue making many more episodes soon.


                
The plot is amazing, funny and mysterious. All the elements blend greatly. The characters are weird and lovable. The characters interact great together and I have been enjoying every minute of this show. The ciphers that the show offers are amazing and fun to solve they don't give away plot,at least not yet, so you don't need to decipher them, but personally I enjoy doing it. I enjoy everything about this show. There's never been any terrible jokes and no clichés in the plot which is always great. I recommend that you watch this show, but if you don't enjoy mystery in the plot, which I don't know why you wouldn't, or weird random humour, more understandable, then you probably won't enjoy this show as much as I have but it is still defiantly worth checking out.


                
Over the years, many shows have let me down in terms of storyline, humor, and originality. It seemed to me that every major children's network disappointed in all three aspects. I actually anticipated this show months before it even aired because, despite the fact that there wasn't much information available about it online, the premise sounded promising.As my rage towards Disney's mediocre attempts at teen-comedy and music grew infinitely stronger, I held my breath and awaited the release of that which is Gravity Falls. (Keep in mind, only two cartoons made up Disney's regular schedule prior to the airing of this fantastic show. Disney brings to mind animation, not anorexic twelve-year-olds dancing in miniskirts. Shame on you. Walt would be appalled.) Anyways, I was thoroughly impressed by the pilot episode, "Tourist Trapped", which pulled you right into the action of the show and delivered its characters in a quick and convenient manner.Gravity Falls is about twins, Dipper and Mabel, who are sent to the quirky woodland town of Gravity Falls, Oregon to their greedy Grunkle Stan over the summer. While helping their great uncle run his tourist attraction - the "Mystery Shack" - the twins also discover a secret book that sheds light on the many paranormal and otherworldly oddities found throughout their bizarre, new setting. The show also focuses on a number of other topics, including the struggles attained through youth.Viewers are provided with a balanced amount of mystery, action, humor, and suspense within each of the episodes. The characters each serve their purpose and contribute their roles to the storyline, which many other cartoons fail to do. I like the animation and the art in general, as the style is very appealing. Gravity Falls treats its viewers with respect and regard to their intelligence. The plots in each episode are complex enough to keep adults interested, all while providing enough laughs for the children. In other words, Gravity Falls is a show that can be enjoyed by any age. Most certainly recommended.
In an age where Disney Channel seems to be stuck in a rut when it comes to making good shows, I've never seen, not only a cartoon, but a show in general as hilarious and ingeniously thought out as Gravity Falls. When I first saw the trailer, I honestly thought it looked pretty dumb, but once I actually gave it a chance, I was absolutely blown away! The story of the show is actually similar to Avatar, in which it continues its story rather than just making episodes without any continuity whatsoever. When the show began, the story was clearly fleshed out with very likable characters and surprisingly great humor, and it only seemed to get better the more it went on. The mystery element has only grown, giving us so many questions and small clues, and letting us come up with our own theories (speaking of which, I'm pretty sure that Gompers the goat is Bill Cipher in disguise.) When the show DOES give answers to questions though, it does NOT disappoint! When it comes to the animation, the world that the show has created is 100% fascinating!From the creatures, to the locations, to the backgrounds, to the magical elements, it's all incredible to look at! I've already mentioned that the show has hundreds of clues as to where the story is going throughout it, and the animation often gives many away, even though we may not even realize it. All the amazing sites, cool places and crazy creatures will make you wish the town were real! It probably isn't surprising when I say that the characters are all fantastic. You'll really root for the good guys and you'll love to hate the bad guys! You'll want these characters to be real just as much as the town so you can go on a mystery hunt with Dipper, knit a crazy sweater with Mabel, let Grunkle Stan show you around the Mystery Shack, play Laser Tag with Soos, chill with Wendy and more! Now with the addition of Great Uncle Ford, who has already began to set himself as pretty solid and likable, these guys are classic examples of timeless characters.I don't even know what else to say; I simply adore this show! I recommend this to everyone; kids, adults, and especially people who love a great mystery! It's a show that's only gotten better, and I hope it continues to do exactly that!
Somewhere in the Middle of Nowhere in Oregon, two twins exit a bus. A flashy showman, their Great Uncle, greets them, and invites them into the paranormal epicentre of the world. While it seems he's too much of a trickster to believe in the supernatural he promotes, the kids explore the town, and find enough adventure, mystery and conspiracy to last a thousand lifetimes. It's an experience that will change the both of them forever.Gravity Falls' intro has no lyrics, and yet, in roughly forty seconds of screen-time, we already know the settings, the major characters, their virtues and flaws, their relationships, and a whole lot of foreshadowing for things that won't even be touched on until the very end. This very effectively sums up the show; a lot being thrown at you, even if you don't recognise it at the time. It constantly thinks back to itself, with some of the most in-depth continuity, background or foreground, of any show, animated or not. Characters casually appear in the background several episodes before an episode revolves around them, minor plot-points are revisited dozens of episodes later, and damage to both people and property doesn't vanish after a single episode. Almost every major plot twist (and there are many) involves a heavy degree of foreshadowing, stretching back into the first season. Thankfully, it's never quite enough for the casual viewer to pick up, but enough to reward multiple viewings. Being a show that revolves around mystery (the creator, Alex Hirsch, had the intention to blend the episodic mysteries of X-Files, with the overarching mystery of Twin Peaks), every episode is littered with codes and riddles that are used both for comedy, and hints about upcoming confrontations. The more one dissects each episode, the more one realises the dedication and effort that was put into every one.But regardless of the mystery elements that define the series, the heart and soul of the show is the relationship between the twins, Dipper and Mabel. Both on the cusp of puberty, Dipper is introverted, adventurous, and deeply precocious, while his sister is extroverted, more interested in the prospect of summer romance than the supernatural, and has an infectious, childish optimism for life. So many pitfalls that beset other twin/sibling relationships in shows are avoided in their writing: identical characters, every episode being a conflict between the two, one of the two always being right, etc. While very different, the two compliment, rather than conflict with each other. When they tease, they know when to stop, when they fight, it's a big deal, and when they see the anguish the other goes through, they sacrifice. What a relief from the endless cynical jibes that define character interaction in the modern era; here, the two unquestionably love and cherish the company of each other. It's the most affecting twin relationship one could write without straining believability. Both have insecurities about themselves, and both are deeply flawed from the outset, which they learn to overcome together. Hirsch said one of the most amazing things about the show for him was the sheer amount of people calling him up to thank him for their getting closer to their siblings, after having drifted apart, or never having been together at all. The relationship between Hirsch's own twin sister and himself as the obvious inception for Mabel and Dipper gives a deeply authentic vibe, creating one of the best written sibling relationships in all fiction.This allows the show to do something really well; humour. Hirsch never intended to do a kid's show, and constantly wrote the show from the perspective of what would children get into, and what would make adults laugh, a formula which enabled the show to have the entirety of the top ten broadcast ratings on their channel. Consequently, the strong characterisation and connections between the characters, (the twins, their con-man Great Uncle, the practical but dim-witted janitor, and the tomboyish counter-girl) allow for miraculously high-quality character-humour. However, this isn't to pigeon-hole the show's comedic writing, which has an incredible range from slapstick, to visual gags, to fourth-wall breaks. There is not a fart joke to be found, but there are jokes that no child could possibly get that will send older viewers into uproar (such as the Great Uncle giving the names of his hands as "Scratchy and Shaky.") When asked which episode in particular the censors most objected to, Hirsch replied "All of them".While the humour can often be adult, including some of the most depressing, nihilistic monologues one can get away with given the rating, the level of darkness in terms of horror is something that shocks most people who watch the series for the first time. With a shape-shifter morphing into a spider version of the main characters, screaming severed heads, and lines like "I've got to turn some children into corpses", Gravity Falls never shied away from nightmare fuel. Yet even then, the show never forgets that it is primarily a comedic series. In the midst of extreme drama, there will be isolated comedic moments that are just enough to make you laugh, but integrated enough not to detract from the tone. The intensity of the drama cannot be underestimated though, with major life and death decisions having to be made by children who are clearly not prepared for the turmoil they are going through, which makes us all the more heartbroken to see their anguish.Ultimately, the show concluded on the creator's terms; he envisioned a beginning, middle, and ending, and saw it through to the (highly emotional) end. Gravity Falls will never suffer the same zombification that overcame once great shows like the Simpsons, leaving one of the most consistent high-quality programming across not just children's, or animated television, but the medium in general. It's a show for all ages, and an adventure in itself.


                
Last Halloween, a friend of mine cosplayed as Dipper (The main protagonist aside from his twin sister Mable and their Grunkle Stan) from the show and told me it was worth a watch. Needless to say I got into it and enjoy it very much. Just finished the first season too! The character designs are sort of reminiscent of older cartoons and definitely some Ren & Stimpy influence thrown in there- big differently coloured noses, googly eyes and lanky bodies. The background artwork is surprisingly innovative and versatile. The characters, Grunkle Stan, Mable and Soos are amongst some of the best characters in the show. The writing is witty, humorous and even touching at times. Continuity plays a big responsibility in this show as characters will address past events and the show teaches good morals without being too preachy. Gravity Falls has a strange and mysterious history that plunges Dipper and Mable into all kinds of adventures and foibles. This show comes as "recommended to watch" by this old Saturday morning cartoon watching veteran! By the way, the writers of this show HATE teen pop stars :)
After reviewing a lot of mediocre shows,I decided to do a review on this amazing show.I really really REALLY LOVE this show.It's a perfect blend of comedy and mystery and some action.The characters are all lovable and have unique personalities(my favorite is mabel).The animation is gorgeous and the voice acting is not bad either.The jokes are SOOOOOOOOOOOOO HILARIOUS!!!!!!They're similar to the jokes in phineas and ferb,only funnier.The show also has some pop cultural references(something that seems to be absent in most kid's cartoons these days)So yes,this cartoon is not only my favorite modern cartoon,it's also my favorite cartoon of ALL TIME!!!!!Yes,I love it THAT much.If you haven't seen this show,then boy,have you missed out.Just watch an episode and I guarantee that you will love it.Sadly,Disney channel does not exactly love this show(as they put this show on a million hiatuses).I also heard that they are going to cancel this show and replace it with more stupid teen sitcoms.Well,if they do that,then I'll stop watching the channel for good.So bottom line:this show is really enjoyable and is a lot better than most of the cartoons that are airing now(in fact,I find it to be more enjoyable than adventure time,my little pony:friendship is magic and phineas and ferb)
I certainly love this show! its only one of the Disney shows i would watch i love the characters a lot! the plot actually makes sense than the other Disney shows i bet Walt would be proud every time it comes on it makes me smile1.Dipper is cool,good-looking,funny and fun even though everyone else in the show doesn't think so 2.Mabel is weird,has a vibrant sweater thing in every episode,very fun,and kinda foolish3.Stan is Cheap,and old he is kinda like Mr.Krabs but funnier,i do like old people like that but without being criminals or that cheapI give it a 10 good job Alex Hirsh!


                
This show was amazing and there needs to be a season three. I have a problem though, because I keep watching weirdmaggedon over and over again. 10 out of 10


                
So gravity falls is a series set in a small town Oregon called Gravtiy Falls. the premise of this is simple but the execution is beyond the cosmos itself. so the premise is that two kids Dipper and Mabel Pines move in with their uncles for the summer to find that this town is pretty much high on alien drugs. So the first episode of the show starts of quite slow with little character development (well since it's the first episode) but as of the next episode onwards each character began to be more fleshed out and their personalities become clear. For example in this episode Dipper Pines the protagonist are on a quest to show that he's not a weakling like everybody thought and it really relates to the audience since each and everyone of us HAS experience something similar that make us feel helpless. My favorite character by far is grunkle Stanley and grunkle Stanford. Both are absolutely amazing (honestly when I found out that J.K Simmons is doing Stanford's voice I screamed like a little girl) the two have honestly the most fleshed out characters since the two can only work side by side, they're a metaphor representing what the mystery twins could be, what Mabel and dipper could turn out in the future. And Stanley pines isn't just a money hungry cheat, his character is that his dad is not impress with him and doubt that he could make millions, like his brother Stanford. So grunkle Stan set out on a journey ultimately to just impress his father to win his love. The script of this movie is incredible, it's funny when it wanted to be and it hits ya at the heart when it wanted to. Ultimately it feels like a great adventure full of mysteries that people would go on the internet and make theories about, when a show managed to do that then you know that it's gotten everybody hooked on some legit Gravity Falls.The supporting cast are also great, for example this girl Wendy she isn't just another pretty or dumb teen who gets all the attention of the boys but she actually is a good person, not a gold digger or stuck up girl. Ultimately she values her best friends more than her boyfriends or regular friends, which is very nice. So all and all, at the end of the day, Gravity Falls is a blast with many twists that is sure to have jaws dropped everywhere. I recommend it very much.
You know, this show is really amazing. It pulled me in, it mystified me, it is just a true gem of cartooning (or animation if you wanna say that).I'm not good at reviews, but I can tell you this show is fun, fun not just for kids, but for everyone, even the family. If you want my opinion, I can't get enough of Gravity Falls, and I'm hoping Alex Hirsch decides to expand from three seasons to four, that's how good this show is.I really haven't seen a cartoon like this since CN started falling (some current shows are really nice however), and this is just a fantastic show that really is fun to watch (I may be repeating myself) but also has a sense of humor that keeps it fresh every episode.Plus, it constructed a continuity (or story if you want to say that) nicely, kinda like what KND did and that therefore made this wonderful in-depth world of Gravity Falls, that really immerses you, or at least it did to me, and this built-up continuity just keeps adding and adding on more mystery, secrets, and all kinds of incredible things that just has me putting the pieces together, and then one comes out of the ballpark and changes the game completely, it's incredible!All in all, I give Gravity Falls a 10/10, I honestly cannot find any faults, and to be honest, I don't want to, it's perfect.


                
How can someone come up with a show so AMAZING?!The show is full of humor, ACTUAL humor, unlike all the other shows in Disney with terrible jokes, this show has way better jokes! Not only is it filled with humor, but it's full of suspense and mystery, and the story plots are really good. The show is filled with mysteries, codes and clues to unlock, making it fun to watch to find clues. It fills you with so much suspense! The characters are awesome too! Mabel, is bubbly, silly, funny and friendly. She is sensitive and full of humor, and she is the humor part of the show! Plus waddles is so cute! Dipper is more serious and a typical nerd. He fills you with suspense after he finds the book in the forest. Grunkle stan is greedy, but he fills you with the most suspense! As one code reavealed Stan is not what he seems, and I spend my time searching to find the truth about grunkle stan.Soos, is a gentle sensitive man working in the mystery shack.Although he acts dumb, he knows a lot about gravity falls, and actually is protecting the kids from finding out the truth, as he often distracts them while weird stuff is going on.The season finale is breathtaking! Bill cipher! Oh, I forgot to mention gideon, wendy and robbie! Gideon, a phony fortune teller, has book number 2, while dipper has book 3. he is evil,and wants all the books. he also has some secrets. Wendy is a cool, rebel teenager. and robbie is a rebel teenager, who is enemies with dipper because they both want to date wendy. I don't want to put anymore spoilers but just letting you know this show is amazing!!!
This show is sick. But i shall warn you that they are in the Illuminati Conspiracy. ever notice those pyramids, anyways search it up. Maybe thats why everyone likes it. KILLUMINATI! The humour is hilarious and its interesting there's a lot of puzzles you can solve. play the theme song backwards and theirs a message!You Should watch this only 2 seasons soo far, and don't by in the illuminati conspiracy their watching you. Anyways they should killuminati because thats creepy. especially in the show. But its a really good show and creepy/freaky in a way. Watch it or Killuminate it!


                
For me this is just a masterpiece because it's has a really good and interesting story, it is also funny (for me), the animation is also good and it becomes not boring with the second season because I know series that becomes boring which each new season but this is not about this series.


                
I'll admit, when I was about 9 years old , I thought Mabel was kinda cute. She was also pretty funny. Well, almost every charecter in this show was funny! Now that I'm older, this is still probably the only show on TV that I'd watch. The show is so addicting and funny.I'm pretty amazed that this is the only kid's show that I know on the Top 100 rated TV shows. Well Done! 10/10


                
I had heard about this series for years, but I didn't watch it until January 2018, and even though there are a few episodes that are just ok... this is overall one of my favourite shows ever.
I just love all the characters and the way it parodies so many things while also being like those things. I'm so sad that I already knew most of the twists going in, but watching them unfold was still amazing. Even the side characters that only get a few minutes of screen time are so memorable. And the show is sooooo funny, but it also balances it out with some good drama and occasional dark themes. If you haven't seen this and don't know anything about it, you must watch it and avoid spoilers at all costs. And even if you know what happens... please watch it.


                
I honestly used to think most shows on the Disney Channel/ XD were tween sitcoms but Alex really stepped it up and gave us an amazing show. I consider it to be one of Disney's greatest achievements.Dipper and Mabel Pines go out to live with their great uncle Stan for the summer in Gravity Falls, Oregon, but It doesn't take long to figure out that things aren't what they seem in this town. It all starts when Dipper finds an old journal talking about the town's darker side. Every episode of the show reveals one new anomaly after another. We get things from gnomes, zombies, sea monsters, time travelers, unicorns, to Eldritch abominations and demons. This show can be pretty dark at times and isn't afraid to explore some adult topics and at the same time it can be fun and colorful. The writing is also brilliant and as a sense of humor that can appeal to anyone (eat your heart out season 3 Spongebob). The characters are all great especially Dipper and Mabel and Stan is one of the coolest older characters I've ever seen. I also love how many pop culture references there are in the show. We get references to Twin Peaks, Alien, Mad Max, and many more. I'm really sad that Gravity Falls ended so soon, but maybe it's better for the show to end on a perfect note.
I am a huge fan of TV shows and being a kid watching Disney channel when this show came out, of course I would stumble upon watching it. I never watched it regularly or anything I just watched it every now and then when it was on. It wasn't until I realized towards the end of season 1 how good this show was. I remember being so anxious and impatient for the beginning of season 2 (and every single episode after that) and it wasn't until that summer how much I realized I loved this show. It's both equally entertaining and has some mystery to it, which I LOVE! Although I'm not one for figuring out all the secret codes and messages throughout the show but it is still extremely interesting to me once I know what they say. The only thing I am a little picky about is the waiting time between episodes. This show is way to good and I am way to impatient to wait for the next episode. I understand how much work Alex Hirsch and the rest of the writers/staff put into this show and that's why the wait is so worth it. I love looking forward to it every single time and it's always better then expected. I also love the characters! They're so entertaining in so many different ways. It adds so much to the show and I think this crew is so imaginative and puts so much work into this show. Overall I give Gravity Falls a 10/10. This show is amazing and I love it in all it's different ways:)


                
Gravity Falls is an outstanding cartoon currently airing on a dreadful hellhole known as the Disney channel. Surprisingly, the show is not complete crud, unlike any other show that's aired on Disney since Phineas and Ferb, which is still airing...after 7 years! However, unlike Phineas and Ferb,Gravity Falls has a dark undertone that gives it such a large adult audience, similar to the Bronie phenomena. (Well, Gravity Falls is actually aimed for adults at times.)The show takes off in a quaint little town located in the mountains Oregon. The first thing I noticed was the artistic style. Especially the detailed backgrounds.The backgrounds tell a story as much as the main characters escapades do, die-hard fans often theorizing about whats going on behind the scenes and what'll eventually unfold. So,it isn't a surprise that the viewers have to follow an increasingly complex storyline, many of the episodes solely relying on continuity,which I personally admire.Like every television show ever made Gravity Falls does have an issuer two. They are very hard to pinpoint, however, and my actually rating would not be under a 9.5,so it does round to a 10. But,not every episode deserves a 10. Nor a 9. Nor and 8. The maniature (yes, thats a GF word) episode I dislike in particular,despite it still being fine. Because on GF standards,nothing sucks.


                
Let me begin by saying, yes I realize that I am reviewing this a little late, but this show is far too great to not review. This show is the perfect blend of fantasy, sci-fi, mystery, comedy, AND drama. Surely no matter what genre you like best, you will enjoy what Gravity Falls has to offer. Though it is a cartoon, GF has the type of humor that people of all ages can enjoy. Some jokes are directed towards adults and will probably go over little kids heads. I would name the type of humor in GF, but there are so many different types within it that I can't name just one! The plot is very unique and intriguing, with lots of lore, mystery, and character development. Even the stand alone episodes are very entertaining, and they may hide clues to what will happen next. However, I will warn that it isn't wise to jump into any episode if you are planning to check it out. You MUST start at the first episode because it would be very confusing otherwise. Each character has their own realistic personality that isn't totally generic. They all have their own depths and struggles, and they are each uniquely hilarious! Plus, the characters face real life situations such as growing up, facing reality, etc. My only complaint about GF is that it ended WAY too soon. I understand why Alex Hirsch didn't want the show to have a lot of seasons, but only two is far too short. The minimum should have been at least three or four seasons. Besides, if it had gone on for a bit longer, Gravity Falls may not have gotten as much cringe worthy fan fiction (no offense to those who enjoy it). I just hope it comes back somehow other than fan fiction, whether it's a game, comic, or crossover with another TV show (I'm looking at you, Star vs The Forces of Evil writers). Whether they are punching unicorns, befriending minotaurs, battling dream demons, or dating a Spanish merman, the Pines twins will keep you watching the curious world of Gravity Falls. I highly recommend Gravity Falls to everyone especially if you like shows such as Star vs The Forces of Evil, Over The Garden Wall, Adventure Time, or Scooby-Doo Mystery Incorporated (also vice versa if you are a GF fan looking for something new to watch). This title gets a HUGE thumbs up from CriticalBunniez <f0><U+009F><U+0091><U+008D>


                
Gravity Falls is My All Time Favorite Show. I Just adore this show. Every Character is likable. The Voice Acting is Top Notch & its Just A Damn Good show. The show is About Dipper & Mabel pines twin brother & sister that are staying with their Great Uncle Stan for the summer and they think it's just boring old summer but weird things happen. I really Like the Main Villain of the show Bill Chipher who is creepy and really evil but cool. The Show Lasted 40 episodes & 2 seasons form June 15, 2012 to February 15, 2016 on Disney Channel/Disney XD. I'm so sad the show is over but it had a good run. I Rate Gravity Falls 1000 of 10 stars.
