Every once in a while, a good show would pop up and keep us interested in viewing it. This is one of those shows. This series is currently one of my favorite in my top 30. This show knows how to execute a joke and how to keep us interested and curious. But I will admit, later on in the show, I kind of lost my interest in the show. It started to become unfunny but it somehow kept me watching. I will give this a 7/10 but I may change this later because I am unsure of my rating.


                
WHAT I LIKED1. Interesting story with lots of humour, great moments and great characters. The brother-sister relationship of Dipper and Mabel with all their fights and bonding was well-shown.2. The title song.WHAT I DIDN'T LIKE1. Filler episodes.TOP 5 EPISODES1. Season 2, Episode 11 - Not What He Seems2. Season 2, Episode 20 - Weirdmageddon 3: Take Back the Falls3. Season 1, Episode 20 - Gideon Rises4. Season 2, Episode 12 - A Tale of Two Stans5. Season 2, Episode 07 - Society of the Blind EyeVERDICTA good show with lots of mystery, humour and fun moments.7/10 - Good
Gravity Falls is a cartoon television show about two twins, Dipper Pines and Mabel Pines, who are sent to live with their Great Uncle, Stan, in a small town in Oregon called Gravity Falls for the summer. Their Great Uncle Stan runs a store called "The Mystery Shack" which is essentially a tourist trap where he frequently cons any tourists who happen to step inside. When Dipper is sent out by Stan to put up signs that will advertise the mystery shack, he finds a dirty old journal that tells of a great many paranormal things that are located in the small town. Each episode is spent with the twins finding some sort of strange creature from the journal, and then learning something from the experience. However, I don't believe that this cartoon is good for young kids. First off, their Great Uncle, Stan, is frequently shown to have money and tricking people out of it as his foremost interest. In one episode, we see a clip of Stan making counterfeit bills with the twins, before hearing police sirens and the camera cuts to a different scene. In another episode, he has Dipper as a Mystery Shack attraction, called the "pre-teen wolf boy", who Stan says does a dance if you throw money at him. Fortunately, he is seen in some episodes to actually care about the twins, such as the episode where he takes them out on a fishing trip to spend time with them, or when he sees them looking kind of down coming into the shop, and tells them that he overstocked, and that they can pick something out for themselves. Overall, Stan is not a great father figure for these twins, and it's a shame that his softer moments are outnumbered by his con-man moments.Another issue is that some of the creatures that they face are a bit scary for younger audiences. Such as the spider people, a pile of Halloween reject candy that somehow gained sentience, a shapeshifter, among other things. Overall, I can't say that this cartoon is appropriate for kids and tweens. For teenagers and adults however, you'll find quite an intriguing and mysterious cartoon that you should at least give a try.
I like this show... I do and I am hype for the finale...But the show has got to mature.. I guess?Okay I'll say it...It's to serious for a kid's show... But looking back at this show it shouldn't be a 8.9I think it should be a 7.9 or 8.2 (Like Steven universe)Okay I'll start off...Story: Okay whatever anyone says, a show need's a story or it falls apart... And it has one, a good one.. I am not explaining it because it's too long.Character Development: The character development is good as you get connected with them, (which most kids shows don't do it) when someone is sad you're sad as well even if it's the villain or the person you hate the most. Characters: The character's are generic..Dipper the generic smart, boy who isn't tuff, and loves someone but is too scared to tell her, and he wants to solve mysterious known as the nerd..Mabel, the confident girl who is immature for her age, and is mostly happy... People call her weird because she is immature.. The classic sweet hearted girl who is bullied.Grunk Stan: The uncle who, is bad and shop lift's , lived a life of crime, and had a brother who was successful, and he is jealous..Great uncle Ford: The smart of the 2 uncles who has done something with there life but the other uncle is jealous and ruins it...That's all the main characters..Animation: Is good nothing else to say...So that's it..I would rate it again 7.9 or 8.2 not 8.9 anyway please don't be mad it is my opinion..
