There are few things I hate more on television than the Disney Channel. This factory of mediocrity has churned out "gems" like The Suite Life with Zach and Cody and the unfortunately popular Hanna Montana. The Disney Channel is a place for Uncle Walt's successors to push talentless teens out in front of the world. Said teens get a few moments of fame and the Mouse gets another few million.Why do I make this cynical and cliché critique of the Disney Channel? Because I want to make sure every person who reads this understands how shocked and delighted I am by Gravity Falls.Gravity Falls takes place in a remote Oregon town of the same name. It features Dipper and Mabel Pines (voiced by Jason Ritter and Kristen Schaal respectively), a pair of twins, staying with their Great Uncle (or Grunkle, a term I believe needs to be used more often) Stan (voiced by show creator Alex Hirsch), a sleazy con-artist that runs a tourist trap called the Mystery Shack. Stan rips off gullible vacationers and townies with "supernatural" attractions and a less than stellar gift shop, overseen by man-child Soos (also voiced by Hirsch) and a down-to-earth slacker teenager Wendy (voiced by Linda Cardellini). It looks like a dull summer for the twins, but they soon find out that there is quite a lot of strange goings on in the little town.This show has that right mix of humor and adventure every family program ought to have. It's written in a way that can engage people of all ages without pandering to anyone.The voice actors were chosen masterfully, especially in Mabel Pines. I can't imagine anyone else but Schaal (who also voiced Trixie in Toy Story 3 and plays Mel in Flight of the Conchords)playing the bubbly, effervescent Mabel.This show also features DIY voice acting from Hirsch, a seemingly common occurrence in animated shows today (Regular Show creator JG Quintel voicing Mordecai and High Five Ghost and Adventure Time creator Pen Ward voicing Lumpy Space Princess as well as a myriad of side characters). Hirsch shows quite a bit of range voicing miserly Stan and obvious Soos.Gravity Falls is also able juxtapose the supernatural and the normal growing pains of adolescence. On a nearly weekly basis, the observant and intelligent Dipper finds a way to crack a mystery involving gnomes and crystals that change an object's size, yet he can't muster the courage to ask his crush, Wendy, on a date.There are a lot of TV shows and movies that try so hard to reach that sweet spot where they can appeal to kids, parents and young adults, but fall painfully short. Gravity Falls, though, hits that spot brilliantly.Like his fellow CalArts alumni Quintel and Ward, Hirsch's product is one made out of love and care and it's made clear in every episode. Most impressively, though, is that it gives me a reason to watch the Disney Channel.


                
Gravity Falls is a new show on Disney Channel, and the only reason I heard about it was because of a friend I have on tumblr. While I haven't been a fan of Disney's recent...ventures, I have to say that Gravity Falls is absolutely fantastic.Gravity Falls is about two kids, Mabel and Dipper Pines, who are currently living in one of those "middle of nowhere" towns called Gravity Falls with their uncle Stan, who appears to have a very mysterious past. Plenty of other mysteries lurk in Gravity Falls, and you, as the viewer, look to figure them out along with Dipper and Mabel. Along with dealing with their eccentric uncle, the kids also encounter the extremely snarky Wendy as well as a host of other quirky residents.The tone of Gravity Falls's humour is very similar to Adventure Time - very strange and mostly situational, but I feel that a lot of the time the dialogue is much more clever and mature than that of Adventure Time's. The voice acting, animation and art style are also great, and the theme song of the show especially is fantastic.What I enjoy most about this show, however, is its tone. This show is a total mystery - there's clues hidden everywhere. I'm completely enthralled with finding everything out before it's addressed in the show - mainly Stan's past.This show is great, check it out!


                
Disney has been making some radical changes in recent years. Back in the day Disney was always known for its films and amusement parks, its original creator driven content always seemed to take a backseat. For years the only decent original Disney channel series were Fillmore! and The Weekenders. However like I said recently Disney has been taking a bold new direction. The addition of Disney XD has led to the creation of some great shows Phineas and Ferb and particularly Chris Prynoski's new show Motor City. Their current original content mirroring the 90's shows that put creator driven series on the map. Their latest play in this new direction the creation of what so far promises to be perhaps their best creator driven series yet Gravity Falls.Emerging from the ashes of the Marvellous Misadventures of Flapjack (another quality show, however not Disneys) where series creator Alex Hirsch served as writer and storyboard artist, Gravity Falls is perhaps the best instalment in a series of programs crafted by current Cal Arts Alumni since Adventure Time. From a cartooning and animation standpoint the series feels refreshing. The character designs feel like some superb mixture of The Simpsons, Classic Disney animation with a bit of The Marvellous Misadventures of Flapjack thrown in. The Characters are drawn in a very fun way and they lend themselves to the quality character animation the series has produced. From a character animation standpoint the work is spirited. It is fluid and comedic exemplifying how much the character animation can be integral to the characters themselves. Cartooning and Animation aside though I feel the true greatness of the show stems from its writing style, approach of comedy and characters. Alex Hirsch and his writing team have made a show that conjures to mind the character driven humour of the classic Simpsons with the weird and often creepy nature of a 90's kid show called Eerie Indiana. The end result is a show with unique and weird story lines and a level of humour that does what many of the 90's shows did best, transcend its target audience. This show produces jokes that will work for both kids and adults. The characters are also very likable. We have seen characters like Dipper, Mabel and Grunkle Stan before but on Gravity Falls they are crafted so believably that we can forgive that. These are not just funny characters, they are characters with defined personas, they are oddly relatable and they have even in these 9 episodes shown some semblance of character development something that is usually left out of many North American animated series. So far this is a near perfect show its only misstep so far the episode entitled Dipper Vs. Manliness, which I won't spoil it for you, has a great concept but is too much build up and not enough pay off. For me this is a show that makes the kid in me smile. Watching this now is like tuning into my childhood favourites (Hey Arnold, Ren and Stimpy, Courage the Cowardly Dog) only now I am old enough to appreciate it.


                
While I am 50 years old and WAY outside the target audience for this show, my 24 year-old daughter is hooked--so much so that she always insists that I watch "Gravity Falls" with her. And so this is how I came to see the show--and I assume most who have reviewed the show are much younger than I am!The plot is a lot like the old show "Eerie, Indiana" in that the main characters, who are kids, keep stumbling upon weird cases of the supernatural in this bizarre little town. However, and this is important, unlike "Eerie, Indiana", the characters are far more likable and funny. In particular, Mabel is a hoot--and is among the best things about the show--as is Gruncle Stan. But the others are all quite charming and weird. The writing, therefore, is a very strong suit about the series and, oddly, will appeal to just about all age groups. Sure, it's a show for kids--but oldsters like me will like it too, if they give it a chance. Well worth your time.


                
I say this as a child who watched Disney Channel during the period it brought its live-action properties to greater prominence: I never thought Disney Channel would have any good cartoons. I never grew up with Ducktales or the popular Saturday Morning lineup from the late 80s, and so when I watched the channel the only running cartoons were the likes of 'Kim Possible', 'Lilo and Stitch' and 'American Dragon'. The first two were decent cartoons, and while I didn't get into American Dragon much, the couple episodes I watched did feel action packed. Unfortunately, when it came to quality they couldn't compare to shows on channels like Cartoon Network. The characters and stories didn't leave much of an impact; a lot of it because the same archetypes and plots have been done better in other cartoons, but also because it never took that many risks. And then this show comes along.The premise of Gravity Falls is that a pair of 12 year old twins from the Pines family, a brother named Dipper and a sister named Mabel, go on a summer trip to a rural, woodland town in Oregon to visit their 'Grunkle' Stan (who I'm guessing is both the twin's grandfather and uncle. I'm trying not to think too hard about it). The uncle runs a museum of faux paranormal objects, and the twins have to help him run the place, with help from a deep and hilarious handyman named Soos and a teenage girl named Wendy. Ironically, the town of Gravity Falls turns out to really be home of numerous supernatural anomalies and creatures, and the twins have to deal with them each episode; all the while trying to discover the source of all the town's strangeness.As childish as it seemed, the precise moment when I perked at Gravity Falls was when one of the characters openly uttered the word 'Sascrotch'. Obviously, adult humor does not equal good quality writing, but the mere fact that the Disney Channel let a show get away with such humor indicates that they've given this show much more freedom in its development. And as proved with shows like The Simpsons and Animaniacs, giving creative freedom to a talented crew of writers, animators and artists can produce amazing results. And while we're on the subject, so much of Gravity Falls reminds me of The Simpsons in both humor and the animation. Gravity Falls's creator Alex Hirsh even stated that The Simpsons was a major influence of the show, and it definitely shows in all the right ways. The characters themselves resemble Simpsons characters, except with pink skin, slightly smaller eyes and with an added extra finger on each hand (except the kid protagonists. Seriously, look at the hands of the twin characters and the adult characters: THE KIDS HAVE LESS FINGERS THAN ADULTS). All the characters have distinct traits, and all of them take part in the show's hilarity. Mabel especially is the quirkiest character of the show, and I think it's charming to see an animated young girl who's wacky and not always purely innocent. The humor and writing themselves also recalls the Simpsons, with a pinch of pop-culture references, a dash of slapstick and plenty of unpredictability and wit without getting too cynical. I've never cracked up so much to any Disney Channel cartoon other than Gravity Falls.The animation itself is amongst the best of Disney 2D animation I've seen outside of their films, even if there's a bit of 3D animation for any vehicles in the show. The movements of the characters are extremely fluid, while the backgrounds themselves are full of meticulous detail; fully capturing the nature of the Oregon woodland while evoking the show's dark, unknown mystery. Speaking of dark and unknowing, the overall nature of the show is one of the strange and paranormal, and there's a consistent cryptic atmosphere in each episode (complete with decodable codes in each of the episode's credits, the appearance of the 'All seeing eye' and hidden clues). This is one of the few Disney channel shows with genuinely scary moments, but all the while there's a coating of lightheartedness that makes it so much fun. Some of these moments came from the 5th episode "The Inconveniencing", which is also the episode that completely won me over to the show. Without spoiling much, this episode is about the Twins, Wendy and some friends visiting an abandoned convenience store that turns out to be haunted, and it packs a couple of the scariest and hilarious moments of the show into a single episode.But what gets me the most is that this show is full of heart, especially with the relationship between the sibling protagonists Dipper and Mabel Pines. I drew up the Simpsons comparison here earlier, and in this regard it's similar to the relationship between Bart and Lisa Simpson. But unlike the Simpsons (and many other animated shows depicting constantly quarreling siblings), there's almost little to no rivalry amongst the Twin siblings except for a couple of episodes. It's not to say that there's no trouble relating to it: one of the themes around the show is how the Twins deal with maintaining their relationship with one another while going through adulthood. The Pine Twins genuinely love each other as siblings, and whenever they express that love it's extremely heartwarming without ever coming close to saccharine. To sum it up: It's a shame that Gravity Falls often gets the short end of the stick when it comes to Disney Channel's scheduling (there's sometimes a month-long break between episodes. Why, Disney, why?), because this isn't only THE best show currently running on the Disney Channel, but also one of the best animated show currently on TV. It's humor, horror and heartwarming packed into a fun, wonderful package, and I highly recommend it to anyone missing the days of the classic Simpsons and animation with optimism.


                
First of all, the characters. Dipper Pines and Mabel Pines are an excellent example of what children are without overly sugar coating it. Mabel is a stereotype on preteen girls and achieves comedy by behaving like one. However, she is not an offense to the female gender/sex because she is not overly dependent on Dipper. Dipper is also a stereotype on what an everyman looks like but as a child. He is a kid but he is also mature. He has a crush on a girl and she is quite oblivious to it. He also is not offense which is hard to find nowadays The story is that Dipper and Mabel spend too much time indoors and their parents take them to Gravity Falls with their Gruncle Stan (Grand Uncle?) and notice that something weird is up with the town. Just like classic cartoons, Gravity Falls deals with a long-term conflict and short-term conflict. They are trying to figure out the mystery behind these books that are a manual to the paranormal things in the town. But with each episode the main characters get caught up with an antagonist or a random creature. There are gnomes, sea creatures, dinosaurs, time-travelers, bottomless pits, and many other things. There are also lots of references thrown in to video games and movies from the childhoods of adults which is why this would be great for adults. There is even a Street Fighter parody episode. In terms of production, the show looks amazing. There are not that many episodes, but that's because of release dates. The music is astounding. The intro sequence has great music. It is like the Game of Thrones intro but on the level of children's television. The animations is smooth and solid. The art has excellent shading, is curvy in its style, plays well with colors, etc. Basically, this cartoon is like a modern version of old cartoons that we all used to watch when we were children, which is good because it's the best of both worlds. Highly recommended to anyone.


                
In a world where sitcoms rule the air, it seems unlikely that someone will step out of the box and be creative enough to make a well thought out, and funny animated show. Gravity Falls is one of those few shows, and boy is it good.Gravity Falls has everything right, from comedy to plots, and even mystery is a huge success in this show. I'm always pleased to see a show like this come around when Disney has only sitcoms and rarely has originality, other than combining two sitcoms for an episode, but even that is terrible.I see tons of positives and few errors. One error that could become huge is the children. I could see children not watching this show due to the confusion and weirdness it offers. If this happens, Gravity Falls could shut down, which would be a huge letdown.Unless that happens, I see a bright future for Gravity Falls on its way to gold. Watch this show 100%


                
Gravity Falls. At first glance, you might think, oh, another children's show, however, it is much more than that. This TV show will be great for any child, but has comedy that will fly over their heads, and be hilarious to you. This show doesn't need to be nasty to be funny like other TV shows, which make it inappropriate for children. This show is hilarious, without being inappropriate. It is a family show that is entertaining for all people. The storyline is actually more complex than simplistic cartoons of the past. I would recommend this title to a person of all ages. I promise it will be funny for you, no matter whatever age you are. An excellent title.Summary "This simplistically brilliant show is humorous yet applicable to an omniscient demographic, that features interesting story lines, surprisingly good animation, and great voice acting.".


                
This show is creative, mysterious, weird(in a good way mostly), brilliantly written, funny and heartwarming at times. The animation is great, the character designs are pleasant. The show is about 12 year old twin siblings who spend their summer at their great uncle's tourist trap. The twins are Dipper the brother who is the intelligent and mature one who finds a strange journal that has all kinds of information about the weird supernatural creatures that live in and near the town, then there's the twin sister Mabel who's eccentric, childlike and cheerful, who is an excellent artist and often helps Dipper out to find the strange stuff. The siblings spend much of their time trying to find the author of the journal, though they occasionally try to help keep their grumpy money-hungry yet good hearted Uncle Stan's tourist trap in one piece and also help out their new friends they make as they spend their summer in the bizarre town, as well as dealing with dangerous enemies. This show is worth watching, the characters are lovable and relatable, it has a great plot, it can go from light hearted to dark and frightening. This gem is as great as other cartoons such as Looney Tunes, Batman: Animated Series and Scooby Doo.
This show is genius. Just watch One episode of it , if you don't like it , don't bother watching more , but if you do , you've just entered heaven. EVERY SINGLE SHOW is exactly that much good. There's no ups or downs. Every episode is different yet charismatic and sets an environment pretty fast. 
The pacing of the show is a smart move. Not like other shows which try to dwell up on the formula that made them good , Gravity Fall will give you a different ride in each episode tho you can always expect the same level of comedy and wackyness in every episode.It takes risks , perfects them and it dosent get better than that right!


                
Gravity Falls will probably go down as one of the greatest animated series of all time, or at least as one of the greatest animated series of this decade. It's funny, emotional, suspenseful, mysterious and heartwarming; combining an extremely likeable cast of characters with great writing, smooth animation and a great overarching plot that goes in unexpected directions for a kids show. Adults are sure to get as much out of this series as kids are, possibly even more.


                
With most family entertainment weighed down by formulas, idiocy, and merchandising appeal, it is so wonderful to have a show like Gravity Falls, a production with comedy and heart. It's accessible for kids while still having enough depth for those over the age of twelve, a true rarity on television, particularly Disney television.The characters are just excellent, feeling like real people rather than brainless caricatures. Adult characters are allowed to be funny without making them morons to make the children appear more intelligent, which is refreshing for this sort of show. The kids feel genuine, no sentimentality or over-powering in their characterization. The stories and overreaching arcs are well planned and keep one guessing.I also respect creator Alex Hirsch's decision to end the show at two seasons. As sad as it is, it's better to have two great seasons without a bad or even mediocre episode in the bunch rather than three extra seasons which go nowhere and bore you to death with filler like so many awful anime series or live action shows.If you have not tried GF out yet, then do so! I did not expect to enjoy it and yet here I am! Let's hope and pray Disney will give this wonderful series a DVD release.


                
Gravity Falls is one of the most valuable shows I ever watched. I certainly like it more than Phineas and Ferb on Disney Channel.First, the storytelling is really good. All the episodes are connected to one another, and each of them consist of unexpected situations. Some of it is a little scary, but is rather entertaining. Also, the characters are very cute and amusing, and their voices suit their personalities quite well. My favorite characters in this show are Stanford Pines and Soos. I thought those two guys are the funniest!And the background design is vibrantly beautiful compared to some other cartoons I have watched in the past. It has more colors, details, and features which I delight in.In conclusion, I praise this series for its clever humor and funny characters. In addition to its beautiful environments, and great storytelling. The staff who made this show must have put a lot of effort into it. They likely had the time to rethink some components and make them fantastic before they release the episodes. Though it might have made the production infrequent, I'm sure it will be worth the wait.I would highly recommend this show for audiences in general. It's really good.


                
Well, Disney is well known for its shows like Kick Buttowski (OK) and Tron: Uprising. While watching Disney XD, I had found a new TV show in 2012 called Gravity Falls. Ever since then, I've become an avid watcher of it. Firstly, it's story is great. 12 year old kids (Dipper and Mabel) with their great-uncle Stan (who runs the Mystery Shack) for the summer holidays at a town called Gravity Falls. Dipper tries to attract an older girl (Wendy) when he knows he can't. It's a person's usual life during the summer holidays...until he finds a journal titled 3 that reveals the spooky secrets of the town. Ever since then his life had changed. Secondly, and my last reason, it makes fun of Illuminati, which is awesome! Bill Cipher, the journal, and many other examples are similar to satanic symbols. The last time I saw some TV show or movie do this was on Tom & Jerry, The Fast and the Furry. Some parents, if able to recognize this can stop this influence, but who cares! It's a cool and smartly-made TV show that people of all ages will love!


                
Gravity Falls was something I heard about for a long time, but it was a Disney Show, so that automatically made me skeptical, but this show is amazing. It's a kids show, that I (a 24 year old man) can sit down and enjoy with my 10 year old sister, and will leave us both laughing.Plot: 7/10 -Kinda clichéd, but still very enjoyable. Two kids move to a backwater town where the strange and unexplained happen on a daily basis, and go about solving strange events and mysteries. -There are lots of little Easter Eggs in every episode if you pay attention, which adds to the charm. -The end result is a show with unique and weird story lines and a level of humour that does what many of the 90's shows did best, transcend its target audience. This show produces jokes that will work for both kids and adults.Characters: 11/10 Wow, this is the high point of the show. All the characters are lovable, well developed and unique yet all relatable. Half of the dialogue is hilarious, and half of it will tug on your heart strings.The show exemplifies the fact that no matter what age you are, no matter who you are, life is strange, and awkward, and you should just be yourself.Animation: 8/10 The shows animation sometimes seems clunky, but at the same time, fits really well. There are some scenes that I genuinely though were disturbing/nightmare-worthy, but my 10 year old sister loved. Some of the stock-motion/3D could have been much better though.Music/Audio: 10/10 The music is great, especially the opening theme. The show even has some very famous voice actors, from John DiMaggio to Nathan Fillion.Overall Enjoyment: 9/10 One of the best cartoons I've ever seen, and definitely the best Disney cartoon. I binged-watched both seasons in a week, and recommend it for all ages!


                
I honestly can't say enough good things about it. I'd utterly given up hope on Disney Channel since the early 2000's, but this show is a gleaming diamond. Adventure Time, while also one of my favorite animated shows, couldn't even captivate me as much as Gravity Falls did. The first season is fairly slow, but in the second season, things really begin to speed up. The plot is unfailingly exciting, and while it seems a bit over-packed at times, the writers manage to tie it all together into something undeniably flawless. They're not lying when they say it's amazing for all ages. The first season is enjoyable for anyone, but the second season starts to present a complex, slightly darker story to its viewers, which still continues to appeal to everyone. It's definitely not something you would expect from the channel that presented us Ant Farm. Even though it becomes incredibly somber and even nightmarish, Gravity Falls never fails to supply us with honest-to-God laugh-out-loud comedy relief. And the relief isn't typical modern-day Disney jokes. They show a surprising amount of cleverness in every one, and the jokes for "adults" aren't the generic innuendos Disney throws in every once in a while, they're actually funny and enjoyable. I also have to comment on the animation. Everything is beautifully done, every detail is added, every frame is incredible. It's very attractive to watch, and the addictive plot, characters, and writing are only additives. In conclusion, this show is worth watching, unlike the typical Disney channel shows you see today. Even if you feel like you're too old for it, trust me, it's well worth your time.


                
Amazing characters, complex plot and an engaging mystery makes it one of my all time favourite shows! It just drags you in and never let's you go, especially with how relatable some of the characters are and how well crafted some of the character arcs are.


                
Such an amazing show. Funny, but also hits you in the feels when it wants to. This show is the work of a genius.


                
I know I'm like a million years late I'm reviewing this cartoon. But I have to say that, Gravity Falls was one of the best cartoons I had the pleasure of viewing. The soundtrack is one of the best, not just compared to other cartoons, but to some live action blockbusters. The art style is very well done. But what really makes this series stand out is its plot and endearing characters. There were a few problems to this however. One of the main protagonists: Mabel Pines had little to no character development during the series, even though she was my favorite character she did not develop during the series. Even though I loved almost all the episodes in the series. I found one that was considerably mediocre, that episode is "Dipper vs Manliness" it was not as well done as most of the other episodes. In conclusion, I loved this series.


                
Gravity Falls follows the summer of 12 year olds Dipper and Mabel as they visit the aptly titled Gravity Falls. However, strange phenomena has been occurring here, such as living dinosaurs, and miniature golf ball creatures. After a work shift at the Mystery Shack, Dipper finds a mysterious journal documenting the town's strange secrets. Along with some friends such as Soos, Wendy, and Grunkle Stan, the twins discover some of the town's most mysterious secrets, including one only Dipper and Mabel can solve, but it will put them in great danger. Gravity Falls gets a 9/10 for solid animation, an all star voice cast (Alex Hirsch, Linda Cardellini, Jason Ritter, Kristen Schaal, Keith Ferguson, etc.) Gravity Falls is a show many can enjoy. ELOO FLSKHU LV RXW WKHUH


                
No other show on Disney XD has immersed me more than Gravity Falls. The characters are all lovable, the music is great, the animation is stellar, and the pacing is near perfect. The jokes can appeal to anyone (I laughed pretty hard in just the first episode). The show can also get pretty dark at times as more and more secrets about Gravity Falls are slowly revealed. Some episodes are incredibly light hearted while others take a slightly creepy turn (Soos and the Real Girl, Scary-oke, and Not What He Seems). Normally, I can think of at least one bad episode in even the best cartoons but I don't think I ever had a bad experience with this show. I'm disappointed to see this show end after only 40 episodes but it gave us a perfect final episode. I'm definitely going to miss this show. Also, will Disney give us more of this and less of these damn sitcoms!?
Gravity Falls,a peaceful,lovely village made for people who love to rest.Except if you are Dipper,the kid who tries to solve the supernatural mysteries of Gravity Falls with his sister's assistance and a weird journal,found into the woods.We also meet Stan, Dipper's and Mabel's stingy,"normal' uncle.Dipper searches for mysteries,Mabel does silly things and Stan tries to make money.This is Gravity Falls.Or maybe,ti isn't?Is this town a mystery itself?Will Dipper solve the mysteries before it is too late?Who is the author of the journal and where is he know?Is Stan hidding something from anyone?Who...is...Bill........?Gravity Falls,has tremendous characters,like Stan and Bill, a beautiful plot,a crazy twist and...a moving ending.Also,it shows the family spirit and has plenty of hilarious scenes for fans of laughing.Well,the adventures last for just one summer but,in my opinion it's a must-see for everyone!It may doesn't have people that control water and fire,or lightsaber battles,but it includes everything that a fan of cinema needs to have...love,mystery and a huge amount of fun!


                
There is some violence (Action Peril,Almost being Smashed etc.)This show is really good and There is some "Sexy Reference's,"Such as,Dipper opening a chest filled with Girl Magazines (Shown very briefly.)There is one episode with blood coming out of Animal Heads and it's A lot of blood (Shown for about 5/6 seconds then shows again for like 4 seconds.)I would say the show is really good.And there is a part of the same episode with the blood that the ghost that turned everyone to wood got killed by an Axe.Also,this show has Zombies,Ghosts,Demons,and more.Also,Bill (The Triangle Guy) Takes over the world and turns Pacifica's father well,Dead?And Dipper And Mabel's live's were threatened by Bill.And Uncle Ford almost dies.
This is so far the only Disney show I saw from beginning to end. As a result, I was very satisfied. I know this is a very lovable show but I wouldn't go to say I love this show to death but I admit I like it. It has a nice cast of characters, loaded with comedy, the theme of summer which is an aspect of TV that gets me hooked, the messages are very relate-able and has its heart in the right place, the creator has been holding onto his childhood creating this and that's also something I love for a cartoon, and it really stays strong overall. The mysteries are definitely amazing with deep or subtle storytelling when needed to teach not only what is right but why they happen and let me tell you, they give everyone a chance in the spotlight as to their sides of the story which is another thing I love in an insane action-packed way such as exorcism or deep secrets or just basic love stories. Whatever happiness, there's generally a great outcome in the end for all to enjoy. If you want some good mysteries, want to learn about how to work for cartoons, want something to relate to, or just want to have some fun on TV, you'll definitely get a good experience from this show.


                
Just... WOW! I've never seen a show like this. Its characters, its story, its exciting scenes and its ending are so ingenious. I really enjoyed this cartoon. There where also some creepy scenes, so it's not for little kids. The only thing, what prevents it to get 10 Stars, is: The jokes didn't really hit. They weren't terrible, but they didn't made me laugh a lot. But actually, this is not a big deal. This cartoon saved the good reputation of Disney. And sadly, Disney started to produce some crap like Pickle and Peanut, Almost Naked Animals e.t.c. I hope, Disney will be saved with shows like Gravity Falls, Star vs the Forces of Evil, Wander over Yonder and more.


                
