A classic film. John Carpenter's "The Thing" is one of the most entertaining horror films ever made - fast, clever and purely exciting from start to finish. It is one of my personal favorite horror movies. This is how all movies of the genre should be made. Set on an isolated base in Antarctica, this version seems almost to pick up where the original version (The Thing From Another World) left off. The American scientists discover a decimated Norwegian base some miles distant. Everyone is dead, and only the half charred remains of some unidentifiable thing left to smolder outside the compound might offer any answers to what may have happened. The Thing is brought back to the American base and, too late, the scientists realize that it is alive and lethal. The Thing thaws out and is off, not only killing anyone and anything that crosses Its path, but also absorbing them, making Itself into whoever and whatever it wants. The film then turns into a brilliant paranoia piece. Everyone is suspect, anyone can be The Thing, and no one trusts anyone anymore. Gone is the strength and security found when human beings band together in spite of their differences to battle a monster. The group splinters and fear rules supreme. Who is the Thing?Seriously I Love this movie I love it To Death. I love Escape From New York and I love Escape From L.A. but I also love The Thing so much better this is definitely the best Carpenter film a truly masterpiece classic I love R.J. MacReady - Kurt Russell I love everything about this film that is. Science Fiction, Horror and an Action Epic Film. A lot of the practical effects were left out but the it looked nice and the acting was good and it expanded upon the monsters background and showing you the inside of the ship. It must of been tough to bring across on screen the visual design. In my opinion, nobody has topped this film in the 25-odd years since its release. I'll put any of "The Thing's" old-school effects up against any CGI-driven movie, or this cast against almost any other ensemble. If you haven't seen the film yet, I envy you because I WISH I could see "The Thing" again for the first time. WOW! Does more need to be said? How about this...there is no parallel. Who's your friend? Who's the Thing? Who do you trust? Who can you afford to trust? If you've never seen this movie...your in for a treat. The only other movie that had such an impact on me was The Matrix (the first movie)...where I left the theater touching the walls wondering if they were really real. This movie will leaving you wondering....is the guy/gal next to you really real?"Trust is a tough thing to come by these days." John Carpenter's The Thing is a seminal piece of horror that is not only a fine specimen of its era, but it also serves as a shining example of horror done absolutely right in any era. Combining gross-out special effects reminiscent of Hellraiser, the nail-bitingly intense, claustrophobic filmmaking of Alien, offering a story that is very well-paced, such as George A. Romero's Dawn of the Dead, and presenting the idea that true terror can be found at any time, in any place, and inside anyone, much like Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho, The Thing works on every level, and represents the peak of each and every aspect that may be utilized to make horror films effective. Granted, this amalgamation of styles is not the only formula for winning horror.The basic plot about this movie is Horror-moister John Carpenter (Halloween, Escape from New York) teams Kurt Russell's outstanding performance with incredible visuals to build this chilling version of the classic The Thing. In the winter of 1982, a twelve-man research team at a remote Antarctic research station discovers an alien buried in the snow for over 100,000 years. Once unfrozen, the form-changing alien wreaks havoc, creates terror and becomes one of them.It is one of the best favorite horror films of the 80's ever. I love this film to death. The Thing is the best classic horror film from master and genius John Carpenter! 'The Thing' is classic Carpenter and one of the few remakes that is better than the original. Kurt Russell's characters: Snake Plissken, R.J. MacReady and Jack Burton are Kurt's best favorite characters he ever played. I also love the music score from Ennio Morricone! Awesome!!! 10/10 Grade: Bad Ass Seal Of Approval


                
"I know I'm human. And if you were all these things, then you'd just attack me right now, so some of you are still human. This thing doesn't want to show itself, it wants to hide inside an imitation. It'll fight if it has to, but it's vulnerable out in the open. If it takes us over, then it has no more enemies, nobody left to kill it. And then it's won."John Carpenter's "The Thing" is one of the most entertaining horror films ever made <U+0096> fast, clever and purely exciting from start to finish. This is how all movies of the genre should be made.Taking place in the Antarctic in 1982, the movie focuses specifically on a group of American scientists. We are given no introduction to their mission, but are thrust into their existence when a pair of seemingly crazy Norwegians appears at their base camp, chasing an escaped dog. The Norwegians are killed, and the dog finds its way into the colony, which is when things really start to get crazy.It is soon made quite clear that the "dog" is actually a shape-shifting alien organism, which manifests itself upon the physical form of its victims <U+0096> in other words, it begins to eat the Americans, and imitate them so well that the remaining humans cannot discern the difference between their friends and enemiesThe pack of scientists, led by MacReady (Kurt Russell), begin to fight for their own survival, using wits instead of brawn. If the Thing is indeed amongst them, then how are they to go about revealing it? How many Things are there? How can the Thing be killed? (Or can it be destroyed at all?)The creature's origins in the film are explained easily: Thirty thousand years ago a spacecraft plummeted to Earth, and was frozen in the Antarctic ice. The Thing tried to escape, and was discovered in the ice by the Norwegians, who unknowingly released it from its natural prison."The Thing," the movie itself, is similar to Ridley Scott's iconic "Alien" (1979). Many comparisons have been made <U+0096> the protagonists are stranded in a desolate area, stalked by a seldom seen foe that manages to kill them off one-by-one. However, "The Thing" <U+0096> for all practical purposes <U+0096> came first.Based on the famous short story "Who Goes There?" by John W. Campbell, Jr. (writing under pseudonym as Don A. Stuart), the film was originally adapted as a feature production in 1951 by Howard Hawks and Christian Nyby. The result was "The Thing From Another World," an unarguable classic. But to be fair, it bore little resemblance to the short story, and Carpenter's remake does it more justice.The idea of the Thing being able to adapt the physicality of anyone is what essentially makes this movie so great, and is the most vital link to the short story. In 1951 the special effects were simply too poor to reasonably portray the shape-shifting organism, but thirty-one years brought many advances in SFX.Creature effects artist Rob Bottin does an excellent job of turning what could have easily become a cheesy gore-fest into a startlingly frightening (and realistic) mess of blood and fear. The Thing, although never actually taking one specific form, is constantly seen in a morphing stage, and the effects are simply superb. They still pack a punch twenty-two years later.Ennio Morricone's score (nominated for a Razzie Award at the time) is a bit too electronic and tinny, but nevertheless haunting when used correctly.
From the fact that its cast consists entirely of males, to the fact that its ending is one of the most thought-provoking and untypical conclusions of all time, "The Thing" <U+0096> by any standards <U+0096> is unconventional Hollywood at its best. It comes as no surprise that, at the time of its release, "The Thing" performed poorly in theaters, and "E.T." <U+0096> released the same year and featuring a much kinder alien <U+0096> became the higher-grossing picture of the two (by far).In the long run, however, "The Thing" is superior in almost every conceivable way. Spielberg's tale is outdated and flopped during its 20th Anniversary Re-Release. "The Thing," on the other hand, has gradually climbed a ladder of cult classics <U+0096> it is one of the most famous non-famous movies ever made.Carpenter is notorious for having a very uneven career <U+0096> from his amazing "Assault on Precinct 13" (1976) to the magnificent "Halloween" (1978) to the disappointing and silly "Escape from L.A." (1996), "The Thing" remains his very best motion picture. Although its reputation over the years has never been honorary enough to land it a spot on most "great movies" lists, "The Thing" is still one of my favorite horror films, and <U+0096> upon close inspection <U+0096> masterfully crafted. It is a daring and ingenious thrill-ride that is simultaneously unique and chilling <U+0096> a genuine relief for film buffs who are tired of the same old horror knock-offs. This one, at the very least, is genuinely unpredictable.
I am ashamed to say it, but I have to admit, the first time I saw this film was only about a year ago.  After seeing it, I immediately rushed out and bought the DVD collectors' edition and have watched it many times since.The film is terrific on many levels.  It works as your straight monster or action type film, as a horror/sci-fi and also as a very intriguing look into the human psyche.  The incredible sense of paranoia, mistrust and fear, lent not only by Carpenter's direction (which is stunning) but also by the incredible acting of the cast in general.  Kurt Russell (obviously) is spectacularly understated in the lead role of MacReady, and, as a direct result he "feels" like a real person, rather than a hollywood "all american hero".  The other cast members all carry off their roles with style, and the net result is an intensely believable atmosphere, and a truly fantastic film.


                
John Carpenter shows how much he loves the 1951 original by giving it the utmost respect that he possibly could, the only difference here is that Carpenter chooses to stick to the paranoiac core of John W Campbell Jr's short story.The secret to this version's success is the unbearable tension that builds up as the group of men become suspicious of each other, the strain of literally waiting to be taken over takes a fearful hold. Carpenter then manages to deliver the shocks as well as the mystery that's needed to keep the film heading in the right direction.Be it an horrific scene or a "what is in the shadow" sequence, the film is the perfect fusion of horror and sci-fi. The dialogue is laced with potency and viability for a group of men trying to keep it together under such duress, while Ennio Morricone's score is a wonderful eerie pulse beat that further racks up the sense of doom and paranoia seaming throughout the film.The cast are superb, a solid assembly line of actors led by Carpenter favourite Kurt Russell, whilst the effects used around the characters get the right amount of impact needed. But most of all it's the ending that is the crowning glory, an ending that doesn't pander to the norm and is incredibly fitting for what has gone on before it. Lets wait and see what happens indeed. 10/10


                
This is another one of those films that I remember staying up late to watch on TV, scaring the crap out of myself at the impressionable age of 12 or so and dooming myself thereafter to a life of horror movie obsession. This is a GREAT movie, and stands as living proof that there were indeed realistic effects before CGI.Set on an isolated base in Antarctica, this version seems almost to pick up where the original version (The Thing From Another World) left off. The American scientists discover a decimated Norwegian base some miles distant. Everyone is dead, and only the half charred remains of some unidentifiable thing left to smolder outside the compound might offer any answers to what may have happened. The Thing is brought back to the American base and, too late, the scientists realize that it is alive and lethal. The Thing thaws out and is off, not only killing anyone and anything that crosses Its path, but also absorbing them, making Itself into whoever and whatever it wants. The film then turns into a brilliant paranoia piece. Everyone is suspect, anyone can be The Thing, and no one trusts anyone anymore. Gone is the strength and security found when human beings band together in spite of their differences to battle a monster. The group splinters and fear rules supreme. Who is the Thing?The gore effects here are absolutely amazing and messily realistic. I could have done without the dogs head splitting open like a banana peel, but that's just the animal lover in me being picky: kill all the humans you want, but leave the kitties and puppies alone. Sanity and reason disintegrate rapidly as, one by one, the humans are taken over by the shapeshifting alien. The power of this film lies in its paranoia, and although I liked the original version, I prefer this one; the real threat lies within, and is scarier for the fact that it cannot be seen or easily detected. When it is forced out of hiding, it's wrath is huge and the results are horrific.This is one of Carpenters best films, right up there with The Fog and Halloween. All of the actors give strong, realistic performances and the special effects are so powerful that they stand as their own main character. This film has something for any lover of the horror genre. Don't miss it.


                
John Carpenter's The Thing is hands down the best horror film ever made. Not only that, but it is also on of my personal favorite films of all time. What makes the movie so great?  It's hard to put my finger on it. Everything just seems to work in The Thing, it's one of the rare occasions where everything just seems to fall in place.  The film is even superior to Alien in creating a type of moody atmospheric hell.  The fact that it's not only about the gore (which is wonderful btw), but it is able to create a paranoia that is unmatched in films.  A truly wonderful film that is worshiped by all horror buffs, and anyone who has good taste in films.


                
Remake of the classic 1951 "The Thing From Another World". 12 men are in a completely isolated station in Antartica. They are invaded by a thing from outer space--it devours and completely duplicates anything it chooses to. It starts off as a dog but gets loose--and has a chance to duplicate any of the men. Soon, nobody trusts anyone else--they're isolated--the radio is destroyed--their helicopter likewise. What are they going to do?The 1951 film had the thing just be a big, super human monster. That movie was scary. This one is too--but the story is different (and based more closely on the source material--the novelette "Who Goes There?") and it's scary in a different way. The movie starts right off with Ennio Morricone's extremely eerie score setting just the right tone and--when the Thing gets attacked--the amount of gore is astounding. There's blood and body parts flying all over--arms are bitten off, heads detach and--in the strongest one--one man is devoured face first by the Thing. The gore effects are STRONG and real nightmare material. I don't scare easy but I had to sleep with the lights on when I saw this originally back in 1982. Rob Bottin's effects are just incredible--how this picture got by with an R rating is beyond me!It also has a very creepy feel--gore aside, it is very suspenseful. You're not sure who is what and Carpenter's direction and the score really build up the tension. One complaint--no one is given any distinctive personality traits. They actors just remain straight-faced and say their lines. That's annoying...but the movie still works.This was a critical and commercial disaster in 1982--it competed with "E.T." and MANY critics complained about the amount of gore and there being no female characters in the movie. It's now considered one of John Carpenter's best. A must-see...for strong stomaches. NOT a date film!An amusing note: When this was released Universal sent a note along with all prints of the film. They suggested to theatre owners that they play the film in an auditorium near the rest rooms. They were afraid that people would be so sickened by the violence that they'd have to be close to a facility to throw up!


                
The silly saying, "You can't touch this" surely applies here. With all the clone horror and sci-fi films coming out, along with all the inferior remakes, it's hard to find anything worthy of 2 hours of your time. That's why I always rely on the classics that scared the weewee out of me when I was a pre-teen.THE THING is, without an ounce of doubt in my mind, the goriest, ickiest, screechiest sci-fi horror classic that John Carpenter, or any other director (sorry, even you Mr. Spielberg) ever made. What really gives it power, though, is not the gore (it OOOOOZES of slime and blood and God knows what other fluids), but rather the sense of dread, isolation, and distrust it fosters in the characters and the viewer.You can't get more remote than Antarctica, and in this howling, freezing white setting is where the story takes place. Several Americans, researchers and military men, are stationed there. One day, they witness a Siberian Husky dog running for dear life from gun-wielding Norwegians. Before they know it, the American outpost is battling a mysterious creature that can imitate any creature it wants. It may morph into disgusting slimy bloody shapes before it's finished, but once it's finished, if you didn't see it in progress, you can't tell it among humans or other normal Earth animals.Kurt Russell, Keith David, Wilford Brimley, Richard Masur, Donald Moffatt, TK Carter, Thomas Waites and Charles Hallahan are just a few of the fine cast. This film is the reason why horror CAN be a great genre. It actually STILL scares me. The alien blood "jumping" out of the petri dish when the hot wire touches it still makes ME jump!!!Still the scariest of them all.
Many people has got a film they think of as their favourite movie. My movie will always be John Carpenter's The Thing! The main reason why this movie is a cult-film is perhaps the splatter-effects created mainly by genius Rob Bottin and that this is the movie that made Kurt Russell what he is today (along with Escape from N.Y.) In my opinion, this is not a great film because of the effects, it has to do with the story, the atmosphere, and of course, the acting. I have watched thousands and thousands of movies (3-6 every day the last 10 years), but none has had the impact on me as this one, not even the great "Das Boot".Here's my suggestion to you who likes sci-fi and horror movies: Place yourself in the good chair of your home. Be sure you're not interupted by anyone. If you aint got a projector, sit close to your TV and watch this miracle of a film. Let it absorbe you, and you'll see it my way!Best View Time: Late February between 5 and 9 in the evening.


                
In 1982, two films were released within weeks of each other that were both about aliens. Steven Spielberg's ET, and John Carpenter's The Thing. Of the two of them, ET was the one that won the hearts of people the world over, even though The Thing debuted first. Because people were so entranced with Spielberg's warm, fuzzy feelgood alien fable, they stayed away from The Thing in droves.Its not hard to see why. The two are diametrically opposed. One is an optimistic tale designed to warm the cockles of the still-beating heart. The other is a harsh, uncompromising film that paints alien life as something purely determined to destroy us. I guess audiences felt ET was a much cuter prospect than The Thing's tentacles and slime coated saliva!It's taken some time, but The Thing has gone on to win over a substantial cult audience. As it should. Because The Thing is that rare example of a superior remake. It takes all the best qualities of the 1951 classic, and reinvents them in startling and imaginative ways. Indeed Carpenter does his job so well he actually succeeds in making a film that is in every inch the equal of the genre's showrunner, Alien. And that's even rarer!Carpenter's film follows its source material more faithfully than The Thing From Another World did. It keeps the frigid wastes of Antarctica as a setting, because its the perfect backdrop when you're trying to establish a heightened sense of isolation. But although a bit thin on characterisation, the remake gets right inside the mindset of the actors, and amplifies the uncertainty and fear that slowly surrounds them.Frequent Carpenter collaborator Kurt Russell returns, hot off the success of Escape From New York, cast once again as one of Carpenter's perpetual anti-heroes. He plays MacReady, the helicopter pilot at an Antarctic research station (what they're researching is anyone's guess). The trouble begins when a Norwegian chopper from a nearby station flies over MacReady's, trying to gun down a Siberian Husky from the air.They end up dying for their troubles, and while the camp tries to solve the mystery of what happened, they take in the Husky and add it to their own. Except that this Husky, is not a Husky at all. But a shape-changing alien. The Norwegians discovered it frozen in the ice, and when they thawed it out, it massacred their crew. Capable of absorbing its victims at will, it can duplicate a living being right down to the smallest detail. Soon paranoia and suspicion works its way through the 12-man crew, until no-one is certain who is human and who is not.The Thing is one of John Carpenter's finest films. In fact I'm tempted to say its the best film he's ever made. Even surpassing classics like Halloween and Dark Star. The reason why I place The Thing at the top of Carpenter's list is that it feels like the last film of his that could truly be called a classic. All the others thereafter have felt like Carpenter was slumming it. Films that didn't flow with the cool sophistication and ragged intensity so prevalent in his earlier works.But The Thing had John Carpenter at the peak of his powers. Never has he generated suspense to such an unbearable degree. Not even in the ferocious Assault on Precinct 13. From the second the alien makes its presence known, Carpenter ratchets up the tension level relentlessly. And when he delivers his punches, they come with an agonising jolt.The film is a blend of pure atmospherics and visceral horror. An approach that can often seem at odds with one another, but in Carpenter's hands melds together beautifully. Bringing in Rob Bottin of The Howling fame, he lays to bear some of the most astonishing transformation effects you'll ever see in a horror film. Amorphous shapes. Half-formed human features starkly contrasted with gaping jaws, spider legs and fully flexible tentacles. Indeed the film's effects are so amazing and squirm-inducing, The Thing came under fire for being too realistic!That type of thinking misses the point entirely. It only shortchanges the film's values. And there are many. Carpenter only stages an effects setpiece when he needs to. Its in the film's quieter moments where he seems especially attuned to the story. The Thing is an often bewildering tale of shadows, whispers and implications. Characterisation has never been one of John Carpenter's strong suits, but it works to his advantage in The Thing. Because we hardly know anything about the cast, it only makes the present situation that much more confusing. We're never certain, from one moment to the next who is who. And because of this, The Thing holds up very well and maintains its mystery on subsequent viewings.A special mention should go to the excellent film score from Ennio Morricone. A pulsing thud thud every two seconds. It creates an eerie, spooky feeling that is very hard to shake. The whole film is a wonderful exercise in paranoid manipulation. The scene where they blood-test each other to see who's human is wound up with such dexterity by Carpenter, you may find yourself biting your nails without even realising.The Thing is a pure unadulterated classic. Even the ending leaves you with the vague suspicion that not everything is resolved. An underrated film, well worth the reappraisal it received. And so much better than ET!
John carpenters the thing is probably my favourite movie. Everything about it just seems great.
The suspense is most of what makes it great!
But everything else is great as well.I hope everyone else enjoys it as much as I did


                
If you 're not reading this comment just to feel assured that there are other people in this world who share your good taste in films, do yourself a favor and watch this movie immediately. This would have probably been the best horror movie ever, if it wasn't for Ridley Scott's masterpiece (Alien). But I would say, "The Thing" really gives "Alien" a run for its money, we are talking about the cream of the crop of the horror/sci-fi category. It also easily qualifies as one of the best movies ever, regardless of genre. John Carpenter is a master of horror movie-making and here we find him at the pinnacle of his creative powers (although I consider "Starman" to be even better, but this isn't a horror film and it's another story). Top-notch performances from the all-male cast across the board, a-grade screen writing, stunning visuals and cinematography, and of course Carpenter's impeccable direction combine into a spellbinding, nightmarish tale of a would-be apocalypse unlike any"thing" you have seen before. When I first checked to see how "The Thing" was doing on the IMDb scoreboard, back in 2001, I was disappointed to see it was hovering somewhere about 5.9 - 6.0. Most of the comments where not very good either, with a few exceptions. I was more than pleased to see this movie gaining more and more appreciation over the years. As I see now, it is among the top 250, with a score above 8.0 and with a good reason: It is certainly one of the greatest horror movies in history, which went under the radar for many years, until it finally achieved the cult status it deserved in the first place.I was about 9 year old when I first watched this movie, late at night on TV - perfect conditions and age group to watch a film like that. Needless to say, I was scared to death! It took a long time until I watched it again, but the way I could remember all key scenes was a sign of the profound impact it had on me as a kid. Right from the haunting title sequence (which I think was later also copied in "Predator") to the spectacular gore scenes, to the chilling sense of isolation and impending doom created by the gloomy score. Since then I have re-watched it many many times and I have to admit, it is perfect material for repeated viewing. More than a quarter of a century after its first (failed) release, witnessing the quality of what was supposed to be a b-movie of the 80's really puts most films shot today to shame. The detail and attention that went into the production design is truly amazing. The whole antarctic environment is replicated with tremendous accuracy. You can feel the cold and isolation of this barren white wasteland where the story is taking place and this is pivotal in creating the menacing, paranoia-inducing, claustrophobic atmosphere that permeates the film from start to finish.The story itself is quite unconventional, based on an acclaimed novella from 1938. A team of scientists stationed in Antarctica face an alien life form, found buried in the ice, which upon thawed has the ability to consume other living organisms (including people) and imitate them perfectly. The film concentrates around the fear, mistrust and communication breakdown that ensues between the members of the team, once they realize they are isolated from the outside world, unable to get help and with one or more of them possibly not being human. The way the dynamics of the team is presented and the realistic depiction of their reactions makes the movie transcend its original premise as just a horror/sci-fi film and become something much deeper and profound. I am always amazed by the realistic behavior of each member, despite the unrealistic setup. You see people be afraid and some even break down, but you don't get you regular unstable guy who freaks out and tries to kill everybody. Kurt Russel gives a career-making performance, while the rest of the cast also does an excellent job. All around, a terrific ensemble piece. There is also a large amount of carefully timed quality gore, that is utterly mind-blowing. Rob Bottin, the man mainly responsible for the animatronic (although also Stan Winston was also involved in the animatronic work) and make-up redefined the state of the art of what was possible, producing some of the best gore sequences ever that remain unmatched even today. What's more, these effects are really terrifying because they look and feel real and life-like. CGI is nemesis for a horror movie and "The Thing" is living proof that if you plan to shoot even a remotely scary scene, make sure you stick to good old latex and makeup.Special mention should also go to Ennio Moriccone's haunting score. I can't believe it was actually nominated for a Razzie! Morricone produced some extremely effective underscore for the suspense-building scenes of the film, communicating all the paranoia of the isolated team and the otherworldly, alien presence that lurks in dark places, waiting to take hold.Overall, I cannot recommend this movie more strongly. It is a rare combination of unparalleled atmosphere, unconventional story and inspired visuals which has stood the test of time admirably.
A group of explorers in the arctic region have encountered a vicious alien organism that can consume a person and make itself a perfect copy. This is a classic horror film that is loaded with brilliant special effects and graphic violence that is a perfect way to spend a cold evening. Kurt Russel stars as a troubled alcoholic who takes charge and tries to find which person is really the alien creature. One of the most brilliant things about the movie is that it plays with the idea of not knowing who you can trust. I found it interesting that it had an all male cast, something uncommon for many movies. The acting is very natural and very realistic. This movie was surprisingly scary and the graphic scenes were surprisingly horrific. It's a dark, brutal, and claustrophobic sci-fi horror film that has stood the test of time from the genius of John Carpenter.


                
John Carpenter's The Thing Is a great classic that not that many people have seen today and for those how have seen this you know what I mean. What makes this film so great is that its so different from any movie I have ever seen. For the most part horror films have bad story telling, bad acting and is usually just bad. Thats not The Thing, The Thing is really a true masterpiece. Everything about it is just perfect, the acting, the directing, the writing just everything about this movie is perfect. The best thing about this movie would have to be the atmosphere in this movie. It feels like your in the middle of nowhere and this thing is around imitating things. I mean it could be anyone it could be you and you wont even Know that its you infected. The musical score by Ennio Morricone is spectacular and one of the best ever. The main part of the score is just to very low bass notes that just puts you in the awkward feeling that you know something bad is going to happen. The acting by everyone is very well done and is believable by everyone. The directing by John Carpenter is pitch perfect, I had never really like John Carpenter directing in any of his movies Until I saw this.


                
Another well-loved horror masterpiece from director John Carpenter is this unforgettable re-imagining of the 1951 sci-fi classic The Thing From Another World. Scientists stationed at an outpost on the South Pole are terrorized by a mysterious shape-shifting alien.Themes of paranoia, the unknown, and isolation are very common in the horror/scifi genre and they are well utilized in this film. John Carpenter directs this film with gusto, giving it a terrificly haunting and bleak atmosphere. Ennio Morricone adds all the more to the atmospheric spookiness with his eerie music score. However, the best highlight of The Thing is undoubtedly the awesome special FX of Rob Bottin. Even by today's standards of CGI visual FX, the creature creations of Bottin are truly outstanding. This film was made nearly 25 years ago and still the creepy alien FX of The Thing manage to shock and thrill! An impressive feat indeed.Another highlight is the great cast of the film, the best of which is hero Kurt Russell in one of his most challenging roles.All around, The Thing is a stunning combination of moody atmosphere and out-of-this-world horrors. It remains as one of Carpenter's best films and stands as one of the greatest alien-horror films out there! **** out of ****


                
In following the lines of the classic formula to a point of taking another leap off from the material, The Thing remake becomes one of the coolest remakes of its time. John Carpenter fashions out of what must've been a fairly vague screenplay about certain things (or maybe very descriptive who knows), bringing forth incredibly wretched, brilliant puppetry and animatronics by Rob Bartin (with Stan Winston also on the team). These effects help set the tone against the harsh, detached environment Carpenter sets up with his characters. The film takes the story of a group stationed in a research bunker in the middle of an arctic climate, pitted against a malevolent force that takes the shapes of others. It's given a full life by Carpenter's choice of tones, and surprises. For someone following in the footsteps of Howard Hawks, the filmmaker here has a lot more trust and talent in executing the material than most given the chance to have another go with an old film.With the effects people working to full force- amid what would likely follow Backdraft as containing the most fire per scene (it could become overkill, but it all fits into the suspense after a while)- the actors pull along as a fine ensemble. Unlike the squad in Predator, these are mostly just regular working guys, with the leader coming in the from of Kurt Russell's MacCreedy (very good role for his style, excellent in fact). Juicy supporting roles are out for grabs for the likes of Wilford Brimley and Keith David. And it is refreshing to see how the sort of absurdity of what's going on in the film (an alien that starts off with dogs and then moves onto the others in gory, demented transforming form) is pit against such a tone of timing with everyone. I loved the long silences at times, with Ennio Morricone's spooky, curious music in the background (and that bass line is of merit in itself).It ranks up with being, if nothing else, delivering what it strives for for its genre/cult audience. It remains one of Carpenter's best; a rare breed of horror film where the story is told clear and precisely by way of the position of the camera, dialog, and timing with the scenes. That's not to say the film isn't chock full of violence, it is, and in fact a couple of times it's almost funny. But given that it goes back to what is ridiculously seeming like a by-gone era, the creatures/make-up, alongside the steady, well-calculated script, was done completely without CGI. It's disgusting, but it's real, and atmospheric to a T.


                
OMG! "The Thing" is John Carpenters masterpiece! I watched this movie fore the first time last night; alone, in my darkened basement and it scared the living hella outta me! This movie ROCKS! Somehow, "The Thing" always eluded me. I never knew much about it and never really had an interest in it until I started doing a little research on the internet of horror/sci-fi movies I had not seen.First off, "The Thing" holds up marvelously 23 years after its release! In fact, this movie could probably be re-released today and make a ton of money. It's just THAT good. With so many of our classic horror movies being re-made these days; I doubt that this film will ever be re-made anytime soon because it just still plays so very well.Well written, acted, & shot, "The Thing" is one heck of a gore fest. The graphic violence in the "The Thing" is just amazingly shocking, realistic, and awesome! Quick plot summary: A US research team working in the Antarctic comes across a Norwegian base that has been deserted. They find a dead and deformed body and take it back for research. The end up learning that something has attacked the Norwegians and is somehow shape-shifting with detailed precision into a predatory killer. By researching the evidence left behind by the Norwegians, they find a space ship that looks like it crashed in the snow some time ago.They soon realize they are being stalked, and it could be anyone of the team. They began to lose all trust and confidence in each other and quickly began to turn against their colleagues.Will they find WHO amongst them is a "Thing"? Can anyone kill this creature before it wipes them all out and infects our entire civilization? Kurt Russel rounds out a very nice cast of actors in this fantastic thrill ride. I was very impressed and satisfied with John Carpenter's "The Thing".I cant recommend this movie enough! Enjoy!!
American researchers at an Antarctic outpost find themselves faced with a shape-shifting alien that can assume the form of any person or animal it absorbs. The rarest of the rare: a remake of a great film that is just as good, if not better, than the original. I don't know if I would say it's better but it's a damn fine film. I love both movies equally. It doesn't just copy the original. As a matter of fact, other than the bare bones of the plot, it's completely different. It adheres more closely to the short story that both Thing films were based on, which was more of a 'body snatchers' paranoia type of story.The Thing boasts one of the strongest casts of any movie made in the last forty years. There's not a weak link in the bunch. Kurt Russell's MacReady is one of his best roles. Wilford Brimley, Richard Dysart, Keith David, Richard Masur, and on down the line are great actors. Everybody gives their all. John Carpenter's direction is excellent. It's been said by many that it's his best work. It's really hard to argue with that. Surprisingly, he doesn't do the score for this one. Instead the great Ennio Morricone scores it but does so in a manner very similar to what Carpenter himself might have done. Rob Bottin's special effects are terrifically fun in the way only old school effects could be. I can't say enough good things about this movie. It's a classic. If you've seen it, you know what I'm talking about. If you haven't, what are you waiting for?


                
The film opens ominously with a flying saucer hurtling towards the earth's atmosphere then we are met with terrific titles which literally 'burn on to the screen 'John Carpenter's 'The Thing' The movie Begins In Antarctica Winter 1982 The first(god damn week of winter) with Two Norwegians in a helicopter who are in hot pursuit of a a Husky, which flees the helicopter and makes it through the snow to a United States science station Outpost 31, The twelve all male occupants emerge to see what's happening. as the helicopter lands the two men end up dead one accidentally with the help of a misplaced grenade and the other is shot dead.The Americans don't know it yet, but their camp has just been infiltrated by a shape-shifting alien, And as the tag-line so succinctly puts it "Man is the warmest place to hide." this just has to be John Carpenter's finest picture it has now received the recognition it finally deserves, i always watch this classic on a regular basis it's a film upon every viewing you can get different readings to an extent it is quotable there is a prequel in the works but only time will tell if it is going to be on par with this masterpiece be sure you watch this classic in widescreen.


                
'The Thing' came out in 1982. Back then, John Carpenter was already a quite famous director, with hits like 'Assault on Precinct 13' or 'Halloween'. And with the success of 1981's 'Escape from New York, Universal Studios gave Carpenter a free pass to adapt John W. Campbell Jr.'s short story 'Who Goes There?'. The problem is that 'The Thing' came out only two weeks after Steven Spielberg's 'E.T.: The Extra- Terrestrial'. Therefore, 'The Thing' was a massive fail with the public, and also didn't go well with the critics, saying it was too gore and violent. Now, 28 years have passed, and 'The Thing' acquired a cult status, having the recognition it always deserved - as the best John Carpenter movie. 'The Thing' follows a group of American researchers in Antarctica that are confronted by a blood-thirsty alien creature that assumes the identity of whoever it kills. Now, they don't know who to thrust, and if the other researchers are human or alien. The movie's screenplay is based on a short story by John W. Campbell. Written in 1951, and adapted firstly for the big screen in the same year, this story clearly represents the fear of communists taking over America. But Carpenter's movie came out in 1982, so the Cold War fear is long gone, and he adapts the story in a much more present way. The paranoia subject here is also treated very nicely. The feeling of getting stuck with an alien and to don't know in who to trust builds up along the movie perfectly. There are a few things still unexplained about the movie's story, which proves how well-written this is and also explains why there are so many fans of this. The writing here also allowed John Carpenter to create some of the most scary sequences ever.The cast here is not very big and is composed only by males, and is headed by Kurt Russell, back then a rising star that also had the leading role in Carpenter's previous movie, 'Escape from New York'. He does his job pretty well, as so did all the other actors. Of course this isn't the kind of movie that depends on the acting in order to work - it's all about the writing and the directing. Aside from Russell, that aren't many famous actors, maybe with the exception of Keith David. A name that is worth mentioning is Wilford Brimley. He was certainly the best member of the cast.John Carpenter's directing work is, as always, incredible. He has a very strong style, that is present in every single frame of this movie. He manages to create completely scary sequences out of the nowhere, and it's his directing that keeps the movie going. The movie, like every Carpenter one, has that claustrophobic feel to it, and the way Carpenter handles the characters is simply amazing. The opening sequence - with the helicopter chasing the dog, is one of the best opening sequences in the horror movie industry - it settled the mood perfectly, and showed this was no ordinary horror film.The mood in here is also built by all the other aspects of the movie. The creature design is one of the best in movie's history, and the animations are perfect. As there was no CGI, the movie utilizes makeup to create the illusion of the creatures, and is considered until today a landmark on makeup special effects. It couldn't be better. Ennio Morricone's original music score also did it pretty well, with the use of bass chords pretty common on Carpenter's previous films. The cinematography is also excellent, with a dark and scary mood.Overral, 'The Thing' is easily John Carpenter's best movie. The reception of the movie when it first came out wasn't really fair to what this movie is. But now, 28 years after the release, people finally realized how good this movie is, acquiring a well-deserved cult status. The excellent writing, along with the good acting and Carpenter's perfect directing make this one of the best and most scary horror movies ever made. 10/10


                
I vote this movie ten out of ten because of the great cast and also the great suspenseful creepy feel of the film the whole deep undertones of the score of the movie keeps you very interested in whats going to happen next every time I watch it. You can tell that Mr. Carpenter had his heart and soul imposed in this tale of great suspense and horror. He was a genius when it came to that. Really wish movies were made like this today instead of props they use CGI which is hollow and see through, especially in lighted scenes CGI looks totally fake but in this film the special effects were so real looking that it still amazes me today. Kurt Russel is so spectacular in this movie I just want to keep watching.You could really tell that there was chemistry on the set between the actors in this film. A perfect combination of great talent great directing and great film work. I always love revisiting this horror classic remake of the original black and white film. Has so much more power than the original because back then Hollywood was so afraid of the world and as I watch old films that are in black and white it's almost as though they dumb down the audiences even though they were much smarter than they thought. Hollywood was different back then they couldn't do anything remotely bold on screen back then because of being afraid it would get banned. Well in this version Hollywood has evolved thanks to movies like the Exorcist,Texas Chainsaw Massacre and Alien. They have become much more liberal.That's the reason why this film works so well, it's because Mr. Carpenter took a movie and did the things that the original directors couldn't do like add gore and more abstract ideas because back then they couldn't. Another reason why it works is because it's a great story to tell, just ask the question what would you do in this situation stranded in the middle of nowhere being attacked by an organism that adapts to everything it touches. That's what makes this classic retelling so good it's just a movie that has a simple idea and let's the paranoia grow in your mind. Knowing that if the thing touches you your life is going to be mimicked into something that you do not know. I will always love this version don't care about future remakes won't watch it because they will just fill it with CGI and actors from popular teen dramas that's all Hollywood cares about now is how popular the actors are. They don't care about real story telling anymore all they care about is money and popularity. Screw that I'll stick with the classics until they realize what people like and crave so screw Hollywood they don't know how to make pictures anymore it's not about the art it's about cheap thrown together remakes and what makes a quick buck screw'em I'll just keep watching these great masterpieces when they still loved to make a great movie and put their heart and soul into it.


                
People with an aversion to gore may find some scenes hard going, but The Thing is far from being simply a horror classic. The fact that the extraordinary special effects stand up against most modern day CGI is only a small part of why this movie is, finally, rightfully regarded as a masterpiece. Technically brilliant in its camera-work and editing, superbly scripted and acted, one of the best openings, one of the best endings, tension and paranoia sustained throughout (with countless viewings), an excellent soundtrack, and open to multiple readings and analogy, there simply aren't enough superlatives to do this film justice. Absolutely essential viewing.


                
This stands next to Alien and Invasion of the Body Snatchers '78 as one of the great horror/sci-fi hybrids of the era. The film takes place in an American research base in Antarctica. A Norwegian helicopter chases an escaped sled dog into camp, shooting at it with a rifle. When the shooter wounds one of the Americans, they kill him in self-defense. It's probably not the smartest move, seeing as how insanely the Norwegians were trying to kill it, but the Americans take the dog in. Little do they know it's not a dog at all, but an alien life form mimicking a dog. Soon it reveals its true form <U+0096> kind of <U+0096> and is burned to death. Unfortunately, it's a crafty organism and has likely infected one or more of the men. But how could you know? It's a perfect mimic, pretty much undetectable until it's too late. The film features some of the best special effects of its time <U+0096> they have not dated a bit, and are every bit as creepy and nasty as they were in 1982. The monster, when it reveals itself, is a true Lovecraftian thing that takes on all kinds of forms, probably an amalgam of the different organisms it has mimicked over its lifetime. Put the monster aside, though, and there's this great, intense study of paranoia. "Nobody trusts anybody" as star Kurt Russell puts it. Reminiscent of perhaps The Big Sleep, if you closely scrutinize the series of events, the plot makes no sense. There's no conceivable way the persons who eventually end up as the thing could have become it. But this lack of logic itself is part of why the movie is so horrifying. You never can tell who is or who is not an alien. Carpenter wisely never lets the audience see anything. Kudos to him for that. And also kudos to him for including two black characters who don't die in the first ten minutes of the movie, an almost unheard of feat for an African American person in a 1980s (or '90s or even '00s) horror movie! A masterpiece of the genre.
The tag line says it all.This is indeed scary stuff.This movie is a timeless masterpiece,Kurt Russel's best movie and John Carpenter's best movie too.In my opinion this is scarier than Alien and that means a lot.The atmosphere is creepy-cold,windy Antarctica.This is the perfect setting for this kind of movies.I remember the 1st time I ever watched The Thing.I was with my cousin and we were on the edges of our sits.This is really gross stuff.The make up effects are superb.Even today 26 years later they still look good as ever.Creator Rob Bottin and his team really did an outstanding job.The effects really help make the alien look terrifying.The best part is that this thing can mimic anything organic it touches.That's the best thing about the movie you can't tell who is who.If you want to be scared a lot this is the perfect choice for you.This might be the scariest film of all time.If you're into sci-fi and horror I can't think of a better picture than this-great characters,perfect setting,non stop chills,thrills and horror.


                
Before I even start, if you haven't seen this movie, *go* see this movie! If you enjoy tension and horror in the slightest go and see it, 'cause you will probably love it. It's one of those very special and fearsomely distinctive kinds of horror movies from yesteryear that has the rare enduring charm and quality about it that just more than stands the test of time. I suppose it's a simple and straightforward enough tale of fear, distrust, and most importantly twisted alien abominations, and how they slowly but surely invade and infect the desperate souls who are trapped in a place where none of them can hope to escape or even call for help, which of course just raises the despair and unease to new levels. This group of essentially doomed men must try and prevent the end of the world, provided they can figure out who to trust and who is still human before it's too late... Damn if it isn't so near-perfectly made, everything about it is handled so well and works out so beautifully. The starkly freezing visuals and cinematography is suffused with fear and unseen menace, with the early point in the film where they visit the grim charred remains of the Norwegian camp being especially nightmarish and creepy because unbeknownst to them, that's what's lying ahead. It just draws you right in and makes you almost feel like your in their shoes, and that's one of the things that I think a worthwhile horror picture is meant to do, it immerses you in the environment of what you're watching. I like how the cast are all interesting guys who are different from one another, and while they're not super-developed or anything you definitely care about them enough that you fully share their horror at what's befalling them. I really like the performance of the dog in the opening act which isn't all that it seems, you get a very sinister vibe from it, it doesn't look like your average plain old happy dumb dog, it looks like it's thinking and waiting for something. Way to go dog.. Never looks at the camera once! I don't believe that you can truly love this film without enjoying all the aspects of it, some love it for all the psychological atmosphere, whereas myself I lean more towards the monsterfest splatter side of things(!). But the creature appearances and the mood play off each other, every build-up is paid off, and when the Thing does explode out of nowhere when you're least expecting it, it's really the cherry on the top. I'd put my money on it as the scariest monster ever, I mean what's more alarming than the terror of your own body and mind being stolen and corrupted from within and turned against you? The horrific concept of the parasite taking over is truly used to its fullest potential. As a creature, I see the overall entity of the Thing as a giant all-consuming mouth, with each separate organism a tooth, and all that they can really do is to see how long they can, stem the jaw... The complete carnage of the monster attacks is violent and revolting, but also so undeniably fascinating that you just can't look away, it's like madness given form... My favourite is the sideways snappy-head because the legendary build up to it with the blood test is so perfectly nail-biting to me every time. The moment is so hectic that it's almost absurdly comedic, the way poor frightened Windows has his head thoroughly chewed on before being spat out! It's a picture that really shows what could be done with the technique of practical effects. I could not believe that nobody ever won any awards for those effects, or that this excellent film was so unfairly torn apart by the critics at the time of its release. That was grossly unfair and messed up, but...it does seem indeed that all good 'Things' really do come to those who wait, and over the years it has got every last bit of acclaim and recognition that it always deserved. John Carpenter may not have technically created the idea of the Thing, but it's because of this movie and his awesome vision why people recognise it to this day, it was him that breathed life into it and gave it an enduring(many!) face and identity. My god this movie is brilliant, no other adaptation holds a candle it it, it gave the original story the presentation it deserved. Thrilling, perfectly-casted and excellently written, I can honestly recommend this to anyone that loves gruesome horror or edge-of-your-seat mystery and suspense. This movie is gold, savour it on a long cold night...
