There is a good reason why the 1951 The Thing is a classic. Howard Hawks influence is obvious and it packs the excitement, bravado and camaraderie that he brought to his westerns. It introduces us to a variety of characters that are amiable and sympathetic, and balances that with the conflict that erupts between the scientists and military in dealing with the alien threat that confronts them.Looking for anything of similar depth or entertainment value in John Carpenter's woebegone remake is pointless because it simply does not exist. This film adheres a bit more closely to the source novella by John W. Campbell Jr. Carpenter's version adopts an Invasion of the Body Snatchers mentality, wherein a creature "infects" others and takes on their appearances to move about at will. It is an interesting concept, but it becomes apparent that the sole interest Carpenter has is in crafting progressively gorier and grotesque effects to gross-out the viewer.The film keeps the same setting in Antarctica and opens with some Norwegians attempting to kill a sled dog. The chase intersects with a group of Americans at a neighboring research facility, who think the Norwegians are crazy. When the dog is sheltered in the American facility, it is revealed to be The Thing of the title. The remainder of the film is basically a guessing game as to who is really human and who has become an assimilation of The Thing.The storyline sounds infinitely more exciting than it plays out. Carpenter has little to no interest in the characters populating his thriller. There are no women at the base and the men have little to no discernible personalities. There is not a role that is not filled by a capable actor, but no one manages to make much of an impression. Even lead Kurt Russell - doing another one of his lamentable John Wayne imitations - just blends into the bland background of bottled testosterone. Unlike Invasion of the Body Snatchers, where it seemed a distinct tragedy that the central characters were being turned into cold, unfeeling beings, the characters in this film are already relatively emotionless and so we feel no tragedy over their assimilation.It is easy to understand why Carpenter has no interest in plot, character development, or even building genuine suspense, his attention is too focused on the next special effects/make-up freak show extravaganza. All of the imagination seems to have been funneled into the next gore scene. The initial scene where The Thing departs its guise of the sled dog and launches an attack on the other dogs in the kennel is revolting on more levels than one can care to count. The dog's head splits open and the tentacled creature goes on a bloody rampage assimilating animals all around into a giant writhing wall of quivering flesh and fur that splits open in various spots to reveal writhing bloody innards. Animal lovers be forewarned. Full disclosure, when I initially attempted to watch this film (and being a fan of the 1951 original) I actually walked out of the theater shortly after this sequence. Several years later, I decided to give the film another chance and made it all the way through to the end.Later sequences are just as repellent. Body parts fly to and fro, chests are crushed, arms are bitten off, limbs take on lives of their own and try to skitter away. Again, lots of imagination, but it would have been far more impressive if Carpenter had channeled this initiative into more substantial areas of his epic. At the time, this depiction was a bit of a surprise coming from Carpenter, whose thrillers had heretofore largely eschewed graphic violence. Here, he makes up for it a hundred fold.Gradually the men are wittled away. Unfortunately, no one cares. There is no sense of urgency or concern for any of these people. They are all unknowable ciphers and easily interchangeable. We truly cannot tell who The Thing has infected less because of its diabolical nature than because the men are all written and played as colorless cookie-cutter tough guys from the average grade-C action film. Carpenter seems to have no idea how people would genuinely act in such a tense situation and there is no camaraderie amongst the men at all. None of them seem to be friends or work well together - they are a gaggle of lone wolf Marlboro Men braving the great unknown. Despite being isolated together and living in close quarters for months, none of them seem to know even the most minor of things about each other.The vague, ambiguous ending with two of the characters resting amongst the carnage, sharing a drink and trying to ascertain if the other one is human or The Thing is exceptionally vacuous. For one thing, knowing that The Thing propagates itself through body fluids, why in the world would the two men chance sharing a drink from the same bottle? Then again, do we really care about either of these guys? The answer would be a resounding no.Interestingly, the film has developed a cult following and fanatics talk about it like it is some sort of a classic. Unfortunately, nothing could have been further from the truth. At the time of release the film was a major box office disappointment and the majority of critical reviews were scathing. In fact, the only people who really seem to consider this some lost classic are gore hounds who think bloodletting should trump storytelling.
The Thing, the 1982 film by John Carpenter came highly recommended from several close film sources in which I trust. It is a horror movie, it's directed by a horror master, what's not to love for a fan of the genre. No one was more surprised than me that The Thing couldn't even hold my attention, necessitating 3 viewings before I could complete it. Mental note: if you fall asleep during a movie not once, but twice, it just may not be the film experience for you. I persevered, however, because I truly thought I would appreciate the film. The film stars Carpenter's most often collaborator, Kurt Russell as a researcher stationed in Antarctica that is suddenly impacted by an alien life form. A seemingly engaging premise left a lackadaisical impression and further left me with the idea that I may not like John Carpenter as much as I thought I did. During the first ****amn week of winter, a team of American explorers in Antarctica are shocked to find their base being swarmed by a Norwegian helicopter from a nearby base. When the helicopter crashes, the American team goes to investigate only to discover everyone at the base dead or missing. The team does find something of interest, however, when they happen upon the burned remains of an unidentified creature. The team gathers the charred remains, and take it to the base with them where they deduce that it is an alien life form. The most shocking aspect of the remains are that the creature can assimilate into any lifeform it inhabits, and it inhabits like a virus, easily spreading to person to person. The implications of this discovery mean that any member of the team may be inhabited by The Thing, creating tension between the group as they each struggle to distinguish between the unaffected members and the ones The Thing has taken over.I don't even know where to start here. I'm not typically a science fiction fan, and this film had a much more sci-fi than horror feel to it. As far as Carpenter's other work goes, I've only seen Halloween and Big Trouble in Little China, hardly enough examples to lay blame with the director. The narrative seemed to rely largely on an ominous feeling that was never properly established. Maybe my main qualm lies with the poor title. I do know that this film is a remake, I have never seen the 1951 original, but in Carpenter's film, I never knew what I was supposed to be scared of. A shapeshifting organelle that inhabits its host without them knowing is a good premise for a fearful mood, but it never materialized as such for me. There seemed to be several opportunities for more (or better) scares that were not seized upon. I'm so disheartened to learn that the directors I thought I enjoyed were really just responsible for one or two films that I enjoyed rather than the director himself. Wes Craven immediately comes to mind as I have now seen a few of his films, none of which replicating the magic of the original A Nightmare on Elm Street, for me. Of course, I must see more of Carpenter's work before writing him off, but The Thing isn't the film to convince me to put any of his films at the top of my watchlist.


                
I rented this one because of the high score on IMDb. I was very disappointed.The opening scene with the Norwegian shooting at the dog and blowing up a helicopter is laughable. (As a side note, he doesn't even sound like he's talking Norwegian.) So is the computer "simulation" calculating the risk that one of the members in the expedition is infected, and how many hours until the entire world population is wiped out.I rented it to be scared, but there wasn't a moment that I was scared or even excited.I give the team credits for the special effects, but that doesn't make up for an uninteresting story and the above-mentioned laughable parts.


                
People rave about this film. These people all saw the film when it came out back in the 80's. I am 24 and I was bored all the way through. The premise was promising however it was pulled off slowly and was very underwhelming. The film is full of cliches and felt more like a cheesy action film. The 'serious' parts were cheesy and the 'scary' parts were funny. The effects can be excused as it is an older film, but I was not scared once in this film. Is it just because I am used to better effects in modern films? I don't think so, I really enjoy early 20th century horror films. Again not scary, but the story is gripping. I really struggled to finish this film. In my PERSONAL opinion, I would recommend avoiding this film, and really don't understand why it is so popular.


                
If you like gore and explosions more than a clear story this one is for you. The techy talk was awfully fast and all that running through tunnels was a bit much. It was even hard to tell who was who what with the parkas and the beards and the yelling last names at one another without any clear introduction as to just who was which. They were looking for "Blair" and I thought that he was a totally different character.The opening shot with the helicopter and the dog were pretty cinematically impressive. The explosions and gore were also impressive BUT awfully repetitive. The only jump worthy scene was during the "blood tests". That actually got a "whoa !" reaction.Not a fan of this type of film and I did prefer the "original". EDIT: Re-watched the original just now and see that the Font for the TITLE was the same ! Cool.
It is classic boring film and it's Missing the point .
I don't think it's Sic-Fi it's old and it's Some Kind of terrifying horror.
maybe some people gonna find it Appropriate from the horror scientific side.


                
The original was scary well acted and in black-and-white. This is just a whole bunch a Special effects with no resolution. One of John Carpenters worst.


                
