As a concept it's rather brilliant actually, but it's a shame that the idea never really goes anywhere. The film features a one trick pony with it's main antagonist being a shape-shifting alien that can take over a host in every way and if it evolves to a point it becomes completely indistinguishable from the original. The story quickly abandons any attempt at adding depth to this premise while thoroughly exploiting the scare potential of such a "character". Instead the shape-shifting alien is reduced to just a killer and is exploited for gory thrills and horror scares, but mostly it's just gross. The storytelling is sparse and visually uninteresting. The snow and ice is never really a factor and while it makes for beautiful scenery, but other than that the film looks really plain. The special effects are pretty damn impressive, but what's the use when they serve no other function. The acting is your typical stoic man on a mission fare, and no real emotions or character arcs are explored. Everything about this film is pedestrian and therefore it should be skipped.
Let's start with the good: The special effects are fantastic, the actors are good (despite what they have to work with) and the over all setting is good.So why do I dislike it so much? First of all, the characters have very little personality. Besides their work and their mood, there isn't much to define them by. Bennings and Garry are supposed to have been friends for ten years, but you wouldn't ever have guessed so since you never hear about them actually having known each other that long until Garry says so. When somebody dies, nobody seems bothered. Garry is the only one making a halfhearted attempt to not make Macready burn Bennings body... only to join in and watch Bennings burn. When I first saw the movie, I was confused as to why nobody suspected Garry be a monster... who would be so casual about their best friend for ten years dying? After Bennings is burned, Garry never mentions him again as if they never met. It's also kinda ironic that Macready is the one calling Bennings "George", but Garry never does.And the characters are so unbelievably stupid. Of course there is always somebody ending up alone or walking off alone, making them at risk to be contaminated. And in the end, they have figured out the only one who could possibly be contaminated is Blair. They have figured out flamethrowers will kill the monsters in just a few second. They have figured out that staying together is the best option. So what do they do? They split up to look for Blair and they blow up the whole base with dynamite! So of course someone dies because they walked alone, but then they realize they will freeze to death because they blew up the whole base. Which they didn't need to since Blair was underground! Who thought that was a good idea? Of course they never actually show a scene where they agree it is a good idea..Overall, if you can look past the glaringly obvious stupidity of the movie (everybody keeps walking off alone all the time despite knowing they can get contaminated), the lack of character development (if any), then you got an action-packed movie with an eerie setting and some of the best special effects of its time.
As to how this movie became a cult favorite is beyond me .. This film not only lacked in imagination and was filled with dull moments, but there was nothing tense nor suspenseful about it. The special effects were good enough for its times, and the ambiance was fantastic and essentially the plot focused on paranoia is a good one..but here lies the problem ...The suspense and tension was not cleverly executed, it was dragged down making only the top notch special effects pop. The film did not have a single female character which could have added a romantic element, no absolute humor and no fear factor aside from the ugly 'thing'. Bored through most of this dragged dull mess i regret investing a single second. Alas, its done and so please learn from me : Don't watch it or you'll be bored to death. I just can't seem to be a john carpenter fan ... i get disappointed with all his films.Final Grade C-


                
Long story short: I had large expectations for this film. It's been coined one of the scariest films of all time. The Shining and Exorcist are also coined the same thing, which are actually scary. It had a great plot. I loved the whole mystery thing it had going on, not knowing what 'it' is. And it was made by John Carpenter. He's the director who has created the iconic character of Michael Myers and made the classic horror film. So with all these added up, I was really excited to see what was to come. It had all these things that had it coming, but here's the biggest shocker: it was horrible. The Thing has all the components of a horror film, and the strangest thing is that it uses them, but for what reason? So the beginning was done fantastic. My expectations were huge, kept me wondering what this film could do. Ready to be scared off my seat. But maybe my expectations were too high.. Carpenter thinks he can create an eerie feeling throughout the entire thing, which he's half right/half wrong. The sense of paranoia IS there, but it just dies down every time something happens. Carpenter also takes the gimmicky effect of gore itself, and uses it to make these far-fetched images, that he thinks will scare us, but then comes off a bit silly. One scene was this guys turn into some crawling creature, which way back in 1982 would surely look stupid. And it does. And Carpenter's vision of aliens itself are just absurd. I imagine aliens as short, green fellows with one eye and a laser gun; the stereotypical vision of them. Carpenter thinks they are shape-shifting guys that we never get to see. And that's the problem with me. Carpenter uses the gimmick to not show the aliens, which sort of comes of as a mixture of stupid and curiosity, but for me? I sat in half-confusion, half-bored. There was no sense of tension between the characters, and the slow-burn pacing never helped either. So I wouldn't recommend The Thing. It's cracked up to be one of the greatest horror films of all time, but it never ever shows this. It's was boring, slow, pointless, and tension-less. It's not even one of those horror films that you want to watch with your friends, because all you would be doing is watching the gross-out scenes that seamlessly go nowhere. If you loved Halloween, and hate the gimmicky effect of gore, The Thing will be hated by you. If you hate Halloween, love gore, love horror movies that come out today, then this is your sort of film. I didn't like it, my opinion, my fact. The end.4/10.


                
It is considered to be one of the best horrors of the '80s and maybe even one of the best horrors overall?! If that's true I do not want to see the rest of them. I cannot say it is complete crap, but it definitely is waste of time. Extremely overrated nonsense with no purpose. The basic idea is good, but it's not developed nearly enough. Characters are two-dimensional and stereotypical. The movie has no depth, does not provoke thoughts, cannot be more linear than it is, does not arouse any emotions, there's no tension, and finally, it is not even scary at all. There are movies that are very stupid, but make you crap your pants in fear. Stupid but with purpose. This one is not even that. It is as if people who were accustomed to make only low-class action movies their whole lives suddenly decided to shoot the horror. Linear, shallow and boring.4/10


                
In Antarctica, date 1982, Outpost 31 for the US National Science Foundation, is called to arms by the rude invasion of a helicopter piloted by crazed Norwegians aboard armed to the teeth from a neighboring camp a hundred or so miles away. They are carrying out a mission to blow one of their own sled dogs to kingdom come that's currently due inbound. Cue Wagner's Flight Of The Valkyries.Well, these Norwegians are wussies. First it is revealed they have lost their minds during the first week of winter only after two months spent at their base camp but they can't shoot worth their water either.It is obvious they pursued their dog for miles from base camp over level, expansive snow and clear skies never managing to inflict a single scratch upon the animal. (Recall the words of Bennings "an hour there, an hour back" before Copper and Mac left to investigate the Norwegian camp.) Scoped semi-automatic assault rifles firing supersonic bullets, box of grenades, and a hovering helicopter capable of airspeeds upwards of 130-150 mph all fails to stop this dog. The Nords had game and should have enjoyed the proverbial kerosene bonfire and been back before dinner. No matter, relating to a future incident in the movie.But these, Norwegians are scientists, we learn, so what do they know? The terrifying secret about the dog, desperately they do.That is just the beginning of the flaws inherent to The Thing.The movie is the second and more faithful adaptation of "Who Goes There?" a 1938 John W Campbell Jr novella about scientists stationed in the Antarctica that uncover a buried spacecraft and a virtually frozen live hostile alien that can assume any identity of any victim it digests.In JC's version, Outpost 31 is run by a loose crew of 12 men, namely scientists, doctors, pilots, mechanics, a radio operator, a dog handler, and a cook. The story takes places over three days and three nights. Once the members of Outpost 31 learn their new canine guest that very same evening is not what it appears to be, a tidal wave of fear and distrust amongst themselves soon engulfs the whole camp for the same reason after their scientists learn the true nature of this alien menace and the frightening implications it presents to the whole population of Earth abroad.They've been out of radio contact two weeks and good old natural paranoia builds in this barren isolated microcosm where no one trusts anyone anymore. Their situation motions from grim to even worse when they lose their radio and the copter to one of their doctors whom went over the bend and they're forced to lock him up in the tool shed outside under heavy sedation. Meanwhile, the alien goes to work either assimilating or killing the crew members off one-by-one or vice versa. The coffee pot is on the burner, a bloody sleepless attrition has begun. A hypothetical solution how to identify their alien perpetrator is finally agreed upon by blood test which leads into the movie's best moments during the long third climatic night.Where The Thing consistently misfires is the fact, the suspense is poorly executed, too reliant upon a smörgåsbord of gross-out special effect wizardry provided by Rob Bottin for shock rather than playing more upon the audience's imaginations for scares. A limp cast provides lackluster underdeveloped alien fodder without an ounce of sympathetic qualities. It would benefit if I actually cared about these characters thereby partook in their helpless terror. But sadly I don't. Every scene and nearly every line of dialogue is suffused with acid resentment, sarcasm, or condescension. Outpost 31 spares viewers of any warmth, any camaraderie amongst courageous human endeavor, and any heroes... Carpenter proceeds to fill every slot in the cylinders with mean getting nastier cyphers then mechanically pulls both triggers. No, the real hero is the alien itself the remaining real actors are an inevitable foaming mad beast, hamstrung and bleeding to death. The constant tension and grudging social pockets amongst these Americans at Outpost 31 is evident they were already on the verge a Chernobyl meltdown, thing or no thing. Their unexpected visitor only triggered it. Then I clap and cheer when the credits finally roll.Some reasons instrumental to my sentiments is 1) no emotional investment in any of the characters 2) it telegraphs all it's terror moments. Viewers know when something is going to happen because the movie takes the audience by the hands... walking them through it.Final notes, the amazing score of Ennio Morricone provides the proper downbeat atmosphere. The Thing proved capable of superhuman feats and genius throughout the movie chiefly displayed during the insurmountable task of engineering an underground workshop and one incomplete spacecraft furnished from the remains of Mac's helicopter and other flotsam jetsam lying about in less than two or three days. Survivor of unknown worlds. The Thing survived beneath the Antarctic ice for 100s of thousands of years. A creature with a nature so ingenious and alien, it can perfectly assimilate any other lifeforms in matter of mere moments right down to every quirk and eccentricity and minute detail in brilliant natural mimicry to be entirely unidentifiable from the original. How difficult can 12 grizzled, snowbound, isolated, and grumpy lonely men be, eh?PS In reality international law forbids flamethrowers and weapons caches such as found in Outpost 31.
(Contains minor spoilers)I grabbed "The Thing" a few days ago, expecting a classic horror movie that I somehow managed to overlook before. Well, it turned out that I was wrong.Even though the plot of an isolated research station in Antarctica provide a very nice basis for a horror movie, Carpenter didn't make much of it. At times, it became just too obvious that he simply tried to mix some ingredients of other (real) classics of that time, namely Scott's "Alien" and Kubrick's "2001", and then expecting to get a great movie. Which did not work.On top of failing to provide any real new ideas (or even just special effects), the movie's storyline is very foreseeable. Plus, the characters do not act authentically - I don't buy that researchers shoot each other that easily or that they take the death of one of their colleagues that lightly ("well, he's been massacred by an alien monster, fine, let's burn and bury him and hope things will be fine").Conclusion: 4/10 - only for die-hard Carpenter fans. Better watch "Alien" one more time.
An alien with the ability to take the forms of humans and animals infiltrates a scientific outpost in the Antarctic. This big-budget remake of the 1951 film proves that bigger isn't better, marred by poor acting, directing, and script. Carpenter thinks that slimy creatures and graphic mutilations are entertaining, but it's just disgusting. There is no subtlety at work here. This film has parallels to "The Invasion of the Body Snatchers" (the original) and "Alien," but one of the reasons it falls far short of those landmark sci-fi classics is that there's little build-up of suspense. The characters are one-dimensional. It's all about special effects.


                
We know that John Carpenter revers the original "Thing," directed by Howard Hawks back in 1951.  For one thing, he's said so but it's also playing on the TV the kids are watching in Carpenter's original "Halloween."  Too bad Carpenter was unduly influenced by Ridley Scott's "Alien" because this film's tone comes off a shade heavier than the atmosphere on Jupiter.A good cast is generally wasted in a treatment spoiled by Carpenter's penchant for excessive violence.  Maybe we've got a creature with mind-numbing power and a real threat to the human race but there's no dramatic build-up, no interplay between characters, absolutely no humor--in other words, a good time is had by none.Would have liked to have seen a story unfold like the original instead of the steady series of blows to the gut that Carpenter delivers.  He had all the pieces here--U.S. Antarctic post finds Norwegian camp destroyed near their discovery of a spaceship in the ice.  Thing terrorizes US camp.  But, whoa, we go into horror overdrive and everything goes downhill.  Should do it again and get it right.


                
Multimorphic monsters from space! Bah! Space monster movie authors, please, think about what you're writing. Where does that thing get the energy to morph like that? Where does it get the food to bulk up so quickly? How come it has so many ways of eating humans, and yet it never devours them completely, or maybe it doesn't need to because it insinuates itself into the body, but then why does it keep popping out like that? Why does it have both tentacles and arms in the end, and one misshapen head in the end, but then some kind of dog body coming out of it's middle? How would something like that have lived on its home planet?Anyway, the best scene in the movie is near the end, where three guys are tied up on a bench and one of them starts morphing, then the others start yelling and trying to get away. And the overall theme of paranoia and mistrust keeps it interesting enough to be viewed about once every 10 years. I give it 4/10.


                
The time-honed story of a small band of people trapped in the middle of nowhere facing an unknowable, unstoppable entity is one that never seems to get old. Far from being purely the realm of dumb slasher films, the best examples of this genre are brilliantly taut exercises in primal dread. Classics such as the original Alien are apex examples of this type of story.The Thing is one of the more influential entries into the genre, pitting a team of Antarctic surveyors against a shape-shifting alien capable of perfectly imitating other lifeforms. The premise here is simple but effective - if the eponymous thing can replicate anyone perfectly, then who can you trust? Who is human, and who is not? It's a brilliant idea with endless potential for suspense and paranoia.Sadly, despite the high praise The Thing has garnered, I found it to be a rather sub-par splatter film, sacrificing logic and tension for the sake of gory excess and contrived story turns. That isn't to say the film is without its merits, it's just that director John Carpenter seems to have little interest in exploiting them. For every scene of slow-creeping dread where the ambiguity of the characters' predicament threatens to unnerve the audience, there has to be a protracted sequence of comically over-the-top gore to suck out every ounce of tension that proceeded it.The special effects in this film are indeed technically impressive and creative, but the end result is absurd and indulgent. Nothing is left to the imagination once the thing reveals itself - every sickly gooey detail has to be shown plain-as-day without the slightest attempt at subtlety or hiding the unknown. I even burst at laughing at several moments from the absurdity of the gore, which I'm pretty sure isn't the intended effect in a film as bleak as this one.The story itself doesn't fare much better - characters are constantly wandering off or otherwise finding contrived reasons to be on their own, even after the true nature of the thing becomes fully apparent. This is repeated so frequently, especially during the finale, that I pretty much ceased to care about the fate of any of the characters - they act so unremittingly stupid that it becomes less about the slyness of the mysterious life-form and more about the laziness of the screenwriter to imagine a more believable excuse for characters to be separated for one another.The Thing has its moments of course. The infamous blood test scene brings the skill of the cast to heel in horrific vividness, the audience hanging on every beat as the inevitable payoff of the scene draws ever closer. But even this must end with a drawn-out sequence of nauseating splatter to deflate the suspense the past few minutes constructed so effectively. Every thriller/horror film is based around the peaks-and-troughs of tension and release, but The Thing makes these troughs more exhausting than chilling, inducing fatigue where there should be ever-present dread.In short, The Thing strands an excellent cast and an atmospheric setting in the middle of a contrived story punctuated by extended moments of putrid icky gore. There are flashes of brilliance where the promising premise of paranoia shines through, but for me this was mostly drowned out by a deeply-flawed plot built around dull stock characters acting with blithe stupidity. If I were more predisposed to gore, I might have enjoyed the film's macabre visual imagination, but in the absence of any meaningful substance, The Thing instead left me out in the cold.
