Not many films these days have a great story which makes the film.
This does. It doesn't rely on hot women wearing next to nothing or amazing special effects, just a great story and great directing.
It keep you guessing all of the way through as to who is the Thing.


                
The Thing has to be one of the all time great movies. Of course it was ground breaking special effects at the time of it's release that impressed me so much, back in 1982 it just blew my mind, I'd never seen anything like that! However, although the effects themselves made the movie more horrific, it was the story itself, the music score , the claustrophobic atmosphere of the Anarctic as well as the interaction and tension between the members of the doomed research station that makes it a classic. Movies don't get any better than this! In the opening scene with the the chopper chasing this husky you just assume that it was some bored scientists from some station letting of some steam. Yet when you see them continue their chase at the US base you then think that the Norwegians are suffering from some form of advanced or extreme strain of cabin fever. Yet this is offset by the menacing opening music score that sets the tempo! You just know that something is not right! At this point it's a mystery until 'the thing' reveals itself. However, the mystery returns because it becomes a sort of Agatha Christie "who dunnit" ( i.e. ten little Indians movie) sci-fi style as the members don't know which one of their team is really an alien. Suspicion continues to go back and forward between them all as one by one they eventually get knocked off or revealed as the alien. The mistrust between the station crew is absorbing as the movie progresses until the final showdown.After 20 years of advances in computer graphics and film making production the special effects in "the Thing" don't carry the same weight as it did in 1982, but other than that it holds up very well all round with some great performances by the cast.
A dog is chased through the wide open snowy expanse of the Antarctic by men in a helicopter who attempt to kill it with a rifle. They fail and die, and the dog enters an American compound unharmed. The men of this outpost now try to discover what events led to this bizarre scene<U+0085>John Carpenter's remake of the 1950 Howard Hawks original The Thing From Another World is a definite example of a remake that exceeds the original. With this film Carpenter upgraded the original with excellent use of very impressive practical special effects. These effects still look extremely good today thirty years on. But it's not just this that has been improved; the characters and dialogue are better, while the sense of paranoid mystery is an entirely new addition to the story. Despite all these aspects, it comes as a surprise to a lot of people that The Thing was a box office failure upon release in 1982. Even the fools at the Razzies jumped on the bandwagon and nominated Ennio Morricone's Carpenteresque soundtrack for 'worst musical score' – a frankly ludicrous decision. Anyway, it was only in the years that followed that The Thing built up a reputation as a cult favourite, to the point that it is now considered something of a classic. Which is the way it should be considering that this is a highly effective and claustrophobic sci-fi horror movie.


                
"Trust is a tough thing to come by these days." The centre-piece of this feature is the bleak, isolated Antarctic landscape in which the story is set, which Carpenter contrasts so effectively from the outset with the claustrophobic confines of the American research base. The latter was built from scratch at the edge of a glacier in Stewart, British Columbia, with the remoteness of the location shoot exemplified by the cast and crew's hair- raising tales of being transported there. Based on John W Campbell's 1938 story 'Who Goes There?', this adaptation is much more faithful to the source material than Howard Hawks' 1951 original version, 'The Thing From Another World'. Thus, it is ironic that much of the criticism levelled at this production when it was released at the box-office was in lambasting Carpenter for creating such a dark and violent vision in comparison to Hawks' treasured original treatment. In fact, Carpenter not only paid homage to Hawks' original in his version, but also in his earlier body of work. In his 1978 breakthrough, it is playing on the TV set where Jamie Lee Curtis is babysitting, while in this feature the video footage the American team watch to learn what their Norwegian counterparts have unearthed consists of clips from Hawks' version. Carpenter's version's poor critical reception was largely based on its gory special effects, with Roger Ebert dismissing it as a 'barf-bag movie', while Hawks' 1951 director, Christian Nyby, wounded Carpenter by caustically commenting: 'If you want blood, go to the slaughterhouse'. It is clear that by wishing to preserve the shape-shifting alien presence of the source material, and thereby avoid the 'man in a costume' horror of his childhood, Carpenter irrevocably tied his film's fortunes to the quality and reception of its special effects. A second upshot of this decision was in handing total creative licence to special makeup effects creator, Rob Bottin. Having cut his teeth the year previously on 'The Howling', this former apprentice to Rick Baker both thrilled and appalled audiences in equal measure with his nightmarish visions. Though a little dated today, these still retain the power to shock, and deserved at least an Academy Award nomination. In spite of Bottin's laudable workmanship, what they did earn at the time was both a notoriety which deflected attention away from the film's strengths, as well as a period of hospitalisation for Bottin out of pure exhaustion. A further critique aimed at this production was a lack of sufficient characterisation, though it could be argued that with a plot so driven by suspicion, the audience's lack of in-depth knowledge of individual characters adds further to the tension. It is clear that the screenplay, penned by the son of Burt Lancaster whose only other screen writing credit was for the light comedies of the 'Bad News Bears' franchise, is as much of a psychological thriller as it is a visceral horror story. As Carpenter himself later commented: 'The paranoia is the glue that holds the movie together'. This is gradually racked up by the director before reaching its apogee in the film's most acclaimed blood-test scene. It is also supported by Ennio Morricone's throbbing baseline soundtrack, which was so unfairly nominated for a 'Razzie'. Many have questioned the plausibility of the actions of the men trapped on the base with this shape-shifting presence, forgetting that the latter's arrival sharpens the level of mistrust and friction which had been building throughout the team's isolation from the wider world. As such, the alien interloper in its desire to survive at all costs is able to exploit the breakdown of discipline as the team's fragile relationship is tested to its limits under siege. The cast give commendable performances in capturing the escalating tension and dread, none more so than Keith David as the volatile 'Childs' whose belligerence surfaces towards Kurt Russell's hirsute, cynical, renegade helicopter pilot as they bid to take control of the beleaguered survivors. It is fitting that these two characters are the only ones left to await the dying of the flames of their razed base uncertain as to whether their enmity is purely on human terms or one biological organism against another. This is another perfect vehicle provided by Carpenter for Russell's ability to deliver an understated but memorable performance in a role turned down by both Nick Nolte and Jeff Bridges. Russell also contributed the final lines of dialogue: 'Why don't we just...wait here a little while...see what happens?' Although now regarded as a cult movie which raised the bar for the horror genre, this production 's failure at the box office marked the last time Carpenter would be entrusted with a major studio, big-budget vehicle, and the virtual end of Lancaster's career, as both were removed from plans to have them bring Stephen King's 'Firestarter' to the big screen. A victim of the timing of its release to audiences warmed to a much more benign vision of alien visitation in blockbuster, 'E.T.', Carpenter's feature has finally accrued the plaudits it deserves.
A US research station, Antarctica, early-winter 1982. The base is suddenly buzzed and attacked by a helicopter from the nearby Norwegian research station. They appeared to be trying to kill one of the dogs from the US base. Having dealt with the threat, the members of the US team fly to the Norwegian base, only to discover them all dead or missing. They do find the remains of a strange creature the Norwegians burned. The Americans take it to their base and deduce that it an alien life form. After a while it is apparent that the alien can take over and assimilate into other life forms, including humans, and can spread like a virus. This means that anyone at the base could be inhabited by The Thing, and tensions escalate.A horror classic. A well crafted story, directed by horror legend John Carpenter. He builds the plot well, meticulously setting the scene and ramping up the tension with good effect. The period where anyone could be infected / inhabited is particularly suspenseful. Excellent special effects, especially for 1982. Very gory, imaginative and realistic. Some of the images from the movie are quite iconic and will be familiar from pop culture, they've been reused so much.Ending is maybe a bit too ambiguous for my liking. While I don't generally like neat, happy Hollywood endings, this possibly went too much in the opposite direction. A greater degree of closure, or at least an indication of where the story was heading, was in order, I think.Solid performances all round. Kurt Russell is particularly good in the lead role, playing the quick-thinking action hero very well.


                
It's not so often I encounter the chance to revisit a classic on the big screen yet yesterday I had that privilege to watch John Carpenter's cult horror classic 'The Thing' at the Cineworld Cinema near Piccadilly Circus. The film begins in the midst of the Antarctic snowfield where a helicopter is circling an American research base chasing down a husky with a sniper. When the helicopter crashes and the pilot is killed, the passenger survives only to continue his mission of pursuing and killing the dog and in the process shots one of the members of the research team to get to the dog. The gunman who appears to be Norwegian is shot down by the captain of the base as he obviously appears to be steered crazy and incredibly dangerous.When they eventually find out that this dog isn't what it appears to be, two members of the team, one being MacReady (played by Kurt Russel who gives a fine performance here), goes on a search for the Norwegian base to see what clues they can find. When they do find the abandoned base, they find a large block of ice which looks as if something had been frozen in it for centuries and a half burnt corps that looks like something they've never seen. Of course this corps is brought back to the base, and after a few autopsies are made, one of the doctors makes the shocking discovery of a creature that imitates cells When one of the members of the base is left alone with the remains of the creature, another team member enters the room only to discover the creature is not dead and is now in fact imitating a member of the team. When help comes forth, the creature has almost finished the process and looks exactly like the team member except for a few last features. This is where the tension really begins; paranoia hits everyone and hits them hard. Did they kill the creature? Are there any remains of the creature left? If so, has it taken shape of any other team members? Who is human and who is the creature? Who can they trust? You can even feel the tension in the atmosphere of the base, the silence, the darkness, and the reactions of the team members when they suspect another team member.If one person gets out of their sight for an instant then that person is automatically a suspect. The best example of paranoia is shown by Dr. Blair played by Wilford Brimley who delivers the best performance in the film. He discovers that if this creature reaches civilization, it will eventually imitate mankind little by little and this drives him over the edge and wants no one from the base to escape for the sake of mankind. I felt quite fortunate as to have previously visited Howard Hawk's original Sci-Fi classic 'The Thing from Another World' which is quite an impressive film especially for 1951, did not feature a shape-shifting creature, instead it featured a gigantic creature that required human blood in order to reproduce. The director John Carpenter, being a fan of Howard Hawks did not try to copy the original; instead he went back to the original novel 'Who Goes There?' by John W. Campbell Jr. from 1939 which did feature a shape-shifting creature, thus making the film more tense and more suspenseful.John Carpenter has never been known for his character build up; in fact the villains in his movies are usually mindless and lack emotion or personality as shown in this film and many others such as Michael Myers in his merciless masterpiece 'Halloween', the car Christine in 'Christine' or the zombie-like ghosts from 'The Fog'. But he is famous for his tense scenes and his dark and creepy shots as hardly any of his movies contain more than ten minutes of daylight. This is a well paced, well shot film and with these sorts of movies, that's rare.Watching 'The Thing' again I couldn't help but be reminded of Don Siegel's Sci-Fi classic 'Invasion of the Body Snatchers' from 1956, where a doctor in a small town practise finds numerous patients of his claiming that their relatives or close friends are not who they seem to be but in fact impostors who look exactly them. These two films feature the same sort of paranoia, only John Carpenter makes the decision of showing the shape-shifting commence by using extremely grotesque and gory special effects. Although I am not a fan of grotesque special effects, especially as over blown as they are here, John Carpenter's version of 'The Thing' still succeeds as a haunting tale of paranoia and is a highly entertaining and action packed sci-fi film that is sure to entertain even if it's not as great as Don Siegel's classic.Upon the film's release back in 1982, the film did not do so well in the box office, maybe because it came out only two weeks after the phenomenon 'E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial' or maybe it's simply due to its extensive use gore and violence which it earned it an "R" rating by the Motion Picture Association of America. It instead went on to become a cult favourite and is now considered to be one of the best and scariest horror films ever made.


                
John Carpenter's the Thing is a hugely atmospheric horror science fiction set in the cold settings of an Antarctican base camp. A dog is rescued by the American team of researchers out of which arises an alien entity that has the capability to take any organism's shape or form. One by one the base camp members are "afflicted" and the way this goes about is what makes The Thing so special. You really don't know who would become the next victim and we are as much in confusion as the researchers. The set design is so good it still hasn't dated at all and the performances from everyone of the cast is excellent. Carpenter was at the height of his directing prowess at the time and the film is expertly shot and edited. The Thing is a rare film: An excellent science fiction as well as horror entry.


                
You know what I appreciate most about this film? The title. There are hundreds, if not thousands of movies out there about foreign creatures and a lot of them have the name of said creature in the title: Gremlins, Ghoulies, Critters, Alien, Leprechauns, Pumpkinhead, etc. This movie kept it--as they say--100 (or as we said when I was young, "real"). They didn't know what it was and I know that when I don't know what something is, it's a "thing".The movie was as good as the title. This was a quality production for 1982 and one harrowing situation. Imagine being stuck in Antarctica, nothing but ice and polar bears around for hundreds of miles, incommunicado with the rest of civilization, a deadly storm brewing, and a creature in your midst that consumes its host and assumes its identity. I, for one, would be scared to death. If it weren't for everyone else having the same fears I'd have thought that cabin fever had set in and was causing me to be paranoid."The Thing" played out exactly how it should have. There was rampant fear and distrust with everyone ready to take the life of his mate at any moment. The few times this thing showed itself it was a thing of nightmares and again I have to say that it was good special effects for the 80's. I never saw this movie as a kid, thank God, but seeing it today I know I would've been spooked watching this.


                
The Thing. Sounds scary, right! Yeah, it is scary, mysterious, thrilling sci-fi horror classic. The plot is one liner, scientists in the Antarctic are confronted by a shape-shifting alien that assumes the appearance of the people that it kills. The special effects are perfect and have not dated at all even after more than 30 years. It builds the tense atmosphere from the very start and helped by hell like stormy chilling weather of Antarctic and thunderous background score. All actor act well and Kurt Russell as lead does his job right. There is loads of blood bath and brutal killings by the scary thing. The open ending takes the movie out of ordinary and leaves you wondering why there is no sequel at all of this classic? Nevertheless, until they could think of worthy sequel, enjoy this timeless sci-fi horror classic.


                
Horror, like hot sauce, is a kind of self-indulgence. It's considered part of the sport to try to push the envelope, be it a seared mouth or a heart attack. I think John Carpenter has designed a movie for the audience who says, "C'mon scare us to death."Every element of this movie is exquisitely crafted -- from the soundtrack to the cutting and pacing to the uncompromising, unrelenting savagery -- all packaged in sharp, handsome photography and skilled acting. The buildup is a crescendo of violence and gore.But what's the point of all these fine production values? A message? Existential dread? Survival? Compare this one to Alien. Both climax with the hero calling out the great terror. Like cowboys. You know, the outlaws move into town and kill everybody until they meet the lone hero in the final showdown. Here, the story is just a vehicle for the real purpose of this film: pure horror.Almost 30 years later, and John Carpenter's The Thing is still the scariest movie I've ever seen. If I lived for being scared to death, then I'd give it a 10.


                
John Carpenter's the Thing is a hugely atmospheric horror science fiction set in the cold settings of an Antarctican base camp. A dog is rescued by the American team of researchers out of which arises an alien entity that has the capability to take any organism's shape or form. One by one the base camp members are "afflicted" and the way this goes about is what makes The Thing so special. You really don't know who would become the next victim and we are as much in confusion as the researchers. The set design is so good it still hasn't dated at all and the performances from everyone of the cast is excellent. Carpenter was at the height of his directing prowess at the time and the film is expertly shot and edited. The Thing is a rare film: An excellent science fiction as well as horror entry.


                
Some of the best horror starts with an isolated environment. A Cabin in the woods (Evil Dead), a boat harassed by a giant shark with no land in sight (Jaws) and so on. This time it's a research team trapped by a blizzard in Antarctica with no hope of rescue.Kurt Russell is brilliant in this. This movie is decades old, but hasn't aged one day. The visual fx in it are nothing short of astounding and Carpenter's atmospheric music adds a eerie creepiness to this film in just the right amount and in the right places. Genius composer Ennio Morricone is credited as composer, but the opening tones is all Carpenter.Of all his film, this is apparently John Carpenter's favorite. Watch this movie and you'll see why. It's my favorite of his too.


                
This movie is very suspenseful. A nail biter. It reminded me of the Alien movies: an isolated group of people with little to no outside communications, and little to no way of escaping. All they can do is track the thing(ha). There was a keen sense of very rightful paranoia. As you see, this thing, is a chameleon, and could be anyone or more than one.There's lots of gory grossness, and may even be scary to some people. I mainly found it suspenseful. What's missing, is well, a Ripley. Or any female for that matter. The entire cast is male. Mmmn, I could overlook that, but kept feeling a lack of something, and I think that was it.It has a great little track of a suspenseful sound effect, almost like a heartbeat slowed down and with the pitched changed. All the acting was very good. The ending was a little disappointing. I don't know if they were setting up for a sequel, or the director wanted to leave it mysterious. I would have preferred a more defined ending.I just watched it for the first time, and for 1982, it has held up very well. If you like the Alien movies I think you will definitely like this movie.
***SPOILERS*** As the film "The Thing" opens we see this sled dog trudging through the vast Antarctic wasteland of ice and snow being chased by a helicopter. Opening fire on the dog the Norwegian pilot, Larry J. Franco, seems to be terribly agitated at the dog escaping his rifle fire and then opens up a grenade canister and throws it at the fleeing canine. After what seems like forever the dog reaches the US scientific outpost #31 and as the men stationed there run out to see what's happening the pilot starts shooting and throwing grenades all over the place like a man gone insane. He's then shot and killed by Garry, Donald Moffat, after the crazed pilot earlier ended up accidentally blowing up his helicopter with a loose grenades. Finding a partly burned map of the outpost that the dead pilot came from Dr. Copper, Richard A. Dysart, together with US Army helicopter pilot MacReady, Kurt Russell, fly out to the place only to find it burnt-out with everyone there frozen or burned to death. By MacReady and Dr, Copper taking back one of the dead bodies to be examined they brought,together with the runaway dog that was already taken into in the US encampment,into play one of the most hideous monsters that was ever put into a motion picture. A monster that laid dormant for tens of thousands of years until the Norwegian Antarctic expedition dug it out of the ice and inadvertently released it. A horror that within three years could very will wipe out the entire human race by first replicating and then destroying it. Unlike the original 1951 movie "The Thing from another World" the John Carpanter directed films storyline follows very closely the famous 1938 Sci-Fi short story "Who Goes There" by John W. Campball that both films were based on. Surviving through the process of replicating itself in it's host body "The Thing", after wiping out the Norwegian outpost, turned itself into a sled dog and then ended up getting into the US base #31. At the base "The Thing" started to take over the bodies of first the sled dog and then the men stationed there by initially infecting them in order to enter their system. Then, like an unending row of domino's, "The Thing" goes from one person to another until "It" destroyed every living thing, human animal and plant, on earth. Looking something like a cross between a giant spider and octopus "The Thing", when it was in it's natural state, looked like a nightmare that came straight out of hell. But when it infected and took over someone on the base, and hid itself inside the persons body, it acted perfectly normal and human until the opportunity presented itself for "It" to strike again. It was only too late that the US military men and scientists at the base-camp began to realize that once "The Thing" got into their camp the only way that it could be stopped was for them to destroy everything living that it came in contact with, the entire base-camp with them along with it. Not making the same mistake that the Norwegians did by unknowingly allowing it enter their encampment and then later escape, after wiping them out, and continue it's murderous rampage on earth. With the fires that were started by him and his men, battling "The Thing", slowly burning themselves out MacReady and Childs,Keith David, the last two survivors of this inferno wait for the bitter minus 100 degree Antarctic winter to set in and thus put them out of there miseries. Shearing a bottle of R&B whiskey to numb their senses they both sit and wait for the end to come knowing that with their actions they put an end to "The Thing" and it's ability to use them to farther it's demonic goal in destroying all of mankind.


                
Despite having some less good special effects and a very open ending to such a film, this movie is certainly wonderful, spectacular, fantastic, very good. One of the best horror movies ever, it can even be compared to the saga "Alien" by Ridley Scott. Truly good. A movie classic that everyone should watch at least once. Highly recommend.


                
If you live practical effects and you enjoy watching films written and directed by John Carpenter you will most likely enjoy this film


                
My boyfriend and I went to see this tonight at a free local screening. I was so excited to see it since it's been one of the movies I've planned to watch for awhile now. The film did not disappoint, for 80's standards the graphics were great, storyline was a bit confusing but still enjoyable. Good laughs and tense creepy parts! Great if you like sci-fi horror. Definitely recommend!


                
John Carpenter's The Thing is rightfully called a classic horror film. The scares and tension hold up, the ambiguity associated with the film begs interpretation, the acting is solid, the setting unique, the pacing excellent, and the cinematography good. Hats off to this movie, at a time when it was popular to use horror movies to punish promiscuous, mean, or stupid teenagers and adults, the Thing threatened a group of grown, intelligent, good men. Despite making all the correct choices, these brave men were still killed one by one by the creature.Of course, the film is probably most famous for its ahead-of-its-time practical effects. I would agree, they were good for the time, despite a lot of the effects being outclassed today. Need I remind you that a lot of the effects were slow or slow-moving and accompanied by long, horrified reaction shots of the men. How much scarier would the spider- legged head been if it went scampering quickly away?Also, the movie feels a little inconsistent. When the blood test is taken, one guy looks nervous, even though he obviously knows he's not infected. When Bennings is killed, somebody, i think it was Garry, says "I knew Bennings all my life" despite the inhuman scream that Bennings uttered as he died, his warped hands. Also, is the Thing an organism or virus? It's referred to as an imitation at times. How does it replicate the host's memory? Why did the Thing reveal itself as the dog?But hey, these are just nitpicks. It's a really good film, if a little old.


                
One of the things that attract me to a movie is it's reception. It doesn't slim down to whether it got a rotten score on Rotten Tomatoes or a fresh. It comes down to what they have to say. Cult films are brilliant in a subtle or not so subtle way, as Rocky Horror Picture Show was an amazingly unpleasant film. When The Thing was released it was panned for over-the-top gore and special effects. Even the director of the original, Christian Nyby, denounced this film. Yet this near masterpiece followed the coarse of other classic cult films. One of the main problems was the gore. Yes it was excessive. Yes it is brutal. I really, really love this for it. Robin R. Bottin, also known for Robocop and The Fog, masterfully crafted severed body parts, warped dogs, and a blob of nightmarish skin and blood, without any computer generated images or visual assist. The creature is so grotesque, you find yourself queasy as he takes every form of tentacle-severed head to 5-dog morphing. John Carpenter excellently builds suspense with a feeling of claustrophobia and unease. As the Thing can take any form necessary, The crew of a desolate Antarctic facility know nothing of who the monster has shape over... and neither do the audience. The viewer is kept in the dark for 95% of the movie. Certain victims are hinted towards, but there is no canon answer. As for flaws, the characters will seem underdeveloped and feel like a segway for gore. This doesn't affect the movie, as they are given enough personality for you to figure out the creature's form. The ending is so ambiguous that countless fan theories have appeared trying to explain it. The showdown between the hero and villain is gory, funny, and satisfying for a fight like this. 1982 was an impactful year for sci-fi and horror film with others such as Poltergeist, Blade Runner, and the Wrath of Khan. Yet no other film will gross you out as much as THE THING will! I suggest you give it a watch.


                
Some films are not very well welcomed in the box office during its release. Years later, they get caught in the top list. John Carpenter's "The Thing" is one among them.The movie has no female cast. The story happens in a research facility in Antarctica.The movie opens with a helicopter chasing a dog, trying to shoot it down. The helicopter blasts, the man was shot dead. Later the crew members discover that some Alien "Thing" is around them. It was imitate anything that comes across. Things go worst when they start suspecting each other of contamination.Special effect make up made a revolution through this movie. There are so many filmy techniques used. Film students can learn them deeply.One of the best Sci-Fi Horror films. A must watch. Highly recommended.#KiduMovie


                
I don't know if it's too bad or too good that not so many people love horror movies but I find it strange every time somebody is surprised that I am a horror genre fan! Horror movies talk to our most basic instinct which is fear and stimulate our numerous fears in different ways. And the good thing too is that whenever your fear is quivered, your intellect moves up in a very profound way using all the possible weapons that one could think of just for the sake of your own survival. There you go, adrenaline of heart and mind both revived each time you watch a horror movie and specially a decent one like "The Thing".Nothing more really can be said to add to what all the other reviewers said about the movie director, the original short story, and the acting. Excellent movie and you deserve to treat your heart and mind with it.


                
These days, where we get overwhelmed with horror movies which fail to build up suspense without falling into stereotypes, its hard to single out a horror movie different from todays "teenie shockers". There are two main aspects which ought to captivate the watchers attention. On the one hand you have this really disgusting "thing," incomparable to anything i have ever seen before in other movies. On the other hand there is a constant distrust evolving from the beginning to the end which affects every action of the characters, whose feelings the viewer is compelled to identify with. Not knowing who is infected, you suspect nearly everyone, even "R.J. MacReady," who can be seen as the main character. For me this was a new experience insofar as there is actually no one in the story you can sympathize with.


                
In an era where nearly every great horror film of the 60s and 70s is being remade for audiences weaned on horror flicks of today that are not too terribly good, it is instructive to look back at John Carpenter's 1982 opus THE THING, which itself is a remake--of a childhood favorite of the director's, Howard Hawks' 1951 sci-fi/horror classic THE THING FROM OUTER SPACE. Although Carpenter's film was not initially that big a box office hit when released in mid-1982, it has since garnered a very large following.In fact, Carpenter's film is less of a remake of Hawks' film than it is a reworking, as he goes back to the original idea posited by the source material, namely the John W. Campbell story "Who Goes There?", in which a US scientific crew in Antarctica is menaced by a shape-changing alien thawed out from the ice after 100,000 years. Kurt Russell, who had starred for Carpenter in the director's 1979 TV movie ELVIS and the 1981 film ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK, heads a cast of stalwart character actors, including Keith David, Donald Moffat, Richard Dysart, and Richard Masur, in this tension-filled exploration of paranoia, as the shape-changing "thing", which first comes to their camp in the form of a guide dog a Norwegian team is trying to kill, takes over each of them one by one. It isn't long before everybody in the camp begins to mistrust his fellow man. The ending of the film, in which Russell and David are the only ones left, has a disturbing and chilling ambiguity akin to the similar codas to both THE BIRDS and STRAW DOGS.Almost universally, when the subject of THE THING is bought up, the emphasis is on the extremely gory special effects make-up and alien designs created by Rob Bottin, who had worked with Carpenter on the 1980 horror classic THE FOG, and on Joe Dante's 1981 werewolf film THE HOWLING. These effects are indeed quite spectacular and graphic, and even today, they can also be quite stomach-turning. But all of this would make Carpenter's film nothing more than a high-end splatter epic if the direction, the story, and the acting weren't up to snuff; and thankfully, each of them are. When he's not concentrating on the enormously gruesome transformation sequences, Carpenter builds suspense in the same Hitchcock-influenced way that informed his previous films HALLOWEEN and THE FOG, with cinematographer Dean Cundey's prowling camera-work, particularly through the corridors of the station, a significant help. The acting enhances an already-fine screenplay adaptation by Bill Lancaster; and we are also given a taut score by Ennio Morricone, whose work on director Sergio Leone's classic 1960s Italian spaghetti westerns is well known to all, including of course Carpenter himself. THE THING also features additional fine visual effects from Albert Whitlock (who worked on many Hitchcock films, including THE BIRDS), and Roy Arbogast, who worked on CLOSE ENCOUNTERS OF THE THIRD KIND and JAWS 2.Carpenter's film was not the success it could have been because Universal chose to release this graphic shocker a mere two weeks after it had released Steven Spielberg's far more family-friendly E.T.: THE EXTRA-TERRESTRIAL (not surprisingly, critics and audiences at the time favored Spielberg's excellent film over Carpenter's equally excellent but exceedingly different one). Also, most of the horror film box office business in 1982 was going to another Spielberg-produced film, POLTERGEIST. As a result, at a cost of $15 million, THE THING suffered from lack of attention in its time.Over time, however, many have come to see Carpenter's film for what it is--an extremely gory but extremely intelligent combination of science fiction and horror, done with a great deal of flair and a true understanding of the psychological paranoia at the heart of its story. Though it is still quite gruesome, THE THING should be as much remembered for the skill by which the story is put together as it is for the gory alien designs and make-up effects; for it is the storytelling skill and the suspense that make it so memorable in the final analysis.


                
An intelligent and reasonably tight story set in a research outpost in Antarctica, where scientists have inadvertently dug up some form of parasitic, shapeshifting alien out of the ice. It quickly becomes a study in paranoia, where behavior amongst the men becomes a game as difficult as that chess match against the computer Kurt Russell has early on: if one of your colleagues may not be what he seems to be, what's the best move? Attempting to determine who it might be, and selectively isolating him? Destroying everyone so that you might survive? Attempting to use reason and science in a helter skelter, chaotic situation? I loved the setting and the very cool ways in which the thing manifests itself, which at the time seemed so excessive that it turned reviewers off, but which today appears highly creative and refreshing in light of modern CGI, at least for me. There may be a couple of moments when one wonders about character motivations and it's a pretty simple story, but the latter keeps it focused, and the pace of the film is good. Kurt Russell and Keith David stand out in the cast, which also includes A. Wilford Brimley and Donald Moffat.


                
John Carpenter's the Thing is a hugely atmospheric horror science fiction set in the cold settings of an Antarctican base camp. A dog is rescued by the American team of researchers out of which arises an alien entity that has the capability to take any organism's shape or form. One by one the base camp members are "afflicted" and the way this goes about is what makes The Thing so special. You really don't know who would become the next victim and we are as much in confusion as the researchers. The set design is so good it still hasn't dated at all and the performances from everyone of the cast is excellent. Carpenter was at the height of his directing prowess at the time and the film is expertly shot and edited. The Thing is a rare film: An excellent science fiction as well as horror entry.


                
