The 1995 version of Pride and Prejudice disappointed me greatly. After watching the first 50 minutes it was clear to me through the clumsy script and butchered sacarine stereotyped characters that this production is little more than an expensively produced melodramatic hot air balloon. The witty dialogue, poignent satire and emotional depth of the characters, qualities of the book that I loved so much, are lost here to lush production values and a screen writer who in paraphrasing Austen's dialogue has dragged down its graceful arcs.To watch a production more in tune with the spirit of Pride and Prejudice, I recommend the 1979 BBC version directed by Cyril Coke. Better yet, I recommend reading the book!


                
The mini-television series of Pride and Prejudice starring Colin Firth as Mr. Darcy and Jennifer Ehle as Elizabeth Bennet, I thought was absolutely disastrous. I thought the acting was terrible, like Colin Firth's. He looked too stiff and awkward, more than the actual character was suppose to be. This role Colin Firth could've definitely dropped and let someone else do so. I have read the book Pride and Prejudice many times, and when I watched this version, this version just put a dent in my liking toward this Jane Austen masterpiece. I have read the book countless times and when I watched Pride and Prejudice, I thought Jennifer Ehle was, in plain words, just crap. I couldn't bare to watch the end after seeing her performance. In some scenes, I watched her facial expression and emotions and thought that they fell very short of Jane Austen's delicate description of the emotions Elizabeth was MEANT to feel and express. Ehle just couldn't pull it off. Then you move onto characters like Mrs. Bennet and her "poor nerves". She did a horrendous job because she exaggerated everything and became very agitating to watch. The only person who I thought did a considerable job was David Bamber as Mr. Collins. However, it is such a shame that someone who played a minor role could actually portray their characters as Austen had written less than 200 years ago.


                
I never read the book, so I don't know how close this actually is to Jane Austen's novel, but this series did nothing to gain my attention. Right from the start I couldn't understand why everybody kept saying that Jane was so beautiful when there was nothing appealing about her. Elizabeth was so...proper she drove me crazy. Mrs. Bennett was actually probably the only good thing about the story, she was so ridiculous and annoying that she made me really hate her character (which i consider a good thing, since i had no feelings for anybody else) Darcy was just so stiff and rude, nothing likable there.The whole thing was so long I could barely stand to watch it after the first thirty minutes. Nothing jumped off the screen, even Elizabeth rejecting both Mr. Collins and Mr. Darcy was boring. Then Elizabeth was talking about things I don't even remember them mentioning previously in the story. Granted I spaced out a bit but not that much to miss such important scenes.I honestly felt no chemistry for the two main characters. If anyone was indifferent, it wasn't Jane, it was Elizabeth. Throughout the entire series she showed hardly any emotion even after her sister, Lydia, ran off with Wickham and nearly ruined her entire family, she just smiled and ignored it.The story was completely boring, too long (especially for one sitting) and unbelievable in many ways. I don't know if Elizabeth and Mr. Darcy were so indifferent towards each other, but watching them act indifferent and then decide they love each other just seemed cheesy and completely ridiculous.


                
