I once read a quote from a Jane Austen devotee who was talking about making movies of Austen's novels; she said, "Don't." For the most part, I must agree - Emma Thompson's S&S (excellent) and Persuasion (decent) are the only exceptions. This miniseries only supports the devotee's statement. While I did somewhat like Colin Firth in this role (at least I could see SOME reason for attraction), I could not BEAR the woman who played Elizabeth. Elizabeth is one of the most charming women in literature; she is playful, high-spirited, and hilarious. The woman who played her in this miniseries (I don't even care to look up her name) was completely flat. I don't think I saw a single emotion out of her. Who in the world could possibly have chosen her for this part? Did the person even read the book? If you can't get the right Elizabeth, please please PLEASE, just stop there! Don't make the movie! The only thing worth mentioning is that the beautiful Jane, as usual, was unattractive, and the mother - good lord! she is difficult to take in the book, but in the movie she is intolerable, and dominates every scene she is in in the worst possible way. All in all, another enormous disappointment. I only gave it two stars because it was slightly better than the more recent abomination with Keira Knightley and her jutting chin.


                
Although this version gets great reviews I found it seriously lacking in its faithfulness to the original Jane Austen novel. I didn't like it. There are far too many 'innovations' most especially the scenes of Darcy in his bath and worse Darcy diving into the lake and meeting Elizabeth half dressed and soaking (!). Ridiculous - and not in the original novel. In the novel Darcy and Elizabeth meet at Pemberley and the shock to both is real, but they are both fully clothed. The action is in their mutual surprise/embarrassment at meeting. Obviously the producers did not, for some reason, like the original Austen scene and thus this ludicrous innovation. Mrs Bennett is way overacted - her voice is loud and harsh and grates for most of the movie. Her frantic and real concern over her daughters' plight should their father die first is completely lost in this bizarre over the top acting. The younger Miss Bennetts are also overdone. In the novel they are silly, mindless girls but in this movie they are wildly dashing about the place in a loud, boisterous manner. Mr Collins in the novel is a quasi-comic character but here he is depicted as a predatory, creepy character. I found his scenes to be particularity disturbing rather than comic. Maybe the object of this production was to make Pride and Prejudice accessible to a wide audience and it seems to have succeeded in doing this.but it sadly left Jane Austen back at the starting gate. I recommend reading the novel for a fascinating look at the Regency Period and the manners and norms of that day. Sadly, this version will not do that.
