*Note: I have not read the book* This adaptation quite surprised me. I have come to expect very little from TV movies, so just about everything about this one was surprising. The acting was quite impressive. Everyone gave very convincing and entertaining performances. The production and costumes were of very, very nice quality, especially for a TV movie, and it pleased me to see that A&E put a lot of effort into it. Elizabeth Bennet is the highlight of this film. Her character was strong, intelligent, interesting, and was what kept me watching throughout all 5 hours. I didn't have any problems with this film, except one. That being the length. It is simply too long. Jane Austen diehards might disagree with me, but I believe it was too long. Other than that fantastic film. It's just as good as Ang Lee's Sense and Sensibility.


                
I seem to be in the minority that prefers the 2005 version after all. It's one of my favorite movies ever (I watched it before I even read the book) but I decided to watch this one because it's generally everyone's favorite. Well, the costumes and settings are beautiful, and I liked that this version omitted practically nothing from the novel. As for the acting, I especially liked the Gardiners, Georgiana (my favorite Emilia Fox didn't disappoint) and, more or less, Mr. Bennet. The rest of the actors was good enough, but the characters...First, some other reviewers have already mentioned that the unlikable characters are made into caricatures. I felt it too. Lady Catherine looks and behaves like a more richly-dressed version of Mrs. Bennet - after watching the amazing performance of Judi Dench that can give you the shivers this one is rather bleak. Every fault of Mr. Collins and Mary is taken to such extremes that they couldn't even be annoying, they just felt wrong. Mr. Bingley and Jane were all right, but they were hardly given any interaction beyond dancing. Caroline was nicely cast, but I think sometimes her characters was too loud and rude in public - it would have been unthinkable for the oh so proper Miss Bingley who was poisonous but always kept her cool. Second, about the leads. I like Colin Firth - he was wonderful in "The King's Speech" - but he looks way too nice for Mr. Darcy in the first half of the story. His expression just says "poor; misunderstood, in love with Elizabeth from almost the beginning". Jennifer Ehle does capture Elizabeth's liveliness and wit... but here's the main problem. For me, the chemistry between the characters seemed far too weak. Their banter at Netherfield was excellent, but afterwards... let's just say that I was bored during the first proposal scene (one of the most electric and passionate ones in the 2005 movie). Even Mr. Collins sounded more emotional with his offer! Elizabeth didn't help matters either. She talked in the same cheerfully ironic manner to Mr. Darcy, Mr. Bingley, her relations or anyone else - there was very little to signify "her feelings are quite the opposite". I could understand that Mr. Bingley and Jane were left in the background (well, they are exactly there in the novel), but I would have liked better development for the main couple. It seems lots of people disagree, but there it is. It was a nice series to watch once, but the 2005 adaptation still remains the best for me.I p
This was the first adaptation I saw (almost) in full. I missed some of the first episode. I can't remember exactly what point it was when I first turned it on, but I believe it was the Meryton Assembly. I was so excited to see it because I read the book for the first time shortly before this and only saw the "WTF" ending of the 1940 version. I remember seeing a gorgeous brunette and a not so pretty blonde and thought immediately that the former must be Jane, because of her beauty. I wondered if the blonde was Elizabeth or if she was someone else. Then I heard them talking and realized that the beauty was Elizabeth and the "ugly" one was Jane! It took a while to get over that initial shock but I managed to enjoy the series all the same. There were (and still are) some parts that still irk me but there's nothing I can do about it, really. I've seen the series quite a few times since I purchased the DVD box set 4 years ago. That box set was horrible, by the way. I recently got the new remastered version and it is much better. The colors are so vivid and I can finally see all the beauty of the costumes and the scenery that I didn't before due to the grayed, washed out older DVDs.This is probably one of the, if not THE most famous and popular Jane Austen adaptation ever. Many fans call it definitive. I shudder at any adaptation ever being called definitive, but even if I didn't I would not think this one was! I do appreciate its length and being able to see more of the story than in any of the others (it is longer than the 1980 version as well). It includes more characters and scenes. It is beautiful to look at (as long as you don't have the bad DVD set!), being shot on film and with higher production values than older adaptations had. I like how it followed "show, don't tell" throughout even though the timing of some of those "showings" bothered me (I'll get into it). It was really funny. It had good acting by some of the cast. And Lizzy has some really beautiful gowns (not so some of the other women).But then there are things that I don't like about it so much. Some of the cast is too old. Many characters are exaggerated even more than in the book and are made into caricatures. For some of them I didn't mind (Mr. Hurst), for others I did mind a lot! (Mrs. Bennet) I also found Jennifer Ehle's Elizabeth to be too mature, matronly, and smug throughout the whole adaptation. She doesn't grow and change like the Elizabeth of the book. Andrew Davies, the screenwriter, included a lot of extra Darcy scenes that are not in the book. It was sexed up (mostly, but not only, Darcy), etc. And I don't like that Andrew Davies gives away the book's surprises before the characters learn of them! We hear Darcy narrating his letter to Elizabeth and see flashbacks of its contents before she reads the letter. We see Darcy at Pemberley before Elizabeth does (in the infamous pond scene). And we see him looking for Wickham and Lydia in London and then present at their wedding, before Elizabeth learns of it! Maybe they thought it wasn't important since they figured viewers had already read the book? Most people likely had not (and still haven't) so it irritates me. Could they not have showed those scenes after the fact, as flashbacks? That would have made more sense to me. Does this mean I hate the adaptation? NO! I really don't. I do not mean to bash it and I hope it doesn't sound that way. On my latest viewing, I actually found more to like about it than I did before!
Pride and Prejudice is such a wonderful story that making a movie (or mini series) out of has to be a joy. This version however seems to miss on a good many points. The plot is followed almost exactly, very little is altered and even less is missing. However, most of the characters don't capture the feeling and personality given them in the book. None is poorly done, but most miss the mark to a fair degree. Jennifer Ehle does a very good job playing Elizabeth and the series is worth seeing just for her performance. Colin Firth however plays Darcy in a far too distant and disconnected way. Darcy is supposed to be proud, but he is not blind in the way Firth plays him. For serious fans of the story this version should be pleasing, but I don't think it does the characters justice.


                
Never having read Austen before, I completely fell in love with this A&E mini series and, although I am a senior citizen, with Colin Firth who is wonderful as the Prideful Mr. Darcy. Jennifer Ehle is equally good as the charming but prejudiced Lizzy. I also enjoyed Benjamin Whitrow as the father of "the five silliest girls in England" and Alison Steadman's hilarious rendition of Mrs. Bennett. I immediately bought the tapes and have watched them over and over.I recommend this mini series to everyone. It far exceeds the films made of Austen's works. Emma (and Gywnneth Paltrow) pales in comparison with this A&E mini series.I, too, enjoyed Bridget Jones Diary all the more because of Colin Firth's Mark DARCY.


                
I know people are going to slam me for this, but I don't like Jennifer Ehle in this adaptation. The first version I'd ever seen was with Kiera Knightly and while I truly enjoy that this is truer to the book and tells so much more of the story, I prefer some actors from the Kiera version.When I see Barbara Leigh-Hunt as Lady Catherine, I keep waiting for her to go off her rocker. Judi Dench on the other hand was incredibly formidable, as the character is reported to be by Mr. Collins. I saw nothing formidable in Ms. Leigh-Hunt's portrayal.Jennifer Ehle is just too .... prissy when compared to Kiera Knightly's portrayal. I can't believe that there was so little emotion back then. Take the scene at the end when Elizabeth is telling her father that she loves Mr. Darcy. Jennifer shows all the emotion of reading a recipe card; how am I supposed to believe her words? But in the same scene with Kiera you very easily get caught up in what her Elizabeth feels: When you're overwhelmed by feelings, you show it physically as Kiera did. And Donald Sutherland is much more believable as a loving father than the stiff Benjamin Whitrow.Kiera also actually portrays the anger with Mr. Darcy with actual anger. Jennifer seems to only show laughing or nothing. In the scene where Elizabeth is confronting Darcy about keeping Jane and Bingley apart, where is Jennifer's anger? Kiera looked like she would tear Darcy's heart out at the action against "a much beloved sister", Jennifer showed nothing.I do prefer Adrian Lukis as Wickham over Rupert Friend, but that's mostly casting. Darcy and Wickham are supposed to be contemporaries but in the Kiera Knightly version Wickham seemed too young.


                
There were a lot of things to like about this mini-series.  Colin Firth, Jane Austen's story, Colin Firth, the good production values, Colin Firth, Jennifer Ehle, Colin <U+0096> well, you obviously get the hint.  However, for everything this film had, I couldn't help think of how great the original Pride and Prejudice (1940) was, and how wonderful Greer Garson and Laurence Olivier were in it. 	 Having said that, Pride and Prejudice, a love story that takes place in the 19th century and focuses on class and snobbery is a timeless one, and is very well represented in this adaptation brought to us by the good folks at A&E.  I can't help but compare the two main actors in this version with the original in that, well, there really is no comparison, but Colin Firth does a fine job as Darcy and Jennifer Ehle is very good as Elizabeth.  (And eerily resembles Greer Garson)  Overall the production was very good and I enjoyed the costumes and lush set, but I was left a little flat.  This isn't to say it wasn't enjoyable, but perhaps it was a story better told in less than two hours than a five hour mini-series because it did seem to drag in places.  My biggest complaint however is the character of Mrs. Bennett:  I realize that she is supposed to be irritating, but her portrayal in this film was so over the top and screechingly annoying that every time she was carrying on (95% of her screen time) I wanted to (and I borrow this phrase from a friend) slam my head against the wall at 75 miles per hour.  I was almost embarrassed for the other actors featured in these scenes.If you have seen this film, I recommend you rent the 1940 version to compare.  If you haven't seen this film, I would still watch it, but make time for the original as well.  It shouldn't be missed.--Shelly


                
