This show is suppose to be cool, clever tale about young, handsome, clever and talented urchins, who enjoy their high style life in Hollywood.And it's not surprise that show is conceived by one such street kid from Boston, whom I always appreciated as a good actor, but who now suddenly trying to pretend to be artistic genius and intellectual author and able to produce TV homage to Hollywood style street scamp wisdom.That's suppose to be funny and entertaining, intelligent and cool !? When you append constant sex, which has sense and substance as any cheesy soft-porn, in which women are present only as object and with sole purpose to serve and please our boys, and to some extent to trill our fellow viewer imagination. In these long eight years we have been subjected to episode after episode of one and the same plot, flavored with stupid, immature jokes and criminally stupid and immature dialogs, lots of Ferrari, Porsche, and other flashy sports cars, and women portrayed as brainless sex-toys, Hollywood assistants and secretaries as slaves, managers and bosses as dealer/mongers at some early 1990's East-Europena provincial street vegetable open market or rather as cavemen whose only way of communicating is humiliation, swearing, bulling, abusing sexually or otherwise, laying, and appreciation of as vulgar as possible obsequiousness above all. While I accept that Hollywood is exactly like show portrays and certainly much worst, full of beautiful young talents with their IQ smaller then their shoe size, I am still nowhere near the state of mind which craves for this kind of masochism. But you can always find some great inside look films, for instance about low-level Hollywood in "Mistress", my favorite.


                
As many people have said before, the only aspect of "Entourage" worth seeing is Jeremy Piven, who has never failed to disappoint.There's nothing even remotely redeeming about any of the shallow characters, making it impossible to care. "Entourage" prides itself on it's shallowness, and perhaps that's the point. But it's hard to appreciate any episode unless you're equally shallow. Otherwise, you'll just be repelled.The performances, apart from Piven, are lackluster. The cardboard Adrian Grenier simply isn't convincing as a big star (coincidentally, that's why he never was one to being with, and hasn't gone beyond being listed as "the next John Travolta"). Kevin Dillon is...well, Kevin Dillon. It only goes further downhill from there.


                
After hearing some good things about this show and seeing its rating on IMDb, I decided to check it out. After watching Season 1, I have concluded that this is a bad program. It's boring, the characters are unlikeable, and it portrays women in a way that makes me genuinely sad.The humor is dirty, and relies on being mean and making fun of people. Did I mention that all of the main characters are scumbags? I really find no entertainment in watching these idiots party and try to get laid.This is a mean-spirited show, and is probably influencing the young and stupid viewers in a negative way. It makes me sad for humanity. :(


                
after reading a lot of "Hilarious!" about this show around the net, and how Piven is a comedic turbine here I decided to give Entourage a go. Well that will teach me how not to trust internet people. I've watched the first two seasons and I don't think I've ever seen another successful show in which every single character is an unsympathetic moron, jokes are high school level and unfunny to the maximum, plots are incredibly repetitive and actors are really, really, REALLY bad. This show gets 9.2 here in IMDb, and it makes me wonder about the average IQ present in this site. Every single show starts off one of two ways; there are very few exceptions: either "E" gets a wake-up telephone call from Ari Gold, who's douching it up on a golf course or something, or the four guys (E, Vince, Drama, and Turtle) hang out in the kitchen, engaging in witless, poorly-written banter while Drama cooks breakfast. Vince will be confused about something, Turtle will make a remark about banging some hoes, and Drama will get defensive about something and reference an old acting gig. Keep in mind that this last for about two or three minutes, which amounts to roughly 1/10th of the show. And people like this? And finally, there's Ari Gold, the boastful, obnoxious agent who treats everyone around him like crap. Like Drama, it's the same thing with Ari every episode: he kissed Vince's ass, makes some dumb jokes about Lloyd's knees being dirty, delivers half of his lines with the palms of his hands together and placed under his bottom lip, and delivers the other half with his arms spread and a big, stupid grin on his arrogant face. And for all this the guy won an Emmy? Whatever. If you do enjoy Entourage, that's just fine and dandy. I hope you enjoy the upcoming season. For me, though, it's redundant, amateur crap


                
I understood that TV shows on IMDb get better notes than movies, but Entourage is way out of line. Based on Mark Wahlberg's rise to fame in Hollywood and recommended to me by several people, it didn't offer one interesting bit after browsing through a couple of seasons.After some pondering i presume that the appeal of Entourage might be that a bunch of guys hang out together while one of them makes money for them all. Also, they smoke weed regularly, which i haven't. It might have helped while watching them doing nothing in Hollywood, yet somehow managing to enjoy a lavish lifestyle. The only thing making the show almost bearable is the short length of the episodes.In the end Entourage scared me a little, because it is based on true people and events. If this is really what goes on in Hollywood, then no wonder they produce mindless block-busters.


                
I'm usually very open minded about t.v show . But my reaction after watching 3 episodes of the first season was : What kind of boring badly stereotype written show is that . I read the review and the rating .. 8.5 out of 10 and people say these are charismatic characters we can relate to . Well my first reaction was very similar to when i watch the first few episodes of Gossip Girl : Who cares about the upper Manhanttan elite douchesses and their GOssip . Well Entourage had my thinking : Who cares about the so call Elite of L.A and their glamarous lifestyle . All they seem to think is the next girls their gonna F*** and their life seeem to be all about that . The character are not even charismatics and simply a bunch of douche . Maybe because it was release in 2004 and didn't aged well ... but god its boring and mindless. Jeremy Piven ( serendipity etc.. ) is good ( as always ) , i really like him . BUt unfortunately the 4 main characters have absolutely nothing so Piven wont save the show . I wish i could enjoy and i rarely write bad review .. but this show insult my mind . I usually follow IMDb rating and found it 99 % of the time accurate ... but this time its off . 8.5 for this . never . Im not from L.A but if this show portrait a reality of the L.A life and ... thank god i wasn't born there .So personal advice ... skip that show and basically everything would be better .. even reruns of ALF ( the alien ) ;). i really hope youngsters don't watch this show and relate to the main characters cause their life gonna be very pathetic .I usually give a show 1-2 seasons but after 3 episodes i couldn't stand it anymore .all major t.v shows rated 8.5 and higher on IMDb were awesome . 24, lost , breaking bad , friends , how i met your mother , prison break , big bang , modern family etc.. etc.. There's so many good shows on t.v , skip that one .


                
Entourage has been in need for some changes for a few years now. For starters, Turtle is worthless, and provides nothing to the show. He has no ambition or motivation. It is impossible to believe the Jamie Sigler hookup from last year. His character ought to just turn into a total stoner/weed dealer, and that role could lead to a lot of funny complications/situations.Worse is Eric, who, too, is nothing. Skill-less and talent-less, could you imagine him being an agent/manager? Compare him to the chic Lissie who just walked out on Ari. It is also impossible to believe that the daughter of a Hollywood bigwig, Sloan, would fall for him. And that girl is no actress. I turn the channel during scenes with Eric and Sloan. Predictable and awful to watch.Vince is status quo, Ari is awesome, and it's good to see Drama getting a bigger piece of the pie. At least he has some personality.Always fun to watch, and the camp of famous guest-stars adds to each episode. But it is totally sickening trying to believe Eric or Turtle belong there. Time to cut the dead weight.PS - more of Ari vs. Babs would be good.


                
I agree with everyone, by saying this is the best show to come around in a while. I mean I watch one episode from season 3 , and i was hooked. Shoot I was so hook, I went back and watch every episode from season one to now. This is THE SHOW. MUST WATCH. YOU'll LOVE IT. If you watch it, I swear you can relate to it one way or another. Ari is the funniest with his the quotes, E is the man, Drama, is the one you just gotta watch him, Turtle is who everyone can really relate to, and of course Vince all around mister nice guy. But also there's Lloyd who has his moments. Just check it out and you be hook. For sure. Its not like your regular TV shows series you, HBO really has a hit on there hand.
Sell your soul and let all the deadly sins invite you to a part of "sex and the city", for male douchebags. In this nauseating show, you can watch how guys live with each other for the sole purpose of making their egos and wallets inflate. The issues they "deal" with are rich, entitled, bs. There is no concept of real working people or integrity. My acquaintances watched this brain killing show. I never could get into it, due to its lack of reality and fake undertone. If people honestly live this way, I want no part in Hollywood's "jersey Shore". Also, the majority of NJ's beaches are great family towns, and are completely different than the one depicted by NY trash. Hopefully, Hollywood isn't as vain as "Entourage", but that's probably only wishful thinking.


                
Does any movie or TV Series EVER get any worse than THIS?! No story - No plot (WHATSOEVER) - No screenplay - Direction is like... a 6-years old ... THING. I'm not sure if this is something that people should really be watching at home, or in a mental institution. It's all about presenting how people make a lot of money, live happily ever after, ONLY, the live like that RIGHT NOW, not AFTER. There is NO PLOT, NO story, NOTHING. This is for the brain-dead and I'm ashamed to live in a world that rates THIS piece of ***p, 8.6. I WILL most likely KILL myself, for knowing that. Good luck to the rest of the world (if stupidity won't kill them all first), in watching this AMAZING, HUGE, piece of ***t. Thank you!


                
Aimed at teenagers and frat boys. Lots of flashing images and sounds. That's what you see in most movies today, although this lacks the car chases and explosions that maintain interest in today's short-memory audiences. The sound is so bad on DVD I had to turn on subtitles. Watch it if you like boring activity by Hollywood doper a-holes. When it comes to sex: lots of talk, little action. They, and the show, are extremely irritating obnoxious bigmouth lowlifes. They are ignorant and total game-playing fakes. I love "Californication" and I hate "Entourage". The 4 episodes on the first disk are enough to convince me: it's garbage.


                
Starting seeing this show for the high score here in IMDB and stopped at episode 3. How can this be so highly rated? Absolutely annoying and repetitive teenager, shallow show. It´s all about girls, dates, parties, materialistic life, repeated episode after episode. Very poor actors, exception being made for the agent Ari which clearly is light years above everybody else. The 4 main characters are plain annoying and have got no appeal whatsoever, particularly Turtle and Drama which bring ZERO to the show. But I guess you will like it if you are under 16 and still have the naive idea that everybody can be a star and life will be about partying and no hard work.
A show, true-to-life, about a bunch of tag alongs, who rather make money off of their friend, instead of getting a real job. I knew plenty of people like that, who had nothing going on with their lives and wanted to ride off of the coattails of others. That's all this show is about.
Just no. How do people take these Douche bags seriously?


                
