Entourage is about up-and-coming actor Vince Chase (Adrian Grenier) and the people he pays to follow him around the dirty business world of Hollywood (Eric, his best friend/ manager; Ari, his hot-tempered agent; Jonny Drama, his brother, and for some reason also a hanger-on; and Turtle, whose main role seems to be making remarks that would get you kicked out of class in high school).Honestly, I don't understand the buzz going on with this show. It claims to take a realistic view of the Hollywood lifestyle, but the humor mainly centres around hot chicks, money, and how money can buy hot chicks. Yet this show challenges nothing about male sexuality (comparisons to Sex & the City are basically stupid). "Every woman has a price" seems to be the name of the game, and wow, is that ever flattering for female viewers. Men may as well just watch porn, because anyone who's looking for that kind of entertainment probably isn't in it for the two exceptions that make this show worth pausing for - Ari, Vince's agent, and Eric, his manager, both of whom are played intelligently.Make no mistake. That means that this show would be good if stripped of all other elements: Adrian Grenier's lazy, unconvincing superstar in Vince is grating, Kevin Dillon plays himself as Jonny Drama (and it is sad, not funny, because he does so without recognizing it, for the most part), and perverts have been more successfully funny on teen dream show Veronica Mars than they are with Turtle, who makes me shudder every time he comes on screen.Let's put it this way: This show is how Marky Mark wishes his life in Hollywood was like. Does that sound like something worth wasting even half an hour on? Not so much.


                
The point of a comedy is to make people laugh, either by using jokes, humorous characters, or humorous situations, with any combination of the three. This show, Entourage, has none of those.Let's start with the jokes. There are none. Watching episodes I sit and wait for the humorous lines to come...and they don't. I think it's poorly written, not witty, and definitely not funny.Next are the humorous characters. Sure, maybe jokes aren't what this show is about, like King of the Hill, and its a more subtle program. Therefore, this show must have humorous characters that makes things funny. Wrong. All of the characters on this show are the same: Jerks. They're all jerks. There is nothing funny about them, unless you yourself are the world's biggest jerk and find being an absolute jerk the funniest thing in the world. I found not a single character on this show to be different, with the minor exception of the manager, who was still an absolute jerk.Well, no jokes, no funny characters, well maybe the situations on the show are funny, and you can laugh at the plight of the characters or muse at the funny things they get themselves into. Well, sorry to disappoint, but Entourage disappoints with this also. The situations are far from humorous. There is nothing clever, witty, or original about them really.I find this show to be awful, unfunny, but it would probably work as a dramatic show better. Just re-label it, no need to re-shoot, the originals aren't funny anyway.


                
I used to love this show. Unfortunately it is getting hard to even like it.The characters and actors all seem very cartoonish this season; like the laugh is a foregone conclusion and the actors are all in on a private joke. All the ego, money, and competition in their world would lead to some confrontation and ruffled feathers, not the continual love fest we have seen over the past few episodes.Please fix this show - threaten a few writers and actors if you need to and make them WORK for it.Turtle dating Jamie-Lynn Sigler?? C'mon, it's so poorly contrived and not very believable. The movie star gives the little chubby jobless kid a break even after he "kisses" and tells? It seems like pandering to the youngsters. Not every episode has to have an awesome happy ending for each character<U+0085> In truth Drama is a jerk, Eric is a cocky, self righteous, and under educated, and Turtle is an uneducated hanger-on<U+0085> They have Vince to protect them; outside of his protection the real world would chew them up, take the story a bit more in that direction.I would bet that the real friends of stars have some issues during their day<U+0085> I gave my three stars for Ari, who I think is written as a believable super agent (although now he is now somehow offended by married men trying to make it with younger girls, which is counter to the character they developed in the first few seasons, so it seems his character is being sanitized too). Another star for having attractive women and cool cars on the show, and the last for what it was and can still be if the producers find their guts again<U+0085>
