Man, I miss the days that these guys hit up Comicon, playboy mansion, Jessica Alba parties, Sundance, smoked weed with Val Kilmer as a funky hippie stoner, and took trips on helicopters.This show is getting too serious with itself. It's getting too sappy.Season 1 Vince was the MAN. He had a Tyler Durdan-like appeal because he had looks, style, swagger, marched to the beat of his own drum, and never allowed anyone to stress him. Every guy wanted to be him.Season 5 Vince is some chump that is down on his luck,subservient and basically on E's junk, and needs ppl to handle things for him bc he is a retard actor as opposed to a guy that would just rather not be bothered with all the drama.E takes himself way too seriously. Acts way too goody goody, never sits in the middle of the backseat with drama or turtle, acts like vince needs him more than he needs vince, is the leader? C'mon, Vince runs the show. (E: "I thought I was the one making the decisions for you. Vince: "Not ultimately".) Turtle is too rough on Drama and needs to be the shameless sidekick who is a proud hedonist.Drama is good just the way he is and so are Ari and Lloyd and Mrs. Ari. Ari's energy and clever insults (pepperoni U and what if I were to tell you I had a 22 inch cock, is that something you'd be interested in) are 50 percent of what makes the show great.I speak for my buddies and I when I say this. Make this a guy's guy show again. Lose the drama and E's ego. Add more partying and adventure.


                
Is it just me, or do the actors portraying the entourage better actors than the actor that is portraying the actor? And if that made sense, you'll love Entourage. Although it is deep down a sad state of affairs of a group of friends who are living their lives to keep their popular Hollywood actor friend happy. Although they hold some responsibility in his career, deep down they are kissing the feet of their so called "friend" in order to get the scraps from his meals. For the HBO audience, this may have a long air time. If the series keeps throwing images of nudity and easy going teenage girls that will have sex with somebody if they know somebody famous, this show will find its audience. Still, for the LA audience, this show is too true to find anyway funny. For the rest of the American audience, its a fun ride that may go into season three. Overall, its a a different theme, even for HBO.


                
