This movie is a complete and shameless rip off with no credit given of the original Kimba the white lion made in Japan in the 50's or 60's that I remember seeing as a kid. While the animation is bright and the voice acting is bearable I cannot bear to see Disney continue to take credit for another's work


                
I will admit whether they are original cartoons or CGI, Disney's G-Rated are typically nothing but lame "sweet" crap. The story was lame, and (even worse) the movie had terrible music through all of it. The Lion King is one Disney movie that I saw when it first came out, and it proved this very well in 1994. The whole movie is simply telling kids to be brave and do what you're told.The memories of having to watch this movie will simply give you nightmares. Just watch something like the original 60's "Flintstones" cartoons instead, they were much more entertaining than "The Lion King".


                
This is another unoriginal story and cartoon by Disney. It totally rips off Kimba the White Lion yet, Disney claims never to have heard of Kimba the White Lion. That really bugs me because it just shows how little integrity Disney really has. So honestly this is in a long line of another cartoon by Disney that has an unoriginal story. Not very surprising. But despite that, it is considered one of the best movies ever made. Which I must disagree with and say it is one of the most awful movies ever made. Firstly the unoriginal story and plot. Secondly the unoriginal characters. Thirdly the silly and obnoxious songs that give me goosebumps because they are so bad. Fourth the extremely similar drawings and animations of The Lion King to Kimba the White Lion. And lastly the extremely shallow sentimentalist atmosphere of everything is feel good with the good guys and everything is bad with the bad guys. Sure, it is a fairy tale but at least try to make things a little more nuanced instead of just ripping off Kimba the White Lion and make everything so embarrassingly black and white.Don't get me wrong. I used to love it as a kid. But as time went on I couldn't help but notice Disney has no creativity at all and that The Lion King is an overblown copy of an anime. If not for Grimm's fairy tales, H.C. Andersen's fairy tales and various other stories Disney get its "inspiration" from, then Disney would be nothing. Not only that, Disney has also ruined many of the original stories and morals to push forward their shallow and sentimental entertainment. The Little Mermaid for example had Ariel die in the end in the original story, but Disney ruined that and turned Ariel into a human. Completely ruining the point and moral that H.C. Andersen was trying to get across. Enough criticism about Disney, back to the point: The Lion King is an awful, tasteless cartoon with no creativity and originality. Not to mention it barely has any substance. Which is why it is probably so popular and overrated. Most people like shallow stuff after all. I wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone. At all. Or make my future kids watch it, since Disney has also used child labor. Which is utterly disgusting like this "masterpiece" is.Verdict: 1/10


                
The Lion King is easily one of the most popular Disney movies out there and perhaps that's because it was very popular with kids at the time and those kids who have grown up now still consider it Disney's best. It is a visual treat which underlines themes of love and loss. But people call this the "adult" story of Disney and honestly, I find it to be one of the more childish entries in the Canon. Yes, Mufasa's death is pretty hard for a kids film but after that, the movie just continues with a very childish tone. Take Timon and Puumba, for example, who are thrown into the plot to remedy the movie from being too heavy-handed.The scene where they're looking up at the stars and make fun of Simba is rather disconcerting - they literally just laughed at him for speaking of his late father's wisdom. Really? In general, the story is weak and really loses itself after Mufasa's death. The characters also weren't as good as everyone says. Everyone claims Scar is the best Disney villain....but all he really did was kill his own brother, that's literally it. Why would he send his minions to kill Simba when he's knows how unreliable they are? And when he is in power, he's just lazy. How did Scar gain the title of best Disney villain? Timon and Puumba are also extraneous to the plot just to keep the kids demographic interested. But the worst is Simba and Nala. Not only are they both bland and boring but the romance between them is rather questionable considering they could be brother and sister (or at least cousins). The music is fine but it doesn't quite live up to the works of Alan Menken and Howard Ashmen in previous Disney movies. The only two songs I loved were The Circle of Life and Be Prepared. Other than that, the soundtrack is somewhat weak. I just can't wait to be King is frivolous and random to the plot, Hakuna Matata has some very stupid lyrics and a whole verse dedicated to a warthog's flatulence, Can You feel the love tonight is a very syrupy song which just doesn't work with its very weak lyrics - "Why won't he be the king I know he is. The king I see inside". The Lion King can't seem to keep up with its own maturity. The fart jokes, the bi-polar tone of being serious and silly, the questionable incest within the romance....it all just doesn't work for me. A highly overrated movie.
It sucks!!! it seriously does...ive seen crap that was better then that movie.. and its the highest grossing animated movie of all time?!?!? what on earth were people thinking when they went to see that...it was just terrible..a waste of money and time on disney's part.


                
The Lion King is one of the worst movies ever made. This movie uses slapstick and other juvenille tricks for the humor. This movie is aimed at little kids. I hate this movie and I always will. Damn the lion king ! Damn it to hell!


                
This is one of the worst movies I have ever seen.I will give you a few reasons because of that.One is it's too mushy,most Disney Movies are much better than this.Second this is a very violent movie, seriously I mean with all that killing and stuff.Another is the animals have vial table manners. They just gulp down food like the big bad wolf.Also the jungles don't look colorful enough.There should be more deatails.5th there are not cool animals like market young children won't understand that.I myself was saying boo in the theater.I can't believe we got the the DVD.If you like films about the wild I suggest Dreamwork's Madagascar.Letter Grade:F Number Grade 1/10
This movie is way too overrated to be in the top 1000 of any lists. Why? This movie's plot is way too generic. A lot of movies that were made before this had the same plot of someone trying to impress the people around him and becoming the hero while a villain tries to stop them. Movies like avatar are WAY underrated for their fantastic storyline and effects. Be sure to like this review, so people can get their ratings right to today's times, and not let NOSTALGIA get in the way of honest ratings. If you haven't watched this movie as a child, you definitely won't enjoy it watching it now. This is not the only one, as series like avatar: the last airbender also confuse people into thinking that the movie Avatar is in any way linked to that series, which is not true at all. It's all nostalgia feelings and will pass when the next generation of people who haven't watched this empty movie will start writing reviews.
The top 250 films of all time this apparently is? Well obviously a bunch of chimpanzee's must be deciding what films are featured on this list. The Lion King is a terrible film that is massively overrated. After watching it I felt I had seen the film before. The ideas were stolen from the films Tarzan and Ice Age! I couldn't believe the people who made this film had ripped off two other films and got away with it, an absolute disgrace!There are some poor elements of the film: 1. Hyenas. Hyenas got a lot of bad press because of this film, thousands must have died since it's release. Anyone involved or who even bought or watched this film has the blood of innocent hyenas on their hands. 2. Animation. Very poor quality. We live in 2016, can we not get better technology now to produce better animations? 3. Jeremy Irons. Whilst not a bad actor, he is a complete hypocrite. There is a video where he actively speaks out against the death penalty. That's pretty funny Irons considering you acted the role of Scar and had no problem killing off your own brother Mufasa. Hypocrite much?Poor film that is not worth viewing. Don't waste your time.
Hyenas are now hated for this stupid movie. And lions are not the kings of the beasts. It just sucks! It is my least favorite movie of all time. If I was to chose between watching the lion king and Attack of the Killer Tomatoes, I would chose Attack of the Killer Tomatoes. I have no idea what people see in this movie. I would give it a negative number if I could. HYENAS KILL LIONS! I just hate it. TIGERS ARE THE KINGS OF THE BEASTS! NOT LIONS! I have to say, I was very disappointed, the only good thing was the music. Honestly, I wish those lions starved to death and I am glad that simbas father died. I hate Disney for making people hate hyenas. I LOVE THOSE GUYS! They are AMAZING! In fact, I like them better than humans! I just can't wait to be king. To bad you will have to wait forever. By the way, wildebeest can not trample and ADULT MALE LION! Way to go on the details there. Disney has to make a movie about hyenas being good because honestly, hyenas are not more evil than humans. AND THAT IS A FACT!


                
