Any show which brasses off the editor of 'The News Of The World' is OK by me. The furore that surrounded the notorious 'paedophilia' special has ensured that 'Brass Eye' will not easily be forgotten. What was amusing was the way Rebekah Wade missed the point; it was not 'sending up' paedophilia', you can't do that, but rather the lynch-mob mentality of publicity-seeking tabloid rags. The rest of 'Brass Eye' was great too; particularly 'Drugs'. When Noel Edmonds uttered the phrase 'Shatner's Bassoom', I nearly died laughing. Top marks to Chris Morris for managing to trap so many D-list celebrities and charlatan politicians into making utter fools of themselves. As with 'The Day Today', the use of graphics and music is both clever and imaginative; an image of Peter Stringfellow was mocked in the 'Sex' episode. If 'Brass Eye' still shocks nearly a decade later, it is a testament to the genius of its creator. And it proved that the success of 'The Day Today' was not all down to Steve Coogan.


                
Quick review.All episodes are brilliant.The best one isn't the over-hyped paedophilia one. Nor is it the excellent one one drugs. The brilliant animals episode comes close.The one that made me almost wet myself was the one on science. The level of stupidity shown by 'celebs' on this one breaks new ground. There is a line regarding strong winds that reduced me to tears. You couldn't get way with this show anymore. A real shame.More convincing than Paxman. More ruthless than Sasha Baron Cohen. More intelligent than Stephen Hawkins.Absolute genius. Thank you Mr Morris!


                
More Jokes, One Liners, Insanity, Nonsense, Scathing Insight, Mockery, Satire, Offence, and Total Wrongness wrapped up in a Bitesize of 30 minutes than anything that has ever been previously created in the history of time and space.Pushing the boundaries of Televisual Entertainment above and Beyond anything anyone would ever have expected. They actually had a question raised in Parliament about "Cake"! The endless stream of "Celebs" quoting ridiculous statements about the abuse of "Cake".Probably my favourite part of this show is the visual graphic and statistics they employ. Wonderful!


                
Sharp, searing, witty, vile, nasty, satirical, idiotic, thought-provoking, juvenile, sublime, absurd. Any and all of these labels can be applied to the genius that is Brasseye. Chris Morris co-scripts and presents a viciously satirical attack on the media in the modern world, tackling various subjects - all controversial, but to varying degrees - to get his point across.Several moments have entered the annals of TV folklore, including the infamous 'Cake' sequence (the 'made up' drug from Czechoslovakia), the masturbating Senator, and the Paedogeddon special, a Daily Mail baiting episode which caused a flurry of controversy when first aired, including calls for Channel 4 to be prosecuted for promoting the idea of paedophilia. Talk about people missing the point!Love it or hate it, Brasseye took us to places no other TV show had dared before, luring unsuspecting celebrities to whore themselves with mindless scripts, or to fake support for a charity organisation, just to show how much they 'care'. The finest example of this is the Capitol Radio DJ who describes a charity as "A fabulous organisation", little realising that it doesn't even exist!Never dull, always provocative, a must see for anyone with a mind.
1. Humour. 2. Truth about how the media react. 3. Chris Morris. Since Morris's somewhat self afflicted decline into a downplay state of commonplace the likes of 'Brass Eye' and 'The Day Today' are fond memories, immortalised though thankfully by DVD release. Rumours of his soon to be made one off special on terrorism is gleefully looked forward to. If you like surrealism and the edge of 'Wow, did he really just do/say that' then this is a series for you. Further viewing for dadaism comedy I suggest 'Jam'. And to go really into the mind set of C.M. then 'Blue Jam' which you have to bear through the uncomfortable moments to reap the rewards.10/10


                
Brass Eye is the last word in media satire. There certainly hasn't been anything to even touch on its level of inspired, demented genius since it went out, and watching it today this nearly 18 year old program makes everything on TV now look hackneyed and dated. The attention to detail in all the sketches is mindblowing. The celeb duping is utterly ridiculous, how any of them worked again is a mystery (I kind of wish he hadn't gone for 2 of my all time heroes Gary Lineker and Tommy Vance, but even their sections are insanely funny, in particular Vance's guide to 'Prison Slang'). Believe the hype: Seven glorious episodes of head-mashing hilarity that ring as true today as they did back then. Essential.


                
Brass Eye is a TV show which spoofs newsmagazines, celebrity as reason for living, "big issues", left and right, up and down, and is outraged about outrage.  If you you cut this baby open, you find in the stomach every hand that fed it!  Definitely one of the Three Funniest Series ever to come from the UK (with Fawlty Towers and Father Ted).  Unfortunately, much would not translate across to North American audiences (Morris sets up Brit celebs with mock interviews which the unwitting participants thought authentic - hilariously deflated egos drape the studio walls) but the tone is always spot on.  Notorious and demonized in some corners here, its last episode contained a very rude insult to outgoing Channel 4 chief Michael Grade (who had censored a segment about a musical based on the Yorkshire Ripper) and probably will not be re-shown anywhere for a very long time.  Which would be a monstrous tragedy.


                
I love Chris Morris and all of the things he's written, acted in or had any input into, so I am slightly bias.However, as a review is pure opinion of one to inform another and as Morris is a genius, I feel the bias warrented.The attention to detail that he put into these mock reality sketches is only to be admired in the highest regard and the Packsmanesque presenter he plays throughout is brilliant.Just watch it already. <f0><U+009F><U+00A4><U+00A3>


                
