Only Fools & Horse****.WARNING: This is NOT typical British humour at all.There's the huge mystery of how the universe started ("Bing Bang" or the M Theory). There are many guesses regarding the identity of Jack the Ripper. We'll probably never know which Scottish prankster dumped a rubber dinosaur into Loch Ness. And certainly we might never find out where Hoffa was buried. But all of these unsolved cases pale in comparison to the vast, almost 100% popularity of this lame comedy series.When I say 100%, I actually mean 100%. I haven't yet met any fan of sitcoms who didn't like this unfunny baloney, so I'm quite alone in this. You might actually want to consider not continuing reading this "review" (well, more of a rant), but instead go check out the other comments on this site: that are all full of praise for this mediocre nonsense. Nevertheless, I will attempt here to solve this strange mystery.OFAH offers the kind of cheap humor that ANY moron can understand. It is the kind of lowest-common-denominator buffoonery that often guarantees success (see "Mr.Bean") simply because it is accessible to all demographic groups. Hence from the most primitive truck-driver to the rich yuppie with no sense of humor, potentially anyone can enjoy crap such as this. Could this be the key to this show's enormous success? (It was once voted most popular UK TV show ever.)The mostly awful gags can be divided into three basic categories: 1) Simplistic, obvious, cheesy wordplay that is almost embarrassing to hear. A sub-category would be Jason's idiotic utilization of wrong words. For example, in one instance Jason says "ambiguous" instead of "ambidextrous" - because, you see, he is an uneducated cocky cockney who is constantly trying to sound smarter than he is. This, of course, is simply hilarious. 2) The ever-present gag about the Trotters (ha-ha funny name, my belly just won't stop aching!) being criminal and constantly thinking up ways to get rich quickly. Most plots have to do with Jason selling stolen goods or trying to trick someone into buying crap. I have no idea whatsoever what is meant to be funny there. 3) Jason making fun of his younger brother, Lyndhurst. He does this in an almost childish way, hence it should be - logically - funny only to very young children and bird-brained adults.Nevermind the cockney accent that on its own is meant to elicit laughs-per-second.There are so many problems with OFAH. First of all, David Jason is not funny. That's problem number one. He has almost no charisma, and he overplays his character to the point of caricature which is an approach that rarely works; he tends to speak loudly as well, as if shouting were the hallmark of comedic genius. Lyndhurst is likable enough, but his depressingly gloomy face would be more convincing in a Mike Leigh drama than what is meant to be a light-hearted comedy show; some dead-pan comedians could pull this off, but Lyndhurst can't. The dialog is pretty bad: constant bickering between the brothers that usually ends in silly insults. You can just tell that the writers of the show leaned heavily on their hopes that the cockney accent and the brothers' ha-ha ineptness on their own should suffice, hence rarely put any serious effort into the scripts. And it does seem to work for some strange reason: the mostly uncockney British viewing public must find the dialect hilarious. No idea. If so, then why is OFAH so popular abroad as well? Beats me. I guess there must be something universally hysterical about two semi-dumb brothers who are involved in minor criminal activity. "Hey, they're criminals! Ha-ha-ha, that is soooooo funny!!!!" Klutzy hoodlums, the cliché breakfast of champions.Even worse than all this, OFAH even gets sentimental at times, much like "The Cosby Show", "Friends" and other atrocious sitcoms. Sentimentality and seriousness in a comedy series is nearly always a result of the writer's laziness, but also perhaps even conviction that people can't laugh for longer than 20 minutes hence need something "sad" to further stimulate them.OFAH is merely watchable, but if you expect more than a laugh (or a grin, more like) per episode, then seek out something better. On the other hand, I forgot: statistically you should love this show, because everyone else finds it so irresistible.And remember: when a small-time hood sells things for a profit, you are supposed to laugh because that's some truly side-splitting stuff...Lyndhurst's face: tee-hee-hee, so damn funny, hee-hee-hee-hee, I can't stop laughing! Someone stop me! A tall, geeky blond guy and his short dark-haired half-brother arguing about 10 quid: isn't this the pinnacle of comedy or what?


                
