Classic comedy is a term which is often overused but it fits Only Fools & Horses perfectly. In particular series 1-4 are absolutely brilliant. John Sullivan made you fall in love with the characters so that you could laugh and share in their experiences down through the years as if you actually knew them. The creation of Del Boy as a character was inspired and played faultlessly by David Jason. I felt the later episodes and specials were vastly inferior to the earlier ones but were still well worth a watch.My favourite programme ever ..............10/10


                
I was in London over the holidays and I finally got to see this show. At first, I was hesitant about it. I felt it was too dry but I learned to like the humor and relationship between Sir David Jason O.B.E. and Nicholas Lyndhurst as brothers. It was realistic and worth watching again. Buster Merryfield should not be forgotten as the third in this odd trio of characters trying to get ahead in life. I was kind of sad when they finally got there. It seemed that their life before money was far richer and more interesting than when they had little and was struggling like so many of us. You can see why David Jason was knighted and honored for his services to drama. He is a gifted comedian. His fellow cast members, Nicholas Lyndhurst and Buster Merryfield were also perfect to play his brother. I began to really like the show when the three men went away for a weekend and ended up in the worst hotel across the street. The writing is pretty dry so you have to develop a very good taste to watching this show. When there was nothing else on, Only Fools and Horses was worth watching for the laughter, memories, and great cast.


                
Sadly at Only Fools and Horses Appreciation Society we know that you will find a large number of edits and cuts from the great sitcomwould be a 10 if it wasn't for the cuts!As a fan of the show I'm sure you are pleased to hear about the new Rock and Chips episodes being filmed as we speakThey fill in a lot of background to the series, but we really long for the original version broadcaston our site, we take a look at all the full versions and analyse why each episode suffered cutsZane Clements - Web Manager Only Fools and Horses Convention www.ofah.net


                
Only Fools and Horses -I watched the original broadcasts of the series shown around 1989 and remember being helpless with laughter as a kid; especially at the one in which Rodney has to pretend to be fourteen and join "The Groovy Gang". Another episode had me on the brink of tears, when a Simply Red song's playing and Del Boy's the only person left in the room where Rodney's wedding reception's been held. Most people in Britain will recall these moments. They're repeated week-after-week on UKGold and yet never seem to wane.John Sullivan and an impeccable cast managed to deliver a sitcom to amuse all the family and still retain a bit of an edge. The very early episodes could be hit and miss, with David Jason and Nick Lyndhurst just about saving weak moments in a few scripts, but the writing got better....Much better, and between say 1987 and 1993 there were many classic episodes. Batman and Robin sketch aside, the last six episodes marked a bit of a decline. It took away some of the magic when the Trotters actually became millionaires and the show became perhaps too much a mainstream staple to maintain its edge, but it's still one of the great British sitcoms.


                
According to the BBC poll of 2004 "Only Fools and Horses" is nothing less than "Britain's Best Sitcom", and this despite pretty heavy competition in a country blessed with comedic innovation. People kept returning to the re-runs of the show, and so the series was continued, stayed on the air for 15 years, turning into a national institution. "Lovely jubbly!" Del Boy would say! The latter is played by David Jason, on his side is the younger brother Nicholas "Rodney" Lyndhurst, and they both represent the wheeling and dealing Trotters Independent Traders ("TIT", an acronym that's easy to remember). The actors grew with and into the series, and even the death of another main cast member couldn't hurt the birth of a true legendary sitcom. Quite to the contrary: tactfully made part of the series grandpa's sudden departure brought the remaining TV family on the screen and in front of it only closer together. Responsible for it all was a rather unlikely source - John Sullivan, the common man with a working-class background, who left school at 15, dabbled in various low-paid jobs before he became a writer of comedy. Packed with real-life experience, imagination and determination to prevail his scripts got better and better, but were regularly rejected by the BBC. But well, eventually in 1981 he came through to his audience - and next year he was a millionaire... Or something like that."Same time next year we'll be millionaires" is at any rate Del Boy's declared credo. He's a self-assured cockney market trader, never short on fresh ideas on how to make the quick buck. Against all odds he has sworn to take care of grandpa and his younger brother, "that plonker!" (translation: not as sharp), even though you should pardon Del's French, and you can take that literally. "Only Fools and Horses" however is more than funny situation comedy, it's also a strong drama, complete with character development and story arches, a continuing tale about family ties as becomes apparent throughout the run of the series when the humor sometimes takes the back seat. There's lots of hilarious stuff happening, but thoughtful moments are interspersed, and they add realism to the characters that never seems out of place. The secret according to (Sir) David "Del Boy" Jason himself: The characters are real people who just happen to be funny. Indeed. A show to relate to and laugh along with, created by someone who knew his people and wrote for them.


                
This series is the cream of the crop of British comedy with out a doubt! In many ways this program relates to how most of us lived in the late 70's and 80's and depicts the struggles and morals of the time with a twist of good old cockney humour! A timeless classic, one you can watch over and over and you still laugh out loud as if you are watching it for the first time! One of Sir David Jason's best performances! Although other classics include the notable Open All Hours as the character Granville. Nicholas Lyndhurst had his best moments on this show!Not farewell...just Bonjor.... You know it makes sense!


                
I remember watching about half of the first episode and absolutely hating it. I cannot remember how I got into it later but thank goodness I did. John Sullivan who conceived and wrote this, is nothing less than a genius sitcom writer. The characters are real, fully formed entities whom we care for and feel we know deeply. The sign of great writing is to be able to laugh and cry with and for them and there are lots of occasions when we do both. The episode including Rodney's wedding is a terrific example of this dual ability. David Jason had trundled along making a name for himself in British TV - never a star until he did OFAH and found his Delboy character. Likewise Nicholas Lyndhurst whose Rodney is a marvellous invention. They compliment each other perfectly. All the subsidiary characters add to the comedy and fit the situation beautifully. No-one is wasted and they all make the most of their characters. It bears repeated viewings and gets funnier the more I see it.


                
I've been trying to trace the episode in which Del Boy struggles to hire an unwilling club singer to perform Roy Orbison's hit "Crying". Does anyone know the title of the episode or the series in which it occurred, please? I seem to think the singer's stage name in the plot was Tony Angelo but perhaps could be a red herring because perhaps there was another episode unrelated to this one in which the same named character appears. In any event, "Tony Angelo" is only the singer's stage name. In the rest of his Peckham life he has a somewhat more mundane name. Del Boy is overjoyed in persuading him to sing for a special occasion but of course there are a few twists along the way.


                
