Terminator 2: Judgment Day is (1991) is the best action sci-fi flick movie from the 90's ever made of all time. Terminator 2 is my personal favorite film I absolutely love this movie to death! Is my number 1 best movie ever till today the best of the best epic movie of all time. T2 was nominated for 4.Oscars the only movie of the franchise was nominated for an Oscar. If you watch T2 carefully and follow the story you never got bored and you are very entertained. This movie kicks ass! I love the hospital scenes mostly at night, the Cyberdyne building action sequences and of course steel mill action sequences are perfect for this film. This film deals with a lot of action, sci-fi and does involves a lot of paradox past travel. There is a lot of explosions and automatic weapons used in the movie and they are used well thousands of bullets are fired and explosive projectiles are fired at the police cars. Arnold Schwarzenegger as the good terminator T-800 did an awesome Terrific real job, he acted believably as one of his best characters I ever saw on screen. Terminator walks to the front of the building and kicks a desk out a window. Than ignores the police's order to surrender and fires a M134 Minigun with Chainsaw grip at the police cars below, avoiding the humans. The helicopter pilot moves away. Terminator than uses a M79 grenade launcher to destroy two more vehicles. Its heads-up display indicates no human casualties. The film has a heart and is the best film in the world. Robert Patrick as T-1000 is "a mimetic Polly-alloy" or "liquid metal." He can shape shift to match other people he touches, after first arriving in present time, he decides to have his base form be that of a nearby cop he killed and passes himself off as a cop in that form. The truck chase scene is awesome and the crash is also awesome. The truck that hit in to another column in the canal and explodes, T-1000 emerges as a shiny, featureless, liquid metal figure. Its features become more pronounced and its colors return to normal, returning to the form of the unharmed pseudo-cop is awesome. It shows what his character can do. Linda Hamilton is the only Sarah Connor she acted her character perfectly here she played her character genius and very convincing and real, tough beyond all belief and completely focused on preventing the nuclear war and ensuring John's safety. Sarah Connor is her best performance ever in the both Terminator films. Little out of her mind with paranoia and anger: amazingly, you see actual character development (specifically, when John and T101 arrive at Dyson's house to prevent her from doing what she wants to). Edward Furlong, is the only John Connor for me, is not bad himself as the extroverted kid who's confused by the fact that everyone except his mom told him his entire upbringing was based on a lie. The bit players all do their jobs well. Earl Boen plays the semi-sadistic mental hospital warden Dr. Silberman from the first film The Terminator (1984) that stands between Sarah Connor and her son (until the T1000 makes a chilling entrance).Arnold Schwarzenegger, Linda Hamilton, Edward Furlong and Robert Patrick did there best acting performances, those actors who played there characters are beloved till this days and Terminator 2 has since been ranked as one of the greatest action, science fiction sequel films of all time. Twin sister of Linda Hamilton also appeared as Leslie Hamilton Gearren as Twin Sarah in dream she was for real there wasn't no CGI in here. Twin brothers Don Stanton and Dan Stanton both of actors appeared in here one as Lewis the Guard the other as Lewis as T-1000 who kills lewis they were for real no CGI, except special effects for T-1000 knife. Terminator special effects were designed by Stan Winston R.I.P. who has done incredible job making those effects. The film is absolutely filled with great, classic moments. T2 is James Cameron masterpiece. This wouldn't be an action movie without some action. James Cameron writes, produces and directs brilliantly this film. Brad Fiedel does a perfect music score to the film. American rock band Guns N' Roses wrote a single for this movie "You Could Be Mine" and Schwarzenegger appeared in the music video as T-800 in the music video for this movie. The chopper scene that crashed in to a SWAT van and explodes was awesome. The CGI and special effects are awesome. This movie is what it is, a perfect 10, because it takes the vision of one of the most imaginative directors on Earth, and realizes them almost perfectly with all the tools that fit the task actors, stunts, puppetry, models and special effects designed from Stan Winston. It is Rated R for strong sci-fi action and violence, and for language, it is a perfect film from the 90's that I have grew up with it. 10/10 Score: Bad Ass Seal Of Approval


                
A Terminator(Arnold Schwarzenegger) was sent from the future to kill the unborn son of Sarah Connor(Linda Hamilton) in the original. Now, that Terminator has been sent back again but with a different assignment: Protect John Connor. John Connor(Edward Furlong) is now about 10 years of age and must evade a new Terminator sent to kill him;The T-1000(Robert Patrick). Sarah, John, and The Terminator journey together on their quest to stop Judgement Day, with a trailing, shape-shifting Termiantor trailing from behind.This is the greatest of the Terminator trilogy. I have watched three times in the past year and have not found anything that Cameron could have improved on. The move is a masterpiece in every aspect of film. Schwarzenegger's acting might not be incredible but this is the perfect role for him. He isn't supposed to show emotion or feelings. He is a machine. I hate almost every one of his movies besides this trilogy because he is a horrible actor but he works perfectly into this role.The special effects are incredible beyond belief. The shape-shifting T-1000 is some of the greatest animation I have witnessed in cinema history. It absolutely blew my mind when I first experienced this visual extravaganza. The animation looked so real(remembering this was a good ten years). The movie included fast-paced action along with some clever sci-fi drama/horror. The idea of a vast army of machines taking over the world after sending off warheads to every major city should be scary enough. But the T-1000 has very little lines and is just creepy enough to make twitch when you see him.Sci-fi movies can rarely be made in such way that can be looked at as works of art. This is one of the few exceptions. The prediction of judgment day with Hamilton watching a playground full of kids be burnt to the ground is an absolute brilliant portrayal of Armageddon. The theme that men will destroy themselves is also shown throughout the movie also and is even said by The Terminator" It's in your nature to destroy yourselves". This brings the movie to a whole new level of sci-fi.Overall, Termiantor II: Judgement Day is an absolute must see classic. If you have not seen it, buy it! Because once you have seen it, you will want to do so anyways. It is fast paced and highly enjoyable for just about every audience.I highly recommend this movie.


                
Normally when people tell you about a sequel that was better than the original or just as good, Terminator 2 is always guaranteed to be in their list; why? Because this is THE action movie of all action movies, next to Die Hard, this is the movie that isn't just about the action as well, but has an incredible story and message behind it that will always stay with you. Terminator 2 like the first Terminator film has memorable lines, moments, and incredible effects. This is the film that made you believe in "liquid metal" machines. Robert Patrick's performance is flawless, to be honest I found him a million times more terrifying than Arnold in the first Terminator, because Robert looks like this normal average guy, but he's not like Arnold where he gets shot and you can clearly see he's a terminator, Robert goes back to human looking and won't stop. Not only that you don't know how to stop him. Linda Hamilton returns and gives a great performance as Sarah Conor who is no longer a meek little girl, she has turned into a strong woman who will do anything to protect her son and the future. Arnold is back and he's better then ever! No wonder in the future they made several terminators that look like him, he's great entertainment.Eleven years after Sarah Connor destroyed the original Terminator that was programmed to kill her, two Terminators arrive in Los Angeles from the year 2029. The first is a Terminator identical to the one that Sarah first encountered, while the second is a new model which assumes the identity of a police officer. John Connor is now a 10 year old living with foster parents. Sarah's experiences have made her tougher and more vigilant, but also desperate to warn humanity about the coming apocalypse. After attempting to bomb a computer factory, Sarah is arrested and remanded to the Pescadero State Hospital for the Criminally Insane under the supervision of Dr. Silberman. Meanwhile, the Terminators locate John Connor in a mall. After John is rescued and a chase through the L.A. storm drain channels, the original Terminator escapes with John on his motorcycle. The Terminator explains that he is reprogrammed by the future John Connor to protect and obey John's younger self. The other Terminator is a T-1000, an advanced new prototype programmed to kill John. It is made of "a mimetic polyalloy", a liquid metal that allows it to take the shape and appearance of anything it touches. It can also form into knifes and stabbing weapons. Learning that the T-1000 will likely kill Sarah and then mimic her to lure John, John orders the Terminator to help free her. Initially, Sarah is terrified by the Terminator; but after seeing it fight off the T-1000, she accepts that they need its help. As they escape the city, the Terminator informs John and Sarah about Skynet, the sentient computer system that will nearly wipe out humanity in an apocalyptic nuclear attack on "Judgment Day".Terminator 2 is one of the best films of all time, this is a film that I absolutely adore and if someone hasn't seen it, there's something seriously wrong. This story is a special one: humans, are we our own worst enemy? Arnold's line "It's in your nature to destroy yourselves" is something that always sends chills down my spine because it's true. I loved the relationship between Arnold and Eddie Furlong, interesting to see a terminator take the place perfectly of a father and you see the pain in Eddie's eyes of never wanting to let go of the terminator. Like Sarah Conor said " The terminator wouldn't stop, it would never leave him. It would never hurt him or shout at him or get drunk and hit him or say it was too busy to spend time with him. And it would die to protect him." meant a lot to me. Like I said, if for some odd reason you have seen this movie, do see it! I promise you that it's just an excellent film and one that will always stand out against cinematic history.10/10


                
Disclaimer: If you are a viewer that mainly prefers arthouse-type movies, then you might as well ignore this review. In addition, if you're not able to take a few sci-fi leaps of faith, ignore this review, as well. We'll both be better off.This is the finest action movie of all time. And, yet, believe it or not, it's not the action in the film itself that makes this be the case. This is especially odd in a movie with a $100 million budget (in 1991!), with multiple huge explosions, with thousands of bullets fired, and scores of stuntmen used.This movie is what it is, a perfect 10, because it takes the vision of one of the most imaginative directors on Earth, and realizes them almost perfectly with all the tools that fit the task -- actors, stunts, puppetry, models, and CG. Without the vision, this film would be nothing. Without the tools, this film would be nothing.But, a little bit of background is due. This is the sequel to the Terminator (1984), whose premise was that a near-indestructible cyborg is sent by evil self-aware machines from the near future to destroy the mother-to-be of the military commander who would lead the humans to a victory over the machines. Oh, and this terminator machine would come from a time of war between men and machines which followed a nuclear exchange that left billions of people dead, first. In Terminator 2, John Connor (the commander-to-be) is about 12 years old, and his mother (Sarah) is feverishly trying to prepare him for his fate, even as she tries to stop the factors that will lead to the nuclear war and the entire terrible future that made all this necessary. The machines now send a superior, more intelligent, shape-shifting cyborg (T1000) into the past, to kill John himself. Meanwhile, future-John reprograms the ex-evil Terminator (T101) from the original film, and sends him into the past to PROTECT John against the T1000.That's your basic plot. It does involve travel into the past, so it immediately presents a time-travel paradox which can't really be resolved. In order to even try watching this movie, you MUST LOOK PAST THE PARADOX. If you don't, this movie has zero credibility, and is not worth your time.What happens after the two terminators appear in the past is a wild ride rife with macho action, dark reflection on the nature of man, and a few rays of hope, here and there. Schwarzenegger (the good terminator) and Patrick (the bad one) make for such effective foes that the times they meet on-screen are completely breathtaking (and odd, given that you repeatedly see the relatively slim T1000 through Arnie through a wall or two). Hamilton, as Sarah Connor, is a wonderful character -- tough beyond all belief and completely focussed on preventing the nuclear war and ensuring John's safety, yet clearly a little out of her mind with paranoia and anger; amazingly, you see actual character development (specifically, when John and T101 arrive at Dyson's house to prevent her from doing what she wants to) in her otherwise 2-dimensional character. And Furlong, as John, is not bad himself as the extroverted kid who's confused by the fact that everyone except his mom tell him his entire upbringing was based on a lie. The bit players all do their jobs well, particularly Earl Boen who plays the semi-sadistic mental hospital warden that stands between Sarah Connor and her son (until the T1000 makes a chilling entrance).With these players set in motion, it's up to the script to deliver the real substance of the movie. (One often sees great performances in mediocre films... here the story transcends the performances -- an impressive feat.) The script delivers. The film is absolutely filled with great, classic moments (I counted TEN all-star ones during my last viewing), and they're evenly spaced through the movie. I mean, who doesn't cheer (at least inside) when Arnold steps out of the biker bar, fully clad in leather when "Bad to the Bone" music starts to blast? The guy absolutely bleeds coolness. And the T1000 absolutely bleeds evil. But, with so many great moments, you'd think the pacing would be a little uneven... not really! The film shifts from place to place with an ease that makes perfect sense, never giving you the time to start being a little nitpicking jerk, always driving forward, but always doing so thoughtfully and with attention to detail.Of course, this wouldn't be an action movie without some action. There's plenty of it, and it's perfectly done. The CG effects for the shape-shifting T1000 were cutting-edge for the time, and still look great (whoever said differently below is simply incorrect) -- even if they're completely commonplace today. The stunts are completely insane in scale (at one point, a helicopter flies under a highway overpass; at another, a motorcycle jumps from the 2nd floor of a building into a flying chopper). (Probably, only the Matrix and the Lord of the Rings movies compare in terms of the level of stunt insanity.) And the gunplay is delivered in perfect Cameron-Schwarzenegger style (as opposed to the slo-mo John Woo-style) -- you'll see lots of heavy automatic and explosive weapons, and you'll see them used well. The film is violent, and somewhat bloody, but ALL of the mean-spirited violence is dealt by the evil characters, not the ones you root for (Quentin Tarantino fans: sorry). And then the truly amazing scenes that bypass acting are shocking and memorable -- just wait until the nuclear detonation sequence.I'm not sure what else you would want in a movie. Probably moral content, and the movie has a very clear pro-human, anti-war message. The message is a bit stale, and the delivery IS, at times, a little heavy-handed (and some moments with the T101 seem just a bit unrealistic, towards the end), but the movie has heart, and that you cannot deny. Plus, it simply rocks. 10/10


                
Who said sequels aren't any good? "Terminator 2" is the ultimate sequel, a big bad wolf ready to chomp the head off of anyone who crosses its path. It's dark, it's mean, and it's one tough movie. It's not as bleak as the first film, at least in terms of visuals, but rather has a new kind of bluish-tint that supplies a great backdrop to the ongoing battle between man and machine.If there was ever a contemporary mainstream visionary director, it is James Cameron. Here we've got Cameron's real thoughts on the series, those repressed by a low budget in the original film. He lets loose here, filling every frame with hard-boiled action and special effects. He introduces a liquid metal Terminator that he wanted to use in the first film, but graphic processors and CGI were not advanced enough in 1984, at least not advanced enough to work on the low means he had to film the original. So his original dream is finally unveiled, and good golly, is it wonderful.Yeah, he's "back." Arnold (like he needs any introduction?) returns as The Terminator, Series T-101, Model T-800, an indestructible cyborg sent from the future to assassinate Sarah Connor (Linda Hamilton) in the first film. Well, it's 1991. New film. New mission. He has to save the future resistance leader of mankind who will ultimately defeat the machines of the future, John Connor (Edward Furlong), Sarah's 11-year-old son. (Though his age has been switched from 11 to 13 and back to 9 over the years, with no help from the third film that takes place in 2003, yet claims he was 13 in 1991 though his age doesn't match with his age in the third. We'll just leave it at 11 in this film. Got that?)Another model Terminator, the T-1000 (Robert Patrick), has been sent back to 1991 programmed to annihilate John Connor. Which explains Arnold's appearance. Arnold, an undoubtedly lesser opponent compared to the T-1000, has to help save the day and learn to appreciate humanity. It won't be easy. First, he has to find John Connor, who is a rebellious angst-driven pre-teen living with foster parents. Then, together they have to break into the local loony hospital and release Sarah from the clutches of Dr. Silberman (Earl Boen), who believes Sarah is delusional. (You may remember Silberman as the psychiatrist from the first film, too.) Then, they have to stop a computer chip designer (Joe Morton) from creating the first version of a SkyNet computer, modeled after a destroyed chip his employment company discovered at a large mechanical warehouse. (Which is, of course, the chip from the destroyed T-800 of the first film.)Whew. On with the film analysis, right? Where to start? This isn't as fierce or brutal as the first film, but it's got plentiful action sequences, a large budget, great special effects (even compared to those gracing the screen nowadays), not to mention a great character study of the machine we loved to root against in the first film. Of course, this Terminator has no memory of the first film, since he wasn't in it--SkyNet creates hordes of the same version machines on a large conveyor belt and ships them off to fight in the war. Some are sent back through time. So, with that in mind, John Connor's resistance found an extra Arnold lying around in an abandoned warehouse, programmed him to keep John Connor out of harm, and sent him through the time portal.Sarah doesn't trust him. In a deleted scene available on the Ultimate and "Xtreme" edition DVDs, Sarah says, "You don't know what it's like to try and kill one of these things!" It's an important scene that should have been left in the final cut. In it, Sarah is about to destroy the machine's central processing chip located inside his head, when John stops her. It's important because it focuses on the fact that Sarah still doesn't trust him, and came close to destroying him purely out of prejudice, without giving him a chance. As much as I don't like it when people go on about hidden meanings in films that obviously are not meant to have hidden meanings and are purely little flubs made by directors unrightfully analyzed for deeper meaning(s), "T2" clearly has an underlying message: One, don't judge a book by its cover. Read it first. Two, if an emotionless killing machine can learn to appreciate life, why can't everyone? And three, the most important fact of all: Never mess with a muscular man who walks into a bar completely naked and requests your clothes and means of transportation.I suppose the question on most interested viewers' minds is this: Is "T2: Judgment Day" better than its predecessor? Well, in some respects, yes. In others, no. It lacks the fierce brutality and darkness of the first film, but makes up for it with spectacular visual effects and action sequences. It lacks the horrific central focus of the first film (futuristic, indestructible cyborgs with no feelings being able to unemotionally kill), but it makes up for this with a new focus of humanity, coming to accept your future, and how it would look if two colossal killing machines entered into an arena together.In some ways, I like the first better. But then I think about the second film and I have a hard time choosing. I suppose if I had to choose I'd choose the first film. And let me just state for the record that I'm glad I don't have to choose.5/5 stars.


                
This superb sequel surpasses the excellent original in every department and quite simply you won't see a better action film. Set 15 years after the original Arnie may return as the good Terminator trying to protect John Connor but he's a redundant piece of scrap metal compared to the T-1000.The opening hour and the last half hour is absolutely breathtaking with action sequences that still remain unsurpassed. Their's also a wonderful piece of storytelling 3/4 of the way through where Dyson relises the terrifying consequences of the project he's neglecting his family for.The performances are memorable particularly Linda Hamilton's Sara Connor and simply put, they'll never make a better action film.


                
Greetings from Lithuania.WOW! The best word that describes this movie is "wow"! Not only to say that this is the best Action movie of all time, this is probably one of the greatest movies ever made . The people in my country watched this film when there where limited VHS cassettes at all. And again, my favorite Director did an timeless epic-masterpiece. Yes, an epic. Every scene in this movie is beyond the perfection. The timeless plot. Groundbreaking effects. Unforgettable "Hasta la vista, baby." .Perfect direction for a sci-fix action film. When the action starts, you're in for the ride of your life. There never be the same movie like T2. What else I can say about this film? A Must see for everyone.


                
After failing to kill Sarah Conner, the Machines are now trying again, only this time their after John Conner himself, as a boy. Sarah Conner is labelled insane after trying to burn down Cyberdyne Systems, the company that hid the remains of the first terminator she destroyed, and she is committed to a mental institute. John Resents his mother for the way he was brought up, and now lives with his foster parents.Again the machines send a Terminator the T-1000, but the resistance have one of their own. Sent back to protect John, Arnie is the same make and model, but has a new mission, this time he's on our side.Is Arnie a match for the new T-1000, a liquid metal terminator that can morph into anything it samples by physical conduct. Groundbreaking special effects and non stop action sequences ensue as the war between Terminator's boils into one of the finest action movies of all time.Simply Brilliant in every way.10/10
I adore this movie. I could never stand action movies, but T2 is so intelligent and moving that it stands apart from everything else.First, the story - brilliant, smoothly making the necessary transition from T1. The dialogue runs the gamut from hilarious to heartbreaking, but always strikes exactly the right chord.The cinematography and effects are stunning, especially the scenes filmed during "magic hour", when the pale gold of sunset casts a meaningful and lovely effect on the scene. Being the first $100 million movie naturally the effects are remarkable for their time, but they hold up wonderfully against anything made today.It's the actors, however, who steal the show. Linda Hamilton can play insanity and despair like nobody's business, and she gave her all here. Robert Patrick was wonderful in the demanding role of the T-1000, creepy and threatening even during the funny finger-wagging moment. Arnold Schwarzenegger balances non-stop action with a machine's emerging humanity; frankly this movie cancels out every dumb action flick he ever made. New-comer Edward Furlong carried the film with seeming ease, giving an astonishing performance for his age and lack of experience; the "We're not gonna make it, are we?" scene is hauntingly perfect.James Cameron and his team have given us a classic that has something for everyone. You'd never know that this is the guy who made Titanic.
Terminator 2 perhaps shows that Cameron was at least was cognizant of life and its meaning. I mean, this IS the movie where the end of the world has the most impact outside of Dr. Strangelove, right? One of those outstanding dream scenes in movies, one of the ones that actually works because it's true in its savage simplicity, Linda Hamilton's Sarah Connor sees herself in her 1984 waitress get up with baby John in a playground and then everything gets wiped out by the BIG BOMB (Dmitri) that also incinerates Hamilton into BBQ.So it's with this kind of thought that Terminator 2 means to be the most kick-assingest blockbuster of its (or all?) time while trying to keep the loss of life very small - or, rather, the "Bad" Terminator who was designed by the wizards at ILM can kill to its mission's content - I mean, DAMN, it still looks great, and in its silver-liquid-chrome simplicity much more, for me, impressive than the clanging junk of Bay disasters. It's arguable, of course, that the Terminator (T-800) does kill some people, incidentally, or, you know, all that gas from the gun he shoots could make some people really screwed up but, hey, "He'll live" is enough.But if Cameron is "soft" at all here, it doesn't show too much... well, okay, Lil' John (hehe) does squeak and squak those early 90's amorphisms "No Problemo - chill out - listen to Kriss Kross - etc", and Edward Furlong is one of the things that just does not hold up here. He's serviceable at best, annoying at worst. He can cry okay though.But it's Arnold, in his swaggering low-key and then with an occasional grin awesome leading man turn, and especially Linda Hamilton who make this tight script so compulsively watchable. Hamilton makes Connor into what Cameron likely saw in his one-time wife/collaborator Bigelow - a take-no-prisoners soldier who can take charge and has muscles and can probably knock you upside the head (maybe that's why they divorced, he couldn't take all that woman... but I digress, at any rate he moved around a lot till his current wife) And there is also a vulnerability still to Sarah that makes her so endearing. She can never be completely hard, though time and experience and the dread of what's to come had scarred her, so by the time she has the chance to kill the Man Who Destroys The World, she can't do it. A scene like that is probably more emotionally gripping than so many other scenes that try in these blockbusters (something like Days of Future Past, which is a cousin of this flick, gets there). The fact Hamilton wasn't able to parlay such high caliber performance work into a better career is kind of sad, but at least this stands as a benchmark of a woman action hero, one of the two Cameron Wonder Women really.So, blast your Guns N Roses, say hi to the kid from Salute Your Shorts (that's him, right, Connor's friend in the first act?) and ride your motorcycle through LA - it's a bad mother-jammer of a blockbuster that holds up enough to look over its faults (i.e. some dialog isn't tight, like the voice-over, it's alright but whatever - perhaps it was ambitious enough to best The Perfect Action Movie, which the first Terminator just was).


                
Oh yeah, "Terminator 2: Judgment Day"......The greatest overall action film next to "Die Hard" and the greatest science fiction one next to "Aliens". It is, without a doubt, my favorite movie of all time and I would give this 20 stars if I could and this is a film that everyone recognizes and knows about and this is a film that absolutely gets what it deserves.In 1991, Arnold Schwarzenegger had finally cemented his reputation as the world's greatest action star after a couple great classics (The Terminator, Predator, Total Recall and the Conan films). This is the movie that defined Schwarzenegger forever as the one and only "Terminator", the cyborg sent from the future to protect the kid (Edward Furlong) who will save the entire world. Even though he's a machine, he learns what humans need to do and what they were put on this Earth for. And like what action films lack, T2 develops its characters flawlessly, and yes, EVEN the Terminator is given development as a character! When the T-100 arrives to the mid 1990's, he is basically awkward and socially clueless and knows nothing about human emotion or interaction. As the film progresses, he learns how humans behave and learns a few one-liners from John (Hasta la Vista, baby) and Spoilers: at the end before the Terminator melts himself in molten steel, his humanity is completely obvious, "I know now why you cry, for it is something I can never do." And just before he completely disappears in the molten steel, he gives the "thumbs-up" gesture, something that John had taught him before.It is also probably the most heart-breaking ending and even the most insensitive guy will cry to that.Also, Linda Hamilton makes one of the greatest ever screen performances by a female, and even challenges the performance of Sigourney Weaver in "Aliens". And her character has really developed from the first movie. The main problem with most movie sequels that have been made is that they usually act like the film before it never happened. But Sarah Connor has transformed from a timid waitress into a smart and brutal militaristic woman. And it shows off James Cameron's film-making genius and he truly knows how to make a great action film and a great sequel to follow it, because of this and "Aliens" (which I will write up a review soon) 2 of the greatest sequels ever made. During the course of this film, Sarah Connor has already developed a phobia for Terminator's due to her experiences in the first movie. And during most of the film, she doesn't trust the Terminator at all and even tries to destroy its CPU chip (only in a deleted scene). But at the end, when the Terminator is just about to destroy itself, she shakes hands with him and makes peace with him.....very,very touching moment. Also, Hamilton did a great job at providing the narration, with some greatly written lines, and she utters them with perfect drama and suspense to reveal the story in the beginning and what's next for the future at the end.Also, Edward Furlong really makes a name for himself in his film debut. He is absolutely perfect as the juvenile offender who is affected by the absence of his mother and biological father. Throughout the film, he becomes attached to the Terminator and teaches him the meaning of human life. And no one else could've done the role better or equally as great. FYI, it's not really that easy for a kid with limited acting experience to pull it off.The line, "She's not my mother, ''Todd''" shows what Furlong can do and says that line with the perfect facial expression and delivery. And Furlong and Hamilton are really the 2 who provide the intense emotion that has capitalized James Cameron's films ever since.The villainous T-1000 (Robert Patrick) has gotta be the icon for movie villains, 'cause the whole "liquid metal" thing is so cool. And the film was even a landmark for special effects which make the action scenes stand out and make them among the best in the genre.This is further proof of why every action fan needs to have James Cameron alive to give em a reason to live. I'm already looking forward to "Avatar" and "Battle Angel", and I'm sure those 2 will kick @$$ once they come out.If it weren't for this film, every other action flick that you see these days wouldn't be the same. When you watch it, just keep in mind that this movie changed a lot of things. It's not just an excellent action epic, but a very emotionally charged story about human survival.
Probably this is the movie I enjoyed watching the most. Arnold Schwarzenegger is one of my all time favorite actors, I am a huge fan of him. It does not matter whether his acting is great or not (but in this movie, he is great I think) The Terminator 2 has humor at times, but because of that again rather critics give one star low! However, humor in the movie is not to entertain audiences. Humor in this movie results from natural situations, it seems that Cameron does not put such moments for our entertainment like the third Terminator movie. And this humor does not ruin the seriousness and the dark tone of the movie. I can't think of a Terminator movie without Schwarzenegger. I have seen Terminator Salvation and yes, there was Arnold Schwarzenegger too, but CGI! (an awful idea) Terminator Salvation was OK, but not as a Terminator movie, as a post apocalyptic science fiction action. I want to say a few things more about Schwarzenegger. He was an icon by this character. Motorcycle, leather jacket, sunglasses and pump rifle. At this point, this is the most humanist, may be the only action movie ever! One of my favorite one liners is the movie is ''he will live.'' Connor tries to teach him not to kill people. Don't get me wrong, it does not mean that I don't like other action movies which do not give such a message, but this just makes the movie greater and deeper. By the way, Terminator 2 is also the deepest action movie ever. This is one of the movies that when you replace any of the actors, pieces don't fall into place. Schwarzenegger is like he was made for Terminator (and yes Conan too), Robert Patrick was made for T-100 (he was at his best in this movie, may be not for acting, but for performance) and Edward Furlong was made for John Connor. Honestly, personally it was impossible to believe that Nick Stahl is John Connor, I watched him like another character. Furlong portrays a very realistic rover portrait. As for Linda Hamilton, she was not made for Sarah Connor, but it is a big pleasure to watch her and for her acting, real very good. Musics always make me live nostalgia, great musics. Now, let's talk about the scenes. The atari center sequence is the first beyond great sequence. This movie is great entertainment, every time, it is a great pleasure to watch it. From the middle of 1990s till now, I watched the movie almost 50 times. I love the metal holes and then renew. How creative it is. As for visual effects, it is a touchstone, yes still. It is the greatest visual effects of all time to me, till 2012. Now, to me it became the second greatest. And I am sorry, I find the visual effects of T2 much more believable than Avatar. Yes I know, 3D, some other new technologies as well. but this is what I think. At a few moments, it is flawed like the scene they shoot at the face of Schwarzenegger, but no problem at all. Can you believe that this movie was made in 1991? I can't believe at all. That's why it is still a milestone. The chase sequence in the highway is beyond great too. Cameron raised the bar and I used to compare all the chase scenes with this one. Do you know another movie that in user comments, the titles which say the greatest action movie ever are innumerable? Almost everyone says the greatest action movie ever, the best action movie of all time, the greatest, the best... I will say the same thing. This is the greatest action movie of all time. The pump rifle using style of Terminator was getting my attention when I was a child. Still I like that. I just like gunfight scenes, not guns by the way. The hospital sequence is the third beyond great sequence, there are a lot of scenes that deserves cinema anthology in this movie. The coffee scene was incredible, every time makes me remember The Silver Surfer, we get lots of very interesting and brilliant moments like the shoot at head (not just in this sequence, throughout the whole movie) The Terminator is 10 out of 10, but T2 surpasses even that (you know I can't give 11 out of 10) Ohh By the way, I don't recommend you to watch the extended edition, if you are a first time viewer. There are three new scenes in this edition. The scene which Sarah hallucinates, to me a mediocre scene, the scene which T-100 tells Sarah and John where his chip is, an unnecessary scene and the scene which a kind of foreplay and talking between Tarissa and Miles while he works at desk, a cliché and a bit ridiculous scene. Returning to the movie, this is the best cat and mouse game movie with No Country for Old Men, it wouldn't be better. T-1000 is the most powerful, the most resistant (the most indestructible) villain ever! You think that he is terminated, but he is not, will he be terminated this time? The movie delivers such a feeling that I would define great success. Helicopter truck fight is great, another action sequence, I would call the kind of action in the movie metallic, not CGI action. By the way, mercury scene was one of the most shocking moments in the cinema history! Unbelievable, incredible. There is an unaccountable moment which it seems that Hulk was inspired from. Another moment recalls The Lord of the Rings The Return of the King etc. If you watched both movies, you understand what I mean. And T-1000 continues to execute his tricks, I was bowling over every time. This is a non stop action movie, but not shallow at all, not like pure action with no substance, in contrast the deepest action movie ever made.


                
Good Stuff! This movie is perfect. What else can I say? Arnold is back as the Terminator and this time his mission is to protect John Connor from another terminator, the T-1000 played by Robert Patrick (awesome!).At first I was afraid that John Connor would ruin the movie as the annoying kid we see in many movies. I was wrong. As the focus lies on the chase between the two cyborgs and by the way, Arnold has never been this cool!(taking movies as Predator, Conan, Commando and T1 under consideration) Having him on his Harley with the shotgun is priceless! Every aspect of this movie is awesome and this is my number 1 movie of all time. There isn't a single lame scene which gives you a ride you will never forget.10/10 is an understatement...


                
And yes, I'd consider this more of an action film than Sci/fi since it takes place in contemporary times and locations. Nowadays, it can be hard to distinguish an action film from a video game. In fact there is one coming out soon that appears to be both. I guess studios these days feel that kids need something to see while resting their fingers after long days of playing their Nintendos/Playstations/whatever. So they come up with all of these PG-13 action films that are often mere meditations of comic books, toys, or old TV shows. Looking back at T2, one may find the action films of today sorely lacking in comparison.The story of course deals with Arnold returning from the future to protect a boy who will some day lead the human resistance against a world run by machines. This time Arnold is the good guy (as per Schwarzenegger's request) and he's up against a lethal and much more advanced prototype sent to off the kid. The CGI used to create this new T-1000 terminator was jaw-dropping at the time this was released. Though technology to create such things is now infinitely more available, this has led to problems in my book. Now, there is too much done with computers, and stunts don't seem so wonderful if you know it was all done on a computer. Most of the stunts in T2 were live action and extraordinarily filmed using all types of vehicles and explosives. Director James Cameron really sold these stunts in terms of how he filmed them.Not all directors are a good as Cameron. That is a given. But directors looking at making action films should take note of other strengths found in the construction of T2. First of all, you don't need shaky camera movements to sell to your audience that there is an exciting or crucial scene happening. Here the photography is crisp and detailed. You see everything clearly that you need to see. Right down to the little things. The action sequences are perfectly blocked and the spacing between hostile parties is easy for the audience to figure out. We know who is shooting at who, and how far apart they are from each other. Cameron also made sure his entire cast was proficient with the weapons they were going to fire in the movie. And guns run out of ammunition and need to be re-loaded at appropriate times. Nothing seems artificial in a shootout.I could go on forever pointing out good qualities of this film. Just watching a bit of it on Bravo the other night reminded me why I saw it so many times in the theater. And this film was rated R! And it still made a fortune! That just proves if you make a good product, you don't have to dumb it down or tame it for the kiddies. If it's good enough, they'll find a way to see it! 10 of 10 stars. Unfortunately, the inspiration seems to have left this series with Cameron.The Hound.


                
What can I say about "Terminator 2: Judgment Day" that hasn't been better said already? All I can say is that when I first saw the movie (at only 9 years of age) it had an effect on me. It blew me away! It opened up my eyes, and even at the tender age of 9, made me realize what I wanted to do with my life: I wanted to make movies, and I wanted to make movies like "T2". As I'm watching the film, I glance over at another patron and this woman, her eyes wide, was gripping the arms of her chair so tightly I thought they were going to break. When I saw that reaction, that mind-numbing, adrenaline rush of pure excitement, knowing that that movie had them completely, that is when I knew I wanted to make movies and give people that same reaction.And now, over 10 years later, "T2" is still my favorite film of all time and I watch it religiously. I have written several scripts and treatments all because of "T2" and I have tried to match that exquisite balance of wonderful story/interesting characters/jaw-dropping effects/non-stop action."T2" was the sole-guiding factor in my life - because of it, I KNEW I wanted to make movies in any way, shape or form.If you'll excuse me, I seem to be running out of air. Gotta watch "T2" a little bit more...


                
Terminator 2 is the best film I have ever seen hands down. It surpasses the original in almost every way except the first film had a darker moodier atmosphere. But Terminator 2 has much much more, more character development, better acting strong direction, and THE most amazing visual effects ever!!! Cameron's and Schwarzenegger's best movie. A true classic. The Best!!!


                
Being a Terminator 2 fan for some years now I think it finally deserves a comment. From the first time I witnessed the fast paced action, high powered weaponry and the the T-1000 emerging from explosions and floors, I was immediately hooked. I don't think there's any aspect of this film that I don't like, it really has a great feel of humanity's struggle against the creation of Skynet which will be responsible for the loss of so much life.It's hard to pick out the best performance here, with Linda Hamilton portraying such a cold character (almost like a Terminator herself), to Robert Patrick's excellent performance as the new Terminator, the T-1000. Even young Edward Furlong is fantastic in this picture being just 9 years of age as the young John Connor. And of course you have Schwartzenegger, who is playing the role he was born to play, unlike the cliché he turns into in Rise of the Machines.I would highly recommend film to anyone. From a distance it might just look like your mindless science-fiction action movie with robots and explosions, but it really is just so much more than that. The production value is phenomenal with great chase scenes and fantastic special effects, even by todays standards. And as I mentioned the performances by the actors are fantastic. But more than all that I think is the whole feel of the movie, which contrasts good over evil brilliantly.10/10, your not going to find a better action movie than this, buy it on special edition if you haven't already..


                
When this movie came out at the theatres, I was 15. I thought it was cool. I'm 24 now and I see this movie in a completely different light. I don't doubt that the movie has amazing special effects that makes the movie quite watchable if you just want to vegatate for a couple of hours. I don't doubt that there  might be a few plot holes and discontinuity in the time travel aspect of the story. This is something I have yet to figure out.   But after watching this movie a few times and reading critical reviews of the movie, I've come to this current opinion. If you bother to think about this movie beyond the great special effects, you might find that it has more to offer than the cool F/X. James Cameron is a very critical and detail oriented director. If you are familiar with his work at all, you will see an emerging theme in all of his movies. I believe that theme is humanity vs. technology. (THE ABYSS, TITANIC, ALIENS) In any case, the characters are an INTEGRAL part of the story and not simply the platform in which the action takes place. Compare this movie to say, practically any Jerry Bruckheimer movie. (Gone in Sixty Seconds anyone?) James Cameron thinks about his characters first before he can imagine the situation in which they may reasonably be confronted with. James Cameron says himself that the intent of the movie was to make people feel for a robot, to cry for him, and not simply to be blown away by the action taking place within the context of the characters and the story.With this in mind, I see this movie as first and foremost, a human story. The whole premise of this story is the fight for humankind. Humans vs. Machines. I mentioned Cameron's theme earlier: humanity vs. technology. In this movie, the more technologically advanced we become, the more inhuman we are. Witness this as Sarah Conner becomes more of a terminator herself in her willingness to kill Miles Dyson. She does not question morally or ethically about why she is killing him. She is just going to do it. Before she does it though, she has an epiphany and she realizes exactly what she has become. It is shattering to her. There is such a moral fabric throughout this story voiced by our future hero: "You can't kill people!!!" And later on, "Don't you get it?! Don't you understand why you can't kill people? Because we hurt, we feel pain, we're afraid..." It is not surprising that John has such a strong moral fabric. After all, he is going to become a great leader someday. Ironically, it is his teachings to the terminator and the resetting of the CPU that makes the terminator more human. In the end, he becomes half-human and he realizes his half-humanity. "I know now why you cry... but it is something that I can never do." It makes his sacrifice even more greater. A hero is defined as someone who sacrifices himself for a greater good, something greater than even his own existence. Although the terminator could have stayed, he chose to go. In this movie, he is a true hero. Cameron chose to have this strong moral issue in the film... he did not want Arnold as the good robot killing everything in his way- which he could have easily done. After all, he is a terminator. He chose to weave this moral fabric into the story which I think many people easily overlook. The terminator teaches us a lot about ourselves too. This is a very spiritual aspect of the film. John says to the terminator, "we're not going to make it, are me? People, I mean..." to which the terminator replies, "It is in your nature to destroy yourselves...."   It makes the theme and message of the whole movie even more meaningful. The theme of the movie can best be summed up by Sarah Conner, "If a machine,a terminator, can learn the value of human life, maybe we can too." It took something as inhuman as the terminator to teach us something very human about ourselves: loyalty, love, fear, sacrifice, and hope. So before you write T2 off as just another action movie, I challenge you to watch it critically. This movie is about destiny vs. free will, (how much control over our future do we have? as john says, "there is no fate but what we make of it ourselves.") and as I've said before, really about being human in such a technologically run world. Watch as Sarah fights to protect her son, watch as john just desperately wants his mother to embrace him and love him. Observe the quiet moments of contemplation and rest in this movie. This movie is not perfect as no movie is but as an action movie, it certainly provides a lot more than a two hour adrenaline rush.


                
I still remember seeing this movie for the first time in 1993 on a VHS. I was completely blown away by the action, special effects n sound. Bought the VHS in '94 n saw countless number of times that the VHS nearly got burned out. Bought a DVD recently n revisited it. T2 is a timeless movie. It is much better than the original. It has superb car chases, big guns, dynamic explosions, gore, tension, suspense, etc. The chase sequence is awesome and nail bitingly intense, it is one of the best action sequences ever made. The pacing is impeccable and the action sequences still stands out. This movie has awesome sound effects, perfect cinematography n impeccable editing. I don't think there must b an action fan who hasn't seen this movie. It has an awesome cgi, action n sound effects. The scene in the Institute where Arnie walks in slow motion with a shot gun n Patrick, the cold emotionless killer, approaching is so full of tension. This movie also has a creepy n dreadful atmosphere. The movie is very violent n action packed.


                
'Terminator 2: Judgment Day' is THE Best Action Film Ever. I've seen this film numerous times, and it gets better each time I revisit it. James Cameron & Arnold Schwarzenegger have NEVER Been this Good! 'Terminator 2: Judgment Day' Synopsis: The cyborg who once tried to kill Sarah Connor must now protect her teenage son, John Connor, from an even more powerful and advanced Terminator.'Terminator 2: Judgment Day' is Superb ENTERTAINMENT. Its so good, that everything works on its advantage. Be it the Script, Direction, Production-Value, Performances, Action/Stunts, Editing, Graphics or even the Music, everything is so darn good. Its truly amongst THE Finest Films of all-times.James Cameron & William Wisher, Jr.'s Screenplay is Awesome. Cameron's Direction is Masterful. Graphics are Terrific. Editing, Cinematography, Production-Value, Music, everything is just Perfect. Schwarzenegger is impeccable the Terminator, playing the unbeatable hero to the hilt. Robert Patrick as the T-1000, the villain, is brilliant. Linda Hamilton as Sarah Connor, is impressive. Edward Furlong as John Connor, is lovable. On the whole, 'Terminator 2: Judgment Day' Rocks! Its a Knock-Out!


                
This a true masterpiece, a real piece of gem. The action is top-class, the plot is engaging. The tension and thrill builds to such an amazing level that one gets totally engaged to what happens to the characters. The spectacular special affect adds to the story and the action. There are very few movies where the special affect takes the action to the next level and this is one such movie. I have watched this movie several times and every-time I have enjoyed it to the fullest. It is one of my most favorite movie. A must see for any action movie fan. If you have not seen it, go and do yourself a favor...Watch it. I highly recommend this movie.


                
Terminator 2 is an amazing action packed movie from writer / director James Cameron. Arnold Schwarzenegger is at the top of his game returning to play the cyborg the T-800, his most famous movie role. James Cameron's love of Science Fiction and action coupled with the latest film making technology pushed the boundaries in 1991 to their limit. James Cameron uses classical action shots that allow the viewer to see what is going on at all times, something newer film makers/ editors should pay attention to. The reason this film works so well is down to the story itself and the concepts it deals with, James Cameron always writes interesting stories for us to think about but were he differs to 99% of other directors is he merges this with jaw dropping set pieces filmed with energy, often a moving camera shot he totally understands that this is an entertainment medium, he never forgets about his characters though and this why his films always have heart. Terminator 2 is one of the best action / science fiction films of all time, James Cameron is the best action director of all time and Terminator 2 is proof of that.


                
This is my favourite film of all time. I am 25 years old. I clearly remember when I saw it when I was 10 years old and the thing that immediately struck me even though I was only 10 years old was how artistic and brilliantly directed it was. The main reason James Cameron made this masterpiece was not because he only wanted to make money. All the greatest movies of all time deal with an important issue about humanity and T2 is no exception. It deals with how humanity has a tendency to destroy itself. This is a very important universal issue and it affects each of us when we turn on the TV and hear news about various wars happening around the world. This masterpiece works on so many levels that it's truly amazing. It contains some of the best visual effects and action scenes ever put on film. It is a thrill ride from beginning to end and the great character interaction and drama never stops. During each action scene you always feel that the characters are fighting for the fate of humanity. By far James Cameron's best film and that is saying a lot. It's much more emotional and dramatic than Cameron's overrated and disappointing Titanic. T2 clearly shows that James Cameron is most creative and artistic when he is making an Action/Sci-fi film. Anybody no matter what age will consider this a great film. It only gets better with time and I love it now even more than when I was 10 years old. Should be in top 10 greatest films list. A timeless masterpiece.


                
There are 40 000 movies, or, written in American style: 40,000 movies, made till that very moment by the American film industry, not to mention the international industries. Around 40 of these films, or 0,1%, are films so great, they need not only to be watched by every existing human being - but they need to dwell in the hearts of every human, at any moment, till their last breath. "Terminator 2" is the first of them all.This is not only the greatest action movie, but it is the greatest movie ever made. It is a film that treats the highest possible theme in the art sphere - the theme about the self-sacrifice. In this movie everyone of the main characters sacrificed himself for somebody else. The child did it to save his mother, despite what she had told him about his importance. She did it for him and for the rest of the world. And at the end even the machine sacrificed itself, for the humankind - when it understood the value of human life and that its existence was a threat for it. The three of them did that without complaining, without expecting a reward or pretending for something. They did it because it was their duty, and they would fulfill themselves as humans by doing it. Plain, simple and genius.To the people, who are dashing pretentiously at the time paradox, and to the other ones, who moan: "I kinda didn't like it. I liked (place the name of ANY OTHER action movie here) more. There was more beating and explosions..." - to these ones I say: you have completely and tragically missed the point of "T2", and as a result of this you have deprived yourselves of understanding and embracing the best film ever made into your hearts and souls. The last things "Terminator 2" is about, are pseudo-scientific riddles with time, or creating the best special effects of early 90s in order to make the eyes of the "riping" teenagers open widely in surprise and disbelief.As I said, I will repeat again: it is a movie about the personal sacrifice, the duty and the destiny of the strong ones - not the "written by some unseen force" destiny, which you cannot change, only follow; but the destiny of the people who have a strong character. The destiny that they CHOOSE: to sacrifice themselves in order to fulfill their duty, and ultimately - their life; in order to prove themselves as humans. And they make this choice alone, on their own: the weak ones would "duck and cover", and run away in a similar situation.There is another character in that movie, who showed human behavior and in the end of the film - as he turned weaker and weaker from a physical point of view, due to the inevitable damage by the superior technology - became more and more human. In the last moments of the film, in one recent Bulgarian voice translation, they translated it a little bit differently, in an artistic way, and I want to translate it "back" and write it here, to show you what I mean. It is a TRANSLATOR HIT: when the Terminator realized that it should sacrifice itself and go against its own nature, and in the moment when John started to cry, because he understood the necessity and the brutal fact that the T-800 WILL NOT OBEY HIM THIS TIME, because IT HAS TAKEN A DECISION ABOUT WHAT WAS THE RIGHT THING TO DO, T-800 said: "Now I know why you cry. I WISH I ALSO COULD." And then, after they hugged, HE - not IT - HE stepped on the chain. He had become human in that moment, in a certain way - as he was taking decisions on his own, and as HE HAD A WISH - a wish, that never turned into a dream, because he had to step on the chain. And if there is only one thing that I want to be remade in the original version, it's not all the goofs and inconsistencies, mentioned also in the IMDb trivia of the film - they prove that human beings, including the great directors, make mistakes - and they MUST - that's why they are human. What I dream to be changed in my favourite movie, is only this line. The line "but it is something I can never do" looks cold and alien to me now.It is a movie that will not be surpassed soon - because a new film needs to find a higher theme than self-sacrifice in order to do it (apart from all the rest, which is needed - a good scenario, which makes everything to cohere in perfect harmony; directing from a genius and a visionary like James Cameron; acting from people BORN FOR THE ROLE - like Linda Hamilton and Schwarzenegger; innovative, but not overdone, or with overexposed and misplaced effects; having well arranged and nicely corresponding music; and so on) - while if it uses the same theme, it will be a REPEAT. "Terminator 2" was THE FIRST ONE, and THE GREATEST. And the way this film is made, the way EVERY FRAME IS SUFFERED THROUGH BY THE PEOPLE WHO MADE IT, makes it both unbeatable and the epitome of all that is good and human in that world. And it is even something more: it shows what we are, IT IS WHAT WE ARE. It's so universal and refined, that if aliens come and want to understand us, the humans, in the space of two hours; to find what is our basic philosophy; what our fears and problems, and aspirations are - this is what they have to see. This film.Such a movie appears once in fifty years.
Without a doubt, "Terminator 2" is one of the best movies ever made and perhaps the very best action film bar none.The concept is absolutely superb and the execution could not have been better. It is indeed a sequel, but it can be watched without seeing the original because it really plays out as a stand alone movie. The Terminator is a great character and the way that John interacts with it is really beautiful. The cast is all wonderful and could not have done a better job with their roles. Linda Hamlton is great as a tough, strong woman, Arnold is great as the machine that has a hard time understanding humans, Edward Furlong is great as the wide-eyed teen who is fighting for his life, and Robert Patrick is great as an emotionless killing machine. Everything is just so right.Another thing that I must mention is the special effects. They were absolutely astonishing for the time. We had never seen anything quite like it in a movie before. Even today the effects are great. Individual scenes are all so memorable with this movie. From the motorcycle chase, to the hospital escape, to the liquid metal scenes, to the introduction of the Terminator, to the final battle and destruction of the terminators, everything is so perfect and memorable.The end is so great as well. I'm pretty sure I shed a tear when I first saw it and when the credits began to roll with the road in the background after Linda Hamlton's monologue, I couldn't take my eyes off the screen. It is that moving.If you have not seen this, everything else should be put on hold and this should be priority number one.
