That thing (T-1000) had a hundred chances to kill both John and Sarah and didn't do so. It was liquid molten whatever. It had speed, knowledge, strength, etc... and it was defeated? In the end, it would have cut off Terminator's head over that factory grill, not "stabbed" him and left him for dead. (though it would have killed Terminator long before that scene) It would have stabbed Sarah in the eye.. but why even ASK for her to yell for 'John' when he could mimic her voice perfectly (and did so 3 minutes later). So unrealistic. Then a 'magic' gun destroys it? And the end just happens to take place in another weird factory? This time a steel liquid molten factory? T- 1000 was incapable of being destroyed, until suddenly they made it capable. Ridiculous 90s film. You would never see such discrepancies in a similar flick today.. and you don't in the 2015 movie.


                
Spoiler Big budget, special affects, etc. where great, but this movie has no story.  1. How could John Conners be born if they erased all the future events. 2. Watch Linda Hamalton run around like some 60's activist, not real. 3. The black sciencetist who suddenly decides to help them with Skynet, how sappy, and kills himself. 4.  The kid in the movie is annoying, you wish the Terminator got him. 5. If Skynet did not invent the chip it would have never existed. This story is too melodramatic that it kills the science fiction end, and creates some sappy feel good movie.  Not for me, or any science fiction fan.
Like action? Special effects? Explosions? Loud noises? Then see this film.But if you're looking for plot, exposition, and character development, go see the original. This film is far too wrapped up in special effects to bother with little details like those.


                
If you've been fortunate enough to never have seen this film, don't read any further as there may be material that could be considered "spoiler".I recently watched this film again (all three variants) and it was worse than I remember. At best, this film should be considered a "B" movie.Regardless of the success of his films, James Cameron is ones of the most juvenile and transparent directors working today. If any other director had used "Bad to the Bone" to "illustrate" the "badness" of a character they would have been vilified. If fact, every other director who used "Bad to the Bone" in this manner >before< James Cameron used it were vilified.The script varies from juvenile to insipid. In cases where the screenwriters (Cameron and Wisher) couldn't figure out how to work in key information within the overall narrative, they bring to whole film to a dead stop several times by having characters reel off flat monologs detailing another characters motivation and history. Yawn.The only saving grace of this film are the effects work by ILM and other contractors. Oh, and the casting of S. Epatha Merkeson who seems to be the only actor of skill in the film.
