Don't get me wrong, this is a great film but it is much more child friendly compared to the first movie, and is more commercial The biggest problem I have with it is that the whole Mexico thing goes on for far too long and the movie loses a huge amount of it's pace. I have never been able to fully engage with this movies second half for that reason. Granted the first film also slows down mid way-ish but for nowhere near as long, and we always feel that Sarah and Kyle are being relentlessly hunted and in considerable danger. Indeed, they are attacked immediately after and so the pace continuesIn Judgement Day we know the characters are in a place of relative safety at this point in the movie and the feeling of pursuit is well and truly lost from thereon inI much preferred Arnie as the bad Terminator, and find a lot of the comedic aspects of this sequel goofy, taken to a further extreme in the third outing. They also date the film furtherI feel that the first movie has strangely aged better than this one. It is set firmly in the 80's but without all the stupid guns and roses and other obvious 'cultural' references. The liquid metal thing while amazing at the time would let's be honest, look a little crap to young eyes I'm sure. The opening sequence is still brilliant The sound in Judgement Day is unbelievably good. All the weapons sound fantastic and full of character, especially the grenade launcher, mini-gun and the T1000's Beretta. Although I did prefer the delayed style heart beat effect in the first one which intensified the tension and was a very clever audio cue. They use a similar device in Judgement Day but it's not nearly as goodA great movie that absolutely shouldn't be missed, but I find The Terminator stands up much better to repeated viewing


                
T2 has many things the original lacked.  Better special effects, a bit more character development, some neat plot twists, and a bit more teen appeal by having John Connor appear at age 15 or so.  Also, it probably had a much larger budget.  But somehow it just never captures my interest the way the original did.  No doubt that it's a good movie.  But just not AS good. Arnold did better as a baddie without lines.  Definitely worth seeing, but not quite up to the original.


                
Terminator 2 is a good film but not as good as the first one. In my opinnon Arnold gave a better proformace in the first movie along with the directing. To me if it was not for Robert Patrick being one of the greatest villins I have ever seen I dont think this film would have been rated as high as it is. So I have figured out that the highest this film should be rated is a 7 and anyone who rates it over that is stupid.


                
T2 is a fab movie, especially with its 2nd generation cgi and the introduction of Morphing. Coupled with a good, but slightly convoluted script, and passable acting, T2 deserved to be a box office smash.It was also good to see Arnie return but this time as the good cyborg as opposed to the baddie in T1. Robert Patrick was also very good as the T1000 but again, the sfx took most of his character away so he didn't do very much other than do a lot of killing, staring & running.I also felt Linda Hamilton just didn't "look" right as her powerful role, Sarah Connor compared to her original performance in T1. In T2 she looks thin, pale, drawn and doesn't seem to have the same drive or mommentum that she did in T1, even though we have to accept a certain amount of deterioration owing to her incarceration in a mental institution.Ed Furlong, is also quite flat in the acting dept as the young John Connor. He didn't convince for a second and made the film feel uneven: there are better child actors available but I'm afraid Ed just didn't cut the mustard here.It's a shame the Mike Biehn didn't reprise his role because he would've added more interpersonal characterisation between Sarah & himself. But as it is the film lacks a certain "warmth" that leaves the audience isolated and not fully caring for any of the lead characters.It cannot be denied that T2 is a great film but only in the context of sfx and extending the scope of the sci-fi genre. Otherwise the film looks a pale imitation to the original & superior Terminator.**/*****


                
This is by no means a bad movie. I love the performances all around, the action is great, the directing is very smooth and I was overall very fond to stepping into the Terminator universe once more. That being said, while this sequel is certainly more ambitious in it's set pieces, I enjoyed the first one a lot more.The plot follows the same structure, except Arnold is casted differently. The first half of the movie fleshes out the characters and their motivations. It definitely sucked me in. The second half consisted of mostly just metal, bullets, trucks and explosions. The ending was kind of predictable. All in all, it was very entertaining and polished, but I don't think the film had anything significant to add on the first.


                
Terminator 2 was the most expensive movie in the world when it was released back in 1992.  This movie is a big-budget-blockbuster, whereas the original movie was a cultish action/sci-fi made on a small budget. The extra cash means cooler and more spectacular actionscenes, tons of special-effects(but they look a bit crap now) and better-looking scenery. The movie is almost as good as the original, but this is why I think the original Terminator is a bit better: it doesn`t have the annoying and completely useless brat whose name is John Connor, it was an overall darker movie and Schwarzenegger was more sadistic(which is what The Terminator is all about). Still, it is a must see for those who`ve seen T1, just turn your head away from the TV-screen when John Connor(Eddie Furlong) enters the screen. 9/10


                
The opening scenes of James Cameron's acclaimed, overrated 1991 sequel TERMINATOR 2:JUDGMENT DAY (T2) are all one needs to see to know why this movie is not nearly the equal or superior to it's classic predecessor THE TERMINATOR (T1)!In the first 30 minutes of T2, we get THREE cliché "Hollywood" scenes: (1) Arnold Schwarzenegger's naked "good guy" T800 (polarizing the bad guy in T1) in a ho-hum bar brawl with a group of mocking bikers (the SAME scene occurred in T1 and grittier, esp. the reaction of the last punk, whose muted, jittery fear spoke volumes!), the last of which pulls a gun (typical sequelitis up-the-ante trick), then unconvincingly utters TAKE IT! His "fear" was the typical "Hollywood reactionary type" that I've seen in a bunch of movies.(2) A scene with a now loony, buffed-up Sarah Connor (reprised by Linda Hamilton) in an insane asylum where the police psychiatrist from T1 now works (convenient) as he briefs a group of interns on her and then an utterly predictable and tepid exchange ONLY for explanation and exposition...BORING!(3) ANOTHER expository scene introducing 10-year old John Connor (a fetus at the end of T1), establishing him as a juvenile delinquent and showing how his foster folks are jerks We also get introduced to a new, improved evil Terminator, the liquid-metal T1000, played by Robert Patrick whose job it is to terminate John Connor; he can assume any human form and kills and takes the place of a cop (convenient plot device for the rest of the movie)I don't see how a movie with such a tedious introductory 30 minutes can be proclaimed the "greatest" ANYTHING of all time! And the rest of the film is filled with nothing but cliché dialog that is still sadly heard today in many action films (I guess T2 is influential in that sense).Schwarzenegger and Hamilton in T2 aren't given near as much to work with and not allowed to display the depth and range of emotions that permeated throughout T1, making it a provocative film and not JUST an action movie. The dialog in T1 had a realistic edge to it, ranging from Reese's hypnotic rants about the apocalypse and the T800's determination to kill Sarah to the gritty, wry (and convincing!) banter at the police station. Arnie in particular is stuck actually in a very thankless role, playing lapdog to John Connor (played by Edward Furlong, who gets to deliver an amazing amount of forgettable dialog). I saw nothing that would make me think this kid would be the future resistance leader and no mother-son chemistry between Furlong and Hamilton.For me, the biggest reason why T2 is not in the league of T1 is the "evil" Terminator himself. In no way, shape, or form, does Robert Patrick's T1000 match or come close to Arnie's no-nonsense, unflappable T800! I've seen some people complain that Patrick is not on screen enough. But guess what? Arnie probably had about the same (maybe even less) screen time in T1 than Patrick did in this movie and Schwarzenegger managed to be 100% convincing and frightening every second he was on screen in T1. To be fair, Patrick was confined by the conventions of what is really a generic action movie.Another big reason T2 is a fail for me is that (contrary to popular opinion!) it violates all that was built up in T1. Now, all of a sudden TWO (one in 84 and one in 94) evil Terminators were sent back. So there was a backup plan all along! Kind of takes the sting out of what Reese went through to save Sarah and ensure the future in T1, doesn't it?! T2 is rather long, also, with quite a few, expository, unnecessary scenes that seem to be designed to give it depth and to stretch the film out to the appropriate length of a big, summer blockbuster movie. Example would be a scene past the midway point where Sarah narrates (while she looks at them) how the good T800 is like perfect father to John of all the fathers he's had; the narration doesn't work and the whole scene doesn't work. What's ironic is that in T1, the human Reese was just as willing to sacrifice others to save Sarah as the T800 was in order to kill her, while in T2, Reese's "replacement", who is not human, is sanitized to the point of not even seeming like a machine most of the time b/c young John won't allow him to kill; I guess it's a message about morality even in war, but not delivered as effectively (due to stilted dialog and unbelievable scenes) as the "win at all costs" attitude of T1.In fairness, even though dated in terms of 80s, even people that love T1 (I do!) don't hold that against it and defend it for it's deep story, strong characterizations, brisk pace, nightmarish-noir look, and influence on the sci-fi genre. Even people that like T2 more than T1 (I do not!) compliment the original on these same things, so that's something.I understand why T2 is held in regard in terms of special effects. For a near 20-year old movie, the effects are still impressive, especially the smooth transitions in Patrick's T1000 going from metal to human form and back. CGI movies today could learn a thing or two from this film. Also, all the action scenes in this movie are "necessary", if a bit showy. The action in T2 is well executed, if a bit too clean (minimal blood, no guts). But in between the few big, well done action scenes, there's standard dialog, boring character interactions, and predictable outcomes. None of this was true of T1!
This film suffers from its PG certificate. Out goes the violence, nudity and bleak depictions of urban America in comes the 'jokes' the ill thought out war=bad philosophy and a whiny irritating pubescent to corner the teen girl market. The Terminater is no longer the killing machine of yore, he shoots his enemy's in the knee cap, we have cliché laden dialogue 'why are your eyes leaking' 'what is the emotion called love human?'...terrible, terrible. The film is plainly aimed at the teen market, from the mall setting, teen lead and junk food and video game product placement it suffers as a result. It has many plot holes in it which other reviewers have covered. The acting from Lijnda Hamilton was competent though i didn't believe her descent in to psychosis. But is does have some saving elements, for those who saw the film at the cinema the effects did seem revolutionary at the time. The chase sequences though repeated endlessly are fast paced if doubtful. In summation this sequel should have been an 18 and included a better cleverer script, but it made millions and a sequel to this sequel was inevitable.
I liked this film. However, I saw it opening weekend in Times Square (Manhattan, NYC). It was fun to watch, but the dialogue is so ridiculous, it is funny (in all the wrong places). I mean, most of the audience was roaring with laughter during the "driving down the highway at night" scenes. Those are when Sarah Conner is doing the truly woeful voice overs about "no future but what we make" and so on. I swear if James Cameron had been there he would have freaked out. He is so overrated as a director. It simply shows how ignorant people are when you see how financially successful a film can be, which has truly pitiful dialogue. I cringe during some of the lines people have. I also understand why so many people refuse to work with him because he is extremely careless (ask anyone who worked on "The Abyss"); he is dangerous.
This movie is good. you've got everything for a good action movie ; all the explosion, heart pumping, etc.Nonetheless, I was disappointed. The first one is an action / sci-fi masterpiece. sure, some visual effects seem a bit old now, but who cares?In this one, the visuals are great. some of the computer effects are better than in new movies (26 years later!). what really made it less good for me were two things.The first thing doesn't include spoilers really ; it's that they tell you EVERYTHING. While in the first one, the superb script writing leaves you cluelessly curious for most of the film, this one essentially tells you everything from the very start. Ok sure, the first one already existed, so it had less of a novelty effect, but nonetheless, here they really leave no room for curiosity to grow, which I found of course, less thrilling.The second thing is... all the plot holes! Really, some things I could not get my head around. the first is, of course, why would the machines send the t-1000, more advanced model terminator, later in the past, than in the first part? Of course, for this film they had to think up some new, novel way to entertain people - a new, more advanced terminator seemed a good way, but this one is just over the top! why wouldn't the machines send that one? it doesn't make too much sense.A few other plot holes popped up along the way - more bothersome than this one in my opinion, but no examples come to mind now. nonetheless, how ever small they were, they stoped me from fully enjoying the picture.Basically, it's a good movie, but in no way does it compare to the first one, and it does have many plot holes.
Now Terminator has become a staple of icon upon icon for action movies. For the most part, I don't blame people for saying that. The Terminator films (with the exception of 3 and 4) are all entertaining.So if you haven't seen the first one let me go down the plot; A machine is sent from the future to kill Sarah Connor, the mother of the child that would lead the human resistance to defeat the machines, a soldier from her son's army is also sent back to protect her. It was a surprisingly effective sci-fi/thriller and even brought the question of man's nature with machines into play. Its actually my favourite Terminator film.The plot to THIS Terminator film is almost like it was made by fan fiction. Two Terminators are sent back in time, one to kill John Connor as a child, one to protect him. The film actually has a well done execution and it does feature some well done action scenes and character development.However if you line up both Terminator movies both films seem like different features. One is a science fiction thriller about the dangers of independently thinking machines, the other is a sci-fi action that started the career of Edward Furlong (really?).So is this the 39th greatest movie of all time? Not even close. Is it one of the good Arnold Schwarzenegger movies? Yes. Check it out if you haven't already, you wont be disappointed.


                
The second film in the Terminator franchise used CGI technology to great effect and along with marvellous stunts and other visual effects helped make it a 'best in class' spectacle and a great genre film. It has an intriguing hero, a fierce heroine, and a young boy who is played with energy. One of the few false notes is that the story doesn't produce one single character to root for, and the ending doesn't make 'Sarah Connor' the hero prepared to terminate the machine herself despite everything.
The film has an interesting story, but to audiences it was a repeat premise of the Terminator (1984) - a boy has to be destroyed so that he doesn't grow up to be a revolutionary leader who would thwart the objective of an artificial intelligence computer network to bring about a nuclear war. Science paradoxes are rife - a higher intelligence in the future is the very end product of its time travelling mission so as to deduce in a femtosecond that it is futile logic.
That aside, we have a convincing central performance from its star once again, and stirring support from Linda Hamilton. Robert Patrick gives a menacing portrayal of the advanced machine out to stop the prevention of 'Judgment Day'. The pacing is good with some thought provoking narrative tight to the storyline which produces comical material in the Terminator-boy exchanges. 
There are the usual car chases, explosions and fight scenes, all well done - and well directed in the big set pieces, but it is a film most memorable for the way the movie envisions a liquid metal human figure. Since technology has emerged in recent years able to mimic this effect in some small way makes Direcor James Cameron's vision quite remarkable. 
Tension doesn't run quite as high as in the former film, where Arnold Schwarzenegger excelled in convincing us of a terrifying force and image, a diabolical killing machine seemingly incapable of being destroyed by humans, but it is in the special effects that this film soars to realise the vision of a high technology future and epic story of man vs thinking machine.


                
It was just so bunched with action that I didn't really want to keep watching.


                
Terminator 2: Judgment Day This movie was awesome......amazing world creation in movie. i was not missed any part of Terminator movie. My friend's tell me VFX and sound effect it's good in theater. Upcoming movie part, I am waiting here. I great fan for Hollywood movie. Really great it's good movie. my children was crazy in theater.


                
This 1991 sequel to "The Terminator" from 1984, is almost as good as the first movie. Almost.Director James Cameron went in a somewhat very deviant direction with this sequel movie. And in my opinion he strayed a bit too much from the original storyline. Sure it was cool to see the T-1000 cyborg and its liquid metal ability, but at the same time having the T-800 model sent back to protect Sarah Connor's child was an odd twist of events for me.That being said, I am not saying that "Terminator 2: Judgment Day" is a bad or poor movie, far from it. Because this movie is action-packed and fast paced from start to end. I just personally didn't like the switch of roles all too keenly.Arnold Schwarzenegger and Linda Hamilton reprise their roles quite well, carrying on from the original movie. I can't claim to be overly much a fan of Edward Furlong, so in my opinion he wasn't the best of choices for the role. Robert Patrick, however, he was really well-cast for the role of the T-1000.The effects in "Terminator 2: Judgment Day" were quite good, and the effects with the T-1000 were rather groundbreaking back then in 1991. And the special effects really helped the movie along quite nicely, because they added a level of believability to the movie.All in all then "Terminator 2: Judgment Day" is an entertaining action movie. I just didn't find it fully as entertaining as the first movie. But still well-worth a watch.


                
This movie was far and away my favorite film for several years after it was released. I was thirteen when the film hit theaters in 1991, and I had seen the original "Terminator" over and over again on VHS when I was a kid. Back then, "T2: Judgment Day" seemed like a huge improvement over its predecessor. The effects were much better, for one, and the storyline seemed more developed--and that's probably a true statement.However, having watched both films this week, I can safely say that as an adult, I now find the first "Terminator" to be far superior to this sequel. The original movie has so much going for it in terms of just being a quality stand alone film. This sequel has its good qualities as well--it's still a good film, which is why I've given it 7/10 stars. Still, seeing this film now, I'm able to see its flaws a bit more clearly. As good as it is, throughout the film I found myself surprised to imagine that it didn't seem too much better, quality wise, than a made-for-TV movie would today. Schwarzenegger's character still looks fake when the cyborg skeleton starts showing through his face in the final fight scene (although the part where the inner skeleton arm is revealed is pretty cool). That, and while there are plenty of big league action scenes in this movie, the light-hearted vibe of this movie--the witty banter mixed with things like George Thorogood's "Bad to the Bone" being part of the score--just makes this film a bit hard to take seriously. It's a film that was made to be a blockbuster that would appeal to all, whereas the original was a sci-fi/horror flick that happened to become a blockbuster because of its innate quality.All in all this movie is still good and watchable. But I see it very differently at 37 than I did at 13. 7/10 stars.


                
I was a kid when "Terminator 2" came out, and I remember that Summer vividly. It was everywhere; the Subway marketing campaign, the Guns 'n Roses song, even the action figures. It didn't occur to me that this movie would hold nostalgia value, but . . . well, there you go. There are a few reasons why "Terminator 2" doesn't deliver as much enjoyment for me as the first film; I was never that hot on the score, especially the chase scenes; the T-1000 is a much better effect than a opposing force, it (and Patrick) lacks the unstoppable stalker quality and scare that Schwarzenegger had in '84; Linda Hamilton's narration is a bit much (we can see why she's brooding without hearing her tell us why); and the dialog in between action spectacles is so low-key and done in whispers (usually the ones involving Hamilton) that it tends to slow things down. But the movie (for the most part) makes up for these with its novel sci-fi invention and terrific action scenes:1. The shotgun in the rose box (just a great image) 2. The showdown in the mall hallway 3. The truck chase through the canals 4. The entire Cyberdyne sequence (and a great location pick for that office building)Cameron makes an interesting contrast between the sun-drenched Los Angeles daytime with the cold blue steel palette of the night scenes. And regardless of the film's lesser points, this is a movie with its own look, style and enough excitement to keep anyone interested in its nightmare war-ravaged future. It's still not Cameron's best, but it's also no "Avatar".7/10
Arnold Schwarzenegger, Linda Hamilton, Edward Furlong and Robert Patrick star in James Cameron's 1991 sci-fi sequel. In this sequel, a cyborg (Schwarzenegger) is sent to protect Sarah Connor (Hamilton) and her son, John (Furlong) whose a resistance leader in the future. Soon, a deadly liquid metal assassin called a, T-1000 (Patrick) is sent to kill the Connors. Sarah is held in a psychiatric hospital and tries to escape until she's met face to face with the terminator and reunited with John. Soon, they fight against the T-1000 and try to save the future from destroying itself. This is a good sequel and Arnold and Linda are great as usual. I recommend this.
"Terminator 2: Judgement Day" was James Cameron's highly successful, special effects laden sequel to his earlier hit "The Terminator" (1984) which had catapulted star Arnold Schwarzeneggar to super stardom. In that film Arnold was a pure villain. Here he is again the hero.T2 takes place about ten years after the first film. We find that John Connor (Edward Furlong) is now a smart ass teenager living with and defying his foster parents the Voights (Jennette Goldstein, Xander Berkley). Sarah Connor (Linda Hamilton) is now in a mental institution where no one believes her predictions of total Armageddon.From the year 2029, John Connor, the leader of the anti-machine rebels, dispatches a terminator (Arnold) back in time to protect himself from harm. The machine race also sends a terminator, the new and improved T-1000 model (Robert Patrick) who has the ability morph into any life form he chooses and is virtually indestructible. He is made from "liquid metal" which allows him to re-form any time after he is blown away by Arnold or any one else.Sarah is unsuccessful at convincing Dr. Silverman (Earl Boen) that she is sane, so she plans an escape. Meanwhile Arnold has materialized and throws a couple of bikers through pool room windows while acquiring his wardrobe, weapons and a motorcycle. The T-1000 also appears and takes on the guise of a cop. Both try to track down the whereabouts of John Connor.Arnold finds him first and whisks him away from danger on his bike. Their escape from the T-1000 in a semi cab is one of the highlights of the film. Arnold and John go to the asylum and help free Sarah while the T-1000 murders the Voights while trying to trap John. John learns that the terminator is programmed to obey him and instructs the robot not to kill anyone. Bummer.Sarah is no longer the fearful innocent of the first film, but a hard-nosed freedom fighter complete with an unexplained cache of weapons with which to arm Arnold. Anyway, they soon learn that Miles Dyson (Joe Morton) will be the one responsible for developing the technology that will ultimately cause the final war in which the machines inherit the earth.Sarah sneaks off to Dyson's home intent upon killing him. She shoots up his equipment, terrifying Dyson, his wife (S. Epatha Merkerson) and their young son. But Sarah in the final analysis, is unable to kill him. Arnold and John arrive on the scene and learn that the basis for Dyson's discoveries is a damaged memory chip from the first terminator. Now convinced that Sarah is right, Dyson agrees to go to his laboratory and destroy all evidence of his work.The T-1000 is relentless in his pursuit and nothing is able to stop him, bullets, fires or explosions. Finally he corners Arnold and the Connors in a smelting plant and...................................Producer/Director Cameron gives us an exciting action packed story. It doesn't however, have the originality and believability of the first film. Arnold starts out as the same emotionless robot of the first film but Cameron allows him to develop a "personality" and become more sympathetic. He was much more effective, as the unfeeling villain in the first picture.Although many of the special effects are indeed spectacular, they are just not believable. The scores of wrecked vehicles and persons thrown about and/or blown up/shot stretches credibility to the maximum. But hey, this is an Arnold film and one expects such things. And Cameron's use of the melting metal effect is over done. There appears to be no working parts in the T-1000 other than this metal. Arnold on the other hand, is a walking computer with explainable parts.Followed by a second sequel, Terminator 3: The Rise of the Machines (2003) which, to date, is Schwarzeneggar's final film.
This movie is so deftly composed that the "battle" scenes take on a heightened reality. Many action flicks - MI:2 is a good example - seem so absurd that it pops you back into reality rather than absorbing you into the action (in MI:2, for example, we are supposed to believe that the characters deliberately jump off their motorcycles to do a high speed body slam, fall 50 ft., survive without injury and shake it off immediately, then resume their fight.... puh-leaze, take a course in physics, or at least common sense). T2 seems believable, in the sense that the terminators act in much the way their capabilities are outlined, and the way the scenes unfold with a degree of intelligence. That intelligence undoubtably comes from Director Cameron: you get the impression that he didn't just blindly shoot a scene, but stood their scratching his chin to think of interesting, exciting, yet reasonable ways to proceed (eg. the scene with Arnold solving his tanker truck problem near the end of the movie).... "What WOULD a smart terminator do here?" Arnold probably contributed significantly, too, as he's no dummy.As action flicks go, this is pretty basic - interesting premise, but it's not as meaningful as the old movie "The Great Escape" or as intriguing or with the character development of "Raiders of the Lost Ark". But if you are looking for an entertaining and novel good guy vs. bad guy movie, and if you appreciate AH-nold at his droll best, this is a great bet.


                
I was at a shipper,talking to the forklift driver. He was telling me stories about being a big truck tow truck driver.He was telling me about driving through Las Angeles in the tow truck. All the sudden a cop jumps on his truck and pulls the driver out of the truck and then drives off with the mans tow truck. Apparently that kinda thing was happening often in l.A. back then. A cop hijacked a tanker truck full of liquid oxygen and then crashed it in a steel plant. I was thinking,"talk about the wild,wild west!!"Shane Wilder and Robert Patrick dive the Freightliner big truck tow truck.Terrance Evans and Robert Patrick drive the Freightliner tanker rigThis is the first of several times Robert Patrick drives a big truck.Robert Patrick is a very permanent A+ list actor.Shane Wilder and Terrence Evans are permanent A list actors.Linda Hamilton,Jennette Goldstein,Noel Evangelisti,Gwenda Deacon and S Epatha Merkerson are hot!!!Terrence Evans and Jennette Goldstein performance is outstanding!!!---One Truck Drivers Opinion---erldwgstruckermovies.com


                
Thriller action and arnold that made this movie a must watch in its era .
it teaches us one thing say when you are defeated "I am back"


                
An original delivery of defense mechanisms for a possible weapons project created with artificial intelligence that can end badly, the director fictitiously routes what can happen to not having a clear vision of how the human can create mechanisms that could not Get to control.


                
Terminators 2 is the follow up to T-1 with the continuing adventures of the cyborg, played with wry humorous by Arnold Schwarzenegger. John Connor is now ten and being trained by Sarah for his future as a leader against the enemy, skynet. A new terminators, t-1000 is sent to kill John, and in a role reversal, Arnold, the previous t-800 model is on hand to protect John. The t-1000 can change itself into different shapes and can also imitate humans. It takes the form of a cop and pursues John with murderous intent. The high point is a chase where t-800(Arnold) takes John on a high speed motorcycle chase from the new cyborg. Sarah finds out that skynet intends to create a nuclear war to destroy all of humanity. She and her son, with the help of Arnie, fight to the finish with the new villain. T-2 is much more sophisticated film then its predecessor and both are good action movies.


                
Technically, this is a superb film that combines excellent sets with exceptional use of computer graphics and photography to create a better feeling than Terminator 1. However, as far as the plot goes, I have two problems.Problem #1 is this conversation from the first movie between Kyle Reese and Dr. Silberman: Silberman: "Is that when you captured the lab and found...the time displacement equipment?" Reese: "That's right. The Terminator had already gone through. Connor sent me to intercept and they blew the place." Silberman: "How are you supposed to get back?" Reese: "I can't. Nobody goes home, nobody else goes through. It's just me and him." Therein lies the rub, as the Bard would say. How did the second Terminator get sent through by Skynet if its defense grid was smashed and the resistance had won? Now, to be fair, since Reese came from 2027 and the newly touted year in T2 is 2029, perhaps the resistance was premature in their boasting of victory and Skynet was able to rebuild the lab. But you have to admit, since we are talking about time travel, it does seem like a bit of an inconsistency.Problem #2 is a bit more profound. At the end of T2, we witness the destruction of all of Dyson's work, the broken chip from the first Terminator, and the meltdown of both the T-1000 and the Protector. Therefore, if Skynet is never built, there is no Judgment Day, there is no time displacement device, Kyle Reese is never sent back from the future, and John Connor cannot exist. This would seem to preclude the making of a third film, but when logic and fantasy conflict, fantasy usually wins out.There are a few other problems with T2, but they are not plot related. Edward Furlong, who was introduced in this film, does an excellent job of transitioning from budding juvenile delinquent to accepting his role as the destined leader of the resistance, but he is the only character that truly develops in the plot. Joe Morton and S. Epatha Merkerson do a fine job of portraying a family caught up in unbelievable circumstances, but overall this film relies heavily on the special effects and much less on the characters of the story. Somehow Cameron has lost the vision of Harlan Ellison and settled for the box office blitz as the purpose of the film. Rated R for violence and language, I would have to disagree and say PG-13. Collectible as the sequel to the original, by itself, not particularly.


                
