15 years on and still Terminator 2 remains a turning point in cinematic history introducing the world to photo-realistic computer generated 3D rendering. To this day, this is still an astounding achievement, however (ironically) these are the things that re-watching the film now, you notice as not being to the standard we now expect films to be.As a result of this, you're then forced to look beyond the graphics in search of other quality. When I last watched it (about 3 weeks ago), something stood out to me that never did before because of no longer being mesmerised by the graphics.This was the interactions between characters who are gritting, no nonsense, hard edged people, but those who care deeply for one another. In particular, I'm referring to Sarah and John Connor, but also to the inhuman T-101 in all it's programming trying to humanise itself (at the demand if John).Though these might sound like day to day interactions (pardoning the whole terminator and robotic elements here), but to put them onto film and not have them feel forced or contrived is quite a feat, and all of these were achieved far above the expectation of one watching an "action" movie. You truly believe that John is devastated to have to lose T-101. You can tell he's fearful about Sarah going off to kill the man who would kill the world, unwittingly.I urge you all to sit down and watch this film again. You will remember things you've long since forgotten, and maybe appreciate something you never even noticed was there before.


                
It's almost unfair to write this review in 2009, a shocking 20 years since this film was put into production, where the future that James Cameron imagined is much closer than before and the effects he did with computers are now standard action techniques. Kids growing up from here on out watching "Terminator 2: Judgement Day" won't even have a sense of ground this film broke, and consequently their overall enjoyment of the film will be a bit less. I give this film 8/10 when it's deserving of more in the right context -- these kids might go lower.But even the lowest of budgets can be better than a digital spectacle with a better story. "T2" has that story, brilliantly taking its iconic villain, The Terminator (Schwarzenegger) from the first film, and bringing him back as a good guy. Genius. This time he is sent back in time to protect a 10-year-old John Connor (Edward Furlong), son of Sarah Connor (Linda Hamilton) and leader of the humans in the future when the machines they create turn on them -- not kill him. That job is left to T-1000 (Robert Patrick), who is made of shape-shifting liquid metal. Today, that's nothing, but 20 years ago, T-1000 joined the ranks of Darth Vader on the villains list and there he still stays in the minds of many.Much like 1984's "The Terminator," one guy from the future is good, the other bad, and both are engaged in the life of a human who is pivotal to the future. Wherever one goes, the other follows. The difference is that James Cameron has turned the weapons and explosives scale up to a 15 on a scale of 10. Hamilton, once an '80s party girl, is now an angry and muscular 35-year-old who goes crazy on people; Schwarzenegger's shotgun is now on the puny end of his arsenal.James Cameron wows with the action. It sort of erases his attempt to tell a story about the differences between humans and robots through the relationship between John and the Terminator, but just about everything with a motor or a computer chip in it meets some sort of spark-flying combustible end. Plus, it all looks better than the first. Cameron has much better models of Schwarzenegger to beat up and he weaves them in more cleverly. The make-up is also superior. Talk about a visual marvel for its time -- all the Oscars for various effects and make-up are certainly well- deserved. Cameron decides that an action movie about the future isn't worth making unless it breaks ground. It's hard to disagree with the man.The acting could still be better, but believe it or not, I don't mean Schwarzenegger. He's actually much better now that he's got the English thing down -- or at least intelligible. Hamilton's Sarah is just too angry and a withered shell of her former self, which makes sense in the context of the story but makes her not too likable. Furlong, as young John, is kind of a whiny and obnoxious turd who desperately needs his voice to drop. Neither matter too much, however, because Terminator is super easy to root for ... and they're fighting to save the human race in the future, which is cool.Nowadays it's sadly easy to shake-off explosions and action stunts in movies like it's been- there-done-that, but also in the age of the move to 3D and miraculous CGI, it shouldn't be hard for the movie-goer who appreciates today's groundbreaking technology to consider the same for a movie made 20 years ago.


                
I'm not even going to bother with a real review of this film, because it has like 4000 other reviews and most people know what it is even if they haven't seen it. Sarah Conner's in an insane asylum, and a robot from the future has come to kill her son. But don't worry, because her son (in the future) sent his own robot back to kill the other robot and save the son (himself). Yeah, it might not make sense from a time travel point of view, but just deal with it.What to say? Arnold is great, as usual (though this is no "Commando"). Edward Furlong is young, but does a fine job. I don't have the crush on him some people do, but he's cool. Robert Patrick is also awesome, even if he has creepy weird ears. And this is more action than you'll get in most films, which is probably what you want if you're watching this.There, that was my little review. Maybe next time i see the film, I'll expand it to something with substance. But for now, this is good enough... read the other reviews instead. (Yes, you can vote this to the very bottom of "helpful" reviews.)


                
And really, this is what T2 is.  Giving Arnold the Kyle Resse role the time around to promote Schwarzenegger's then newer "good guy" image.  But downplaying that, this film definitely keeps the entertainment and wow factor.It's T-800 versus the shape-shifting T-1000 in another battle for the future and the fate of John Connor.  A more buff version of Linda Hamilton.  A supporting role from Sam of "Diff'rent Stokes" as John's punk friend.  Lots of explosions, gun fights and chases.  And still remarkably good special effects even by today's standards.  Schwarzenegger has charisma.  His acting range is best in two areas, acting and comedy, and this film allows him to do both.  His cyborg persona's attempt to understand humanity ranges from funny to surprisingly touching.  The plot is a retelling of the original film, but it's a secondary point for the sheer entertainment value that's delivered from this film. There's not much that truly can be said about this film ten years after its release.  It's a landmark film in the sci-fi genre, especially for its technical advances with CG effects.  The "Ultimate Edition" DVD released last year is a "must get" as it adds deleted scenes to the film (The Terminator learning to smile is well worth the price of admission), as well as the "extras" book and all the "Behind the Scenes" information.  And the audio quality is nothing to sneeze at, either.  An excellent demonstration of any sound system.Terminator 2: Judgement Day remains a remarkable film.  Go in expecting lots of action and a classic Arnold performance, and there will be little to be disappointed with.  With a "T3" in the works, it seems that not only the future of humanity is uncertain, but of this franchise as well.  Hopefully they'll be able to one-up the standards of sci-fi again, and not be out just to make a quick buck.


                
I usually don't rate highly movies in which I can't stand listening to two-thirds of the lead characters, but this film has so many spectacular, memorable moments it always fascinates me....and brings me back. I enjoyed all three of the "Terminator" films but this one has always stood out.....because of the villain and the incredible special-effects. When this movie came out, the FX regarding Robert Patrick's cyborg-patrol cop were so jaw- dropping, so astounding that people couldn't believe what they were seeing. Some 15 years later, they are still cool. Watching Patrick morph into various characters is incredible, literally changing shapes or having his fingers or arms extend to an awl-like instruments. For a long time, he looks like the most indestructible "person" I've ever seen in a film. He certainly is still one of the most unique villains ever shown on film.Arnold Schwarzenegger, an intelligent but less-advanced cyborg, plays the only likable character. The mother-son combination of Linda Hamilton and Edward Furlong are too hard-edged, too smart-mouthed for my tastes. Hamilton was a lot more feminine and humanistic in the first "Terminator." Now she's ultra-macho and profane. Much worse than her is her kid, a real punk if there ever was one. There's something very irritating about Furlong, and not just the character he plays here. I'm not surprised he never became a star. Actually, a lot of the dialog in here is terrible and a testimony to the sleazy people who wrote the screenplay. The director, James Cameron, has done a number of similar films with foul- mouthed characters. Still, despite all these annoyances, as a fan of special-effects and a good adventure yarn, I can't help but keep watching this DVD every three or four years.


                
Not too many sequels do as well as the 1st movie. This movie holds itself up high. Probably one of the strength of the movie is today's Hollywood search of a bad a$$ woman hero. To Red Sparrow(Jennifer Lawrence) to Atomic Blonde(Charlize Theron) and to Revenge (Matilda Anna Ingrid Lutz). Hollywood REALLY wants to find that bad woman, you did Hollywood her name IS Sarah Connor (Linda Hamilton)!!!!! Please bring her back to us. She is my 1st choice to redeem Sarah Connor, but if not her I would recommend these 2 stud women: 1st Evangeline Lilly and 2nd Brooke Ence!!!!!


                
If Sarah Connor is only 29 now, which they said she is in Terminator 2, how could she have a son John's age? I would guess he's supposed to be at least 15. That would've meant she had John when she was around 14. He wasn't born yet in the first Terminator movie. Sarah got pregnant by the the guy sent to save her in the first movie. Sarah was an adult in the first movie.


                
In The Terminator, Arnold Schwarznegger play a menacing cyborg from the future. His mission was to terminate the woman who hold the key to the future. Now, In Terminator 2: Judgement Day, that change. In this sequel to the 1984 smash hit, Arnold Schwarznegger reprises his role as the Terminator. But, this time, his mission is to protect a teenager from another terminator. The new terminator is played by Robert Patrick. What's unique about Patrick's performance is that his character is made out of liquid metal. It can form into a puddle, or shape-shifted in any way. The action sequences are astonishing. Every chase after chase, the action gets better and better. This is a good sequel to a good movie. Arnold Schwarznegger is terrific as the The Terminator, once again, this time playing a hero and, somewhat of a father figure to Edward Furlong, the actor who plays John Connor. Linda Hamilton is also terrific as Sarah Connor, the mother of the future. The special effects are wonderful, spell-binding and explosive. Arnold Schwarznegger's performance as the Terminator is superb. <U+2605><U+2605><U+2605> 1/2 3 1/2 stars.


                
The twist in the sequel to the frankly quite good sci-fi actioner The Terminator is that this time, Arnold Schwarzenegger is on our side, with Johnny Cash's dad / Sopranos debt ower Robert Patrick on the other. The Terminator is here to save John Connor, and, consequently, Linda Hamilton, from the new T-1000 which, through some very impressive special effects can change into a liquid, among other things. Edward Furlong, he who could act in American History X, does not do so well here, with his character of John Connor rather annoying. An irritating voice-over from Hamilton is also peculiarly brought in halfway through that seems out of place as well, while Arnie is his usual self. Despite all this however, the sheer scale of the special effects of the action sequences is more than enough to make the film passable, with many scenes that linger in the memory. Even with some spelt-out 'sub'texts, this is almost the perfect action film. 4 / 5


                
This is among my favorites, it's thee greatest film of James Cameron. It's better than the first and third but if you have never seen any terminator movies, you should watch the first. This movie won special effects of 1991 but it deserves more. Arnolds acting has improved from the first. You should get the extreme DVD, it is extended with extra scenes that are quite important (in my opinion). This movie is also the most lightened up of the three (mostly due to john Connor's sense of humor). Like all terminator movies, the bad guy has more advantages. This movie has a little bit slower pace than the other two, it is also the longest, 1 hour 59 minutes regular and about 2 1/2 hours extended.


                
"Have you seen this boy?" It's always funny. I'm convinced that the reason Arnold became governor of California is because of how great this movie is. It takes a really cool Sci-fy idea and works it into a great film. The action in the movie was great, it kept me on the edge of my seat. The guy who plays the mean robot is really convincing. I actually had a nightmare about him. I think Edward Ferlong was really great as well. Arnold was perfect for his role. The words "asta lavesta baby" and "I'll be back" will be quoted for ever. I liked all the dark shots and the metallic scenery. This movie is a classic film. I watch it whenever there is a storm and I feel like the apocalypse is coming because the thunder and lightning is so harsh. I think it enhances the greatness of the film.


                
James Cameron just keeps putting out hit after hit. After the success of 1984s The Terminator, and 1986s Aliens, Cameron brings us another hit film with the sequel to The Terminator.Back in 1984 Skynet sent a cyborg back from the future to kill Sarah Connor before she conceived a son that would grow up to lead the resistance and defeat the machines. It failed. Now Skynet has sent back a more advanced and even deadlier Terminator, called the T-1000, to kill Sarah's son John (Edward Furlong), who is now a young teenager with an attitude and living with foster parents. However the rebels were once again able to send someone back to protect John Connor. What follows is one of the most action packed films to ever hit the screen.The special effects in T2 are much improved over the old 1984 film, and the pacing, classic Cameron, is just as well as in the earlier film. However this time around the acting by Linda Hamilton seems a little too forced, and the storyline doesn't resonate as well as in the earlier film. What would, since the earlier film had such a unique story. The only thing T2 could do, as a sequel, is follow the story and keep us interested. It does all those things, but it can never quite match the ideas that were brought forth in the original film because after all it is just a second part to that movie.Arnold Swarzennegger's role in this film can't quite reach the pinnacle of success of the first film either because here he is made into a good guy as protector of John. Since the new Terminator is so much more advanced, Arnold is kind of made to look a little weak here, and that takes some of the edge away from his character. After all, in the original he was made into this almost indestructible machine that kept coming at you and never stopped. It was fearsome and incredibly scary. He no longer has that now as the good guy. But Robert Patrick, as the advanced T-1000, was perfect for the role. He is just as cold and unforgiving as Arnold was in the first film, but he can morph into anything, including family and friends, and that makes him even more deadly because you never know who or what he could be.I thoroughly enjoyed Terminator 2. It was a fantastic film, and I saw it more than once, so that tells you how much I liked it. The visuals were stunning for 1991, but I can't quite give it classic status like The Terminator and Aliens for reasons mentioned above. Still this is a thrilling experience, and many people did indeed like it more than the first film. I guess it depends on what you're looking for in a sci-fi action adventure. And this one delivers the goods.
T2 opens with a series of shots showing typical LA morning. The everyday joys of life and the things we imagine as a happy day, and then at its peak we see a slow fade to white and the desolate vision of a hopeless future. And over the opening credits, while the longing mechanical sound of the Terminator main theme plays, we see fires consume the dead remains of a shattered city. This is the poetic craft of James Cameron.Terminator 2 never comes across as a sequel. It forever comes across as the film James Cameron wanted to make with the first--it's the film he wished he had the funding for to make. While the original Terminator is an incredibly well made film (especially considering the financial restraints), T2 takes everything the original couldn't do and does it. Now we have a director who isn't scraping along to survive, now we have a visionary with funding ready to show the world how to make an action film, and James Cameron delivered.After viewing Judgment Day for the first time in nearly a decade (after seeing T3), I have to say I liked the special effects of this film over T3, Matrix 2, and the Star Wars prequels. And I have to say I'm developing a growing distaste for the excessive CG in films. There's something more menacing and intimidating about the army of endoskeletons in this film and the raw gritty feel we see in the future scenes with HKs and the resistance struggling to survive. Star Wars had action figures and toys battling in out, Matrix was a video game, T3 was something in between, but T2 was real.The turn of events - making the killer robot from the first film, Cyberdyne model 101, the protector in T2 - that rocked. Since it's T2, why not send 2 terminators back through time? That idea rocked. Then Cameron introduction us to the T-1000. That so rocked.Robert Patrick's performance along with his array of inherent special effects made him one of the more memorable film villains. The key with the T-1000, though, he never does an effect for the hell of it. Limited to only 'knives and stabbing weapons,' he makes such incredible and effective use of the morphing ability you're never intimidated by the likes of Freddy or Jason again.Every effect has a purpose and is integral to either the plot or the characters. T2 makes no detours for the sake of special effects or action. Cameron gives reason for them to be there and goes from there, weaving it into the storyline and characters and cuts right to the point and gets away before it gets boring.The premise is simple and effective - a mother and her son fighting for survival, and then the fight for survival becomes a pre-emptive war against the machines. T2 wisely avoids explaining or even mentioning the inevitable paradoxes time travel concepts create. And never unmasks the ominous future entity that eventually takes over: Skynet.Despite not being the greatest characters ever conceived, I really liked John and Sarah Connor and the personality-less machine who gains his own personality in this film. Cameron doesn't go for overly dramatic with his cast, but instead infuses them with just enough traits and quirks to make them believable and likable without going into overdrive. The most extreme we get is Sarah Connor's mad ravings and venomous remarks towards Skynet's creator, but if you found out the exact date the world ended, why, and how and had to escape a machine from the future to preserve the survival of the human race . . . how would you act on a daily basis?Cameron has a way with the lights and the cameras that make his work transcend above standard action, and sets it in its own little category that's describable as 'James Cameran.' Seldom is there a visually boring moment in Terminator 2. Terminator has its own distinct look and feel. Brad Fiedel answers this with an appropriately unique score to match, now armed with superior synths.T2 succeeds because the music, the characters, and the images never loses its personal nature while the scope expands. Despite being a 'bigger' film, we're zoomed in on a few characters and these characters can and do grow on us. From there we can imagine the coming Armageddon being fought against billions of people just like these characters and not a faceless horde of people we neither know nor care about. It disturbs me that the popular trend is to increase the scale of these films to epic levels and yet throughout the whole experience you never find one character worthy of the film idea their inside.Terminator 2 brings Judgment Day its sad truth. Yes in the storyline 3 billion people die sometime in the future . . . but unlike T3, Cameron has the balls to show the faces of these people, and thus T2 is all the more powerful experience.


                
While the first one was more raw science fiction and overall had a much more serious feel, almost like horror at times - this one, 7 years later, has a much lighter tone to it, all the while remaining a heavy weight blockbuster action thriller. The film-makers turned the table interestingly and it worked: Arnie was this time the good guy, setting up the stage for the older model but likable good guy robot-killer, now back to protect, vs the newer technology evil robot, and where Arnie was all heavy metal with boots and dark shades with heavy punches and kicks and robust weaponry, bad guy T-1000 was smooth, stealthy, lightning quick, surgically precise and sharp, while superior in intelligence and strategy. Put this way, it makes for quite an exciting prospect of a plot on its own, doesn't it ? And the movie delivers. The superiority of the T-1000 is well illustrated, and Arnie and the heroes keep up/escape in a believable way. The film even manages to generate emotion from the viewing public towards a robot, and nobody from this past radius of contemporary generations will ever, ever forget that ending, with Arnie's thumb raised. Globally, an excellently executed sci-fi action from the early 90's. James Cameron did another superb job there, and the film may not be the deepest in cinema history, but it sure provides the goods it promises, and for a sequel, and a sequel that's widely regarded as even superior to its original, an absolute classic in its own right; this is pretty damn strong.


                
There's no reason why I should prefer the first film in this series to "Terminator 2: Judgment Day." Perhaps the original is more of a classic and a personal favorite to me. This sequel goes for more in-depth with plot and character development than the previous film. However, there are several reasons why this film simply cannot measure up to its predecessor. First, this is far more violent than the original. It seems that every couple of minutes someone is either getting shot, beat down, or thrown through glass. Also, I dislike the character of Sarah Connor in this film. She is shown as a far more aggressive and tough woman than in the last movie, which can be unappealing to many. The movie also drags on a little too long in the last couple of scenes and really could have ended sooner, with less action and fighting sequences. Nevertheless, the chase scenes in this movie are some of the most fun and exciting ones I have ever seen. After watching it a few times, it starts to become a classic. Most of the film's elements are masterfully done, right down to the classic scene with the Terminator entering as George Thorogood and the Destroyers' "Bad to the Bone" plays, as well as the well-known "Hasta la vista, baby!" Could be improved upon, but an enjoyable film that lives up to its reputation and a newer sci-fi classic.*** out of ****


                
Terminator 2 is a very clear example of the hype becoming more important than the product. That's not to say the product isn't good, for it is certainly a better film than anything Dolph Lundgren or Jean-Claude Van Damme had been headlining at the time. The problem is that when one reads the commentaries after the fact, they expect to see a film that is as exciting to sit through as a ride in a Lamborghini down an autobahn. The reality is that for a substantial portion of its running time, Terminator 2 is anything but. Honor where honor is due - James Cameron managed to convince a film studio to give him a nine-figure budget to make a film, and it turned a not-insubstantial profit. That feat alone takes excellent film-making skills along with a good understanding of one's market. Combining this with the fact that Carolco Pictures was about to go bankrupt anyway, and the idea of publicising a film online was well over the horizon, makes the film's success even more extraordinary.The film slightly revises the story told in the original, but since this was necessary to make the new story work, we'll let Cameron off the hook for that. Not to mention that unlike the dire Terminator 3, the story still makes sense on its own terms. In essence, Cameron decides to put the machine created in his groundbreaking original against something so radically advanced that not even a machine designed to be invincible is assured of success in stopping it. Realising this new enemy was accomplished through a series of robotic, makeup, prosthetic, and computer effects. This is supposedly where most of the extraordinary budget went, and it shows. Sure, the scene in which we scene a Terminator with much of his skin missing telling a truckie to get out of his own vehicle was amazing, but Cameron really tops it here. When the "get out" line is repeated, we totally believe that it scares the helicopter pilot enough to make him leap sixty feet to the ground.The battle sequences in the film are exceptional, too. From the opening combat in the future to the small-scale duels that run through the rest of the film, the battles are exceptionally choreographed and executed. The absence of camera-shaking or, for the most part, far-too-close shots makes this one of the best films for battle sequences. The escape from the hospital and the siege at the computer manufacturer's offices are far-fetched at the best of times, but they set a cracking pace that leaves the viewer with next to no time to consider this. It is also good to see people spraying blood all over the place when they get shot, in spite of young Connor's ludicrous "don't kill anyone" directive. They could not have chosen a better actor for the new Terminator, either. Robert Patrick really gets the mannerisms shown in the original film down pat, and takes them to a new level. Although he is somewhat small compared to Ah-nuld, he has sufficient presence to not be totally overwhelmed by his massive co-star.Unfortunately, and this is what I have been saying all along, Terminator 2 is let down by a very tedious middle section. One could almost divide the film in two. On one hand, we have an exciting series of battle sequences that, while bridged by some dialogues, rocket the viewer along with a kind of glee. On the other, we have a film where Cameron wears his philosophical waxing on his sleeve, where the characters seem to do nothing but talk and talk. Not only that, but they often state the obvious in a manner that could be considered patronising. I am told that the segue in the desert only takes up about half an hour of screen time, but it feels like ninety minutes. This, and a daft, unnecessary, amount of effort to negate a future that seems already carved in stone by talking a computer scientist into abandoning his research, well, it works in the story, but one cannot help feeling that this film could have been pared down to ninety minutes without any real loss.In the end, The Terminator series should have stopped at one episode. This sequel is very good, but I just cannot help feeling the whole thing is redundant. One cannot blame Ah-nuld for wanting to return to the franchise that made him a household name, especially in light of the failures he had around this time, but one expects a bit more creativity from James Cameron. Still, Terminator 2 is worth watching once, which is more than I can say for a lot of other films I have seen in recent years.


                
This would have been a 10 if no further sequels had been made, illegitimizing this one. I don't think further sequels were planned, which is why this ended perfectly. If there's a dime to be made, leaving well-enough alone will never happen. SMH.


                
I was 7 when the movie was out and I remember it as one of the strongest move experiences of my childhood. Decided to re-watch it again after Genisys to be sure that it's not me getting old, but the Terminator core melting.1. Terminator should not be a PG-13 movie. It's not about a meaningless violence, but Terminator definitely does not care about keeping it clean for the younger audience.2. the movie is visually stunning even after 24 years. Some effects might seem a bit outdated, but the movie is still more impressive than the recent Genisys.3. the acting and directing are superb. No flat jokes, no meaningless and improper emotions.4. Linda Hamilton and Arnie are flawless.


                
What I love about this is... everything really. The catchphrases, the kid that isn't annoying as s**t, and of course the Terminator himself. The first film rocked and intrigued me. There isn't much to say that hasn't been said.What I like is how many times you can just sit back and watch it. It's always entertaining. I'll try to explain why this works in the way I do best: comparisons. What did this get right that Terminator 3 didn't? The story. Terminator 2 feels pretty conclusive but a story can be pulled out of anything. What makes Terminator 2 stand out is that it offers a triumphant, yet a little down ending. Terminator 3 just feels down. Terminator 3 doesn't have a niche going for it.Terminator 4 just feels blah. It looks even more boring than Transformers. Terminator 4 is just something you forget about. Terminator 2 sticks out because of its epic tone and heart. Terminator 4 offers nothing. Not a niche. Not a soul. Not even fun action. Terminator 2 you can just chill and watch stuff blow up while also cracking a smile at the remarks.What makes this stand out from all the Transformers flicks is the fact that the action is intense.The action is everywhere to the point where you don't know what's going on. Terminator 2 let's you see what's happening and it let's you know how it feels!Why Terminator Genisys or whatever it's called is going to suck because you can see it's trying to look and feel like the second one. They've got all the lines and they've got all the gimmicks in the trailer. But what are gimmicks are merely gimmicks. The people who made Terminator 2 knew it would work because it was different and exciting. You know Terminator Genisys won't work because the creators are just relying on something that they know has worked before but don't really know why. And to be honest, Terminator 2 is conclusive.


                
The special effects are incredible. It's funny how I said that as a kid over a decade ago, and that still ultimately sums up the movie for me. James Cameron pioneered an incredible franchise on a shoestring budget, and to see what he's capable of with a large sum doesn't end up sacrificing too much of the series quality.Considering how tense the direction of the first movie was by being a slasher "Tech-Noir" movie, that was slapped with an 18 rating. "T2" ended up a 15, mostly to what I imagined as getting as many people in the seats as possible. Which is fair enough as they finally put big money into the picture. I bring this up because ultimately I saw this one first as a kind of "initiation", to be able to convince my parents to let me see the first one.Well age has hardened me, and I have to admit this movie still remains a classic. But I began to prefer the likes of the first movie more over time. Edward Furlong infuriates me now as an adult, and Linda Hamilton puts in a very well albeit over acted performance. It's obvious from the start both Arnold Schwarzenegger & Robert Patrick will have to hold the movie together, and they really do. Both characters become titans, and the make up effects be it real or digital is just insane.What can I say about the plot? Bad terminator comes from future to kill John Connor, so bad terminator from first movie gets reprogrammed into good terminator to save him. In their way stands motorways, mental hospitals, corporations and steel mills. Stick in some "Guns & Roses", and it all absurdly works. Other than that, it's wonderful and silly but it feels overall smart. This is a great bar to what blockbusters should be, and James Cameron constantly manages to reinvent his filmography without having to rely on too many old tricks. They even adapted it into a highly rated theme park ride for gods sake.Final Verdict: It was a movie that made me want to make robots as a kid, and one of those sequels which really define the genre. 8/10.
I watched this movie 8 years ago for the first time. And its excitements haven't changed at all. And it's getting more interesting than Terminator 1. In 2029, the robots are dominating the world and destroy the human. They try to kill the human resistant's leader, John Conner as well as the previous work. The two terminators came from the Sky Net and the human resistance and the battle over the Conner's life begin. The highlight of this film is the last scene. In the last scene Arnold Schwarzenegger has killed at once, but he restarts and goes to protect Conner. He fights without one arm. Whole the scenes of the film are quietly interesting and exciting. If you haven't watched it, you must watch it. If you can, you should watch the first work before watching 2. You will understand deeply and make the film more interesting. Even if you can't, it's interesting enough.


                
In this film, two terminators are appeared. One is the same person as the first one. The new terminator is trying to catch "John" who is the son of the woman who appeared on the previous one. This strong terminator also looks like human, but actually he is made by metal, so he is not killed easily. The previous terminator must save John. Can he succeed to save him? How do they try to kill the new one? Through this film, I felt a little bit fear, because so many people are killed by guns. I should not do, but since I watched the first terminator, I cannot help comparing these two. They have lots of similarities even the story is different. If you will see this, please try to look for some similarities. I wrote the same thing on the review of the first terminator, but there are some grotesque scenes. It is very interesting to watch, but please be careful. The reason why I think it is grotesque is that the way to express how scary is very good. I think people can enjoy watching it because the quality is high.Of course I enjoyed it too.


                
When Cameron the sequel for "Alien", he titled it "Aliens". Terminator could have followed suit and be titled Terminators: Judgement Day, for the sequel is fueled by the impending showdown between The Terminator (Schwarznegger) and the improved T-1000 (Patrick). In the end, the final battle is something of a disappointment, mostly because there's less fighting and more gimmickry involved, but none the less, Terminator 2 is one of the most substantive action films ever made.Much attributes to the sequel being a success. First of all, Cameron takes his time with the characters - although we already know Sarah Connor (Hamilton) from the first film, her troubles at the insane asylum push her over the edge into a killing machine of her own. When Sarah finally takes matters of fate into her own hands, she leaves enough carnage behind to be the human terminator.Smart plot and character twists are used from the beginning. When Schwarznegger's Terminator first appears, he assumes the identity of a leather-clothed motorcyclist. When T-1000 first appears, he becomes a cop. One of them is sent to protect John Connor. But it's the cop who turns out to be evil.And speaking of an evil cop, Robert Patrick in his early thirties might be a ruthless killing machine, but no amount of bullets stops him from being handsome. It's almost cruel that the man of everybody's dreams is made out of metal, seeking to kill humanity's last hope. But really, aren't they all?And luckily for the audience, the metal is among one of those things which gave room for some great special effects, still looking amazing after twenty years. Such moments as the T-1000 camouflaging itself as floor-tiles (!) and raising up still look as inventive anything done with today's visual effects. And no doubt, not a single human being can forget the detonation of a nuclear bomb, turning Linda Hamilton into a burning carcass. Terminator 2: Judgement Day is a complex action film, which fully embraces its characters and their story arcs, while continuously showing off its visual capabilities of its director.
In The Terminator Arnold looses all kinds of stuff from his cybernetic organism. This wreckage will later inspire the people from Cyberdyne Systems to new radical thinking about technology.Also in Terminator Judgement Day he wrecks at the end of the movie one of his bionic arms in a machine's cog wheel - I've always wondered what has happened to this arm and whether it would have been of some use to somebody else but Cyberdyne.And what happened to Miles Dyson's wife and kids? Surely they must have become of some interest to the authority's after their encounter with the Connors (or at least for Dr. Silbermann ....)


                
The best movie of Jim Cameron , it's one of the only sentences tath describe this wonderful film.The movie have been started when you under stand tath sktynet sent a new terminator , to embellish john Connor ass a 13 years boy now.But after a wild , you see that the under ground organize sent a terminator to protect john and to stop judgment day.This is the plot in my words. so now let's go over the review.1. First, for this movie of James the script is awesome 2.The acting of Arnold it's the best of him. 3. The effects are so good.(believe me i'm usually hate effects) 4. The plot is greatSo why you won't watch this!?!?!
