It is beyond me how people can claim the movie to be 'brainy',  'intelligent', 'well written'... With all the things I read about the  movie prior to seeing it makes it the biggest disappointment I've  experienced from cinema in years. I give 1 star to bring balance to the  current rating, in reality this movie is of course not that bad.  The whole idea behind the plot is that McConaughey ended up in this  blackhole where 5 dimensions were compressed into 3 dimensions and  stuff, and where he was able to manipulate gravity by sending his  daughter the message which was imperative for saving humanity. So what  in fact happened is through this ridiculously improbable chain of  events McConaughey ended up inside this blackhole. All this was  apparently the result of a bigger plan all along. Was there really no  easier way for (future humans/aliens) to transmit this data, and if  they built this time-space warping machine inside the blackhole - means  they had access to the data all along? And also means they chose  McConaughey daughter on purpose? So I don't understand, what was this  purpose? Could they not have connected their portal to professor's  office a long time ago, or go for one of the ten billion more rational  alternatives?  On a side note: is it not funny how McConaughey ignored the message NOT  TO GO from the same 'ghost' yet followed the rest of the directions?  While in the end of the movie he idiotically repeats his feeble  attempt. Had he added 'it's you dad' or any other sensible hint he  would have saved his daughter years of suffering (and maybe a lifetime  for himself when he realises this). And I don't even want to get into  how ridiculous it is that he transmitted data by moving the hands on  the watch, which was unaffected after being picked up, meaning it was  hardly gravitational manipulation was it? What was the point of trying  to be scientific and trying to explain it in this way then. If he could  do that, he ought to have found a better solution that did not require  his daughter 25 years to figure out.  And anyway, they saved humanity by building this massive station named  after his daughter (by that time they knew what he went through and  they still named it after her?). Why couldn't they have done the same  thing on Earth? Just build the same goddamn station on Earth without  needing to harvest their gravitational energy bullsh*t, bam, humanity  saved in the same way.  Grand ideas don't make great movies if you can't deliver them  properly... It is atrocity to compare this to Kubrick's masterpiece...
The universe is full of fascinating facts. It's mind-bending to contemplate, for example, the awesome size of our galaxy. Light travels 186,000 miles per second and yet it takes 100,000 years for a single beam of light to cross the entire Milky Way Galaxy. And our galaxy, to quote Carl Sagan, is only one among billions and billions. The vastness of space truly is stunning.But thanks to a "worm hole" the folks in Interstellar leave the Milky Way in a cosmic snap of the fingers. And yet, having just achieved this most amazing of all feats, our heroes are pretty much bored to tears. Instead, everybody is more concerned with some father/daughter relationship that wasn't developed in the first place.Look, if you're going to make a movie that purports to explore the fascinating mysteries of the universe, then do it! Have some wonderment in the story. Dazzle me not only with visuals, but with amazement at the astonishing scope of our universe. And why not produce a script that obeys the laws of astrophysics, or at least some theories thereof?This movie takes something that would dwarf the Apollo lunar missions and turns it into some ridiculous "Plan A/Plan B" tediousness. I suggest instead watching "Through the Wormhole" with Morgan Freeman or re- watching "2001: A Space Odyssey." Heck, even "Contact" with Jodie Foster is far more entertaining and imaginative than Interstellar. And yet. . .9.2 stars!I'm not saying 10-star reviews on this site are phony; after all, major film critics also are raving about Interstellar. Unfortunately, I find most professional film critics about as credible as the physics in this movie.Frankly, Interstellar is a boring movie! And if that puts me in the vast minority of reviewers, fine, I can live with that. Because I have minimum standards when I pay $11 for admission and $8.50 for large popcorn.Stay home and read a good book instead, or just gaze out at the night sky and reflect on our amazing universe.
It is incomprehensible to me that I watched the same movie that the majority of reviewers of this movie on IMDb seemed to. Perhaps I was unknowingly sucked into a blackhole, wormhole, or plot hole that most of the other reviewers of this movie managed to avoid. All I know is that my hard-earned money was sucked into this monstrosity along with me and for that I am truly regretful. Like a few other commenters, I had absolutely no feelings or connection with any of the characters, even hoping at times that they would all fail in their meaningless endeavors. A ridiculous premise with outlandish and unscientific bases, very little of this movie makes any sense at all. It amazes me that Nolan was able to draw the acting talent to this waste of time, as their considerable skills are completely wasted on this drivel.I should note that on several occasions, I actually couldn't help but laugh out loud at the absurdity, and that fact was truly telling for me.Mr. Nolan, et al - you owe me two hours and forty-nine minutes of my life back!
This year is not very good for the sci-fi cinematography. Besides multiple unintentional parodies of the genre (like X-Men: Days of Future Past), there was actually only one big-budget movie worth watching: On the Edge of Tomorrow. It seems like Tom Cruise is one of the few Hollywood stars able to wisely pick roles. His recent achievements leave little to desire: Valkyrie, or Knight and Day are good at worst, with the high pitch of Oblivion. Are we able to say the same about Matthew McConaughey? Unfortunately, not. Although his recent movies are above average (True Detective or Dallas Buyers Club), the latest picture he plays in, Interstellar (directed by Christopher Nolan and written by him and his brother), is a huge letdown and misunderstanding. I don't think anyone being fond of "hard" science-fiction stories will like it. Here is why.Firstly, the story. It is in general similar to Mission to Mars or The Red Planet, where the handful of daredevils are put in the spaceship to venture on a mission, which result will impact the whole human race. Unfortunately, which is the usual problem in this case, the whole plot is neither engaging, nor entertaining. We have a bunch of uninteresting people making uninteresting things in space. Maybe because of the long time span of the picture, the viewer quickly gets bored and does not care about the main characters. Besides, the space adventure is mixed with the very personal story of the father trying to save his children (which is also a time-consuming thread here). Anyway, the main conclusion of Interstellar is the banal statement that "love is the most important thing in the world". Do we really need to sit for almost three hours in the cinema to get this? By coincidence, the second problem is the length of the movie. Currently, when the the picture is recorded not on the tape, but in the digital medium, every director tries to surpass his rivals by creating as long movie as possible. Maybe it is supposed to be the emblem of his might, skills or wisdom? I have no idea, but the fact is that the contemporary blockbusters are difficult to watch especially because they last for three or more hours, having the plot for only half of this time. This is exactly the case with Interstellar. The presented story is far from complex, and could easily fit in two hours. In fact, the first forty minutes of the movie have nothing to do with the rest of the story and could be recapitulated by the narrator in two sentences...This film tries to treat the topic of interstellar travel seriously. Unfortunately, some ideas are presented according to our current knowledge of physics and astronomy, while others are just stupid. This mixture makes the suspension of disbelief, necessary to enjoy such movie, impossible to attain. On one side we have wormholes, black holes, higher dimensions of space and the silence of the void. On the other hand, there is totally unconvincing reality of the XXI century, where farmers are more valuable than engineers (guys, really?) and tomography is (mysteriously) gone. In one scene the physicist explains convincingly the work regime of the wormhole (by the way, this scene is IDENTICAL to the one from the far better Event Horizon). In another, we see the mission robot TARS, being the member of the crew. I know that humanoid machines from fifties seem ridiculous today (like the one from The Day The Earth Stood Still), but they are really the top quality idea compared to the robots depicted in Interstellar. It is difficult to believe someone created such a model and the whole crew agreed to put it the picture! It's almost like the the wooden planet from the initial script of Alien 3...The number of errors and non-logical events is just amazing. Anyone complaining about the lack of consistency in Prometheus (which was also much better than this one) will have the real hunting ground here. In fact, the more time passes after seeing the movie, the more nonsenses are detected. Don't think about this too much, anyway, its not worthy...The Nolan brothers used their imagination a little bit too much in the final part of the story, where the word "magic" (interchangeable with "nonsense") comes to mind. As the result, the viewer is left at the end indifferent to what is presented on the screen and does not care about the fate of the characters... Please recall the infamous Black Hole, and You will have the impression of what is going on here...The music is of course the extremely important part of every picture. If the composer knows his craft, the soundtrack complements the images, creating the flawless combo (as was in Terminator, Starship Troopers, Aliens, etc.). Here we have the attempt to create the epic atmosphere, but the events shown on screen are rather uninteresting, therefore the resulting impression is just the overwhelming noise, making the viewer angry instead of touching or moving him.Unfortunately, it seems like making a good movie about the interstellar travel is extremely difficult. People like to go to the movies and see a good story. There are multiple requirements for the entertaining movie: the mystery, the convincing scenery, the real characters we could care about, finally, the emotional strain, often related to the dangers our protagonists are exposed to. Interstellar does not offer anything of these. It is a long and boring sermon about the future of Mankind in the universe, pretending to be the science-fiction movie. With this picture Christopher Nolan proved his only memorable work was Prestige and the Batman trilogy was not the accident, but the clear sign that his main achievements in Hollywood will be too long, boring and utterly disappointing pictures, initially rising hopes for a good time spent in the cinema, but leaving in a complete, sad disillusion after all.


                
This is without exception one of the dumbest films I have ever sat through. Or perhaps it's a masterpiece and I'm too dumb to understand it? Anyway .....Here are some of the things (the list is not exhaustive) that I could not get my head around.There is a catastrophic failure in most of the crops of the world. And the entire scientific community simply shrugs and says, 'Oh well. Dem's the breaks' and does nothing. Seriously? Apart from that one dude in the 'super secret' NASA compound? Okay then.A super intelligent, super advanced alien civilization has been watching us. They see that the planet is in peril. That more than six thousand million people will die from starvation. So they offer a solution. Not by curing the blight mind. No, that would be far too easy.They construct a wormhole (they being five dimensional creatures 'n' all) close to Saturn ('cos Kubrick had already used Jupiter in 2001). The film makes a big deal about corn being the only viable crop still resisting the blight (cornmash beer anybody) but it's only a matter of time before that too succumbs. So It's a matter of great urgency that the astro-heroes get to the ol' wormhole as quickly as possible. So the far side of the Moon would be a handy place to put it. No, no, noooo.They place the wormhole beside Saturn. So distant from Earth that it takes two years just to fly there. And all the while any poor kids unfortunate enough to be called Dusty are getting the crap beaten out of them at Pharming College. Anybody for cornflakes? Now NASA have already explored the wormhole. They know that it opens into another galaxy, beside a black hole and an assortment of potential new worlds. Because of the proximity of the planets to the black hole, time will be distorted and a couple of hours exploring these new worlds will translate to decades back on Earth. While back on ol' Planet earth the corn crops fail and the dust storms gather pace. So this was the plan?By the super intelligent aliens? Is someone taking the p*ss? There were no planets anywhere that were ... um ... NOT right beside a black hole? Super intelligent? Doh! And so finally, after a number of silly subplots, our hero finally descends onto the event horizon of the black hole (My God! It's full of stars?). And experiences time as a physical construct. But is he shown the origin of the blight that is wiping out the planet so that he might alert the scientific community? Hell no. He is shown his daughter's bedroom on the day that he left on his 'weekend getaway.' We see him getting really upset that his daughter isn't picking up on his STAY ...... STAY! gravity assisted message, even though he should remember that she shouted STAY .... STAY! to him on that day, and he left anyway. Sheesh! And Zimmer's soundtrack? I hadn't heard about the soundtrack request came to him via email, without him ever seeing the movie. Explains a lot really. Presumably the email went something like 'If you produce anything orchestral like Kubrick, you're off the project.' So the soundtrack consisted almost entirely of ponderous bass heavy synth driven (in the cinema where I watched it) piercingly loud quasi classical discordance. Bear in mind that Kubrick chose the pieces by Strauss, etc., to assist him in editing the movie,and then realised that they actually fit perfectly, and so discarded the original soundtrack that he had commissioned.Not Nolan.NoSirreeBob! Email it in, Hans.Who listens to the music anyway? Deeply, deeply disappointing.And I loved Inception!
I got something out of this movie. I really did. It was 35 degrees Celsius outside the cinema and all I needed was a three hour nap in cool air-conditioning. Lucky me! The latest Nolan film, just there for the taking.It started off as I hoped it would, all dusty on the porch of some ranch in the middle of the U.S. otherwise known as nowhere, the end of the world syrupy American-style, little kid tugging at the heart strings - my eyelids already beginning to droop even before Coop and his daughter Murph wind up at some place that some old cockney and his very Jewish daughter inhabit (guess it only happens in movies with a blind casting director), but that was fine, I was almost in REM sleep - not having been able to process a word of dialogue from McConaughey in over 20 minutes. Pure bliss.And it got even better from an insomniac's point of view. Thanks to an absurd plot and woefully unimaginative CGI effects, my chin was almost on my chest when they landed on the first planet the other side of... well, let's just call it credulity. I don't sleep this well at home! Wait! We're going through another Kubrick-style time dimension - didn't we just spend half an hour on this planet re-using some special effects, this time made to look like giant waves, left over from Inception? I think so, but time warps so nicely when you're practically snoring.I think we lost an astronaut somewhere. Maybe that's the game. Who's next? I hope it's the astrophysicist who explains wormholes with a moebius strip he forgets to twist. Either that or it was origami for dummies. Maybe that *was* the guy we just lost - hard to tell, they all act the same. Flat as the dialogue. Thanks guys. Anyway, we can only pray it will be Hathaway soon. She's starting to keep me awake. How can a head bob about so much in weightlessness? But I'm being unfair; I think I remember her trying to act some of this script. Brave move from an Oscar winner. I'm starting to want my money back.Anyway, I'm roused a bit now and thus a bit grumpy. We're in another galaxy's version of Antarctica minus the faintest signs of life - this despite (because of?) the unzipping of a new bad actor. Fortunately, this actor goes even beyond his usual leaden deadness and I'm soon starting to lose consciousness again and time travel merrily back to the land of nod. I think there was a plot twist involved because this astronaut is trying to do a Dave and HAL routine. He must think he's in a good movie. Poor sod.Did I mention there must have been yards of Inception on the cutting-room floor last time because I'm watching more and more outtakes? Gotta save a few million here and there. I had a dream. I dreamed that Nolan would come up with a slew of insanely bizarre plot twists right at the end that would explain the entire reason for watching this flick. But they carried me out on a stretcher before I found out if it was true. Apparently, I was having a nightmare screaming "Morse Code! No! No! No! Not Morse Code! That's Spielberg!" at the top of my lungs and disturbing the other patrons' naps. I was obviously paying too much attention even comatose.
I watched this movie yesterday. I was very excited after reading so many perfect 10 star reviews for this movie so I was expecting a perfect movie, really!Before I continue, I must say I really love sci-fi movies, and I am deeply interested in black holes, time travel, wormholes, interstellar traveling. Wow, I couldn't think twice, this could be the perfect fit for me! I had really high expectations.For the entire movie I was feeling like: "the best part of the movie should soon", but never came. I had hard time understanding what was really happening, and too many minutes of the movie were badly wasted in dramatic scenes of love, confusing speeches, formulas. All I wanted to see was the wormhole travel, spacetime and gravity distortion, galaxies, nebulae, etc. I mean, I wanted to see what is in the deep space, and what could be human life in a planet million light years away from us.SPOILERS AHEADMaybe the movie drove me nuts, or I lost interest, but after they crossed into the new galaxy, all I felt was confusion. I never understood what was really happening, what were they rescuing, what were those 3 planets and how they knew too much about them, why was there a black hole? Even I tried hard connecting every scene and plot in the movie, I failed. What I disliked the most was the fact that the feeling of discovering something AMAZING and new was not successfully transmitted to us. I wanted to feel that great emotion of discovering deeps space but I failed. Instead the characters talked about crazy physics and plans to save humanity. Not to mention the multi-plot scenes after the fight, totally no sense.Please don't get tricked by this website and fake reviews ad I did. This is reason I signed up at IMDb (first review), to warn others. The idea of the movie is fantastic, but poorly developed and acted, totally confusing, too much cliché. Watch it but don't have high expectations as me, you will be disappointed.
A good friend of mine, the writer Mark Shulman, once pointed out that our standards are being gradually eroded, so that sadly, we are left with less and less in lieu of a threshold of acceptability, finding ourselves not unlike frogs in a pan being brought to a slow, imperceptible boil.Christopher Nolan and some of his cast are telling the press that Interstellar is a love story. I will take them at their word and assume that whatever else I picked up on was left there unwittingly, for the rest of us to parse through. Considering how much pain is involved in traveling to and from a crowded movie theater on a Saturday night, I feel like it's my prerogative, when I have paid good money, to take a film apart if I am still hungry for substance at the end of it; and I WILL get my nourishment from something or other, if not from the movie's plot itself.The first thing that strikes me, when I think back to the experience of Interstellar, is that it leaves me with nothing, emotionally - no takeaway. I did not care about any of its characters, or believe they were real, and I did not really worry about the fate of humanity (any more than the film itself actually does, beyond paying it casual lip-service). I wasn't awed like I may have been by other wondrous space movies that Interstellar measures itself against (or steals from), and I am not compelled to go back and see any part of it ever again. (I suspect most viewers won't either, once the collective neophile contact high has passed.)For starters, I do not like the moral core of the story: Interstellar is a film about "saving humanity" but it is unclear who will pay for humanity's failures. The film offers a great debate over where to repopulate, but none about what we have learned from having to leave our home in the first place. There is no therapy, no penance, no sacrifice. In a way, this represents a subconscious confession about our culture's moral failures: when we run out of spaces to consume, and out of fertile ground to slash an burn, we will have to look for new worlds to expand out into, since we cannot show self control and learn to care for what we have...But enough psychobabble. A dysfunctional moral compass is not the worst thing about Interstellar.The worst thing about the film is that, to quote my girlfriend, "It's OK to for characters to talk in pseudo-scientific gobbledygook when the show is Star Trek, because in Star Trek, they all have pointy ears."Interstellar may be worth a glance, certainly for the photography and exciting visuals, but it is a buffet of messy ideas that fire in all directions. Clearly the script is not written by career screenwriters, but by a director who has freed himself from gravity and has achieved his own artificial self-sufficiency amid the vast nothingness. The result is an often far-fetched and unintelligible, outlandish tale which takes an awfully long time to suspend the viewer's disbelief (and cringing), to finally arrive at a tepid plot after about an hour or so.In hindsight, it makes perfect sense that Nolan's 'tightest' film is Memento, a dis-cognitive story told from the point of view of a man who is unable to string two events together, or to remember where he started.Interstellar is not an intelligent picture, but a pseudo-intelligent one. It seems designed to appeal to the sort of audience who loves to be flattered with cheap shots - a sort of space odyssey version of "who wants to be a millionaire?" Its success resting entirely on the fact that every member of the audience gets to feel superior. To whom? No one knows. This technique seems to be trending within the Nolan's filmography.For the rest, the picture is a narrative mess that trivializes space travel on a galactic scale, (black hole, wormhole, same difference,) and is often plagued by ridiculous star-studded cameos that shatter the viewer's concentration by landing in the middle of tense emotional scenes like a cockroach in your soup. The film is oddly timed with elliptical cuts that compress the action into some often confusing edits, and only leave in lieu of dialog some awful scenes of trite, contrived exposition, filled with emetic pseudo physics, sure to give an immature modern audience raised on Batman a sense that they are building their cultural ego by agreeing with this farce. Worst of all, it feels long and never ending.Sadly, good science fiction is hard to come by, harder than a good ordinary film even, and although this picture is somewhat entertaining, it fades away from the heart and mind, like the flickering green of the traffic light we just passed, as we head home from the cinema, once more.


                
OK, this is a rant. For perspective: I love movies/see everything in the theater/can enjoy almost all movies/love scifi. But I hated Interstellar! This movie makes nooo sense. Technoscience babble on Star Trek knows is makes no sense, Interstellar tries to make you belief it has a scientific bases, it does not! It rapes hearsay on about a dozen theories, but it's like a five year old read Hawking and then explains it to a retarded dog! I'm not even gonna say spoilers ahead, because spoiling something inherently means ruining something good, no chance of that here! First of, apparently there was a world war, people many died... but somehow with a reduced world population there was still not enough food, so everybody had to become a farmer.... seriously? that alone is a crappy premise that makes no sense. Bcs it's not like they are doing it manually! They have frigging robot harvesters. Also, no MRI scanners, but apparently we still harvest fossil fuels to keep 50 year old trucks going. There is a plague that kills crops....but apparently not tress/grass/bushes/ and other assorted plant life, just the edible ones. A dust bowl you say.... really bad production when in the shot the window still is full of dust, the wall boards 10 cm next to it are clean.... Also, in the car: masks on, in an old wooden rickety house, take them off... Man shows up at secret NASA base...oh what a coincidence, you used to be a NASA pilot , we're your old buddies! By the way TOMORROW! we are launching our only rocket. You can pilot it bcs our crew has only done simulators where as you flew it...once....10 years ago.... WTF!?!? This crew and you will spend 10 years together on a mission, but we don't need to do a medical check, psych profile OR even refresh our memory, just show up tomorrow dude! We launch into space, OK we need to dock with the big ship, switch to manual...uhhm, why would you do that????? Well we've been in technological dark ages for 50 years, but hey look we did happen to invent cryostasis! how convenient! We're on a spaceship with limited room, but your cryochamber for some inexplicable reason has to go down into the floor , why? we'll it looks cool of course! At this point we're only like 45 minutes into the friggin thing! So I'll speed up: Planets orbit a black hole, or only one does? where is the sun that is providing light, why doesn't it get sucked in? It's not OK to have the ship experience 7 years time delay, but the shuttle is OK. Big wave smashes shuttle on rocks, no damage! You were gone for 23 year, I didn't think you were coming back, but instead of continuing the mission I decided to sit on my ass and watch the black hole. Frozen floating clouds. Homicidal Matt Damon. Robots that are absolutely ridiculous.... really really really ridiculous...like lost in space ORIGINAL TV did it better. Robots walk in way that is not possible, take 4 pieces of wood and find out for yourself. Nothing escapes a black hole, not even light, but we can send in the droid and it can send out a signal... Also, black hole does give of light apparently. Somehow girl's part is bad acting both as a kid as well as an adult. CONSISTENCY AT LAST! We don't have enough fuel to visit 2 planets, but now we do, so everything is OK. Many years time delay,wake up on space station. Go back to help new colony, also time delayed, don't worry bcs we didn't bother to send anybody else the the last 100 friggin years. BLLEERGGHHHHH
In the opening night, I walked out from the movie theater, totally disappointed to see one of my favorite directors has diminished himself to such a low lever of performance.Poorly developing plot, immature explanation of astrophysics, unbelievable and unrelated events and characters, especial effects leveled to a Disney comedy, and horrible music are only parts of my negative impression. Even Mathew McConaghey did not seem believable looking at her daughter, older than himself. Mat Damon probably did his career's worst acting. The robot was another annoying part. What did Anne Hathaway and two other guys add to the story?Using a laptop to bring down a drown and control an inter-galaxy spaceship??? Finding a livable planet after passing through the worm hole, in "another galaxy" seemed easier than finding an ATM machine in a US interstate highway. Why would a director hire a "Black-Hole-World-Expert" as an executive producer to explain a worm hole function by drawing a line on a paper and punch it with a pencil? Just reading the worm hole article in Wikipedia would give you much more sophisticated knowledge.Mr. Nolan looked completely confused in delivering a solid message: Awareness of climate changes, saving human species, teaching relativity theory to common movie goers, or the power of love. Each of them bold and superficial.
My honest rating would be 6 for that movie but I rated it 1 to balance the "emotional" ratings. Cast and the part with Matt Damon were good. The rest was a bad combination of Gravity, 2001: A Space Odyssey, a bit Mr. Nobody in the wrap of a lot of useless drama... If you have a thinking mind which does not surrender to the dirty drama games of the commercial script writers then your brain cells will hurt like a b... after seeing that much nonsense. Unfortunately, that is the destiny of almost all movies playing with the time concept except the Back to the Future trilogy. What concerns me more than the quality of the movie itself is the number of blown-up ratings threatening the credibility of IMDb, which I always trust. Who are you people? Some fake rating generator AI? Thousands of people voting for 1$ per day? Last words: Don't go! They don't deserve your money because they did not put enough effort to create a meaningful story and I would accept any meaning in its own logic.
!Spoilers!I sacrificed myself, by entering a black hole in my spacesuit, endured a LSD trip of love to send you this singular message, not for me but for the good of mankind.This is a movie which literally gets worse by the minute. Should your cinema be graceful and insert a break, USE IT, get out, the rest of this thing will seem to last 7 years. You'll probably realized the "heartwarming" end to it already anyway. Apparently mankind was able to master robotics and an AI worthy of Star Trek but still uses current spaceships. Except when they don't somewhat later cause, you know, it just wouldn't have worked with all that landing and launching on other planets. Also it wouldn't have been impossible to send probes to the planets, because ... well, that wasn't in the script either. It was however possible, to think that a planet orbiting a gigantic black hole so close to its event horizon, that one hour stretches to seven years, might be a hospitable place to found a new civilization. Apart from all that nonsense reality like being sucked into it or getting grilled by gamma rays.So I have wasted several hours, and even some minutes more to write this, but if it saves one soul from enduring this ....
I am wondering if the people who write "intertstellar" 10-star reviews are actually sane, or if they base their opinion on a movie library completely deprived of everything that is sci-fi. Basically if the sic-fi component - most of which does not really happen until the end - is removed from the plot the movie by and large is a classic Hollywood soap opera. The worn-out rag of cliché family relations, all- American-dad, "complicated" love affair, unruly and a classic tomboy-girl, co-workers (more like co-idiots) who rebel and despite all common sense act irrationally, you know, to "up the ante"... it really makes up 90% of this movie. Up until half- way trough I honestly considered walking away from this boring tragedy which is the lack of creative talent on the part of the script writers and director. There are also very obvious holes in the plot, and not just irregularities but direct contradictions that even the most obnoxious sic-fi movies at least try to amend somehow.I can not help but think that after watching Automata which was a breath of fresh air in many regards, this movie is like walking into a small toilet where someone just took a huge dump. It is literally that bad. What saves this movie by the skin of its teeth is the ending. So just watch that instead, because until then you could have just as well been watching an episode of Santa Barbara.Spolers about ridiculous plot holes (as if the soap part of the movie is not stressed enough): 1) The stupid Dust Bowl recycled. Seriously? I am not even going to try to explain this because I'd need to re-post have of Wikipedia here, but it does not work that way. Not in the past - not in the future. 2) The moment NASA abducts the main character and daughter and questions them. Seriously? Maybe they should also have shot them on sight? 3) NASA's facility is top secret! Right... in the age supposedly after the present, when there are drones and google maps, they manage to hide a huge facility in some old James Bond villain fashion. 4) "LET'S GO TO ANOTHER GALAXY!". OK if the movie shows a fairly conventional rocket, carrying a futuristic "shuttle", WHY for the love of all holy would anyone risk going there - instead of looking in our own? What, they really expected to have better luck there - than in our own? They already searched the entire Milky Way? And what's even better - it "just so happens" there is a planet like a stone's throw away from the black hole and is NOT being consumed by it, and somehow a black hole which is now proved to be a collapsed star is anything BUT a collapsed star? Why... let's just start diving down toilets, because you know, they are not full of s*** but are actual doorways to different dimensions! Like dimensions of dementia perhaps! 5) Saving the best for last - I did like the ending. Despite its absurdity I did like it. Almost cried - if I were a 14 year old girl with especially fragile psychology, but I digress. The "machine" that allows the main character to conviniently contact his daughter in the future- past, is built by... the very humanity he is trying to save, that survived, and built the machine in the future. Lord have mercy, I will try to explain this... So basically if we consider all major theories about time travel, in order to change the future one must go there and change it, right? But here the future changes the past, and that past is what changed the future with the help of the future that is changed in the past with the changed future's help. Mind >>> blown!
this movie was awful, I was deceived by the fake rating. it was full of pseudoscience, so superficial and boring. every single minutes could be challenged by a science professional. being a PhD student in science, I envy SciFi script writers and directors that they can pop up any bullshit and be praised by non-professional audience. such a ridiculous robot, underground NASA that launches billion dollar projects in famine a condition, the huge tide on that planet without considering the depth of water, entering the black-hole unprotected, LOVE being the 5th dimension, contacting through black-hole by pushing the books! Oh my! can anybody be more superficial about science? my advice to anybody who has a critical mind: don't waist your time.
This film is an anti-intellectual zenith. It is offensive at least for someone who has a rudimentary knowledge of astrophysics and the theory of relativity. I have never seen such s-f movie full of nonsense. At least in the last 20 years. Every single law of physics is broken or adjusted to Hollywood pulp. Ethical problems concerning time travel were already discussed 60 years ago. Medea/Gaia hypothesis is an old fairy tale. Pseudo- philosophical use of feelings with respect to the multi-dimensional time-space is simply ridiculous. Situations that occur in the vicinity of the event horizon: I can only say: serious case of ignorance. And standard use moral treatise about human nature based on common sense is too obvious. Someone who makes movies based on comic books shouldn't be allowed to make a s-f movie. Really bad choice!! I am disappointed. Very disappointed. 1 point is for the robots. Best regards.
This movie is genius... What? Seriously? First off, possible spoilers, although I'm mostly going to try to avoid them. Second off, SERIOUSLY??? Third, it's not really a one star movie. It's like 5-7ish depending on how you want to weight various factors. I'm just doing this because all the hype, and all the "stellar" (pun intended) reviews are blowing my mind and need to be balanced out.This movie is OK. I'm a sci-fi geek, and an apocalypse movie geek. This was kind of supposed to have both, so how could I go wrong? Easily apparently. If you like movies that actually make sense, this film is not for you.If you have any common sense or a logical brain you'll know what I mean when you see it. For me this film falls into the "big flashy substance free summer blockbuster" category, aside from the fact that it was released in fall. If you like big flashy special effects movies with no substance you'll probably love it, because you're OK with just going for the ride. If you like movies that make sense and have cohesive plots, you will likely be irritated when this strays from those lofty goals... And stray it does. A lot. He TRIED to make a great movie, but ended up with one that doesn't quite get there.This movie, like so many movies with generally promising plots falls down all over the place in the execution... Or more specifically, the script itself. Special effects were killer with lots of great visuals. All the "directing" portions of the movie were well done. So I suppose I can say Nolan did a great job directing the movie. All the actors were just fine... The problem was with what they were told to act out. So Nolan did not do a good job as writer. Perhaps he should stick to directing which he is quite good at.Let me say this, I'm NOT a pompous, arrogant guy in real life. But sometimes I wonder if having a couple dozen IQ points over average just RUINS films for me. So many movies have everything this one does. Good basic premise. Good acting. Great special effects. Horrible scripts that make absolutely no sense for anyone with a brain.So where to begin? In my opinion a huge percentage of movies, especially sci-fi, require that you accept a basic premise. Many of them do not make sense. This can be OK. You just have to roll with it even if it's a little off. Think zombie movies. I love zombies... But really with the setup/explanation of how most zombie viruses spread, and how awesome our military is, and how slow zombies are (or even if they're fast zombies), it's a ridiculous premise. The mess would last about a week, and then get under control. How exactly does a zombie take out an Abrams tank again??? But I roll with it.This movie's basic premise is slightly flawed, but not so much so that it HAS to completely ruin the movie. There are cases where the basic idea is so bad I can't get past it, but this isn't one. Earth is basically overwhelmed by bad weather, and crop killing plagues. It happens in real life. The Dust Bowl was rough, and so was the Irish potato famine. The truth is that we could deal with those easily on Earth, but let us pretend we couldn't and move on.My problem is with the endless series of things that either outright don't make any sense, or things where you have to stretch it pretty far mentally and basically "cover up" for the writing by buying into implausible, silly reasons for things. How exactly does everyone still drive around gas guzzling trucks, and yet are enthralled by a few small solar panels they can pull off of a UAV? How do they have all this infrastructure for pointless things, yet they can't keep control of said UAV, or like make parts for their robotic farm equipment they rig up from scraps? That's the first like 2 seconds of the movie. This movie is a death of a thousand cuts. Going point by point would take way too long.In my opinion this movie didn't have any "deal killer" plot holes. As in no one thing completely made my head instantly explode. But what did happen was by the end of the 2nd hour there were so many little silly things piling up that it just went beyond the pale. There's plenty to be desired in terms of the time dilation stuff making sense, but most of it does if you think it through logically and do the math. Perhaps not 100% though. To me it just had a general vibe of meh with a lot of little stuff.Then there's the non logical portion of the story, AKA the human story, also being meh. It's like they kind of want you to think Cooper and Brand had a love thing maybe? Or at least Cooper does for her... But then no development. But then he rushes off at the end after her... Is that a platonic hero thing, or was that supposed to be the big romance story? You don't even know because it was such a mess. It's not that the actors couldn't have acted it out fine, but it just doesn't happen. I found myself not really caring about any of them much because none of them were developed. Cooper was a pretty cool dude, but other than that I didn't take a lot away.That's it. I'm done typing. In short feel free to watch it, but just be forewarned if you have an analytical mind that you will find many portions of the movie causing minor brain aneurysms.
Like many other reviewers, I'm giving this a 1 in a feeble attempt to balance out all the unwarranted 10s I keep seeing, even though I really think it deserves a 5, or maybe a 6. I actually created an account just to do this, so I figured I might as well include a review along with my rating.Many will say try to tell you that you shouldn't attempt to compare this movie to 2001, that they are two totally different movies, etc. This is ridiculous; they are quite similar on multiple levels, with Interstellar obviously taking many cues and inspirations from Kubrick's masterpiece. I feel that if we compare the two, we can get a good idea of where Nolan's film went wrong. The main reason 2001 has remained so powerful and held up so well is that it doesn't try to explain and rationalize everything that happens. We see the events of the movie unfold, but as the movie nears its psychedelic conclusion, we are really left to our own guesswork as to what is going on. Has he entered another dimension? An alternate universe? An alien spacecraft? Is he just dead? The mere fact that we have no idea whether this scene depicts something spiritual, something scientifically quantifiable, or a mix of the two makes it so much more moving than if Kubrick had tried to explain it through the available science of his time.Interstellar answers far too many questions, which, as is often the case, ends up raising infinitely more. Nolan makes it clear from the get go that this film is supposed to function on more of an emotional level than a scientific one. Then why even bother have the film "fact checked" by a astrophysicist? Why create this confusing mixture of real- and pseudo- science in the first place? To me, in a lot of scenes this kind of shatters the air of mysticism Nolan seemed to be going for. The "floating bookcase in a black hole" sequence, for instance, seemed really magical until Cooper suddenly has a bunch of epiphanies and becomes positive that the structure was created by future humans, not aliens, that they created it specifically for him so he could navigate 5D and communicate with his daughter, and that he can save the world only by manipulating a watch with gravity. BOOM. There goes all the mystery. And lets assume his theory is correct, and this structure was indeed constructed by mankind from the future. Hmmm, guess it turns out that we didn't perish from constant dust storms after all—instead we survived hundreds of thousands of years into the future and went on to create mind-blowing, interdimensional space technology. Then what exactly is future us so worried about? They seem to be doing just fine without any alteration of the past. This is just the tip of the iceberg as far as far as all of the inconsistencies and unanswered questions you'll find in this movie. If you have a very analytical mind, steer clear of it—I am not a mathy or science-y person by any stretch, yet even I struggled at times to put my logic in the backseat and just enjoy the ride.That's what I'd advise you to do if you want to have a good time watching this movie: DON'T OVERTHINK IT. If you can just do that, you'll find an entertaining film with truly stunning visual effects, a great (if maybe a LITTLE too over the top) score from HZ, and very convincing performances from the actors. I found some scenes very moving. I liked the concept of a future that, as a result of a technological lull, doesn't look very different from our present. There are a lot of positive things to say about this film, and yet the end result is, sadly, maybe just a couple pegs above mediocre.
I do not know how many more times that films like this can be made! I really ought to have known better when Michael Caine appeared in the films list of actors! Apart from, 'Get Carter' this iconic 'Landener' (aside from Ray Winstone) has done little of any note. A real definition of a 'one trick pony'. As for Hathaway... The robot! Puh-lees! When McConaughey first encounters it, I wondered exactly who or what he was talking to, then it became apparent to me that he was addressing the jerking slab of metal in front of him. Given that NASA had the technology for interstellar travel, could they have not come up with something a little more, well, 'humanoid'? This badly thought out, wisecracking, over sized 'cereal packet' was annoying to the nth degree and it didn't take much for me to imagine the Chuckle Brothers lying on the floor moving its 'legs' in order to make it 'walk', "To me, to you...", that kind of thing! Wheels, anyone? The space suits. What was all that about? I reckon that my local bargain store could sell something more substantial in appearance! Add to this, the Father In Law who seems permanently bemused, a doofus, idiotic Son and a whining, brattish Daughter and it's really little wonder that I'm taking this film to my local charity shop! Had I have been McConauhey's character, I would have been only too pleased to get on the rocket and once in deep space, murdered the entire crew, taken a sledgehammer to the annoying robot and then jettisoned the entire lot out of the airlock! Peace would reign! This film wasn't so much released as it escaped!


                
Interstellar by Christopher NollanReviewed by Svetoslav GrigorovFirst, I had to look at the score on www.IMDb.com to confirm that all the rumors were true (9 out of 10): me and Paul were the only ones who didn't like this movie and left 45 minutes before it had finished. Whatever that means I can assure you that I was/am still sober and I am not a zombie like the rest of the crowd in the Kettering Odeon cinema. Secondly, I would like to ask how all these critics made the comparison(s) with Kubrick's 2001: A Space Odyssey and thirdly, please you who now read this review tell me that I am not the only one in my dullest disappointment for the year. Tell me that I haven't lost my marbles, tell me that you were enthralled from this copy of a House On The Prairie and if you think that this is the best movie of your life (or at least 2014), the only answer I can think of is: that's why so many rubbish movies have been released lately. Because the level of the quality has fallen drastically and the conveyor belt of the movie industry is catastrophic for the senses. OK, so straight to the point. First 45 minutes we are introduced to the farming, dust and the coming famine problems, nitrogen on the rise in the atmosphere, Earth is doomed, father and daughter found a super-secret location that NASA strategically placed for their eyes only. We see a lot of corn and even the nineties Children of The Corn was a better shallow slasher while this one turns out to be an American clichéd space marmalade, and my best fitting comparison for it is Armageddon which is not really a movie, but a joke. Wormholes, saving of the human kind, bringing resources, planting/replanting, Plan A /Plan B, frozen embryos to colonize a distant world, overcoming gravity, scientists and even a quantum physics and so much camera- philosophy that Kubrick will turn in his grave, daddy-please-don't-go-to-space-cause –I'm- gonna-cry, bam the watch on the floor (I don't wanna see you anymore), counting while going into the stratosphere, Lego-robot which somehow was better acting than the rest of the actors or at least was more fun. Wait, wait, did I say actors? Matthew McConaughey, Anne Hathaway and Michael Caine (The rest of them are not worth mentioning apart from the crying daughter Murph who did her best job).Matthew McConaughey has one of the most annoying twangs ever and his jaundiced bad- version-face of Paul Newman cannot contribute to any script lately (let's not forget that without the help of Jared Leto and his masterful transformation in The Dallas Buyers Club his Oscar was going to hell). His mumbling could be understood only from the villagers in Kentucky and what he is on about<U+0085>Seriously, I needed subtitles to comprehend his actor's efforts in such a "serious" movie. How serious this movie was! I pushed myself to read couple of the 'serious' critical reviews and they had the audacity to call it "scientific"??? Oh man, poor Anne Hathaway who looked sometimes at the camera and was likely apologizing for the mess she was in. I felt sorry for her.The script was the hell of the hells. Such nonsense with no credibility and no creativity at all. Total zero or even below the zero. As I said we left long before the end because my time is precious. I will open Isaac Asimov's (or Stanislaw Lem's) short stories and will be engulfed in characters and situations, so my brain will be given food for thought while all these poor people are going to see Interbol..cks and will be exposed on the radiation of a mediocrity (yes, I felt cheated like someone was trying to insult me). Well, if you who now read this review respect yourself and really like Kubrick, Moon, Gravity (and even Contact) and other good sci-fi don't waste your time and save your money. Today we wasted £40 including the drinks, the popcorn and the tickets and the only thing that I was inspired for was my generated anger for this text. My verdict on the scale from 1 to 10 is to give ONE for the director Christopher Nolan who needs a little encouragement and I am hoping he will not slip into the shoes of M. Night Shyamalan who have crafted a lot of rubbish lately as you know. God forbid that never happens.P.S.Don't tell me that I have sat there for 2 (it's actually 169 minutes) hours of a film and it had a great ending cause I don't want know.
This truly is a shocking movie and must rank as the worst sci-fi film I have ever had the misfortune to waste 2.5hrs on.The acting is appalling with some quite amateurish edits. The music drowns out a lot of the dialogue, which is probably just as well considering its triteness. The whole premise of the plot seems to have been cobbled together by the writers after they'd endured an overkill of everything from the Lost in Space TV series of the sixties (though at least that show injected some humour into the proceedings), through to 2001 A Space Odyssey, and the innumerable Star Trek programmes and films.Any movie that casts Michael Caine as a scientific boffin must be struggling for starters. He utters, in one excruciatingly and barely decipherable scene, "I lied". Well he certainly didn't act! Anne Hathaway struggles to make any sense of the quite ludicrous script and often appears that she'd rather be undergoing root-canal work, whilst Matthew McConaughey mumbles and fumbles his way through lines he can't quite believe he is expected to say.The continuity is confusing and the 'special effects' only reach mediocre, adding absolutely nothing new in this genre for the viewer.I have watched hundreds of sci-fi films and programmes and do realise that we are expected to suspend belief to a greater extent, which is why a little humour would not have gone amiss - but every character in the movie seemed to be so darn miserable and brimming with angst. This film has no redeeming features whatsoever; one develops no empathy for any of the players, and there were a couple I longed would perish within a few minutes of them being introduced into the storyline (the child who portrays the ten-year old Murphy to name but one).Sorry, but this film is not worthy of wasting over two hours of your precious life on. There again, you are quite entitled to think otherwise....


                
Previously having been a fan of a few of Nolan's films that actually were the opposite of what this film is - masterpieces, I peeked at the ratings here on IMDb. However had I scrolled further down to see where they were coming from and what the reviews really were, I probably would've discovered the truth and not have decided to take the inevitable trip into this black hole with Nolan and suffer, something I am extremely embarrassed about and will always be haunted for. Unfortunately I cannot get the three hours of my life taken away by this film. Do not watch this.At a great probability, an atrocious waste of money went into making this because I couldn't help but question where it all went. It probably went into a black hole. Common sense was extremely uncommon in the entire film and to an extent that would actually anger you, making you wonder how stupid the director thinks of you otherwise. Like plenty others, I felt a necessary urge to be informant about this tragedy and so created an IMDb account just to write this. Not surprisingly, I found that a lot of others have already said most of what I wanted to say about the film.I'm going to try to sum up some scenes, shortened to the best of my ability that would give you an idea of how awful this movie really was and how dreadful my time went sitting through it all hoping to find a little substance somewhere down the line, being a patient guy. On the real this movie is not even worth your 10 dollars on a DVD rental. You'd probably sleep through all of it in any case.So I spend twenty dollars to go see this and upon the first ten minutes I find myself looking back at my life wondering where I had gone wrong to deserve this. To begin with, the start of this film with Mathew McConaughey on some unknown farmland somewhere and who knows where, does not create any picture or lead you anywhere for you to even develop one on your own, to get a hold of whether an 'Interstellar' will actually begin to unfold or whether not. Our lead, with his kids drives his truck off road down on to fields of corn ( with a flat tire ) to follow what seems to be some "Nasa test drone/ robot plane", as soon as he spots it randomly flying in the air. So he drives with his kids for say over twenty minutes with the flat as his car runs down heavy bushes of corn fields, where he commands his kid son to "take the wheel" while he moves in the backseat now to turn on his laptop through which he has decided to and even knows how to track this drone! From this point on I tried hard to stay awake. He later just happens to stumble upon a Nasa base that also happens to be only minutes away from where he lives. I steady awake to the part where our hero gets out the car outside the Nasa base with blinding lights in front of him. Next, he gets whacked by a robot, taken hostage and then wakes up in front of Anne Hathaway, inside the base. Then you've got Michael Caine telling him that he is "the chosen one" to fly a rocket in spite of the fact that Matthew mistakenly discovered the base. After exchanging a few words, our hero seems fit to be the pilot of the rocket ship ( without real training ) for a mission everybody is newly introduced to. What is this mission about? To go find another planet that would sustain life because Earth is no longer going to be a hospitable place in a few years although no one knows why. That is not it. Guess where they're all going to look for one? In a black hole. Forty minutes deep and you'll find that by now you'd rather walk out because it doesn't really matter anymore how the film turns out. Later nearing the end, McConaughey's ship is about to run out of fuel any minute where the ship explodes at full capacity leaving him to fall into the black hole to find himself in a five dimensional wall space. Here he communicates to Earth with the assistance of the robot that should've been destroyed in that ship, to his daughter through a wrist watch lying on her bedroom shelf at home and she happens to sense what is exactly going on<U+0085> Wow this was just terrible. Now, to all those of you who have the slightest idea of what a black hole is and what it does or doesn't do for that matter, do not waste your time watching this even on DVD. In fact, make sure you do not waste your hours even watching it for free on television shortly soon because it would make you so sad, scared and bored all at the same time like you couldn't believe.Not one minute of this film was "possible" if you like, even bit by bit, to create any practical sense of what went on or even what could have come out of it.This movie was so bad I came out paralyzed. To my horror, I'm left with no words to describe the experience and I'm only trying.I consider myself pretty tough after having the courage to sit entirely through and not walk out within the first twenty minutes like I should have done.
I liked Inception a lot and was expecting something similar from Nolan brothers, but Interstellar turned out to be massively disappointing. It's too long, too boring, too sloppy and too hard to believe what all fuss is about.Earth is overpopulated and plants are dying from drought, dust is everywhere and starting to be a problem. This is all what we were told by a movie, everything that we should know (they think). So instead of trying to solve these problems by inventing new food forms, by ocean water demineralization or just soft decreasing of population to numbers Earth can sustain best minds came up with ingenious plan - go through suddenly discovered wormhole and see what happens. Instead of sending drones they sent bunch of people through to a no-return mission, three having reported of habitable planet each.It is when things started to become interesting. NASA picks up some random guy pilot (McConaughey) to lead mission to these three planets, all of them coincidentally in the same system, orbiting a black hole. COME ON, three planets orbiting a black hole? If you want to live here, you might be insane. However, in a retarded fashion he decides to leave his young daughter on dying earth to pursue his all-life-mission. Some more absurd plot decision happens when he then decide to land planet with such twisted space-time (because it is near blackhole, remember - we are watching movie pretending to make sense scientifically) that it has time accelerated 60000 times comparing to earth. Nothing very interesting happens next, three non-essential persons just die, Matt Damon being one of them by going nuts for absolutely no reason. In the end McConaughey diving into a black hole (finally making sense sequence) leaving only one woman in a mission (Hathaway) to land a planet she wanted first were her supposed lover landed previously. And while soundtrack plays loudly to draw attention from following absurd plot twist, main hero spends 60 years in another dimension translating quantum equations to his daughter on Earth which will solve all problems and allow six billions people to escape. By the way all these years everyone was just waiting, absolutely no one bothered to send more expeditions so busy they were all solving Einstein equations.Why so silly? With so many numerous big and small plot holes this can't be serious movie. Main hero acting like a retard (or actually he is), his daughter soon-big-girl solving biggest scientific problem in history, two absolutely useless crew members with funny robot as a company and a woman supposed to be main-hero's girlfriend, a lier as main scientist and a bunch of another useless people. Even CGI can not save the day. We were told that black hole CGI supposed to be most realistic than ever, but it was pictured in roughly 1.5 scenes at best. Soundtrack is fine, but it is played so loudly, in disharmony with deep space atmosphere and in some scenes being unnecessary as well. So what we have in the end? It just looked like they tried to make big, really BIG move about space travel and physic phenomenons, but somehow missed big picture and not really payed attention to the details, ignoring common sense which eventually led to a failure. Sadly, good opportunity to create such movie in the uncharted territory was wasted.
1. Far far too long. Nearly 3 hours? 2. 50% of McConnaughey's dialogue totally incomprehensible. He hardly moves his lips so what he says comes out as a hoarse whisper. Didn't have that problem listening to Michael Caine, Anne Hathaway or Matt Damon.3. Characters doing random things that had no logic. Why did Matt Damon suddenly attack Cooper?4. That annoying thing where actors suddenly start explaining the plot. "We're approaching a wormhole. So, tell me all about wormholes". "Ok, this is how it goes...."5. Mostly, the film was just boring. Lots of films last around the 3 hour mark and you need to have something to keep the audience's interest going. My interest lapsed around the halfway mark.
The movie had a few moments that were well acted I suppose and as you watched you felt a potential as possibly emerging at any moment. Seemed to be some mumbling going on that became annoying. Didn't seem to be any interactions between characters that was particularly compelling or established a bond with the viewer. The concepts of space were like smoke and mirrors even if you gave them a tremendous amount of slack considering it's only a movie. I was going to attempt to watch it again to see if there was something missed in making the connect on this movie but after reading so many other reviews exclaiming such disappointment, I decided to forgo the extra headache!


                
When I saw this was directed by Chris Nolan I said there's no way I can miss this movie. Then I checked out the ratings on IMDb and went running to the theater only to be put to sleep. This movie was supposed to take place a few centuries into the future, however when cooper goes to his daughter's school for the parent teacher conference there is a tube TV in the classroom. Huh? Tube tvs can't be found anywhere in 2014 yet we're expected to believe they exist 200 years in the future.Also what was the point of cooper and the kids following that drone? They made a huge climatic event and then the drone crashes and that's it. OK so what's the point. Going through the worm hole was OK but the other planets that were visited looked down right fantastical. Like out of a Disney fairytale. This film was filled with A listers but fell flat. Matt Damon's character was totally predictable and so was the ending. I really don't understand the appeal and high ratings.
