This movie was the best written, acted, visual effected, etc. movie. This movie was the best movie I have ever seen. I am a huge Christopher Nolan fan and this movie was his finest. Matthew McConaughey turned in his best performance of his lifetime. Anne Hathaway was an amazing supporting actress and compared to her performance in Les Miserables, I have no idea how she didn't get an Oscar for this. The visual effects were more than just Oscar worthy. They were pioneering. I have never seen anything like it. One thing I would recommend is having a little previous knowledge about space. Not like Einstein stuff though. I would recommend you see this movie as fast as you can if you are a Nolan fan or not. I give this movie a rating of 97 out of 100.


                
I have been a cinema lover for years, read a lot of reviews on IMDb and everywhere, and never found the right movie to write my first review. I always thought I would wait for THE movie.And this is IT!When I first heard that Nolan was preparing a sci-fi movie, I felt like a kid again, waiting for his Christmas gift under the tree. I knew it would become a classic. And I'm sure it will.First of all, it is incredibly beautiful to watch. Honestly, it was so beautiful that I felt like I was sucked into the movie. The way Nolan decided to show some scenes really remind me of 2001 A Space Odyssey (actually many things will probably remind you of this movie). We can feel the talent of Christopher Nolan, just by looking at the way it is filmed. The techniques he used contribute to create that visual environment in a believable way.The sound environment is just mesmerizing. It is a very important part of the movie, because some scenes take place in space, and Noland just found the right way to use sound. The soundtrack (made by the great Hans Zimmer) is breathtaking, epic, amazing, unreal. I could find a lot more adjectives to qualify it, but you have to hear it to understand how epic they are. These two important parts (image and sound) create a stunning atmosphere. You will forget you are in a movie theater, and you will be lost in space, sucked into the adventures of this new Space Odyssey, begging for more. It is a truly unique experience. I can say that I have never felt something like that in a movie theater (at least not for the past ten years).Then, of course, the cast. First of all, Matthew McConaughey. I discovered this actor in Tropic Thunder, but he didn't really convince me, though he was quite funny. Then I saw Dallas Buyers Club. Since that movie, I love him. In this movie... Well, he is the movie. I exaggerate a bit, since there are other great actors (some even unexpected with a special guest) who play extremely well. But he is just what was needed to feel the human part of the story (which is very important in Interstellar). He is capable of making us feel so many different emotions all along the story, as a father, as a human. Anne Hathaway was very convincing, all together the actors managed to create some harmony, which makes the human interactions credible. Caine, Chastaing and Affleck are a perfect choice. And then there is... The special guest, I will call him "X". His role, which could be seen as a minor role, is actually much more important than that. He proves, once again, that he is a great actor. Watch and see.And finally, the scenario/story. I won't spoil anything here; I'll just try to convince you how great it is. Nolan is known to revolutionize everything when he tries a new genre in cinema. Well, once again he did it. With The Dark Knight he revolutionized the superhero genre. With Interstellar he's revolutionizing the sci-fi genre in cinema. From what I heard, he worked with a physicist (in gravitational physics and astrophysics) to help him with that movie. And we can feel and see it. During the fifties, Asimov laid the foundations of modern science fiction. Lucas and Kubrick did the same in cinema. Today, Nolan is laying the new foundations of the genre in cinema, proving that cinema is still at the beginning of what can be done (brace yourselves my friends, we have not seen anything yet). Why? Well, simply because we only know a few things about space, some things can't be proved for the moment, so we can use theory, and make the best of it. That is exactly what Nolan did. He used theories that exist today, and made a movie about mankind, about pioneers, about humanity, about us.Because, in spite of all the sci-fi aspect, it is a story about humanity. McConaughey, Hathaway, and mainly "X", will managed to convince you about that.My rating for this movie can only be a 10, because in itself, it is a beginning for a new kind of cinema. It IS a classic. Those who say "we can't compare this movie to 2001 Space Odyssey, nor can we compare Nolan to Kubrick" are wrong. We can, and we should. Talented people don't live only in the past, some genius live today, among us. And Nolan is one of them. Many say that he is overrated. I truly don't think so. Only time will answer that.This is the sci-fi movie of the decade, and probably the best movie Nolan ever made. Just go for it, without a second thought.


                
The film begins by establishing at his own rhythm its ambitions: men overexploited land resources, which is why the only goal they have left is to survive. This life is not enough for Cooper, brilliantly played by McConaughey who gave body and soul to this character. But all of this wouldn't hold without the total control of Christopher Nolan, based on the languishing soundtrack by Hans Zimmer, the luminous and impenetrable photography of Hoyte Van Hoytema, and the sincerity of Nolan's directing. He manages to film the characters and to find the right cut at the right time, always in harmony with Hans Zimmer's soundtrack, to give the film an aspiring and inspiring dimension that went missing for many many years. Thus we are transported into the same cockpit that Cooper, we feel the same remorse that he can already feel, we feel the same gravity, and we feel the same fear of the unknown melted with the force of his will. All of this is brilliantly illustrated in a very simple directing choice, which from my point of view is the decisive impetus of the film: to directly jump from when Cooper leaves in his truck, leaving his family behind him, to Endurance taking off. This simple editing decision allows Nolan to give an original movement to his film, and the musical crescendo makes us physically feel the sentimental break between two parts of the film.You don't necessarily have to understand it immediately : The film will raise questions in you, such as : what is it to be a human being, is there some physical limitations to our humanity, how far could we be willing to go to determine knowledge, is there other dimensions that we can not access to, and above all: what is the nature of this intact and immutable bond that unites us to others wherever we are in the universe ? Is this bond only intelligible, or is it also tangible ? All these questions resonate in harmony in Nolan's Interstellar. Interstellar is itself a crescendo, increasing sensitivity and creativity. I use the term deliberately because it goes crescendo with the soundtrack by Hans Zimmer, which is one of the most beautiful music ever scored for a sci-fi movie. We are witnessing a perfect musical arrangement, a total symbiosis, a bit like the music of Gravity which had understood very well how to match the image and the rhythm of a sequence to its own musicality. Zimmer's crescendos are giving a new powerful breath to every new scene, whether it is in visually powerful & intense moments or in more intimate moments; it intrudes into our momentary feelings and sensations, and manages to extend them, sometimes almost to choking, before resting on the balance of the film frame along with our mind spell-bounded. I have seen all the talent of the director that I knew he was outside the norm, but whom I did not know his capacity to reinvent itself. Because this is it: Interstellar is not an action movie, not really a blockbuster, and it goes not entirely but mostly again the expectations of common people. It's much more than that. This is much more than just a sci-fi movie. It is unlike any of his previous films. Some hoped to see Interstellar as Christopher Nolan's best film, and they were disappointed that this was not the case. And indeed, THIS IS NOT THE BEST FILM of Christopher Nolan. Because in a way, IT IS HIS FIRST FILM. I'm not saying that Interstellar is not as good as his other films, it goes beyond all of them. But to me Interstellar is the first film of a new stage in Nolan's filmography ; it is a masterpiece as it the beginning of a work ahead. Interstellar is the proof that Nolan has finally managed, despite all the expectations that were placed on him after the success of The Dark Knight, to move away from his own reputation to create a personal work, original, humble, sincere and deeply, meticulously, measured.Now, in this third act of the film, it all comes to life with unparalleled strength. Nolan poses and answers questions that raise others. But he focuses his attention on the great mystery of love, that emotional bond that can unite men and sometimes separate them. But Nolan is the only one that can successfully speak of love from a being to another in a film that mainly takes place in a another galaxy. From my point of view, only Solaris by Steven Soderbergh (2002), unfortunately neglected by the audience, was able to accomplish that. Interstellar is based on a premise which is the following : from terrestrial dust to the depths of space and time, we can never be separated from who we are as individuals and as a species, as we always leave a part of ourselves "behind" us. In other words, I could say that this is a human story, and even if we go as far as we want to, if we travel through the universe believing that we can be detached of the one we are fond of, we will only get closer to them. Because the separation, and thus the distance and time, can only ultimately reinforce the relationship between the people who really love each other. Because it is going to the end of the world, when we reach the end of ourselves, that we reach the singularity of the "black hole beyond the horizon" * : it is our humanity. No, I wasn't been able to find any bad flaws in the film. Not one, and I'm still looking. After all, Interstellar is like gravity, "all it takes is a little push ! "*you'll have to see the movie to figure that one out.Félix Tardieu, November 1st, 2014


                
'Interstellar' was incredible. The visuals, the score, the acting, were all amazing. The plot is definitely one of the most original I've seen in a while. Most of the critic reviews have said that some bits are a little too unbelievable, but I have to disagree. Yes, there were some parts that were definitely in the "fi" part of sci-fi. But the thing is, 'Interstellar' deals with concepts that we know very little about. We have no idea what the 4th or 5th dimension is like, or what it would be like to go through a wormhole or a black hole. I don't think it's fair to call something unbelievable, when we have absolutely no idea what WOULD be believable in those circumstances. Either way, excellent writing from the Nolan brothers. The visuals were outstanding, and will no doubt be nominated for an Oscar. The performances were excellent, though nothing Oscar worthy, as is the case with most of Nolan's films ('The Dark Knight' being the obvious exception). Hans Zimmer's score was amazing and blended perfectly with the film. All in all, 'Interstellar' is an excellent movie, which I personally think is Nolan's most beautiful film to date.


                
I judge a movie by how long it takes me to realize I need the bathroom, how long the movie can hold my interest and how convincing the events unfolding are. Well, I watched this movie all the way through with no bathroom breaks. My interest was grabbed from the start and held all the way through. Being old enough, and lucky enough to have watched the premiere of 2001 A Space Odyssey - and viewed it several times since - of course I made comparisons, and there were a few, but this movie tells an excellent stand alone story that is both riveting and believable. I'm not going to give away any secrets but anyone who watches the last five minutes or so without a lump in their throat and a tear in their eye, well you're a critic, you're not enjoying the movie because you're too busy looking for bloopers and faults. Were there bloopers and faults? The darn movie was so riveting if there were any I didn't notice them!


                
Interstellar - ReviewCertain things in life are precious. Very precious. And so was the Film for me.Why you might ask?Well seldom do i get the chance where i find myself sitting in a cinema anxious and intrigued by what might come. In a time where trailers are omnipresent and going to the movies without having seen one seems unreasonable, outright stupid to some i had the magical chance to find myself in front of the IMAX on a cold November night with 2 tickets to Interstellar. My only knowledge was that Nolan directed it and McConaughey stars in it.The images were brilliant the acting was top notch and everything was blended together by Hans Zimmer and his Music. 169 minutes flew by me with my eyes fixed on the screen and my heart racing. And there it was.. The ending. I couldn't believe it . I was reliving, rethinking the movie while the credit scenes rolled enjoying the moment, the smell of popcorn, my comfortable seat and what do i see next to me? Ninety percent of the people in the cinema rushing outside after the first second of the credit scenes. .. .Well apparently people enjoy movies different than i do. Maybe i should start watching trailers again :).


                
Love is the one thing that transcends time and space... New creation of Christopher Nolan's genius, whose name is now known to everyone. His films are waiting with a special look, because it offers something that every day, unfortunately, less and less can be found in the world of mass cinema - an interesting spectacle, filled with meaning, ideas and emotions. At this time, Christopher decided to send us not to the world of dreams, and even not on the dark streets of Gotham City. No, now he send us to the journey to, and perhaps beyond the boundaries of the possible and impossible, through the curvature of space and time, in other worlds. And you won't forget this trip, this can be assured. I was madly waiting for Interstellar's release. And then, finally, I was able to see this Beauty - at the premiere in my coutry on October, 29. It was incredibly exciting. It was a delight. It was unforgettable. It was gorgeous. Nolan once again amazes the viewer's imagination by his painting. Journey to the brink of infinity, the line where humanity has never set, acts as either the first-born purpose and a background of emotional history about the father and the daughter. A loving father who mankind need to help, but that he should leave his children, and a loving daughter who doesn't want to let her dad in the infinity darkness. Starting from the very first frame and ending with the closing credits, a new picture of Nolan will absorb you completely, forcing stare at the screen during the whole action, because it's all so exciting and interesting that escape becomes physically impossible. No, this three hours won't fly quickly for you. You'll feel every emotion, every event, every character. You will not look how the main characters travel through the universe, because the movie experience in this film is so excellent that you will be on board of "Endurance" starship and travel between the worlds with the main characters by yourself.The emotional core of this story is the relationship of Matthew McConaughey's character and his daughter - Mackenzie Foy' and Jessica Chastain' character. And the acting work of these three artists in "Interstellar" impress the most. McConaughey was acting really great, and this is one of the most emotional, if not the most emotional role of his life. All the drama and tragedy of the relationship of father and daughter in this film will not leave anyone indifferent. Anne Hathaway, Wes Bentley, Michael Caine, Casey Affleck, Ellen Burstyn and other actors also coped with their roles and presented the film's supporting characters very realistic. I would particularly like to note a small but important in this story role of Matt Damon, a character who has received quite memorable. If we talk about the characters, it should be noted also two robots that accompanied our heroes in this difficult journey. One of them adds a touch of humor in the film, which mitigates constantly depressing, dramatic, and sometimes really dark atmosphere.The script of the film is very well combined the history of space exploration and the relationship between Cooper and Murph. The story is complex and complicated, is based on real scientific theories by Kip Thorne, and indeed contains a reference to the "Space Odyssey" and other sci-fi pictures. This story about true love, about loyalty, forgiveness, fraud, hard decisions, and much more. And it is designed so that leaves a lot of room for the imagination of the viewer. It's also possible to notice some structure allusion to another Nolan's work - Inception. The story and visuals are combined just perfectly in Interstellar.Hans Zimmer's score, written by him on the basis of only one letter from Nolan, hold the key: "Once we become parents, we can't help but look at ourselves through the eyes of our children", deserves a special praise. On this basis, Hans managed to write just incredible soundtrack that perfectly harmonizes with the history and the visual side of the picture. And this work of the composer is really different from the previous ones. It is executed in a different style from another subject in its base. Very impressive work, which will be pleasantly listened again and separate from the film itself. Visual range of the picture is incredibly beautiful and circuses. The "Endurance" itself, new worlds, insanely beautiful and mysterious space, wormholes, black holes, and travel through them, folds of time and space are arranged so that is simply breathtaking. I would like to thank all those who contributed to the creation of a visual of this film. It must be seen. That mastery with which this is done, not just words. In the visual pattern also has some references to the Kubrick's "Odyssey", and they are pleasing to the eye.Many thanks to Christopher Nolan for having given us such an incredible movie, which once again proved to us that the cinema is Nolan's life. "Interstellar" is a film that wins the hearts of the audience not only with its sci-fi splendor, but also an emotional story that lies at its very heart. This film is not only about the discoveries, space exploration and the final frontier of mankind, but also about the relationship of father and daughter, who were in a difficult situation in life when one has to leave the other in the name of a goal that can not be underestimated. So, with what Nolan's genius unfolds before us this action is beyond praise. Combining the story, filled with not only real science fiction, but the true human values <U+200B><U+200B>and emotions, outstanding and very emotional performances, breathtaking visuals, epic and dramatic soundtrack, Christopher Nolan breathed the life into this film by his directing to create something truly masterpiece again. "Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night... Rage, Rage Against The Dying Of The Light."


                
Just watched Interstellar in imax 70mm. Science Fiction fans can read on, everyone else can skip. Movie is a visual masterpiece. Like his earlier movies, Christopher Nolan once again proved, how big a movie can be! There were some shots,which made audience go crazy..Some scenes were as epic as 2001: A Space Odyssey. Do not go into the theatre expecting an action packed cerebral thriller. This one is not for action fans. At times, movie go highly sentimental( Matthew McConaughey does what he is best in and supposed to). I recommend this movie to all the Sci-Fi fans out there, make sure you go in group of sci-fi nuts!! Do not go with the hype..Go, sit back and enjoy. Just like Inception, this movie will be known as great after few months(I know people who said Inception was a crap when it released, and after few months rating it 10/10 in IMDb :D). I don't wanna spoil anything(If you want PM me). Also, make sure you go to the best theatre close to you. (If you loved Donnie Darko, 2001: A Space Odyssey, this is the one for you, Get ready to get mind blown!!) Interstellar Movie is EPIC in all sense!!


                
(((WOW)))...!!!It's almost impossible to put in words, but we have to try and give everyone what he truly deserve.In my modest opinion, Interstellar is the best Sci-Fi in human history. Believe it or not. It's the simple and the complicated, It's the usual and the different, It's the mind and the heart, It's an emotional and psychological journey through the unknown which has its own stunning visuals. It's an original story and thought-provoking masterpiece.Every single time with him, you just got crazy about his ideas, astonished by his mind games and inspired when he talks to the heart.Back then, he was an ambitious young director. And with his capabilities made his own way straight through the world. Now, he is an icon and a legend of directing. He is Christopher Nolan...Really guys, what's wrong with this guy ?!! what's going on inside his head ?!!It's our job to honor the honorable. Please, Just keep the rating UP, why ? Because Chris. and Interstellar deserve it.


                
The most amazing thing about this movie is its pioneering spirit. They look at night sky and see a map of foreign worlds that need to be visited. The movie presents lot of mysteries of the world in visually fascinating way. Those robots there are amazing as well, complete opposite of Marvin from Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy. I love them. The emotional layer is as great as it gets. You may very well find yourself crying possibly more than once. Finally the imagination was mind blowing rolling around the edges of the things you are yet willing to accept as possible. It all feels very real like you are right there travelling across the Universe encountering strangest parts of physics.
Wowser! This Christopher Nolan film was presaged with such marketing hype that I went in with pretty low and cynical expectations. But I was frankly blown away with it.Just about everyone raves about Christopher Nolan's work, and you look back at his Filmography and it makes for a pretty impressive resume: from Memento via the (rather over-hyped imho) Dark Knight Batman series-reboot through to Inception, one of my favourite films of all time. For me, Interstellar is right up there with Inception for thought-provoking, visually spectacular and truly epic cinema.We start in familiar 'Day after Tomorrow" territory, with mankind having in some way – not entirely explained – messed up the planet. As I understood it (and the film probably does require multiple watches with – see comments below – subtitles=on) the rather clever premise is that the world's food supplies are being progressively destroyed by a vindictive 'blight'. This delivers the double whammy of destroying mankind's provisions but also, by massive reproduction of the organism, progressively depleting the Earth's oxygen. For some reason – again, which I didn't get on first viewing – this is accompanied by massive dust storms. It is a morbid bet as to what is going to get the mid-West population first: starvation, lung disease or suffocation. Matthew McConnaughey plays the widowed Cooper, an ex-NASA drop out turned farmer given the opportunity by mission-leader Professor Brand (an excellent Michael Caine) to pilot a NASA mission. The goal is to punch through a mysterious wormhole in space where they suspect, through previous work, that a new home for mankind could be found.The first part of the film is set on and around Cooper's farm, setting in place one of the emotional wrenches at the heart of the film: that Cooper in volunteering for the mission and having to leave behind his elderly father (John Lithgow, again superb) and young children Murph (aged 10) and Tom (aged 15) whilst recognising that danger for him comes not just from the inherent risks involved but from the theory of relativity that could change everything, time-wise, for when he returns.Cooper is supported on the mission by a team of scientists including Brand's daughter played by a love-struck Anne Hathaway, who again shows she can act.To say any more would spoil what is a voyage of visual and mental discovery. (However, I would add that it is good to see that the character that plays my namesake Dr Mann (in a surprise cameo) is equally good looking! LOL).In terms of plus points, where do I start? The visuals are utterly stunning. Whilst reminiscent in places of Kubrick's "stargate" from 2001, the similarity is only passing. The film adds a majesty and scale to space that surpasses wonder. Elsewhere there are some interesting visual effects: this might have just been me of course, but after the dramatic launch there was something about the camera moves during the first scenes of weightlessness that made me feel genuinely nauseous.Equally stunning is Hans Zimmer's score which is epic and (in places) very VERY loud. The film certainly doesn't "go quietly into the night"! When matching the noise of the score/choir to the sound effects in the launch sequence the combination is ear-bleedingly effective. This must be a strong contender for the soundtrack Oscar for 2014. One quibble, again 2001 related, is that Zimmer uses the last chord of Also Sprach Zarathustra in the score sufficiently often that one hopes Richard Strauss's estate receives some royalties! The acting is top notch: I've already mentioned Caine and Lithgow, but McConnaughey, Hathaway and Jessica Chastain are all great. A particular shout-out should go to Mackenzie Foy as the young Murph, who is magnetically charismatic and just brilliant in the role.Above all, Nolan's direction is exquisite. The film has a slow build on earth (which adds to the lengthy running time) but defines the characters and primes the plot perfectly. And some of the editing cuts – again, Cooper's farm departure/launch sequence overlay is a great example – are superb in building the mood and the tension.I've decided that I am an extremely tough reviewer and for me a 10 star film is a rarity indeed. Where I could have knocked off a star was in some of the dialogue on the soundtrack, which was pretty inaudible in places: McConnaughey in particular with his general mumbling and strong southern accent is indecipherable in places. I look forward to the DVD subtitles. And one of the character's dying words – delivering a key plot point in the film – was completely lost to me (but thankfully later restated). Whilst the expansive plot is highly ambitious, the end of the film, playing fast and loose with physics I fear, requires a gravity-defying suspension of belief (although I guess the same could equally be said of 2001: A Space Odyssey).However, the film has stayed so firmly lodged in my mind for 24 hours I will make a rare exception to my rating 'rule'. Overall, this is a top-notch Sci-Fi film. And a final word: PEOPLE<U+0085> THIS IS A MUST SEE ON THE BIG SCREEN! (If you enjoyed this review, please see my archive of previous reviews at bob-the-movie-man.com and sign up for future notifications. Thanks).


                
'Interstellar' takes off by constituting its soaring ambitions right at the very first few sequences of the film: humanity is struggling to survive in a barely habitable Earth, already at the brink of total destruction. Earth and its resources is down to its last few moments, but when a wormhole, a medium that enables space time-travel beyond known limits, is discovered, scientists and ordinary men gather together, to begin an exploration that would take time-traveling through different worlds, in man's desperate search for humanity's place among the stars.To fully understand 'Interstellar', its premise and its accuracy, may require repetitive thinking, research, and a certain level of intellect—perhaps the same level Nolan asked in 'Inception'. But the film does not necessarily ask its audience to right away fully understand it, instead it begs you to feel it, to experience its dilemmas and tragedies and go through the same threads of emotion tangled up within the web of humanity's last possible moments, and the relationship between a widowed father and his children already leaning toward an anticipated end. Nolan's made sure that even the film's ideas are too far-fetched and may seem resting on towering intellectual grounds, it would nonetheless connect to its audience by delivering its message through emotionally-charged tales of human relationships, tangible enough to be felt and experienced.At its core, is retired NASA engineer, Cooper (McConaughey) and his relationship with his children—most strikingly with his daughter, Murph. Cooper's emotional journey—the decision he has to make whether to leave his family behind or join the quest to search for a new habitable planet—alone, serves as an effective vessel to transport the audience from Earth, right from the moment the spacecract 'Endurance' takes off from the ground, to the unknown limits of the cosmos. McConaughey delivers a stunning and highly-commendable performance, and while I can't say its his best, as I've managed to have seen only a few of his movies, I can certainly say it's one of the best I've seen from any actor, so far, and he may be owing that to Nolan's impeccable direction. McConaughey's incredibly brilliant portrayal of a loving father places him at the center of the story. There are plenty of nail-biting sequences here depicting his devastation after the choices he needed to make and still has to take, and in each one, he never fails to effectively convey whatever emotion the sequence requires him to deliver.Nolan's mastery of his craft screams in deafening volumes through his unblemished capacity to explore and raise the layers of the film's characters and put their stories in right places and in valid highlights within the film, and that works best with the help of brilliant musical score orchestrated by the equally impeccable Hans Zimmer. Added with breath-taking cinematography and spectacular visual effects, together, these elements, make 'Interstellar' capable of weaving a human story powerful enough to intrude through our delicate emotional senses, delve into our humanity and still go beyond that. Nolan's managed to tread through the film's seemingly absurd scope and ambitions without losing focus on the one powerful element that seems to keep the film's aspects bonded together: LOVE. As chiché as it may sound, that may be the only thing that is right away understood and easily felt in the movie. There are a lot of questions raised, and each one poses another, but none of which really requires immediate answer, and by not losing grasp of the mystery of love, and the power it can deliver to make human connections tighter and even closer amidst the ever widening physical distance between the characters in the film, Nolan comes out victorious in making the audience feel and understand 'Interstellar' and have its questions answered, in a way that doesn't necessarily oblige us to just think, but also to make our emotions work as well, so we can have the experience the film wants us to go through.Sure, it can't be perfect, I myself noticed that it lacks focus with its narrative (this either because I find it hard to solve Nolan's puzzle-like construction of the story—LOL—or the narrative' s really not just that good. If you have seen Memento and Inception, the construction here is somehow similar as those two) and some respected critics even argue this one can't be Nolan's best, and I haven't seen all his works yet, either, but for me, it really isn't that hard to put this on the list of the best sci-fi movies I've seen so far. Nolan has put up together a perfect ensemble of outstanding actors, whose powerful performances, IMO, are enough to cover the flaws. Not a single bit of every actor's potential is put into waste, here; everyone has a star to shine in this universe Nolan created. Hans Zimmer's music seems to never go out of sync, in fact it almost always goes in harmony with the dramatic highlights of the film. Visual effects is never less than top-notch; the imagery presented in this film is utterly jaw-dropping, so expect to have your breath being repeatedly taken away by the frequent outburst of colors effectively employed to establish distinctions between the dimensions. All those elements are satisfyingly sufficient to create the deciding impulse needed to bring the movie to where it aims to arrive.'Interstellar' is a thought-provoking and mind-enriching motion picture, a grand and brilliantly depicted visual spectacle not bereft of human emotions, one of the best of its genre in a very long time. If this movie gets proclaimed as a classic in the coming decades, that definitely isn't going to come out as a surprise.This Christopher Nolan film deserves my 10 stars. :)
chris Nolan a delivered another original story with with less special effects its more old school stuff with flight simulators done instead of geeen screens with space painted on the outside everything you see in this movie is real as your going to get so here starts the story of a farmer called cooper played by Matthew mconnaughey another Oscar performance who was a N.A.S.A pilot and his family he finds out that there is a problem with earth food sources and stumbles upon a plan to save earth and t leave earth for another world with his daughter he loves and his daughter tuned into other worldly scientific things that I wont explain you have to see this to understand the films relevance on finding a solution to the worlds problems there is a solution in here house were signs are there but I wont make sense until the end he has really turned the corner in his career what a RenascenceFirst of all, it is incredibly beautiful to watch. Honestly, it was so beautiful that I felt like I was sucked into the movie. The way Nolan decided to show some scenes really remind me of contact and parts of inception you see in this movie ca feel the talent of Christopher Nolan, just by looking at the way it is filmed. The techniques he used contribute to create that visual environment in a believable way.The sound environment is just mesmerizing. It is a very important part of the movie, because some scenes take place in space, and Noland just found the right way to use sound. The soundtrack (made by the great Hans Zimmer) is breathtaking, epic, amazing, unreal. I could find a lot more adjectives to qualify it, but you have to hear it to understand how epic they are. you think how loud this film is you think you ware a astronautMatthew, In this movie... Well, he is the movie. he orchestrates this film that everybody else feeds of his power so much that everyone around him gets better. But Matthew is just what was needed to feel the human part of the story (which is very important in Interstellar). He is capable of making us feel so many different emotions all along the story, as a father, as a human. Anne Hathaway was very convincing, all together the actors managed to create some harmony, which makes the human interactions credible. Caine, Chastaing and Affleck are a perfect choice. And then there is... The special guest who is mischievous in a minor role , is actually much more important than that. He proves, once again, that he is a great actor. Watch and see. and a sarcastic computer really a bit bizarre in space but this computer does come in handy in a important scene And finally, the scenario/story. I won't spoil anything here; I'll just try to convince you how great it is. Nolan is known to revolutionize everything when he tries a new genre in cinema. Well, once again he did it. With The Dark Knight he revolutionized the superhero genre. With Interstellar he's revolutionizing the sci-fi genre in cinema. he worked with a physicist in gravitational physics and astrophysics to help him with this movie. And we can feel and see just as Spielberg did in the 80s Nolan is doing it now Today, Nolan is laying the new foundations of the genre in cinema, proving that cinema is still at the beginning of what can be done (brace yourselves my friends, we have not seen anything yet). Why? Well, simply because we only know a few things about space, some things can't be proved for the moment, so we can use theory, and make the best of it. That is exactly what Nolan did. He used theories that exist today, and made a movie about mankind, about pioneers, about humanity, about us.whole journey that they thought was fraught with danger and the unknown as they have received messages from across time and space to realize that they had the answers after all it was just his daughter love to figure out what the lead scientist life work (Michael Caine) was about My rating for this movie can only be a 10,this film does not feel like 3hrs of moving space enthralling epic masterpiece with a beating heart of love and time and bending space time from a to b to meet his family across the universe This is the sci-fi movie of the decade, and probably the best movie Nolan ever made.if you like thinking about logic you might just come way thinking that this earth can be saved if we take what Nolan was taking about and not just taking the earth for granted Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night... Rage, Rage Against The Dying Of The Light."
-Plot- The year is unknown, but most likely close to present time. The Earth is running out of resources and a group of underground NASA workers seek the help of Engineer/Astronaut turned Farmer Mr. Cooper in taking a journey across the Galaxy and through a wormhole in hopes of a future for mankind on the other side.That is the gist of the exposition of the plot. It's mostly quite clear what this movie is about through previews. On paper this sounds like a typical sci-fi plot, but Chris Nolan executes it like never before. The movie seems to be getting more mixed reviews from critics compared to his other films, and I think I have an explanation. Nolan and his team had too much faith in it's audience. The movie is full of science and dialogue strongly textured with physics theories. The talk of wormholes and Black holes are key to the movie. But I know that many will be left confused even with the explanations of what is going on to make everything in the film scientifically possible. After all, Physicist Kip Thorne was a consultant for the movie! I found it quite educational, interesting, but also over done at times. A good majority of people who watch this movie will be turned off by the abundance of scientific talk throughout the movie. I personally loved it and was never lost, but I could understand why many people were frustrated with the constant turns in the plot and overlong length. I found this movie to be amazing. Sure, at times the dialogue was hard to even understand. There was a scene where a major character is dying, and as he speaks his last words, it's almost impossible to decipher what is said. It was also almost unintentionally humorous. But that was a small price to pay and I'm sure the subtitles of the Blu Ray release will save that scene for me. The directing and cinematography are gorgeously done. The camera angles really bring the movie to life. Simple shots from the point of view of the rear of a truck or spaceship never looked so amazing. The visuals were undeniably beautiful whether the setting was in space, on the foreign planet or even the decaying Earth. The music of the film by Hans Zimmer deserves so much recognition! I will even say it was better than the score for Inception. It really increased the tension and pushed for emotional heartache in many parts of the film. There are many tense scenes that will have you holding on along with the characters in the movie and a good portion of this effect is due to the musical score! The acting was top class. Matthew M gave one of the greatest human performances in history as Mr. Cooper. I seriously think it was better than his Dallas Buyers Oscar Winning performance. I really hope he gets recognition for this. There are more than a few scenes that will make even the most cold hearted person feel like crying. He was just amazing. Anne Hathaway gave a stunning emotional performance as the flawed Bland. Jessica Chastain has a few strong moments as well. There is a scene regarding her character breaking down which will definitely make your eyes water. The supporting cast all do justice to the movie too, but Matthew and Jessica gave the best performances without a doubt.In a way, this movie resembles Inception in certain areas. Inception had a hint of relativity in it with the time differences between the dreams, the real world and limbo. Interstellar adds to that with the inclusion of a planet in the other galaxy in which every hour is equal to 7 years outside of its atmosphere. In Inception, a central character is left behind and lost in the limbo world with its major difference of time. In Interstellar, a central character is left behind in the other galaxy to find a new home while the other leaves to help the current home adjust until then. In Inception, a central character is old for a moment in limbo at the end due to the difference in time relativity. In Interstellar, the time relativity affects the entire human race as the astronauts are in the other galaxy. In both movies, the main character has left behind children and longs to be reunited. Inceptions main character doesn't want to see his children's faces until they are truly reunited. But in Interstellar, he holds on to the image of their faces as a survival tactic. This movie is full of Christopher/Jonathan Nolan-isms. Overall, I think that this movie should be seen in theaters on the big screen if you have the chance. It was a true experience. Be sure to be attentive and to clear your bladder first though. It will make you think. At times it might make you check your watch, but please endure and you will be treated to one of the most intriguing films of all time. Even if you think you didn't like the film, there is no doubt that you will be thinking about the contents of the plot and beauty of the visuals long after the credits roll.
OK, I've just seen Interstellar and I can tell it's one of those movies that you either love or hate.Personally I loved it and probably I'm going to watch it again to process it a little bit more. It's not a simple movie, maybe that was already clear, is a Nolan's film.Matthew McConaughey does a great job by portraying Cooper. The most touching scenes are those between his character and Mackenzie Foy, who plays the younger version of Murph, Jessica Chastain character. Either it seems to be an "Outer Space Film" is more about human relations and how important is for us to be linked with others. Even it's a long movie, 169 minutes, I didn't felt it that long or tedious. The director managed to keep us engaged through the whole film. The experience on IMAX in 70mm film. The image quality perceived was superb, now I get why Christopher Nolan and other directors are fighting to keep film alive. I had the opportunity to watch it at the Chinese theatre and was a great experience, my first time in that theatre. The staff from the theatre even told us that Nolan himself watched several scenes of the movie in that theatre to "calibrate" the experience. Which is very cool. Well, I encourage you to go and watch Interstellar to see of you love or hate it.


                
Bad-ass... is the adjective which I choose to type the first word of this review. As I left the theater I was not only spellbound, but I was also sulking about the fact that the movie had ended.The movie has a slow pace at the beginning, but not really boring. Steady and unique in its nature, I did feel that this movie might end up like last years blockbuster 'Gravity' starring Sandra Bullock and George Clooney. With every minute that passed, I could feel the importance of time, which let my prejudice drain away. With twists and turns, but not brain-spraining at all, it did make emotions come at par with adventure.Great acting by Matthew McConaughey did overshadow Anne Hathaway. With an epic storyline and Nolan's direction Space, Galaxy and the Universe did reach a whole new level.I would love to rate this movie 10 stars without a second thought because it reached the depth of my heart and left me speechless. This movie is not a movie which is meant to be wasted by watching it at your laptop or TV. It's buck worthy and a must watch for all the people who wait for some new serious, touching, heartwarming, adventurous, Science Fiction and Oscar deserving movies of all time. Hat's off to both the Nolans!


                
I just returned after seeing "Interstellar" again (2nd time) and I can say that my second experience was even more powerful than the first. I'm trying to find the right words to express the thrilling journey that is this film. First I'd like to advice you to try and pay attention to every single line - nothing is said without purpose and everything is somehow connected. It slowly builds up with the beginning to this phenomenal emotional ride and it will not let go until the very end. It will keep you on the edge of your sit - literally -, it will make you cry, it will make you jump, it will completely absorb you. Throughout the course of it I forgot I was in a cinema. I was living every single moment with the characters, feeling what they're feeling. At times, I found myself staring blankly trying to comprehend its complexity - How can this be? Is this really happening? Can it be so epic? The second time I saw it I understood the importance of every single scene and line, I saw more connection, more intricacy and (even) more genius in it. The first time it was grand and overwhelming, it just hit me hard and I couldn't really pay attention to details. The emotional journey part was very important to me; but of course, there are the stunning visuals which contribute immensely and transcend you there, into the action. They were fantastic, superb, simply put, film-making at its finest.This is all, of course, from my point of view - a super sci-fi, fantasy, adventure and all associated genres enthusiast. Although I cannot imagine how one, regardless of their movie preferences, can dislike "Interstellar" - it's that good.What I'm obviously saying is GO SEE THIS MOVIE. Expect epicness. It will not disappoint.


                
the sixth sense meets inception. makes you cry, sweat, and question your own actions in the face of these scenarios, if you approach the film wholeheartedly and ready for the ride then it will take you on quite a journey, and you'll only want to see it again and again. the music really does the job of keeping you suspended, Anne Hathaway and Jessica chastain do fine work, as does Matthew McConaughey, and the little girl playing a younger Jessica Chastain pulls at your heartstrings. i was really really pleased with this and wish it was getting as much attention and praise as it deserves, i think the writing was genius and it really had my brain working hard. you walk out of the theater and everyone around you is talking about it from the sidewalk to the subway ride home, everyone, it was really funny to see.


                
I bought a big Popcorn, didn't eat because it was making noise , I bought a big Coca Cola , didn't drink it, Because didn't want to go to make Pee, I breath from my open mouth , because I had cold and didn't want to be disturb by that,This is my first review of a Great Movie,From my above words ,one can really understand how excited I was during this space Epic of Nolan and a great Contagious and poisonous soundtrack of Hans Zimmer , this movie made me forget about everything I had in my mind for almost 3 hours and at the End of the movie I was getting upset that this is going to be soon over and I just don't want it, from beginning to the End , This Journey was full of excitement and surprises , this movie was like few other movies where you really don't know through every frames of movie , what you will find out next , i am fan of every Nolan's work and i also expected a lot from this Movie but coming out of the Movie i felt like not to mention anything about it and just to go back and sit in the middle to experience again Many thanks to Nolan and Zimmer.
I saw this opening night (Thursday). I wanted the full monty. That means IMAX (I drove across town to get it). Wow! There are only a handful of films that have visually overwhelmed me and required a second go (or more). The first was 2001 A Space Odyssey. Star Wars Empire Strikes Back and Avatar come to mind for now. This was such a spectacle with a very complex script I'll admit I left the theater with a lot of questions. I knew it was a viscerally thrilling experience, I just couldn't fully explain the ending to my inquiring mind. I write this piece having seen this amazing film again four days later (No IMAX). OMG! I loved this movie even more tonight than four days ago. For me at least, it took two viewings for the grandeur of this project to reveal its power and intellectual reach. This is a science fiction film for the ages!


                
Interstellar, Another feather in Nolan's cap, This movie is surely one of the Nolan's finest blend, it had everything that makes you glued to the seats and those nail biting moments I can watch it again and have the same feeling as watching it for the first time, and don't be fooled by some idiots claiming that the movie is way too technical and you need to brush up your Physics before watching the movie, don't fall for this bullshit, the movie is clear and concise and well not to mention but just like any other Nolan movie this one also leaves much to your interpretation and I believe that's what makes the movies of Nolan stand out from others, it's all about IMAGINATION with a good bit of science and what could very well be a reality, I don't want to spoil it for you by revealing any interesting parts of the movie, I would recommend the movie to anyone who loves watching fiction movies that makes you believe in the fiction they portray, yes we are far from the reality, but when you are in there watching this movie, those 3 hours you become a part of the movie and it becomes the reality, few movies have given me such experience in the past, and this one definitely tops the chart!


                
I have never in my life experienced such an emotional brake as I did today watching Interstellar! I left theatre shaking violently, crying and having I think 150 BPM. Every single piece of the movie from the story itself, visuals, music and acting is a perfect combination and perfection. I even can't find right word to give you proper review (partly because English is not my native)and summarization won't give the movie justice. The only thing I regret that I watched it dubbed (though in my country dubbing is really good) I advice t go see the movie alone on yourself as I did and it will pull you in from the first frame to this epic journey!P.S. Oscars to Nolan and the movie right away!


                
A Quantum Leap in Film making.The greatest story ever told. A movie that encompasses all that is and can be Human. Interstellar bravely Transcends into the unknown throughout time and space, leaving no one behind. My persistent craving for unwavering diligence in directing and acting has been satisfied with ample sufficiency. Very few take true pride in what they do, and most never try. But to never give up hope and to reach for the stars is how real greatness is achieved.Thank you Mr. Nolan(s), thank you 'Cooper', for creating a piece that holds such faith in mankind's will to survive, and most of all, Love.5D 10/10
I went to watch this film, not knowing much about the background of the story or what it was exactly about. It started off well, although in my opinion it did drag on for a long period of time before they actually ended up in space. This does not effect the film though or my rating one bit, as it all worked out in the end and the build up was necessary! The special effects in this film are awesome, and are used in a way which I was literally at the edge of my seat, in shear anticipation, suspense and a slight sense of nervousness. Its very tense in many parts, and it certainly keeps you thinking. I don't know how people in the right state of mind can give this film a 1 star, or say 'disappointing', 'rubbish' 'stick to batman, Nolan'! These people don't know what they are talking about and are just trying to be picky and find a way to make the film look bad! Its a brilliant film, something suitable for all the family! Definitely a film for everyone, one of the BEST MOVIES EVER!


                
What an incredible film, a mesmerizing ride from minute 1 to minute 169. I couldn't believe when it ended that it was already finished; time appeared to go away quickly when watching this in the theater and remember when it ended, I wished there was more of this epic movie.Great directing, great performances, the effects/sets could have been better (I like my detail which unfortunately some scenes/effects lacked) and you got to take a big leap of faith to ignore the obvious paradox. If you do the latter, you will enjoy a Nolan's masterpiece.One of my top ten movies of all time and most likely the best sci-fi I have ever watched.


                
