OK, I'll keep this brief, but I'll also nail my credentials to the mast first. I know science, cosmology, sci-fi and film-making pretty well. I have, in the past taught film studies at degree level, and worked on the production of more than one major Hollywood sci-fi film. I read Stephen Baxter and I like space stuff a lot. More than a lot. And why am I telling you this? Because I should have loved "Interstellar", but I didn't for one simple reason: It is a truly dreadful piece of film-making.I won't even bother with dissecting the "science" in the film, because that isn't really the issue (it is wrong on pretty much every level). I'm not even going to bother complaining about the absurd audio balance in the sound mix. And I'll ignore the sub-standard special effects - because FX don't a great movie make.The issues I have with Interstellar are essentially these: The film is an arse-numbing three hours long, and feels far longer. The pace is stunningly poorly judged - the first hour in particular could have been cut to ten minutes and far more would have been gained than lost.The characters are paper-thin, and I didn't care about any of them. The plot is entirely derivative (mostly of the vastly superior "Contact"). The special effects aren't special at all and the editing (or lack of) is so self-indulgent it is a text book example of a director so enamoured with his project that he loses objectivity. The result is a plodding, flabby, and desperately dull movie devoid of any real excitement or emotional impact.I won't go on, but special mention must be made of the planets - Paddling World and Coldworld. You see virtually nothing of either, and so utterly uninteresting are they that what should have been a moment of genuine cinematic wonderment was squandered with a bit of poor CGI painfully inferior to "A Perfect Storm" and a location less dramatic than your own back garden.I've probably not been a brief as I intended, but as I write this I feel the disappointment and actual anger I felt on leaving the cinema bubbling to the surface again. It was a total let-down and a waste of more than three hours of my life. The gushing reviews on here are ridiculous and absurd, and I am forced to conclude that reviewers either watched a different film to me, or saw something so brilliant it completely passed me by. I am fairly confident I didn't doze off, although I desperately wanted to.So in conclusion, "Contact" did all of this far, far better, fifteen years ago. In Contact the characters are human, believable, beautifully realised and you care what happens to them. The relationship between Father and Daughter is deeply moving and inspiring. But then the plot is far more sophisticated anyway, dealing with the social tensions and impact of the discovery of extra-terrestrial life, the science is accurate and entirely plausible (it was written by Carl Sagan after all), the movie is genuinely thrilling and full of spectacle, and it has something very profound to say.Contact is everything Interstellar is not, and it has a considerably shorter running time. Contact brought tears to my eyes, Interstellar bored me to tears.


                
All of the fanboys and girls must have also been in love with "The Emperor Has No Clothes" too. This story is thin, the characters are under developed, the emotional and logical shortcuts are ridiculous, Matt Damon is horribly cast and has become a caricature of himself, the set pieces are not inspiring, the music cues try to be bombastic enough to create emotion that simply doesn't exist and the science is a mess. When a self-important filmmaker reaches a level of success where no one will tell them "no" anymore, this is what comes of it. The scientific equation that sums up this film is as follows: Nolan + Interstellar = Lucas/Spielberg + Crystal Skull. A completely unremarkable and forgettable film. The Emperor truly has no clothes.


                
Here's its 2 stars...I saw it in IMAX so I enjoyed going through the wormhole. Other than that? Well, let's get started...It's so typical - almost clichéd! - the way billions of dollars are spent on the visuals of movies these days and zero dinero on the script. Interstellar is a prime example of this. It just might be the definitive example.I'm not going to go into the science much because I'm a tad science- and space-illiterate but even I could see glaring holes in this tripe. For one thing, what kind of impossible tidal forces create a mile- high tidal wave out of 2 feet of water? Why weren't drones sent into the wormhole instead of people? That corn looked pretty green to me, didn't you think so? What's going on in London or Montreal or Buenos Aires or anywhere other than Kansas? Is Kansas the last place anyone is? Can't the black guy just once make it to the end of the movie? Why is NASA housed inside the Bonaventure Hotel? (okay sorry, I'm from LA and recognized it right away)Did Matt Damon owe someone a role and that's why he's in this tripe giving the worst performance of his career? Why weren't Matthew M's grandchildren and great grandchildren the slightest bit interested in him? Who the hell cast Matthew M in this? How was it possible to relay "tapes from loved ones at home" across those distances but nobody could relay anything back? What was up with that stupid robot?Okay, forgetting science and crazy-ass tesseracts for a moment...the human element of the script was incredibly eye-rolling. Remember that notoriously stupid moment in Armageddon when Liv Tyler screams "That my father up there!"? Well the entire "human" aspect of this story and all the dialogue seemed to be written by whomever wrote that classic line. What was so wrong with treating the audience like intelligent people and giving then a straight, highly scientific, awe-at-the-majesty-of-the-universe, harsh reality sci-fi film that didn't insult you at every turn instead of this z-grade soap opera with neat-o visuals?
From fictional nonsense to lacking in explanation as to main events taking place in the show - I would not recommend this movie. Without modern day astrophysics and scientific knowledge it was tough not to continuously mention how silly a movie this is, especially when it gets to the climax. If I were interested in fiction and or religious ideology and not having understanding of why events unfolded the way they did in this movie, I may not have scolded my TV set as much. :)Move a wormhole near Saturn? How would that work in reality? What were they thinking to add such silliness into the plot?My family was not impressed by the riddles.


                
My girlfriend and I decided to watch this movie at home as we missed it when it was doing the rounds in our local cinema. How glad we were, for at least it meant we were able to sip on our wine and chat in between - which we would have not been able to do had we watched in the cinema. And we did a LOT of chatting, mostly about the direness of the film itself. I can't believe so many reviewers thought this film to be amazing (but then we're all entitled to our opinions - and we all know how opinions differ to the extremes at times). However, I honestly couldn't connect with ANY of the characters in this film - particularly the leads. I really have no words...just found the whole film totally ridiculous - and don't even get me started on Hans Zimmer's background music!!! We needed subtitles for some scenes as the music was so overpowering we couldn't hear a word that was being said. I was even so bored at one point that I started to imitate Matthew McConaughey's irritating 'whistle' as he speaks. Enough said methinks.


                
Interstellar, while visually stunning, is one of the most flawed films in recent memory. Flawed, because more time was spent rendering out the special effects than developing a screenplay worthy of the cast and budget. When you're a filmmaker who can make anything you want - on film - there is no excuse for your films to at-least bring something new to the table and work at a basic screenplay level.Interstellar does not ask new questions and with a script that literally feels like a first draft --I'm just shocked that Nolan didn't develop this more. The entire core of this film is the relationship between our lead Cooper and his daughter - but this is so rushed and honestly, extremely cheesy, that we don't care what happens. They spend far too much in time in space - with a ridiculous plot involving Matt Damon - and cut back to Earth is sporadic cuts that pull us into so many directions.This film proves that the Nolan brothers can not handle a couple of things: writing females and writing emotional characters that we're attached to. The dialogue was laughable - over the top in many places - and basically just a ton of one-liners. We cut from Cooper learning he has to go to space - says goodbye - boom on the rocket - NO ATTACHMENT. There is zero development here - just get him to space, which fails to tell the core story well - which bites this movie in its ass in the third act. Forced. Rushed. However you want to put it - I'm sorry folks - it's not a great movie - not even a good one. Everything is spoon fed to the audience - no, not just the science - the twists - I didn't know on the nose screen writing was so acceptable in Hollywood - guess it is. They talk about ghosts so many times within the first act that anyone with half a brain KNEW there was something there - and if you know anything about space travel, black holes - or any of the stuff that is talked about in the trailers - can put two and two together and call the major twist in the FIRST ACT. Come on Nolan, you can do better.
OK, I am far from a critic.I generally have an open mind about films. I watch a lot of them. I don't even take the time to review many. But I just don't understand how everyone thinks this is a good film. First, let me point out the good things. The soundtrack was amazing. Maybe it didn't work with every scene but it was nice to listen to. The production value was almost flawless. The space scenes were very believable. The acting was generally good. I like most of the actors in general. BUT....the story..plot....I am not going to get into too many details. It just didn't work. You are fed so many physics/science concepts with no explanations. It's like taking one sentence from every science article on the net from the past 20 years and saying "just believe what I am telling you", even though it's impossible to understand from such simple dialog. Then you are expected to believe......well MANY ridiculous things that somehow just happen. I'll leave it at that. I am going to bed.


                
You know those special movies that leave you with something more than you had before you watched them? They enrich you, teach you, show you. This isn't one of those. Interstellar is the pathetic result of a lot of bad ideas slamming together in Nolan's mind, falling out as broken disjointed garbled mush in the script.The script isn't the only problem with all of it's hammy hokum and lack of character. Even the heralded special effects are so cliché at this point that they hardly add anything to this abyssal cavity of broken ideas. Here is what happened. Nolan saw some discovery channel show, or perhaps PBS, about the cosmos. He said to himself, "I could make an adventure movie about that." Unfortunately for those of us who recognize good cinema from average and just slop, he couldn't.I watch zero budget movies with more thoughtfulness than this two hundred million dollar nightmare. Trade me all of the special effects in the world for one moment of realistic human emotion.As cynical as it sounds, after seeing the 9 of 10 rating for this garbage, I question whether or not humanity would even deserve to be saved from the cataclysm.


                
The movie did not need to be almost three hours long...this was a great example of why it is a bad choice to let a director have the last say over edits, cuts, and length of a film. So many scenes could have been cut.The only interesting part of the film was when the characters finally made it to different planets. However, all the science leading up to the adventure of going to different galaxies seemed to be a lot of mumbo-jumbo...lots of theories and big words to confuse the audience so that we think it could be possible.The last thirty minutes almost was incomprehensible...the explanations of what happened in the earlier part of the film didn't make sense...but because it was explained with a serious voice talking and serious music behind it, people who don't understand quantum physics (which are most of us) will think it does.Plese Hollywood, reign in Christopher Nolen a bit.
I loved most of Nolan's films. Memento, The Dark Knight are among the best movies I've watched. Sadly I can't say the same about Insterstellar. I can't understand what happened with Nolan on this movie. The plot is a complete mess, filled with arbitrary nonsense they dare call science. It spends time explaining what a wormhole is and then it throws in some metaphysical bs about the fifth dimension which does not make any sense. This is not a sci-fi film it is a fantasy movie. The visuals are the only redeeming quality this movie has. But however great they are, they cannot save this mess of a movie. Weak, forced acting with dull dialogue makes this one of the weakest movies I've seen this year.


                
How this travesty of a "sci-fi" movie has garnered so many gilded reviews is proof that either A) I am way out of step with the great, unwashed movie-going masses or B) the aforesaid masses have never seen a truly great "sci-fi" flick. This movie was interminable; I almost walked out 38 minutes into the run, when Mathew was still just a former test pilot trapped in the body of a corn-huskin' farmer. Which leads me to my first problem with Interstellar: would you "hire" a corn-huskin' farmer and devoted Dad of 2 to be the pilot of an intergalactic space mission? Aside from 1 or 2 very brief allusions, there is ZERO explanation / justification for Matt to be selected for this mission. And strangely enough, Michael Caine ages not 1 day in the 23 years since Matt blasts off for "strange new worlds".He is still in the same pants and shirt as he was when Matt blasted off (23 years before); the directors did give Mike a wheelchair for good measure. Before I proceed, there were 2 or 3 somewhat interesting plot twists, and the CGI / special FX were very good (just like "Gravity", another recent "sci-fi" disappointment); although the robot was utterly ridiculous; more like a walkin', talking' 21st century soda machine or a "Gen 12" Robbie the Robot. Of course, CGI and special FX alone do not a classic "sci-fi" film make. I cannot disclose 2 major plot disappointments due to the "spoiler" clause but suffice it to say the powers behind this film have tried to fuse an entry level class in quantum physics with an action film; and it just didn't work. I have now accepted, grudgingly, that for enough money you can get the finest actors to play in the most ludicrous films. Read the cast list; scratch your heads in disbelief, along with me. And if you want a classic "sci-fi" movie? Try 2001, Blade Runner, and Alien.


                
This movie attempts to be serious and it has good believable science in it but then they do things that just make you want to scream at the writers. If you are going to ask me for suspension of disbelief please be a little consistent.A space ship takes off from earth boosted with a three stage rocket about the size of a Saturn 5 rocket. That same ship can then take off and reach orbit from two alien worlds with out any boosters, including one planet so far down a gravity well that there is a time dilation of one hour to 7 years. At one point three ships are moving away from a black hole with no thrust but when the smaller ships separate from the larger one they immediately fall back into the black hole. There is a 300 foot ocean swell on a planet where the ocean is only 1 foot deep.It seems like every time the writers wanted to add some plot device into the story they added a new convenient constraint to their universe. For example you can communicate normally in one direction through their worm hole but only a few bits per day in the other direction. Our hero is an ex-NASA pilot who even though hasn't been in contact with NASA for 20 years is given the task of piloting their latest ship.I hope anyone who took high school physics would feel insulted by this movie.


                
The good: The creative design of their robot +1the visuals of the water-planetmaybe the ice-planet as well+1Things that made this film bad:All the scenes that did not add anything to the story, including the very slow start.The sabotaging behavior of Matt Damon, was just added to make drama. From the moment Matt attacked Matthew, I knew the movie was bad.That the crew members would believe Matt's description of the planet is unlikely. The planet was visibly frozenIt will always be pointless to reach the center of a black hole, since it would mean certain death. They tried to describe it as a necessary sacrifice, but the thinking behind was just nonsense.I have no Idea what they tried to illustrate as happening in the black hole. There are no books to be found in a black hole. Timetravel backwards in time is impossible.The excessive use soundtrack music and unnecessary loud music. The plot overall was far from something that could have happened in reality.
8.8? I'm just not feeling it.Total "snoregasm", I swear. It's VERY slow to start, then disappointing once it does get going. I'm one of those that has to finish nearly every movie and book I start, no matter how bad. It took me 3 days to finish watching because I could only stand about 40 boring ass minutes at a time. Quasi-science muddled with current theory and overstretched artistic license, and let's face it; McConaughey as "humanities last hope"? Yeah, we'd be screwed. He's not altogether that bad, but in reality the coolest thing about him is his Air-stream. The improbability levels in the "science" and the story make it difficult to get into it.


                
I like movies. I watch them a lot. I personally know 2 of the actors in this film, and also some people connected to the scoring. After all the hype I was geared up to watch it. I fell asleep once within the first hour and drifted in and out of consciousness throughout the film. It's too long, waaay to much dialogue - a completely bombastic storyline and Matthew just irritated me.I could give a much more well rounded review and get all academic - but its not worth it. I really can't sum up the words to say how much of a dull experience this was. There are some crazy visuals once they eventually get into space - but the dialogue and the actual audio mix is really lame.Watch it if you really have nothing else to do - or perhaps if you're a drug user it might work better under the influence. Since I don't take drugs - that's just a wild guess - it might - actually - make it even worse. One thing for sure - I wouldn't watch it again. Not for all the tea in China.


                
This is my first review on here but I had to say something. I just left the theater and I haven't felt like this in 15 years. Yes, that's right, not since 1999, not since, dare I say it, "Star Wars - Episode 1 - The Phantom Menace". And I've only been waiting for this movie for a little over a year!All I have to say is the following; Interstellar was an incoherent, implausible, unscientific, misandrist mess.*** SPOILERS BEGIN HERE ***1. The protagonist in this film, Cooper, is denied the prize of his journey and sacrifice only to give it to the female characters of the movie. His daughter inherits the knowledge of both her father and Caine's scientist character and mysteriously solves the gravity equation which inexplicably saves the world. Anne Hathaway's character is saved by Cooper's sacrifice so she can become some galactic 'Eve' on a new planet. Ridiculous. What is she going to do, make an appointment at the IVF clinic on planet X? Is she going to give birth to ten daughters and artificially inseminate them in turn? Nonsense.2. The antagonist, Matt Damon's character, is nothing but a caricatured villain whose motivations are never explained. He is shown as being weak and a coward. No one with these qualities would ever volunteer for a mission like this or last this long on a desert planet without killing themselves. They even called him Dr. Mann which makes him come across as representing all men as weak and evil. Ugh!3. The old and wise scientist turns out to be a liar. Michael Caine's character is shown to have duped everyone on the mission because he knew somehow that plan A would never work? He's just and @#$#? WTF!4. The brother, who for some reason Cooper doesn't give two @#$% about turns into an insane madman.5. The mission which takes them on a journey for thousands of light years of space travel only to circle back to a little girl's bedroom to show that a girl's intuition and love trumps science on any day of the week! Absolute nonsense!!!THE ONLY MEN IN THIS MOVIE THAT ARE GIVEN ANY REDEEMING QUALITIES IS THE BLACK MAN AND THE ROBOT.Mr. Nolan, and I'm sure you read this garbage, please take this advice for your next film: You don't need to water down your male heroes with emotional drivel and juvenile female sentiment to get women to watch your movies. You did this in Inception and TDKR when you jammed in Marion Cotillard's awful emotional subplots into an otherwise brilliant story.Take the example of 2010: Odyssey Two. A forgotten sci-fi gem of the eighties. This movie had a very strong female lead played brilliantly by Hellen Mirren. Her character was most believable because she was in balance with her equally strong, intelligent male counterparts which included Roy Scheider and John Lithgow (anyone catch the hot dog reference?).If you modeled this movie after 2010 instead of 2001, I think you could have reached your biggest audience. Unfortunately, I will not be part of this one.I gave this movie two stars for some original ideas the movie tried to do. The story, the score and some god-awful performance by Matt Damon made it impossible to keep this movie together. Etc, etc, etc...DSMan


                
Another nearly three hour journey into space and special effects. Humans must travel far to find a plot. I guess the special effects and sound WERE the plot. I was thinking the 8+ rating was because the super creative surprise ending was coming. Nope. It was more like, OK, we are out of worm holes, black holes, dust bowls, docking suspense, tidal waves, and multi-whiteboard formulas, so, let's just use a Southpark ending and....it's gone.My review is supposed to be at least ten lines, because they want my review to take as long as this movie. The movie did have quite a few big names included. So must have had a big budget. I guess I'll check what the box office was. Now I know why I never heard of this movie. What happened to earth anyway? Saving the people on earth was the objective and you never find out what happened, even though the writer had three hours to get to a conclusion. Oh brother...
This is perhaps the worst space movie I've ever seen. Confusing, useless dialogue, over-long, slow, boring. The director tried to copy 2001 A Space Odyssey with no luck. Better watch this film or read a good book. The plot is easily understood by scientists like Carl Sagan or Stephen Hawkins but not for Joe Average, black holes, gravity effect etc. It shows interesting subjects but they could have been better written, making the movie much more attractive and interesting. What a waste of good acting and nice production design. One of the worst aspects of the movie is that actor McConaughey doesn't vocalize clearly and it is very difficult to understand his words. He must study with Henry Higgins (My Fair lady) so he can learn some phonetics!! But he is a very good actor, wasted on this film.


                
To be completely honest, this is easily the most boring movie I've probably ever watched. The first part of the movie is a complete utter bore. Things actually picked up a bit midway through when they reached to their destination but even so it then falls back as flat as it all started.Though the plot of the movie is quite an interesting one, it does take in my opinion a little bit too much time to get put into place which makes it really annoying at first. The lack of action of any sort, I mean even the most innocuous ones really brings the spectator to sleep all throughout.It's actually hard to keep focus during the whole thing without doing something on a side actually with the long sequences of boring dialog. These, between the different characters are rather toneless, emotionless and they all speak like as if they were in some sort of documentary. It's actually quite unfortunate because the story in itself is quite interesting but the way it is played is just completely boring.


                
As a plot I thought this movie had a lot of potential. I was disappointed however. After 25 minutes I just found it boring. The acting is terrible and you can hardly hear what Matthew McConaughy is saying. He just seems to be mumbling all the time. Also there is very little or no humour, most of the characters seem to argue with each other and the only interesting line was something to do with one hour being equal to 7 earth years, "so let's make every bit of it count." I ejected the DVD before half an hour was up....but maybe I'll return to it at some point. I am just glad I never went to see it at the cinema.


                
Don't waste your time (not intended as a pun!). This is one of the most disappointing films I have ever seen, I love Sci-fi and was really looking forward to seeing this following the great reception it received, the people who liked this movie must have been watching a different version to the one that I watched. It is overlong at nearly 3 hours, where not a lot happens, the acting is wooden and hopeless from everyone except the young girl; Matthew McConaughty as the main character is totally miscast and 'MUMBLES' throughout his entire performance (I have perfect hearing, but was having to strain to hear what he was saying), Michael Caine and John Lithgow are wasted talents in this film, and are not given much to do. But what was most annoying was the never ending oozing over- sentimentality about family 'relationships' that would even have Steven Spielburg blushing! If you go to see this expecting a film about man's push to the stars...forget it. Also the 'revelation' how the girl works out the answer is so ridiculous that it actually made me laugh.


                
This movie is incorrectly classified as science fiction. It is actually anti-science fiction and, by the way, in all other matters a serious insult to any person's intelligence. The problem with directors these days, even supposedly talented ones like Nolan, is that they try to appeal to everyone and end up appealing to no body. Big money talks louder I guess. Damn you Hollywood.But what pisses me off about this movie is its anti-scientific and anti-technological approach. The subliminal message, that perhaps makes most Nolan fan-boys mentally masturbate about, is that you should not care about rationality, you have to use the power of LOVE and screw logic thinking. OK, so why the pseudo-science mambo-jumbo? If you want to do a Terence Malick trick, don't mess around with science. Being a physicist myself I am of course more sensitive to science fiction plot (worm/black) holes - especially these kind that completely suck any credibility out of it. But even if you are not scientifically literate, and this movie surely is not meant to appeal only to scientists, you should feel insulted. I won't go into any details, just because the "pencil through a paper of sheet" wormhole explanation or the "oyster and pearl" analogy really raised the bar way to low for me to care about it anymore. Sending "quantum data" to solve an "equation"... WTF? Just throw in the "quantum" word and that's it. Sorry to tell you, but "quantum data" means nothing. There is no such thing. No quantum physicist uses that expression for anything meaningful, especially in the lack of any recognizable context. Surviving through a black-hole trip (cough cough); talking to your Minecraft-designed robot (seriously??) while you're in the "3 dimensional box, inside a 5 dimensional universe..." WTF? It's just stupid, childish and downright ridiculous. Pseudo-science rubbish, which pisses off scientists and sends a completely wrong message to everyone else about what science is all about. Science is about rational thought, passion also of course, but mostly about consistent and carefully constructed logical thinking. This movie is the antithesis of any logical thinking. Just because, you know, love. I enjoy a good, deep, emotional story but the crappy pseudo-science completely spoils it. Kids, this is not science fiction. I am deeply disappointed. Thanks for that Mr Nolan!! Comparing this movie to 2001 Space Odyssey is outrageous, both Mr Kubrick and Mr Arthur C Clarke would be deeply embarrassed to find out that their legacy would be turned into this.Save your money and wait for a BR rip, if you really like being intellectually insulted. MR Nolan didn't do anything to deserve getting your money in his bank account.
I would have given this the 1 it deserves but since it's not based on an actual event I cut them some slack.I'm so glad that Einstein figured out the principals of relativity. Most of the people I meet still think the world revolves around them. Then Einstein played the "what if" game with Physics. What if you could travel near the speed of light and take a trip, blah, blah, blah. You can't. They can't. Here's where the 8.8 rating comes from. People want to believe almost anything that is impossible. This movie is garbage.I'm not humorless. Time travel is garbage too but I enjoyed the BACK TO THE FUTURE trilogy. It was funny and kinda clever. Not this rag. Save your money and remember: your life clock is ticking and there's no way you're going to recover an of it that you spend, in this case 3 hours.


                
For me, Nolan is becoming like M Night......He has reached that point, or some producer, where they continually push and try to top whatever was done in the past. Yes, that should entirely be the case.....but not to a point of stupidity.M Night tried to always shock, and that stupidity moment was The Happening.No pun intended, but I didn't feel that the characters really understood the Gravity of the situation, they never seemed to be bothered, and I mean really bothered about the loss of time. For example....do you think after travelling 2 years away from my kids with the prospect of never seeing them again, that I am going to accept a team mates stupidity that leads to the death of someone and the loss of 23 years? Seriously, there would be some trouble afoot!!! Do you think a character that has sat around waiting for said folks to return after 23 years would be in any state to continue with the mission? Have some coca and lets get on our way........The killer for me was the last scene where the main character is shunned and ignored by his grand kids, and great grand kids. Yes, get out of the hospital, Murph wants to be around her family..... No one seems to truly acknowledge that the hero of the planet was of any worth, and he is pretty cool with that!I can handle he Blight, the 5 dimension, the space travel and more, I just cannot abide by inhuman behavior......Exit by stealing a space craft with Deep Blue.......sigh.........
Lots of beautiful visuals to look at, but a completely unbelievable story line including just about every cliché you can think of: - Just before the film started, we were talking about how many movies started with a hero that has some kids in a distressed situation as it seems like this is a must nowadays to add emotional depth to the hero. Within minutes, this film starts with the hero whose wife died of cancer so he now has to raise the kids. - A drone from India flies over, hero grabs his laptop and takes over command of the drone in seconds. Sure. - All of this while driving full speed straight through a corn field, without the slightest bump. Sure. - The wind blows some dust into a room. Hero stares at is, understands it is a binary code of the coordinates of a top secret Nasa base. - Upon entering the base, he meets the beautiful and smart daughter of the professor. Of course that becomes the predictable love affair, but of course she is first difficult to get and of course the hero first has to save her life at least once. - They blow up half of their space station with an enormous explosion, but no problem, just continue flying with the other half. - Earth needs to manipulate gravity to save humanity. No problem, just fly through a black hole and you will automatically gain any knowledge needed. - But wait, they still have to transfer that knowledge to Earth. The only way to do that is to have the hands of an old watch sway up and down in a Morse code because that watch has a love connection to hero's daughter. And with love you can do what all your technology cannot. (Here goes all your respect for this film using believable technology.) - After years in space, the hero is saved with just a few minutes oxygen left.Altogether it seems that Nolan fans have pumped up the score of this film far beyond a reasonable score.
