I never really felt much interested in Interstellar because I'm pretty bored with Christopher Nolan now. His films are getting increasingly more epic and complex but at the same time, predictable. I just feel I know exactly what I am going to get so don't have any inclination to watch his films.But, stuck for something to watch this weekend, we gave it a go.The last 20 minutes were a bit of an emotional roller coaster (despite what seemed like a few plot holes and inconsistencies, which I need to look into in case I just didn't get it). But it did not make up for the rest of the film, which I found not only boring but irritating.Most of the film I felt was unwatchable because Matthew McConaughey (an over-rated actor whom I don't like anyway) mumbles his way through the entire performance, meaning I had to turn the volume up high to hear what he was saying. However, there are frequent bursts of extremely loud music, far far louder than necessary and since the volume is up high to compensate for mumbling, it constantly suddenly gets too loud to comfortably watch. I had to sit through the whole film with the remote control at the ready, adjusting the volume up and down for the whole duration. When viewing the IMDb boards I can see this is a common problem and it has even been up for discussion in the newspapers. Now, whether Nolan intended this anomaly or not I don't care, it made the film irritating and difficult to watch.Apart from that, I found the whole thing dull. The characters were dull, the storyline was dull and I do not have the desire to watch this film ever again so it has no repeat-viewing value.


                
This film is an example of having to many irons in the fire and not knowing what to do with them, which results in an over sentimental mess that is called Interstellar. Nolan finally shows clearly his hubris in that he thinks of himself as a cinematic mastermind, in fact he's just a Hollywood pet with cheap tricks. There is nothing wrong in getting the science incorrect, a competent filmmaker manages to work around the incoherence and still create a unified whole, Nolan on the other hand wants us to think that he understands the science behind Interstellar, but he also shows clearly that he doesn't put much trust in the audiences' intellect. This results in an over abundance of exposition which is there just to inform us of how stupid we are. The sentimentality, which is most of the time laughable, doesn't go along with the overall structure of the film because the plot is disorganized. The problem comes from the inability to transform a concept into a film without allowing the audience to interpret what they are seeing - instead Nolan tries to overwhelm us with his elitist vision and it comes out as a mess because he doesn't trust his audience, he's lack of vision doesn't come from him not having a concept but from the inability to mediate that concept through a film, in other words: he is a bad filmmaker.


                
OK, my first IMDb review. I REALLY wanted to like this movie. I love Nolan's work and I'm a science fiction fan. Sadly within an hour I was wondering if I could stick out another two hours. The actors are all great, and they get the few stars I'm willing to give it. I will admit that directing a big production like this is not for the faint-hearted and I'll give Nolan points for that. However, the story is so poorly constructed it just piles on frustration after frustration. Other reviewers on here have described the litany of illogical errors. I haven't read all 900 reviews but we have long known that black holes EAT stars and planets, and when they do, they give off titanic bursts of gamma and x-ray radiation that would sterilize entire regions of a galaxy. I'm willing to suspend my disbelief in service of just enjoying a movie, but when the entire premise is to find a more suitable home for human life and then you choose a planet apparently orbiting a black hole, well that just goes from suspension to just outright disbelief. If Batman had chosen to just use his magic freeze gun to stop the nuke in Gotham I think most Batman fans would have been groaning. That's the way someone like me feels about lazy plot devices like this. There is also WAY too much unnecessary dialogue in this movie, the superb cast are wasted saying clichéd and hackneyed lines. The whole punchline of the "ghost" you could see coming in the first hour, so you just ended up wondering how they would get there over the next 109 minutes. I'm sorry but I thought the music was intensely annoying and was just designed to jar you awake every half an hour. Then there is the whole "Don't open the airlock! Don't open the airlock!" I was sitting there thinking "Just open the damn airlock and get it over with." Everything was either entirely predictable or completely illogical. Floating frozen clouds? Seriously? The least they could do was have Tinkerbell fly onto the set and explain how that could happen. I guess because Cameron got away with nicking Roger Dean's floating mountains in Avatar, Nolan thought no one would complain. But let's face it Avatar wasn't exactly trying to be clever and that's where this goes over the line. If you're going to delve into the BIG questions like Quantum Mechanics, Relativity and black holes you set yourself up to be measured by a whole new set of rules. Nobody complains about Harry Potter flying on a broomstick but have him try and explain it using Einstein and you're going to be in a mess of trouble.As for the reviews comparing it to 2001, the only things it has that are the same is that it is set in space and there is a wormhole. Absolutely nothing else is the same and frankly it is an insult to compare this to Kubrick's masterpiece. And when people say, "get over it, it's just a movie" they're rewarding someone for being lazy. Just like Gravity this had all the elements to be a masterpiece if they'd just bothered to talk to a few more people in the science community besides Kip Thorne; who apparently understands the workings of the universe all except for the black hole which is Hollywood.
First, about the pain, which is mostly due to the sound. I don't know how many times we're in a rocket ship blasting off somewhere with everything shaking, the cameras jiggling, the astronauts grimacing, and the sound track roaring, screeching, thundering, blasting the eardrums—I really did have to plug my ears by the end of the movie. Add to that the so- called music, which consisted mostly of even higher mountains of noise, mostly produced by a big pipe organ pumping out its gargantuan decibels in the form of a few simple chords—hardly music, merely a musical instrument adding to the overall accumulation of noise. I don't think anybody should be credited with creating "music" for this film.As for the stupidity, I was lured into the theatre by publicity claiming that the film had got the science right, or at least the graphic representation of a wormhole and black hole. Well, the graphics may have been right, but they were pretty standard stuff as far as eye candy goes, hardly worth the price of the ticket. What about the science? Maybe it was correct on every point, or on most points, or only on a few points—who knows? Only someone with degrees in quantum mechanics and astrophysics would be able to judge. For the general audience (obviously, the audience the film was aimed at), the science talk came across as sheer gobbledygook. There was no effort to explain the ideas for the public. The jargon was just spat out here and there with the purpose of raising a smokescreen for the current plot point. Very annoying.I wanted to enjoy this film. I hated not liking it, knowing how much money and effort went into making it. But by the time we got to the last 20 minutes or so, I'd had enough and had to fight the urge to walk out. In fact, I did get out of my seat and watched the last 10 minutes or so from the back of the auditorium near the exit door.


                
I was excited for this movie. I liked pretty much all of Nolan's previous movies and I love sci-fi. Judging from the reviews, I was expecting something similar to the quality and entertainment of Inception. What I got was probably one of the most boring movies I've seen on cinema.The movie is unnecessary long, the dialogs are predictable and make you laugh, and the subject of the movie (which btw is not interstellar traveling) has been done several time before (awfully usually). We get it. Family is important, love is valuable. This is not a sci-fi movie, this is his is a family movie about a father's love for his children.I will not go into details to avoid spoilers, but there were about 10 minutes after the first slow hour that got me excited for the rest of the movie, but it was only a break and we were back to boredom and more crying by McConaughey. I found the acting pretty bad, which I guess is a result of the awful script, since I liked McConaughey's acting on Dallas Buyers Club (and partially on true detective).


                
Originality: This movie was completely original, in the exact same way that the Hunger Games was, that is, not at all. The Hunger Games is to Battle Royale as Interstellar is to 2001: A Space Odyssey, that is, a complete rip off. Many reviews are saying how original it is, I expect these people haven't seen 2001.Score: A few people have drawn parallels with Contact, saying that the movie reminds them of Contact. Perhaps it is the pulsating metallic base throbbing noise that Interstellar ripped off?Millennium Falcon: When our heroes first take off from Earth they do so in a Saturn V type moon rocket, with the exhausted stages falling away behind them. Yet, when they later take off from the extra-solar planets, one with 130% gravity no less, they do so in the conventional Millennium Falcon kind of sci-fi way. It huts my eyes!Southern Drawl: Our hero seemed to of had a stroke for the first half of the movie and had slurry half-awake speech, yet later seemed to recover. Perhaps that's what time-dilation does for you!The Robot: Seriously? I think it was so big and square because it contained two CRT-monitors. If you asked a 10yr old to draw a robot design that would be useful on a space mission, then it would undoubtedly improve on the one in Interstellar. But my biggest gripe was, how did it walk? We have two legs(!), our trailing leg doesn't catch on the floor as it swings forwards as our foot extends, lifting us slightly. The robot in Interstellar walks like a pair of chopsticks (but without the accompanying side to side wobble that would be necessary if you chose such an impractical design).Newton's 3rd Law: Stated correctly, applied incorrectly. If our heroes' spaceship had been launched backwards like a bullet from a gun, then it would have been a cool quip, instead it made him look like an idiot corn farmer.The Best of the Best: Why! Why is Hollywood obsessed with the hero being the best of the best of the best? Couldn't he just have been one of the remaining pilots of average competence? (with a genius daughter and an idiot son).Frozen Yoghurt: At one point the Millennium Falcon Space Shuttle hits a cloud made of frozen yogurt (or was it ice?), so, a cloud hanging in the air made of strawberry yogurt, sounds a bit silly. Presumably, as with Arthur Dent's cup, it was held up by art?Emotional: But not a black hole. Possibly the best element of the movie. The human element, and the pain of loss and separation was, strangely, conveyed extremely well.A real Black Hole: Well, I wish I had one so I could get the 3 hours back that I lost watching this. It's not all bad, some bits are compelling, but mostly it's a boring re-skin of 2001.
I sent to see Interstellar on Saturday night and have just spent 45 incredulous minutes reading the reviews. The film I went to see was dull, preposterous and far far far too long. Let's start with the idea. A good one but poorly displayed. I wanted to know more about how humanity was destroying the planet. All I got was old folk I am guessing talking about the duststorms of the 1920's and 1930's? Perhaps they were attempting to lay the foundation for the whole premise of the film? I also wanted to know more about Cooper but we didn't really see how he became a farmer other than the flashback at the start. When did his wife die? Why is his father in law living with him? Did we really get to understand the relevance of the droid they chased in the truck? Unfortunately most of the film is taken up with barely audible dialogue about scientific hypothesis and personal issues intertwined together. This made it very difficult to follow and the interest wanes as a result. BUT the biggest downfall of the film is Matt Damon. I am a fan off his but not in this. He is dreadfully miscast as the villain of the piece of sorts and that whole fight with Cooper and Ryan is poor. It is just not convincing at all and there is no suspense involved in the whole docking scene at all. Cooper just tells him not to dock as he hasn't got the codes but you never felt Ryan was in jeopardy. It was so poorly constructed. Overall vey similar to Inception in that it is at times visually stunning but rather like Inception it is style over substance. Beautiful to look at but like opening a strawberry cream in a box of Quality Street - very disappointing. And the title of my review? I am just a bit fed up that Nolan has made some fine early films and now nobody will criticise him? In The Emperors New Clothes nobody tells the Emperor he is wearing nothing until a little boy informs him. Somebody needs to tell Nolan that he needs to get back to crafting films full of suspense and not a plodding sci-fi full of characters you barely care about.
Unfortunately the film didn't reach the high expectations I had for it! I love sci-fi movies but Interstellar left me flat and disappointed.First the opening hour of the film was boring and ordinary and the 'Earth's problem' with the sand storms was somehow underplayed and unmoving. I thought that maybe when they go in space things could get better... well, they did for a while but then the crew landed on the Ice covered planet and things got pretty sour.The idea of Cooper getting into the dimensional space and wrapping the story with the beginning was good but then again the end was OK and obviously left for a 2nd film.The sound was not good at all - I could barely hear and understand what they were saying, so maybe 50% of the films sound was a high pitched music overpowering the scenes.At the end I thought - this is a film for people who doesn't like sci- fi movies, don't believe in life in other planets and are narrow minded and believe only in conventional science. I suppose they got to watch something like that and like it...I appreciate the effort of everybody involved in this creation but it's not for me.


                
Note - the last two lines sum it all up if you want to skip my blathering. Interstellar is nothing more than a sci-fi drama. If you crave sci-fi movies as I do, this film will leave you feeling unfulfilled and usurped. It is about nothing more than "the human element" set against a semi sci-fi backdrop that is obscenely absurd. Happy ending? Not really, and what makes it worse is that's predictable early on. Should you bother to watch this film? Yes, I watch them all, probably because curiosity gets the best of me, and who knows, you might like it. I have been disappointed, read enraged, by other films much more than this one, but it failed to impress me. Maybe if I had sat down to this one expecting to be disappointed it might have been better, but to be quite honest, the trailers make it out to be something totally different than what you get. Sad thing is, too much film marketing goes this same way these days.
Science Fiction is not an excuse for lazy writing and sloppy direction.Starts off showing flowing fields of thriving green vegetation – constantly bombarded by massive dust storms and yet continues to grow and thrive. Then, we are supposed to believe that a drone – one that can fit in the back of a pickup truck has enough solar cells to power 'an entire farm.'After that, Jonathan Nolan and Christopher Nolan (Screenplay) expect us to believe that a retired NASA pilot, who never left Earth orbit and survived crashing his orbital spacecraft, is more experienced to go on an interstellar voyage than the astronauts that have studied and prepared for the voyage. Okay, I'll admit this one is possible, but not likely.The first planet they decide to visit – the one so close to a black hole it has significant time dilation – the one covered in water and deluged with huge waves every hour, (one of which destroyed the original exploration spacecraft and killed the pilot – not detected by the spacecraft instruments, by the way) is a prime candidate for colonization.Then, when the next huge wave arrives, Christopher Nolan (Director) makes us watch as one of the astronauts stands by the spacecraft door for several seconds (plenty of time to get in the spacecraft) watching the wave approach and is washed away. Why did he stand around waiting outside the spacecraft in the first place! Nonsensical!The next thing the Nolan brothers expect us to believe is that an astronaut who volunteered for what was probably a one-way mission suddenly goes crazy, becomes a coward, falsifies data, and turns into a murderer! Were his rescuers going to leave him on the planet to die after they found out the planet was uninhabitable! Don't think so!Later, this same coward astronaut decides to take a chance and risk his life opening the spacecraft hatch after warnings that doing so would cause a blowout. I guess we supposed to believe he is that crazy!
I think I watched the same film as all the others on here that disliked it. I enjoyed the cinematography and the effects but there is really nothing else about this film I can say I liked.I think Matthew McConaughey is a great character actor but in this film he just didn't fit, for me. His voice, stance, mannerisms all seem out of place. Like he just didn't care and wanted the paycheck. Not that all the blame for the bad film can be put on his shoulders. The rest of the cast, all but a small few of them, just weren't entertaining.From the maker of Inception I expected more. What I got was nearly 3 hrs of not a very good film.3/10 for the visuals. That's all I got. Disappointed.


                
I knew nothing about Interstellar other than the basic premise, and the name of a film's director is of little interest to me i.e. I know who the good directors are, but their name on the credits doesn't set my expectations at any level.I just want a good plot, good acting, and something to take away and think about when the credits roll.I got none of that with this sorry excuse for a sci-fi film.From corn fields to a worm hole? with nothing much in between? Really? Anyway, I thought CASE and TARS were straight out of Minecraft... and so was the whole premise of Interstellar. A nothing sort of movie that leaves the viewer with nothing of substance.Motorcycle, meet shark! Actually, just take the shark from the tank and slap Christopher Nolan across the face with it.The 9 and 10 star reviews here truly mystify me...
I loved Gravity, since it was an exploration of human drama. I loved the Star Trek remake since it JJ is pretty dang good, and it was all make-believe and whizzy. I hated this movie. There were respites. When Matthew McConaughey's said "I could fly around that neutron star." I burst out laughing, it was so preposterous, so absurd and so lame. I will admit, he sold the line. If he can pretend to be imaginary people and lie so effectively, it makes me worry about politicians and my friends.It really scares me that Nolan thinks this movie makes any sense. Has his brain turned to Yorkshire pudding? It was written as a series of dramatic expedients. Like Chris just had to have a dust-bowl, so there was a dust-bowl. And Chris just had to have a big ol' rocket launch. There had to be wormholes and time travel and sinking to the level of M. Night Shyamalan, a twist at the end.Another annoyance is Nolan's British elitism, that farmers are dumb peons that don't need to go to college. Note how Coop loves his troubled intellectual daughter and not the son that ends up feeding the planet.Even with these great actors, the situations were so preposterous it was impossible to feel anything but pity for the agents that got them into this mess. A near-future dystopia, where there are cars and trucks but not phones or letters or internet. No government, but no MS13, Hell's Angels and Mafioso raping your daughter. The occasional pervasive dust storm. But the crops grow OK. Until they don't. And somehow we know the planet is doomed, if only because some jerk says it is.There is a huge NASA installation a few hours drive away, but nobody knows about it. Coop sends co-ordinates so he knows it is there. Nolan might want to ask Kip the science guy about causality and determinism. No government, no gasoline, but we have NASA and suspended animation since Nolan needs that little plot trick. Its a drive-by script-- spray some more clichés at it until they call you a genius.And folks, you can't drive into a black hole. Its not black because its mysterious and can be used for incredibility stupid plot tricks. Its black because it rips everything into elementary particles and then perhaps super-strings. There is no daddy's little time-travel library of earthy delights inside a black hole.This could have been OK, it could have been Mad Max crossed with Groundhog Day. Instead, it is just mush, good to keep infants amused with pretty colors and motion, but complete nonsensical mush for adults. Matt Damon was lucky to get blown out into empty space in that little plot cliché. I felt more empathy for the creature in Aliens getting blown into space than I did for Matt.To recap the 7 places in the movie: Home life--BS situation, BS character interaction. Space central- BS situation, BS characters. Space ship, BS situation, BS characters. Planet one- BS situation. Planet two-- BS situation, BS character, BS interaction. Black hole-- BS everything, and I mean every single thing. Planet 3, BS trite. Home again-- BS situations, BS characters, BS interaction.Please studio heads and finance people stop indulging this madman with his infantile fantasies. Even Lord of the Rings was better than this.At this point I usually imagine how I would save the film. Its not re-shoots, every single scene and every single line is stupid, there is nothing here to save. OK, I have calmed down and I can no more give up on a crappy movie than on a baby drowning in a swimming pool. So, add the roving Mad Max gangs that rip him off and pillage and steal. Then they come for his daughter. The NASA installation is not some secret, its where they have been launching the Skynet robots to control us all, right before things collapsed. So Coop takes his little girl, and commandeers a spacecraft. We need the gal, and the black guy but not the other white guy-- what ever happened to him anyway--- Oh, he drowned in Waterworld. I assume he is some famous high-dollar actor, save the money for special effects. OK, now when I saw the cool black guy, I muttered "He's as good as dead" and sure enough, like all cool black guys in every science fiction movie, he died. So lets go against the grain and promise that no matter what, the cool black guy lives. Cut out Waterworld, we already lost the dufus white guy that drowned there. Cut out the black hole-- it is absurd, stupid and insults our intelligence. Cut out the third planet, this script is too complicated as it is.No, they fly to the Matt Damon planet and yeah, he can be a creep. OK, now we have the making of a third act. It revolves around who the women will pick to mate with. Daddy's little girl has grown up, and that science gal is pretty hot as well. I leave it to you to select the ending: 1) The black guy ends up with both of the gals, bless him, and maybe pimps them out (cliche alert). 2) Matt ends up with the daughter, and he beats her and is a drunk (hillbilly heaven). 3) Matthew ends up with his own daughter, since their relationship seemed unhealthy anyway. 4) There are three guys and two gals so pick the guy that ends up alone. 5) The two gals go carpet muncher and leave all the guys in the cold, human race dies. 6) Any two guys being gay leaves both gals for the other guy, unless #5). 7) The Strangelove prodigious breeding ending, where all the guys jump both girls over and over and over and over and over.... well, you get the idea.
Yeah, that's about it. More using his balls than his brains, the lonely cow-boy finds his true mission, struggle and win against all enemies, even taming the black hole, saves the world and in the end leaves in the sunset to go back to the woman who's eagerly waiting for him.People dare comparing this to "2001"? Yeah, it's long, like 2001, and spacey. But where 2001 is all in allusion and mystery, this movie explains laboriously again and again what's happening, just in case.Most scenes are long. So long. The ships try docking and fail, again, and again, for long, long minutes. Stranded in inhospitable landscapes, they escape repeatedly each danger from the unknown (the huge wave, the slippery ice, the toxic atmosphere), so that even the most inattentive spectator gets it.The acting is good, and images beautiful, therefore it deserves 3.
Somewhere on the path to juxtaposing the story of the imminent death by starvation of humanity on Earth against a desperate search for a new planetary home (hopefully to not similarly despoil), the authors of "Interstellar" forgot to consider the audience and instead created a far too long, far too arcane and far too pet film. "Interstellar" is a kissin' cousin to the equally pet, pseudo mind-blowing, con man sleight-of-hand "Inception."A bitter taste is left in the mouth by a self-satisfied script constantly trumpeting a specialness that, alas, is not at all special.Audiences have been beat to death by the tropes, plot elements and dialogue seen so many times before. For example, the "Pursued By Demons Retired ______ Forced Back Into Service" trope.Women, as in most films, are relegated to the back of the bus. When will writers and filmmakers wake up to the richness in woman's hearts and minds - even a cold scientist's ticker and noggin?Face-down-death awaits the character with the fewest lines and closeup. (Much like the Bic 'Red Shirts' in "Star Trek" you knew would never make it to the end credits.)An intelligent young woman becomes hysterical because Daddy's leaving, yet her intellect does not grasp his mission is important: To save her and the rest of the world. Beside, Daddy didn't explain, at least not on camera.Matt Damon resurrects from hypersleep to wreak havoc as in the hackneyed "Don't Astronauts on "The Twilight Zone" Pass Basic Psych Tests?" plot element.Don't forget the Dead Wife and Wise Grandpa tropes.Wonder is non-existent. That's quite a feat as few films have led us through a wormhole. "Black Hole" did a better job. At least the mysterious passage in Disney's opus didn't suggest injection into a globule borrowed from the coda of "2001: A Space Odyssey." (Also cobbed from Kubrick's masterpiece are the more human than humans (articulated) computers.)Cinematic corn served warm with a schmear of butter is quite delicious. Corn served cold by trying-too-hard actors sittin' on the porch waxin' philosophical is a dish best passed to the person sitting on your right.There are nonsensical interviews of dust storm survivors who describe what the special effects department has just shown. There's no lack of understanding why the run time is 169 minutes. The dogged determination to not self-edit and lose script pages underscores either Nolan's lack of being a good audience or not caring about audiences - the latter a quality indicative of too many contemporary filmmakers.The ending leads to head scratching that, in another film, would elicit laughs from the audience. Poltergeists my patootie!"Interstellar" veers uncomfortably close to complete train wreck, but there are a few nice touches. While derivative, the articulated computers are cool. That mankind can solve mankind's problems without an advanced alien intelligence, God or other deus ex machina is the one original idea - and it's a good one.Save very few elements to recommend it, "Interstellar" is a really, really long bore pretending importance. There's nothing worse than films of that ilk.
Judging solely on cinematography, this movie is excellent. With shots ranging from side views of space craft to wide shots of alien landscape, this movie is well done through a filming perspective. But the plot is a completely different situation.(Please note this is more a list of my biggest complaints and not a complete summary, thus many of the arguments will be more rambling than cohesive due to lack of describing every signal plot point.) The first 30 minutes present the situation on Earth very well, and also presents the problem of relatively well about a hour in. But the largest problem in the beginning of the movie is the lack development of the brother. He seems almost bastardized than loved and can be seen as a large problem from the beginning of the movie.After the first hour the plot begins to break down. The characters have to decide which planet as to go to. Amelia begins the debate with reasonable facts and figures. Cooper then presents the idea that Mann was the strongest of the group and his data was promising. Amelia presents some flaws with the argument and then Cooper makes a personal attack by saying that she is in love with the man on the planet she wants to go to. Ultimately they choose to go to Mann's planet. This particular scene was poorly done because it showed two people, who were chosen for their level headiness and reasoning, resort to using the most irrational arguments that could be formulated to, arguably, make the most important decision of humanity.Dr. Mann is presented in the later half as a predictable antagonist who is presented as a weak coward, but some how was able to live isolated on a planet for many years without killing himself. Mann has little reason to betray his fellow astronauts other than to save himself, yet doesn't attempt to persuade the others to leave with him.After Mann is disposed off, Cooper (Mathew McConaughey) seems to have omnipotent ability to fly a ship by feel in space and be precisely accurate as to where he is going, and sends his fellow astronaut to a barren planet to save some portion of humanity.While on Earth, Cooper's son, who is not as loved as Cooper's daughter, becomes an incoherent lunatic that lacks any basic reasoning. The daughter needing to find some clue for the equation in her room, burns her brother's fields. Even though the daughter attempted to move the family out of the house and get to the room without violence, she burns the fields without attempting to reconcile.By far the largest problem of the movie is its deus ex machina, "the fifth dimension". The movie presents the fifth dimension as love, and makes blatant foreshadowing to this in first half of the movie at the beginning of the movie. In a movie that presents its self as intelligent and competent of science, then it would know to some degree that love is essentially a chemical in the brain. To change from a scientific view with unknowns about the universe to having love being a metaphysical object is absurd. It would have been better to present the human mind as the fifth dimension rather than one emotion.Through the use of the fifth dimension, Cooper enters a black hole transmit data back to his daughter through time and saves humanity. In essence, future Cooper sends past Cooper into the worm hole. All with the help of future humans that created the fifth dimension in the black hole. Thus the movie at the same time created a preposterous dimension and a time traveling paradox.The ending ultimately was lack luster, with an exception of Cooper meeting his daughter for the last time. Cooper is found by the colonization ships and then goes off to find his fellow astronaut.The movie is three hours, which is far too long for such a predictable and hole ridden plot.In total, for the price of one ticket you get pretty awesome visuals, occasionally good character development, and a horribly flawed plot.
I hovered for a while over 5/10, but then this isn't an average film...it's below-average. There's not much to recommend it other than McConaughey's decent performance.Here's a few things that's wrong with this picture: the daughter is, to put it bluntly, a stuck-up bitch to her Dad: surely the most undeserving daughter in the entire universe of a reunion with a long-lost father. At least that's how she was portrayed.the premise is pure shlock daftness: it's a silly idea dreamt up as any old excuse for the journey. And I say this as a hard sci-fi fan (or rather, hard sci-fi taught me that the premise in a story was important).the effects are cheap-looking, even wobbly at some points! How on Earth 99% of viewers applaud the effects is truly lost on me. It just looks like a budget TV version of Lost In Space.there's a lot of crying...a lot. Cheesy as hell.the black character dies (obviously not a spoiler).there's some formulaic conflict later in the film which is just dumb and predictable. Don't expect high-end existentialist conflict ala Hal-9000 vs Dave Bowman.the moments of 'tension' are anything but. They're just boring and overlong. The music doesn't fit (sounds like a hyper-ventilating hysterical version of the brilliantly-understated Jonny Greenwood Soundtrack from There Will Be Blood).the other planets' visuals were dull, grey and utterly uninspired.the resolution was more soap opera than science fiction...and the obligatory wormhole/psychedelic sequence was soul-crushingly down-to-Earth. I felt the urge to leave the cinema early at least 3 times.It's not a 1/10 or 2/10, for those are reserved for the absolute worst film I'd consider rating (something like Pacific Rim or Sphere). But 5/10 is genuinely too kind, considering all the things wrong with it. For some perspective: I largely agree with the high scores of all the other films in the IMDb Top 20, and Nolan's last two Batmans are worth a 7/10 (Inception's an 8). Interstellar is just one of those films where I don't for the life of me understand the praise. Recommended for emotional girls with daddy issues.


                
Just simply long - confusing pseudoscience with too many conceptual clichés Most people walked out in silence with a few grumbles ---I love Nolan's body of work - but hated this...And do not sit next to anyone that doesn't get Sci-Fi or this will be two hours of listening to them ask "What does this mean?" "What's a quantum?"So disappointed with Zimmer - a duo tone church organ -Good performances by all - but just ruined by a forced story and tons of plot holes - science gaffs and just bewildering "Whys" Nolan needs to get back to superheroes


                
I heard Nolan answer a question about authenticity of the scientific basis of the movie. He 'fessed to changing things up but then said — and I agree with him — that audiences are OK with IF the movie is consistent within itself. Unfortunately, Interstellar is far from consistent. How the black hole is treated in completely nonsensical. Light doesn't escape but he and his ship, nor the bot, are stretched out into spaghetti by the gravity. Said hole is at first a safe enough distance away from the ice planet to not be a factor, but is then close enough to 'capture' their ship in it's vortex. Why oh why did the super-evolved humans (huh?, in and of itself) put that wormhole way out in the 'burbs and then leave a riddle within a black hole on the other side of it if their intention was to save humanity. Couldn't they have been just a little bit more direct, if they can alter gravity on the micro, high resolution level. Come to think of it, if the point of the black hole was simply to house the library thing, why wasn't that simply out in plain view? Seems a lot more sensible than having to conjure up the circumstances whereby someone would think that ENTERING AND SURVIVING A BLACK HOLE WAS POSSIBLE, LET ALONE A GOOD IDEA?!? And wasn't that actually a worm-hole, since he was looking in on the room? why did the other one require an acid trip of a tunnel to get to the other side? Why oh why is their only A SINGLE PERSON (caine) on earth working on that gravity equation? Oh, and then McConaughy's daughter, after 40+ years, which makes two.No MRIs and they whip up that space-ship (presumably one of many) in a few years. And suddenly have all that high-tech medicine, despite the lack of tomography. And cryogenics? And why are they tooling around Saturn 100 years after getting mcconaughy's message, instead going through the worm-hole to salvation, or even sending anyone else to help out Lonesome Anne? Matt Damon and McConnaughy wander off ON FOOT on the glacier and yet it takes comparatively ages for the ship to JJET TO THEIR LOCATION. they must have been fit dudes to accomplish that distance on foot on that terrain.Infuriating. The best thing was the 'music', more accurately awesome, polyphonic blasts (I mean that in a good way). I know it made it hard to hear some of the dialog, but that wasn't such a bad thing.
It was..... Okay at BEST! Better wait for the Redbox version than it would be worth the money; I guess!Definitely not worth a Theater viewing; IMAX or NOT.It just wasn't that good.It was just Slow; Intense; Sometimes Predictable.Than the ultimate Book Shelf Stupid scene; REALLY!! Son, in his 20s fell asleep a number of times.I am in my 50s; started to get sleepy.I say again, if you want to see it wait for the video to come out


                
Spoiler - I am highly sarcasticOkay, just like many people I fell for the hype, the use of actual science, going places where no science fiction film has ever gone before, ermmm - no, not really!Far too many plot points or general criticisms which do not make sense or are just bad!1: Cooper - Who was the best pilot they ever had (and desperately need as it turns out) is left to his own devices running a farm with his family. So let me get this straight, you have a pilot who is said to be the best available, the best chance for humanity's survival, would have cost millions to train, and just leave him to farm away growing corn, Yea, right!2: The U.S.A. decides to dismantle there armed forces when the food supplies start getting low, let the false Humility of that sink in for a moment, that would never happen in the next 100 years regardless of food or fuel shortages, having a massive army would ensure food and fuel for all or your citizens whilst other countries suffered.3: Surely a mission to save humanity would be a global collective project, combining the best people from around the world to solve this extinction level problem, Nope, all Americans born and bred. 4: Only a handful of food producing plants remain, with no reasonable explanation as to why, it just feels like a crude plot point as if there were only a handful of food groups left to eat out of the literal THOUSANDS available on this planet, we as a species would rapidly start suffering from restricted dietary illnesses, but everyone in this film seems to get just corn and suffer no ill health problems at all, you know, Just like in the hunger games where none of them appear to be very hungry at any point, just a minor point.5: The old and sadly not original "we sent one group out and we don't know what happened to them" plot line, this has been done a few times and often produces the same outcome, only one remains and he is mad (sunshine by Danny Boyle, almost exactly the same way too).6: When an air surveillance drone is captured, it is of Indian origin, not American, the country that currently uses them with questionable morals and would have made much more sense logically, Indian, well I suppose labelling the British as an enemy is so predictable that everyone sees that coming these days so let's pick on India for a change, great, throw the plausibility straight out of the window too.7: Murph (the ten year old girl) does not look like a regular girl, she look likes a model who has been taught how to pout for a living, oh, wait, she is a model, seriously check out her IMDb profile. When they picked a little girl to play Newt for Aliens, they deliberately went for a child actor that did not smile on queue or was tainted by the child acting system, making for a far more believable performance which still holds up today. Murph sitting on a bed looking like she is trying to sell kids designer clothing towards the end of the film just felt weird, not the best casting choice.8: When on the water planet (where one hour is seven years on earth due to the laws of relativity), they spends ages just talking inside the craft after losing Doyle to the massive tidal wave, seriously this scene lasts for a few minutes, the sense of urgency previously discussed on the ship seems to have just gone, the excuse given is they have to wait for the engine to dry out but Cooper knows how to 'spark start' them when another wave approaches, why didn't he do this earlier?I could go on and on until I am bored like I was with the film which ends on a sequel bait ending (huge shock) and tear jerker which doesn't really work (feels forced). This feels like a film made by Americans to suit and please an American audience, little consideration for anyone outside of the U.S.A. was given when this film was made and you can tell, sure it would have made the story a little more complex (which wouldn't have killed it to be frank) but it would not have felt like a 'we Americans are the best at everything' propaganda film which it does in the foreground.This film is much like Pacific Rim, providing you don't take it too seriously then it can be enjoyed, but if you start taking it too seriously such as I did then you begin to pick apart the film's often big flaws very quickly!
The plot is pretty standard, nothing new at all if you've read enough SF classics. The male cast is good, the adult female cast is awful, a small number of scenes are impressive, the so-called music reminisces of chalk on a blackboard, but all that doesn't matter because...YOU CAN'T HEAR ANYTHING WHEN PEOPLE TALK. Hum, sorry, I was saying that the sound department was run by either a deaf or retarded person. And so is Mr Nolan, who possibly didn't bother checking his final product. The thing that passes for music is that loud. Reading lips sometimes help, but half the talking is through radio anyway, so good luck with that.That's when I realise that Nolan can't actually tell a story through pictures. In many scenes, what is shown is severely shifted from what should be seen, and I would really need the dialogue to explain what is happening, but I can't decipher it because, you know, idiots at the helm. In the same vein, there are quite a lot of inconsistencies and silly concepts. And maybe the writer did come up with acceptable vocal explanations, but I'll never know, because a monkey spilled the background soundtrack all over the track I wanted to hear, and nobody cleaned it up.During the projection, I was seriously and increasingly getting angry at the technical lousiness. That's a first. Hollowood has reached new levels of incompetence.Save your time and money for something made by caring professionals.


                
I hated this movie, it was literally one of the most boring, long, tedious, exasperating movies I have seen. I wanted to leave, but my husband wanted to finish watching it. I was confused watching this movie, trying to figure out what was going on. First of all, the characters talk about all the things that are gone, I.e the Marines, scientists, food. It is never explained why these things are no longer available. The whole scene at the parent conference was ridiculous, saying that this teacher believes that we never went to the moon or into space, it was a hoax, what?! Especially considering the main character was a former test pilot for NASA. This is a small town, you would think they would know this. There are so many problems with the plot, I can't mention them all. They ( Cooper and his daughter) found this secret NASA facility ,who knows where, yet they welcome him with open arms and offer him a job as the pilot. .???? If he was so great and he used to work there, why didn't they call him?RRRRRRrrrrr, I was very frustrated during this movie, time was dragging! If you like to see close ups of Matthew McConaughey crying, you might like this film.
Went in to see this film this afternoon and had high hopes. After an hour in I realised that I nearly nodded off twice as the music score playing over the beginning quarter of the film was sleep inducing to say the least. It didn't help that not one of the characters was engaging in anyway possible, especially Matthew McConaughey's drawling southern accent. It seem to take an age for anything to happen in the film, and finally when there was some movement, director Nolan slows everything back down to a snail's pace. I'm not saying the film was ridiculous as it is purely science fiction which I normally enjoy, but this was a challenge for me to stay till the end of the film ,-( two gents in the theatre walked out just over an hour in and never came back), I unfortunately didn't have the hindsight to do the same, otherwise I would have got over three hours of my life back to watch two good films.When the film is released on DVD/BR, I hope they have a cut that last's about 1hour and 20m which should make it an entertaining film without the huge unnecessary spongy filling.


                
I went to see Interstellar excited to see both a sci-fi film and the new Christopher Nolan film; I left feeling as though I hadn't seen a film at all but nearly three hours worth of undeveloped characters stumbling from one inexplicable and unnecessary plot twist to the next. Nolan intentionally keeps many of the details of his future world hidden, however, is so clumsy with the details that he does provide that by the end of the film the plot comes together to seem like an utter farce. None of the characters are developed enough for the audience to identify with them and as a result the numerous and lengthy close-ups of teary eyed individuals is tedious and tiresome. Many capable actors are kept to only a few relatively insignificant lines but then later reveal massive plot shifts only moments before being killed off. This drastically reduces the emotional impact of the film despite how clearly Nolan is trying to tug at the audience's heart strings. Even the pace of the film (typically a strength of Nolan's) is way off. Much like Inception and the Batman series, Nolan whisks the story along inviting you to forget one or two potential plot holes in order to keep the audience engaged. However, in Interstellar, the plot holes are far too big to ignore and the fast pace often ends with a dead-end plot development. It feels as though Nolan is rushing through individual sequences just to land his plot right back where it started. By the third act, the audience is left wondering what was really accomplished by the first two. The greatest let-down of the film comes at the crescendo, with the audience eagerly awaiting at least some explanation of the numerous confusing plot twists. No such catharsis is offered because it was never intended. The film ends much as it began, disjointed and seemingly without direction. I realize that this review will seem quite vague to most readers who have not seen the film: I have tried hard to avoid spoiling any plot details. But let me be clear about one thing. The mysteries contained in this film are not well calculated omissions to keep the audience wondering, (as in Kubrick, Lynch or even Nolan's Inception) but clear inconsistencies that the director hopes he can distract the audience from through pacing and special effects. What he misses is that good pacing comes from good acting as much as directing. And good special effects only work when the audience isn't preoccupied with wondering why this particular sequence is happening in the first place. Nolan would do better to cut out many of the unnecessary plot twist sand spend more time letting the many capable actors tell his story and draw the audience in. In Kurick's 2001: A Space Odyssey, the most compelling, emotional performance of the film was given by a Robot named HAL. Nolan achieves the same feat in Interstellar with the robot TARS. However, in Interstellar, this is not so much a testament to the director's ability to get the audience to empathize with a machine (as Kubrick did) but a statement about how poorly Nolan was able to tell the story through any of the human characters.


                
