'Blackadder 2' provoked outrage when first broadcast in the U.K. Those who'd liked the first series were extremely unhappy at the show's reformatting; Nina Myskow, television critic of 'The News Of The World' bestowed on Rowan Atkinson her infamous 'wally of the week' title. Its only with the benefit of hindsight can we see now that the changes were absolutely spot-on; Edmund becoming a sarcastic cad, Baldrick turning stupid, and the expensive film sequences dropped in favour of stronger characterisations and tighter plots. Without the likes of Brian Blessed to constantly upstage him, Atkinson was free to dominate the show. Ben Elton replaced Atkinson as Richard Curtis' co-writer - another wise move. As the squeaky-voiced 'Queenie', Miranda Richardson was simply outstanding. Tom Baker played 'Captain 'Redbeard' Rum' in one episode, a tour-de-force of over-the-top acting. The weight of public opinion gradually swung behind 'Blackadder 2' - its now regarded as better than its predecessor.


                
This series is so brilliant, so witty, so laugh out loud funny, I watch them over and over again. I actually did NOT care for the first one (where Rowan was Edmund, the Duke). It seemed to be all over the place, embracing the history more than the comedy. But this one, Blackadder II, is MY favorite, even though Three and Four are also good. Four set during WWI is hit and miss, but some of the episodes are exceptional -especially the very last one. Funny, yet incredibly moving. Everyone's work in this series is fantastic. BELLS and HEAD are my two favorite episodes of this series. Rowan Atkinson was born to say Elton and Curtis' words and Miranda Richardson's performance as Queen Elizabeth, in all it's spoiled rotten pouting, is comic gold. The only American series that even came close to this (And I give them credit for even trying) was the summer series on CBS, THANKS - which was about the first American Pilgrim family at Plymouth, Mass. 1621. It, too, was brilliant satire, but, gee - American audiences preferred watching the premeire of Who Wants To Be A $%#@%%$ Millionaire!!! This Blackadder series IS available on video in America - so seek it out!!!


                
Has anybody besides me realized that the apparent source for the character of Edmund Blackadder was Edmund, the scheming bastard son of Gloucester in "King Lear"? That out of the way, I must admit that I love all four "Blackadder" series (including the much-maligned first), but this is my favorite. "Blackadder" may be full of anachronisms and frequently gets names and dates wrong, but as Brechtian social commentary it couldn't be more true. As in all four series, "Blackadder II" cuts through the hypocritical platitudes of official history and presents the harsh realities of life in Elizabethan England, with its religious intolerance, official oppression, and vast gap between the haves and have-nots. This is no Renaissance Faire view of "Merry England": here is a world of dirt and grime, where old men urge their daughters to become prostitutes, where sadistic bishops cheerfully practice usury (organized religion, in all Blackadder series, is generally a tool of oppression), people are convicted and beheaded on insufficient evidence, and aristocratic fools play games with people's lives. My favorite episode is the one where Edmund is appointed Lord High Executioner and addresses his staff: "I am the newly appointed minister in charge of religious genocide." Despite the fast-and-loose approach to history, all four Blackadder series look authentic: costume and set design is always right on target; indeed, I've seen few Shakespearean productions that looked as good as "Blackadder II." Rowan Atkinson's Edmund bears more than a passing resemblance to Johnny Depp's Captain Jack Sparrow--an intelligent man trapped in a world less evolved than he--and Tony Robertson is brilliant as always as Baldrick, the Common Man reborn throughout history. Miranda Richardson's Queen Elizabeth I may not be the best screen portrayal of the Virgin Queen, but she's certainly the funniest, and Stephen Fry's Lord Melchitt is perfect as the irritating voice of authority. A word of advice to college students: don't bother to take British history; just rent all four "Blackadder" series and watch them over the weekend before finals. You may get the facts wrong, but your professor will have a good chuckle over your essay exams.
I love the Blackadder series, but there is something extra special, almost magical about Blackadder II. A setting that we all have some knowledge of, and can relate to. The writing is sensationally witty, the scripts are just phenomenally good, but the acting, timing, deliveries are just delicious. Rowan Atkinson is just flawless as Edmund, his cutting put downs are fiercely funny. Tony Robinson, Stephen Fry, Tim McInnerny, Patsy Byrne, just fabulous, what a combination. It is Miranda Richardson's Queenie that steals it for me, absolutely sublime in the part, she's hilarious.Every single episode has something to offer, Head and Potato are the two that have me in tears every time. Chains is utterly surreal, that ending is very daring. Great guest performances, my top three are Miriam Margolyes, Tom Baker and Rik Mayall's. All incredible.For my part not just the best of Blackadder, but one of the best comedy Series of all time. Perfection. 10/10
Rowan Atkinson returns in the second series of the popular sitcom. This time Edmund Blackadder is the smart one, and Baldrick (Tony Robinson) and Percy (Tim McInnerny) are the thick ones. This is based in the years of Elizabeth I (Miranda Richardson). There is also Stephen Fry as Lord Melchett (the Queen's adviser) and Patsy Byrne as Nursie. Throughout the series Lord Blackadder tries everything to become rich or rewarded by her fan, the silly Queen. There are many people you may recognise throughout this series. There's Rik Mayall as Lord Flasheart (who appears again in series 4), Gabrielle Glaister as Kate, or "Bob" (also in series 4) and Hugh Laurie in two episodes, first as Simon Partridge, then as the evil Prince Ludwig. This is a very good series to the popular sitcom. Rowan Atkinson was number 18 on The 50 Greatest British Actors, he was number 24 on The Comedians' Comedian, and he was number 8 on Britain's Favourite Comedian, Edmund Blackadder was number 3 on The 100 Greatest TV Characters, and he was number 3 on The World's Greatest Comedy Characters, and Blackadder (all four series) was number 2 on Britain's Best Sitcom. Outstanding!
Hilariously funny.After the first season of Black Adder was set during the War of the Roses, Season 2 has our hero, played by Rowan Atkinson, an adviser to Queen Elizabeth I. Baldrick (Tony Robinson) and Percy (Tim McInnerny) are there again and we now have Miranda Richardson as Queen Elizabeth and Stephen Fry as Lord Melchett.Even better than the first season. As before, hilariously funny, with some iconic skits. However, the script feels tighter and less prone to cheap jokes. It's cleverer, basically. The change of Black Adder's character and station helps this. Before, he was over-privileged royalty and a sniveling selfish toadie. Now he is lower in station and has to use charm and deception to get ahead. Makes for better comedy.


                
Rowan Atkinson has done an awesome job in all episodes....i love it.:)..whenever i used to watch the episode every time i used to laugh over the things done by the Rowan and it was actually feeling amazing to watch the episode...it is my favorite pass time to watch the black adder series or you can say it is my hobby..my passion us always revolve around the comic relief of Mr.Rowan Atkinson and the main point about his comic timing is that his comic timing is best.. The best thing about the black adder episodes is that it gives you the view of history and it is good for the peoples who love history because of the reason one should must watch the blacadder and especially IMDb helps me to find out these amazing episodes I would like to say thanks to this amazing application and i want to suggest to download this amazing application of IMDb..thank u very much


                
Better than the first series. Big improvement. I must have laughed more than once every episode. I'm beginning to understand why this series is so popular, and many of the jokes that are boring and old now must have been new and unique at the time. I've never been a fan of stupid, random humour such as the end of episode six, but this series has got much more unique and intelligent humour that I have love. I'm also beginning to love the three protagonists, Edmund Blackadder (Rowan Atkinson), Baldrick (Tony Robinson) and Percy (Tim McInnerny). I've heard that Percy won't be joining me next series, though, which is a shame.I look forward to series three and, more excitingly, series four. I think Blackadder Goes Forth is the main reason this series is a legendary piece of TV. Apparently it is very unique to anything seen before. If it's better than this series I'll be a very happy boy anyway.


                
You think that after Blackadder, that was the end, right? WRONG!!! Rowan Atkinson from Mr. Bean is back and this time, he's better and funnier than ever! The great-great grandson of the legendary Edmund Blackadder is now seeking to rule Renaissance England and offer Queen Elizabeth I(Miranda Richardson) a hand of marriage. With the help of his fumbling and bumbling assistants, Percy(Tim McInnerny) and Baldrick(Tony Robinson), what can go wrong? My favorite episodes are simply titled "Beer", "Potato", and "Head". Like the previous TV series, Blackadder II has never disappointed me with its hilarious characters, original plots, and a rather dark ending at the final episode. This is part two of the Blackadder series.
I regularly watch all of the Blackadder series and specials, and have been a rabid fan for many years. One thing has always bothered me about the accepted episode order for the second series. It seems as though it is generally accepted that "Bells" is the series first episode, however, given the fact that Lord Percy shaves his beard upon learning of the infidelities of his "beloved," at the hands of both Blackadder and Baldrick, while this same beard appears throughout the entirety of the accepted second episode, "Head." It always seemed to me that "Head" was probably meant to be the first episode. Just a fanatic's lunatic ravings, I guess. But I do so love this series.


                
With the aberration of the first series behind them, this one established Blackadder as a comedy of rare consistency and talent, and it's still my favourite of all of them. There isn't a weak show in the entire bunch and, with the possible exception of the final show of the WW1 series, it contains two of the best shows in the entire production: 'Bells' (the one with "Bob") and 'Money' (the one with the Baby-eating Bishop of Bath and Wells).With its intelligent writing, historical settings and deranged situations, it is a worthy successor to the likes of Python and The Goon Show; and the move from location to studio sets helped give it the intimacy that its wordy humour needs. Miranda Richardson as the schoolgirlishly capricious Queen with unlimited power was an inspired choice, and the rest of the supporting cast, right down to Pasty Byrne as the Nursie called Bernard, do their jobs brilliantly.I've often said that I hate the 'character line' as a tool used by a lot of mediocre British comedy, but "My Lord, I have a cunning plan..." has to rank as one of the great exceptions to that rule.The BBC managed to produce three all-time great comedy shows in the 35 years up to and including Blackadder; it seems to me that we're overdue for the next one.


                
This incarnation is incredibly over 20 years old now, yet his scathing put-downs still haven't dated at all. The three later series are almost inseparable in terms of quality, but the 2nd dynasty takes its place as my favourite by the narrowest of margins. For perhaps the only time, he ranks as one of the most powerful characters, answerable only to the Queen, and the comparative luxury of his standing allows him to show off his superiority complex to greater humorous advantage. The Queen herself is also an impeccably conceived character, a childish monarch in an adult body, extremely liable to issue a beheading order in a fit of pique. The performances of Rowan Atkinson and Miranda Richardson, respectively, are entirely beyond reproach.There are a few welcome faces from British TV appearing as guest stars over the course of the six episodes; also a character makes their debut in this series before bizarrely traversing hundreds of years and popping up in the trenches for series 4! This is "Bob" (Gabrielle Glaister), appearing in my favourite episode of series 2, when the cynical Edmund decides to tie the knot... Each of the half dozen plots holds its own unique charm and share of incisive gags though, so if you decide to splash your cash on the box-set, you can't go far wrong!


                
The Blackadder franchise find its form... and my, how it fits. Highly satirical, witty, clever and biting sitcom that derives much of its humor from the way things were in the time it is set in. The plots remain unlikely, but they work better and are just generally funnier and of greater interest this time around. The pacing receives a needed lift, making this season an awful lot lighter and easier to sit through. It helps that every single line of dialog, every occurrence, is hilarious. Honestly, almost no jokes or gags fall flat in this. As with the others, the half-hour length varies, with some going a bit over, unlike the American productions where such will mean 22 minutes sans commercials. They update the theme song to the time period this is set during, with a soprano commenting on the events of the episodes(all of them of impeccable quality, and relatively distinguished from one another) at the end of each, instead of the deep-voiced, proud tone of the original show. While the credits sequences are simpler than those of the first, due to budget, it doesn't make a negative impression. Every acting performance is marvelous. Richardson as the childish queen is spectacular. Fry is a solid addition, as is Byrne, as the utterly insane Nursie. The characters are well-written and memorable. The main cast is one that you don't mind returning to. Edmund and Baldrick switch personalities... and the level of sarcasm goes through the roof, as well as that of the verbal, compared to how it was in the '83 series. Atkinson moves as far away as he can from his Bean character, an incredibly welcome change. Here, he's nasty and cruel. And he's considerably more successful in his schemes than he was before. Some of the silly bits, sexual material and even a tiny bit of gross-out stuff is retained(and occasionally than not feels out of place, among all the banter). Definitely worth watching for fans of the first, of British comedy in general and/or Rowan. One to watch if you fall under any of those categories. 10/10


                
I was happily surprised when I saw BLACKADDER II because even though the series was set almost a hundred years later, it still managed to maintain the same level of humor and enjoyability. This time, instead of occurring during the supposed reign between Richard III and Henry VII, Edmund Blackadder was a courtier in the time of Elizabeth I. Fortunately for the audience, the characters are as stupid or unscrupulous as ever and the show picks up wonderfully where it left off the previous season.Like BLACKADDER, each half hour episode tell a story (almost always ending badly) in the sorry life of the fictional Blackadder (Rowan Atkinson). Considering that Miranda Richardson, Tim McInnerny, Tony Robinson and Stephen Fry are there for support, the show was blessed with a lot of talent--and the same can be said about the writers.Funny, very irreverent and rather adult, this is a very funny series that you can enjoy--just don't let the little ones watch!


                
Theo Robertson writes: >> The reason it works best is that Edmund has two foils to work against ( Lord Percy and Baldrick ) rather than just Baldrick in the other series . >>Not sure what he means by this. Edmund has at least two foils in EVERY series.Series 1: Baldrick and Percy Series 2: Baldrick and Percy Series 3: Baldrick and George Series 4: Baldrick and GeorgeSeries 2 throws in Queenie and Melchitt, Series 4 throws in Melchitt and Darling, so in no series do Edmund and Baldrick go it alone.


                
Along with Black Adder Goes Forth, this is my absolute favourite of the Black Adder series. The fact that this is hilarious is an understatement, a vast majority of it verges on hysterical. The Elizabethan period detail is sumptuous, the stories are clever and interesting, the opening credits are fun and the writing is sharp, cynical, sophisticated and hilarious. And once again I loved the performances, instead of the slimy, selfish and stupid character he played in the first series, Rowan Atkinson superbly plays a much smarter, cunning and more likable lead character, and his cynicism also creeps in too. Baldrick here adopts the persona we are more familiar with dirty and incredibly stupid, and Tony Robinson couldn't have been a more perfect choice, he is priceless. Miranda Richardson makes for a suitably shrill Queen Elizabeth I, Rik Mayall is hilarious and Patsy Byrne is delightful as the daft nurse. Stephen Fry and Tim McInnery are also wonderful in their respective roles as Lord Percy and Lord Melchett. Overall, simply hilarious and a must see. 10/10 Bethany Cox


                
This might be the best season of the Blackadder series! First of all, Baldrick isn't as smart as in the first season, and it fits him better. Edmund is not as stupid as in the first season, and that gives us a lot of sarcastic lines, which are extremely funny and witty. The Queen (which is called by all the fans "Queenie") is really cruel, but in a funny way. Percy is also funnier than in the first season. Nursey was quiet weird, but it doesn't matter much. The only thing which was bad in this season is Lord Flesheart, which I found really annoying, but he's in only one episode. And now, the best of all is... the Balladeer! The idea of making a balladeer laughing at Edmund is just brilliant! And his songs are very funny. Greatest Blackadder season!


                
The First Black Adder series was basically set during the Black Plague years. The second season of this series has Edmund Black Adder as the Lord in Queen Elizabeth I's court during the Elizabethan era. The Black Adder comes in different eras of British history. What a historic way to look at life during different times in British history. I love Miranda Richardson as Queen Elizabeth I. She is at her best and having the time of her life. Of course, you can't forget Tony Robinson as Baldrick, the goof and servant to the Lord Black Adder. Anyway as the series grew, the shows got better and better. I can't imagine anybody else playing Queen Elizabeth I better than Miranda Richardson. MAybe it's because she incites a dark sense of humor and fun to the otherwise virginal character. Sorry Dame Judi Dench, Dame Helen Mirren, Cate Blanchett, Bette Davis, Miranda's performance here as Queen Elizabeth I will always my personal favorite. I loved Patsy Byrne in her role as the Queen's nurse. Of course, you can't forget Brian Blessed and others.


                
