This has to be the funniest, most scathing comedy series of all times. Rowan Atkinson, whose persona and looks change with each reincarnation, is, in these episodes, a strutting peacock always on the lookout for funds to support his lifestyle and he is, in a word, priceless!  The supporting cast is without peer...Baldrick the filthy: Lord Percy Percy, the stupidest git that ever drew breath; Queenie, the psychotic; Nursie with the udder fixation; Lord Melchett, the brown-noser.......all are perfect.  And others who pop up in particular episodes are spot on.  The famous Blackadder sneer begins in these episodes and the insults fly like fleas from Baldrick's hair. In Blackadder II, "Chains" is the one that will make you choke with laughter.  Hugh Laurie, as Prince Ludwig who doesn't want to "inconwenience the quveen" is hilarious and the secret of Lord Melchett's sheep is revealed.....baaaaaa.  If you like Blackadder in all it's iterations, buy the book "Blackadder, the Whole Damn Dynasty".....it contains the complete scripts of each episode and you can laugh all over again.  This is the best of the best in British humor!


                
To many who watched the ongoing saga of the Blackadder family at the time of release, this is the best Blackadder series of them all - and they have a very strong case. Although this is not my own personal favourite (I prefer the original series), this second installment is a superb piece of comedy.The time-period moves on approximately sixty years to Elizabethan England and follows the story of Edmund Blackadder (Rowan Atkinson) - the great-grandson of the original slimy Blackadder. This time Edmund is not a Prince of the realm but a Lord in the court of Good Queen Bess (the wonderful Miranda Richardson). Tim McInnerny continues in the role as Percy and he threatens to steal the show throughout. Percy's character is built on from the first series, being given a more child-like and innocent personality to go with the lack of brain cells, and this combined with McInnerny's fantastic performance gives the comedy an added dimension and direction. The Baldrick role (Tony Robinson) is also reprised, but instead of the street-wise peasant with the cunning plan of series one, we get the first incarnation of the Baldrick character we are now more familiar with - dirty, smelly and incredibly stupid. In this series it works, because now Blackadder himself is significantly brighter and more refined than his ancestor and this time he's armed with a razor-sharp wit. The characters do complement each other well, but the close-nit group of the first series is now missing with Blackadder resenting and mistreating his sidekicks throughout, but this is used well for comic effect.The supporting cast is also excellent and the characters they play are brilliantly written. Elizabeth herself is portrayed as a spoilt little school-girl, complete with screams! Richardson plays this role superbly and with hilarious results with the queen being highly unpredictable and volatile. Elizabeth also has a couple of loyal sidekicks, Nursy (Patsy Byrne) the woman who weaned her as a child, and Melchett (Stephen Fry), her advisor. All of these characters add weight to the comedy, and are sufficiently different to each other to provide alternative directions in comedy.Although Blackadder does have a basic goal in this series - to marry Elizabeth and become her consort - it does not drive the plot as much in this series as it did in the first. The plots for each episode however are still extremely entertaining and contain the basic premise of Blackadder getting into a desperate situation that he must get out of - with the aid (or hindrance) of Percy and Baldrick. The stories are well-thought out and the comedy a good-blend of dry-wit from Blackadder and farcical situations. The stories are well scripted and contain some excellent supporting characters played memorably by the likes of Rik Mayall (of Young Ones and Drop Dead Fred fame), Ronald Lacey (Raiders of the Lost Ark) and ex Dr Who Tom Baker.This series of Blackadder successfully alters the main character into the intelligent and dry cynic, because it does not do so at the expense of the other characters and the plots. Ben Elton's influence however is evident with the supporting characters being of the less intelligent type, aluding to things to come in the next two series where these characters becoming the main target for the humour. Blackadder II works so well because it is the stories that drive the humour with the dry-wit as an added bonus - things were about to be reversed.Like the first series this is a classic of comedy and well deserves its standing as, arguably, the most popular Blackadder series. The first and last series of Blackadder could not be further apart in terms of humour and subtlety - this series fuses both styles to create, perhaps the definitive Blackadder.


                
Blackadder II is a vast improvement over its less popular predecessor. The second series was almost not made due to the lack of success of the original, and clearly the writers re-considered Blackadder's character. He, rather than the now dull-witted Baldrick, is the more intelligent of the pair and his character is now quick-witted, cunning and offers much in sarcastic humour.  This, and possible Blackadder goes Forth, is the best of all the Blackadder series.  Blackadder's new character is much funnier and Atkinson plays it masterfully. The series itself takes place some one hundred years after the first, just before the turn of the 17th century.  I recommend it to all comedy fans.


                
Blackadder II is the finest series of them all.  we have the perfect cast and the crispest writing.  Everything is spot on here.Miranda Richardson joins the cast, as a particularly loopy Queen Elizabeth. Stehen Fry joins in as the toadying Lord Melchett and the delightful  Patsy Byrne is the daft Nursie.  Rowan Atkinson, Tony Robinson, and Tim McInnerny are back as the descendants of their previous characters.  Percy is still a cretin, but now so is Baldrick!  Luckily, Lord Edmund is a step above his ancestor, even if his station in life has fallen.The guests this time include Hugh Laurie as mad Prince Ludwig, Rik Mayall in his first turn as the great Lord Flasheart, and Tom Baker as a rather insane sea captain.If you never get to see any of the other series, watch this one.


                
Lord Edmund Blackadder is a Lord in the court of Queen Elizabeth I.  With his long suffering servant Baldrick and `close-friend' Percy he must wiggle his way through several sticky situations to come through with his political state and his skin intact!This second of four series of Blackadder ranks as one of the consistently best.  It may not be as fresh as the thrid and fourth series <U+0096> mainly because the later series were sharper, crueler and benefited from very familiar (and by then <U+0096> quite famous) characters and actors.  The stories were always a little absurd but built around the deadpan, downbeat Blackadder.  Plots include the Blackadder falling in love with his female man-servant Bob, beheading a man who was meant to be pardoned or just being kidnapped by a French master of disguise.They all are filled with sarcasm and wit and make up for the daffy plots. Atkinson is comfortable in his role <U+0096> but is better in series 3.  Robinson is funny in a poor role of Baldrick.  McInnerny is OK as percy but is not as good an idiot as Laurie's Prince in 3.  The royal court is funny with Fry, Richardson and Byrne all good.Overall this is as good as all the series are.  Witty, cruel, sarcastic and with off the wall plots and extreme characters <U+0096> it's typical of how good British comedy can be.


                
I adore this. It's about as funny as old-fashioned brutal British sarcasm gets. Not only that, but the characters themselves are fantastic, despite the theory that it is "being a true and japesome historie of Englande" is perhaps a little unlikely. Favourite episode? "Head", has both verbal and physical side-splitting hilarity, and although the lines are occasionally a little predictable, their fantastic delivery makes up for it. In my opinion, this is by far and away the best of all the Blackadder series if only for the Miranda Richardson factor(perhaps I am a little biased....) but I would recommend this to just about anyone in need of a laugh. Unless they had a heart condition.


                
'Blackadder 2' provoked outrage when first broadcast in the U.K. Those who'd liked the first series were extremely unhappy at the show's reformatting; Nina Myskow, television critic of 'The News Of The World' bestowed on Rowan Atkinson her infamous 'wally of the week' title. Its only with the benefit of hindsight can we see now that the changes were absolutely spot-on; Edmund becoming a sarcastic cad, Baldrick turning stupid, and the expensive film sequences dropped in favour of stronger characterisations and tighter plots. Without the likes of Brian Blessed to constantly upstage him, Atkinson was free to dominate the show. Ben Elton replaced Atkinson as Richard Curtis' co-writer - another wise move. As the squeaky-voiced 'Queenie', Miranda Richardson was simply outstanding. Tom Baker played 'Captain 'Redbeard' Rum' in one episode, a tour-de-force of over-the-top acting. The weight of public opinion gradually swung behind 'Blackadder 2' - its now regarded as better than its predecessor.


                
This series is so brilliant, so witty, so laugh out loud funny, I watch them over and over again. I actually did NOT care for the first one (where Rowan was Edmund, the Duke). It seemed to be all over the place, embracing the history more than the comedy. But this one, Blackadder II, is MY favorite, even though Three and Four are also good. Four set during WWI is hit and miss, but some of the episodes are exceptional -especially the very last one. Funny, yet incredibly moving. Everyone's work in this series is fantastic. BELLS and HEAD are my two favorite episodes of this series. Rowan Atkinson was born to say Elton and Curtis' words and Miranda Richardson's performance as Queen Elizabeth, in all it's spoiled rotten pouting, is comic gold. The only American series that even came close to this (And I give them credit for even trying) was the summer series on CBS, THANKS - which was about the first American Pilgrim family at Plymouth, Mass. 1621. It, too, was brilliant satire, but, gee - American audiences preferred watching the premeire of Who Wants To Be A $%#@%%$ Millionaire!!! This Blackadder series IS available on video in America - so seek it out!!!


                
Reading through the many comments on Blackadder i agree with the majority that it was an extremely funny and enjoyable show, especially once they had sorted out the main character from being a whiny no hoper with a stupid voice...time and time again Rowan Atkinson has played characters like this and they are just not funny...someone has even suggested that Mr Bean is Atkinson at his best...Balderdash...Blackadder (series 2,3 and four) will remain a testament to great writing and performance...idiot characters should hopefully be forgotten to time.


                
SPOILERS Three years after the release of a Tony Curtis and Rowan Atkinson comedy, the series returned. Relocated to a later period in time, Rowan Atkinson took a solid step back from the writing to be replaced by stand up comedian Ben Elton. With character personalities changed and the entire series turned on it's head, Curtis and Elton would work together to create the second, and finest, instalment in the lives of the family "Blackadder".In Elizabethan England, Queen Elizabeth I (the divine Miranda Richardson) is overseeing the rise of the country to be one of the world's strongest super powers. Always at her beckoning call, although not always willingly, is her favourite, Lord Edmund Blackadder (Rowan Atkinson). A stronger, more devious and cunning character than his pathetic ancestor, Blackadder spends his time trying to make money, get his own way, and stop his servant Baldrick (Tony Robinson) from smelling quite so much.Changed in personality and style, the characters of Blackadder and Baldrick are vastly different to those people knew from the previous series. No longer thick and cowardly, Blackadder is now a man to love. He is witty, intelligent, a ladies man and adored by many around him, most notably the Queen. In contrast, Baldrick is no longer the intelligent but loyal servant but a smelly idiot who is loyal probably more out of stupidity than anything. These new personalities were a miraculous change from the first series and it is wonderful that they came about because this new incantation of "Blackadder" is the finest ever made.With stories covering some of the most famous people of the age, "Blackadder II" thrived on it's knowledge of history. Tony Curtis, a history enthusiast, and Ben Elton are sublime at mixing the daft with the dark to produce a series which would often be intentionally historically inaccurate, and which would never stop from being entertaining."Blackadder II" would also introduce characters who would become cult favourites. People like Bob (Gabrielle Glaister) and Lord Flashheart (Rick Mayall) who would produce such laughs that they would be brought back in a later series. Others too, who were distinctive to this one series and who would become branded on the mind. Nursie (Patsy Byrne) also known as Bernard, who would come out with obscure and random comments. The baby eating Bishop Of Bath and Wells (Ronald Lacey), a man of depravity who would like nothing more than to stick a poker up where the sun doesn't shine. Characters like these would make this second chapter the finest, but ultimately it would be one regular character who truly made this the finest Blackadder series ever.Nominated twice for Academy Awards, most people will probably always remember Miranda Richardson for playing the eccentric Queen Elizabeth. Childlike and with the power of life and death over all her subjects, Richardson's Elizabeth is a figure of beauty. Hilarious from the first time you see her through to the way her last line set up a Rowan Atkinson joke, few characters are as embedded on the mind as this one. Lusting after Blackadder, but never making the move, the character of Elizabeth is pure genius and she is perhaps the most fundamental reason why all other series of "Blackadder" felt lacking. Hugh Laurie's idiot prince in "Blackadder III" was a worthy attempt at trying to introduce a new monarch, but ultimately nobody can compare with this wonderful portrayal of good Queen Bess.A complete change in style after the disappointing previous series, "Blackadder II" is one of the finest comedy series ever made. Funnier, with so many good characters, than the following two series, it stands out above most other British comedy as a target to reach for. It is genius in it's own right, and for that we should thank Elton and Curtis.
Simply fantastic.  Whilst this isn't my fav series (I prefer series III) it is still hugely funny.  Unfortunately the humour is very British and probably won't work in the USA.  Pity.  This series is a huge improvement on the first, the increased interplay (piss-taking) between Blackadder and Baldrick is the key (it also helps having a little more stability in the story line.  Simply fantastic, can be watched over and over again, although one must avoid quoting it on a daily basis!


                
I really wish that American situation comedies had the guts to be more like this show, instead we have to contend with the likes of insipid garbage like 'Friends' and 'Steinfeld'. Out of the four series, I think this one may be my favorite, with 'Beer' being the funniest of the lot.


                
Has anybody besides me realized that the apparent source for the character of Edmund Blackadder was Edmund, the scheming bastard son of Gloucester in "King Lear"? That out of the way, I must admit that I love all four "Blackadder" series (including the much-maligned first), but this is my favorite. "Blackadder" may be full of anachronisms and frequently gets names and dates wrong, but as Brechtian social commentary it couldn't be more true. As in all four series, "Blackadder II" cuts through the hypocritical platitudes of official history and presents the harsh realities of life in Elizabethan England, with its religious intolerance, official oppression, and vast gap between the haves and have-nots. This is no Renaissance Faire view of "Merry England": here is a world of dirt and grime, where old men urge their daughters to become prostitutes, where sadistic bishops cheerfully practice usury (organized religion, in all Blackadder series, is generally a tool of oppression), people are convicted and beheaded on insufficient evidence, and aristocratic fools play games with people's lives. My favorite episode is the one where Edmund is appointed Lord High Executioner and addresses his staff: "I am the newly appointed minister in charge of religious genocide." Despite the fast-and-loose approach to history, all four Blackadder series look authentic: costume and set design is always right on target; indeed, I've seen few Shakespearean productions that looked as good as "Blackadder II." Rowan Atkinson's Edmund bears more than a passing resemblance to Johnny Depp's Captain Jack Sparrow--an intelligent man trapped in a world less evolved than he--and Tony Robertson is brilliant as always as Baldrick, the Common Man reborn throughout history. Miranda Richardson's Queen Elizabeth I may not be the best screen portrayal of the Virgin Queen, but she's certainly the funniest, and Stephen Fry's Lord Melchitt is perfect as the irritating voice of authority. A word of advice to college students: don't bother to take British history; just rent all four "Blackadder" series and watch them over the weekend before finals. You may get the facts wrong, but your professor will have a good chuckle over your essay exams.
I love the Blackadder series, but there is something extra special, almost magical about Blackadder II. A setting that we all have some knowledge of, and can relate to. The writing is sensationally witty, the scripts are just phenomenally good, but the acting, timing, deliveries are just delicious. Rowan Atkinson is just flawless as Edmund, his cutting put downs are fiercely funny. Tony Robinson, Stephen Fry, Tim McInnerny, Patsy Byrne, just fabulous, what a combination. It is Miranda Richardson's Queenie that steals it for me, absolutely sublime in the part, she's hilarious.Every single episode has something to offer, Head and Potato are the two that have me in tears every time. Chains is utterly surreal, that ending is very daring. Great guest performances, my top three are Miriam Margolyes, Tom Baker and Rik Mayall's. All incredible.For my part not just the best of Blackadder, but one of the best comedy Series of all time. Perfection. 10/10
Set during the Elizabethan times, "BlackAdder II" is superb comedy as well as a major turning point for the series. Here not only does the show hit its stride but would serve as a template for the rest of the entries that would come after. Out of all the installments in the series, this one keeps the quality the most consistent, as the scripting and laughs remains solid throughout. Rowan Atkinson is back in the title role but this time he is a much different person than before. In the first one, Edmund, the Duke of Edinburgh was a rather sniveling and cowardly opportunist. While "BlackAdder II", Lord Edmund BlackAdder is a cynical, cunning, and urbane bastard, which is the one that we would come to know and love for the rest of the series. We also see his sidekicks Percy and Baldrick again yet this time they have been "dumbed down" (pun intended) for the better. Tim McInnerny's Percy is a complete oaf while Tony Robinson's Baldrick becomes Edmund's dirty and lovably stupid servant.Another major change also came with Ben Elton, replacing Atkinson, as the co-writer for the series alongside Richard Curtis. Not only do we get hysterical situations but also lots of one- liners that make you laugh every minute. How can you not love it when BlackAdder says "Percy the devil farts in my face once more." It is a classic exercise in the sarcastic humor that British comedies are often known for. If only more American sitcoms could be this nuanced and sophisticated. All of the episodes are very funny, ones that standout include "Head", "Money", and "Chains".The rest of its supporting cast are also a delight. Stephen Fry is really good as Lord Melchett, Miranda Richardson is charming as The Queen, and Patsy Burne is fun as Nursie. However, it is the guests in each episode that are an absolute hoot such Rik Mayall as Lord Flasheart, an unrecognizable Tom Baker as the insane captain, and Hugh Laurie as the mad Prince Ludwig (Laurie and Fry would eventually become series regulars).Recommended for anyone who likes droll and irreverent humor.


                
The second series of the Blackadder saga (now one word rather than the original two!) was co-written by Richard Curtis and Ben Elton, with Rowan Atkinson dropping the writing to concentrate on bringing the devious and slimy Edmund Blackadder to life.Old faces from series 1 remain - Tim McInnerny (as Lord Percy Percy), and Tony Robinson (Baldrick - now rather stupid and not at all smart: 'what's four beans plus one bean?' 'some beans'). Edmund himself is an oily creep who flirts with the bird-brained Queenie (Miranda Richardson); goes out on the high seas with a mad legless sailor (Tom Baker); and gets tortured by a master of disguise with a bad scar (Hugh Laurie). There's also the splendid Stephen Fry as Lord Melchett, the pompous ass chamberlain who is always at the sharp end of Blackadder's jests.'Bells', 'Head', 'Money', 'Beer' (where Miriam Margolyes comes back as a scarily religious nut), and 'Chains' (and one other which slips my mind) were all great fun. The second Blackadder was perhaps the most interesting of the whole dynasty, and this series stands up the best of all the four. Great falsetto theme tune too, and lots of the quips we'd come to know and love from Edmund.


                
Hilarious. Hilarious. Hilarious. I'm even laughing at the quote written above in my summary. The direct role reversal between Blackadder and baldrick has helped dramatically and definately made Blackadder 10 times better than the first series. Blackadders wit and rudness has helped make it what it is today. Overall I'd give it 10 out of 10.


                
The second of the four "Blackadder" serieses is one of the funniest "Britcoms" ever made.  After the enjoyable if disappointing original, we're introduced to Lord Edmund Blackadder (Atkinson), now a (much smarter and cynical) British nobleman living in Elizabethian London as a friend of Queen Elizabeth (the superb Miranda Richardson).  Returning this time is Baldrick (Robinson), much much MUCH dumber than before, and Lord Percy (McInnery), his usual oafish self.  Also popping in are Stephen Fry as Lord Melchett, Elizabeth's advisor, a hilarious Patsy Byrnes (sp.?) as Nursie, Elizabeth's, well, nurse, along with a bunch of supporting characters, including a baby-eating bishop, the horny Lord Flasheart, girls named "Bob", Puritanical aunts and uncles, and a scarfaced German prince (Hugh Laurie, rehearsing his "Blackadder III" and "Goes Forth" roles) who is a master of disguise.  This is simply hilarious.Blackadder's increased intelligence makes him much more intelligent and witty.  While the original had its moments (the "Witchsmeller Persuvant" and "Born To Be King" were hilarious), it was a bit . . . er . . . cluttered. Clever, yes, but I'd prefer a smart character rather than a complete cast of idiots.  Perhaps it's wrong for a smart person to point out what's wrong with everything (in real life or a show or movie), but if well-written, it can work wonderfully.  "Blackadder II" is indeed well-written, by Richard Curtis and Ben Elton (with Atkinson this time not among the writers), and it is nearly flawless: sexual inneudoes, satire, cross-dressing jokes, drunks, some of the best one-liners ever written . . . it's all there, and, for the most part, it works wonderfully.The acting is superb, as well, though I won't get to far into that.  I can relate to Edmund, a smart person lost in a world of morons.  BA III was the best of the lot IMO, but this is almost as great.Ten stars.
Rowan Atkinson returns in the second series of the popular sitcom. This time Edmund Blackadder is the smart one, and Baldrick (Tony Robinson) and Percy (Tim McInnerny) are the thick ones. This is based in the years of Elizabeth I (Miranda Richardson). There is also Stephen Fry as Lord Melchett (the Queen's adviser) and Patsy Byrne as Nursie. Throughout the series Lord Blackadder tries everything to become rich or rewarded by her fan, the silly Queen. There are many people you may recognise throughout this series. There's Rik Mayall as Lord Flasheart (who appears again in series 4), Gabrielle Glaister as Kate, or "Bob" (also in series 4) and Hugh Laurie in two episodes, first as Simon Partridge, then as the evil Prince Ludwig. This is a very good series to the popular sitcom. Rowan Atkinson was number 18 on The 50 Greatest British Actors, he was number 24 on The Comedians' Comedian, and he was number 8 on Britain's Favourite Comedian, Edmund Blackadder was number 3 on The 100 Greatest TV Characters, and he was number 3 on The World's Greatest Comedy Characters, and Blackadder (all four series) was number 2 on Britain's Best Sitcom. Outstanding!
Hilariously funny.After the first season of Black Adder was set during the War of the Roses, Season 2 has our hero, played by Rowan Atkinson, an adviser to Queen Elizabeth I. Baldrick (Tony Robinson) and Percy (Tim McInnerny) are there again and we now have Miranda Richardson as Queen Elizabeth and Stephen Fry as Lord Melchett.Even better than the first season. As before, hilariously funny, with some iconic skits. However, the script feels tighter and less prone to cheap jokes. It's cleverer, basically. The change of Black Adder's character and station helps this. Before, he was over-privileged royalty and a sniveling selfish toadie. Now he is lower in station and has to use charm and deception to get ahead. Makes for better comedy.


                
Rowan Atkinson has done an awesome job in all episodes....i love it.:)..whenever i used to watch the episode every time i used to laugh over the things done by the Rowan and it was actually feeling amazing to watch the episode...it is my favorite pass time to watch the black adder series or you can say it is my hobby..my passion us always revolve around the comic relief of Mr.Rowan Atkinson and the main point about his comic timing is that his comic timing is best.. The best thing about the black adder episodes is that it gives you the view of history and it is good for the peoples who love history because of the reason one should must watch the blacadder and especially IMDb helps me to find out these amazing episodes I would like to say thanks to this amazing application and i want to suggest to download this amazing application of IMDb..thank u very much


                
This, the second series in the Blackadder Saga, follows another Edmund Blackadder; this one is a lord during the early years of the reign of Queen Elizabeth I. Unlike is somewhat silly ancestor this Blackadder has a sharp wit and a penchant for withering sarcasm; like his forebear he has a servant named Baldrick and a stupid friend called Percy.Over the course of six episodes he gets into various scrapes; falling in love with 'Bob' his apparently male servant, getting involved in a drinking game the night he meets his puritanical aunt, becoming an explorer to impress the queen, owing money to the most feared bishop in the land, getting the job of Lord High Executioner and being held for ransom. He, Percy and Baldrick deal with these predicaments in a manner that should have most viewers laughing heartily.Rowan Atkinson excels in the role of Blackadder; delivering every line with just the right degree of sarcasm. He is ably supported by Tony Robinson and Tim McInnerny who return as Baldrick and Percy. New cast members include Miranda Richardson; who does a great job as the Queen; portraying her in a way that makes her both innocent and rather dangerous<U+0085> she frequently threatens to have heads chopped off. Stephen Fry is good as the somewhat obsequious Melchett and Patsy Byrne is hilarious as the delightfully bonkers Nursie. There are also some fine cameo roles; most notable an appearance from the late Rick Mayall who steals the episode he appears in despite only being on screen for three or four minutes.While I really enjoyed the oft maligned first series I must admit this takes it up to a new level. The changes in Blackadder's character work really well and the new writing team have delivered a more subtle approach; sarcasm delivered by rapier sharp wit rather than gags with the subtlety of a sledgehammer. If you enjoy classic British comedies then this series is a must see. It is shocking to realise that this will be thirty years old this year; it feels as fresh as ever!
Better than the first series. Big improvement. I must have laughed more than once every episode. I'm beginning to understand why this series is so popular, and many of the jokes that are boring and old now must have been new and unique at the time. I've never been a fan of stupid, random humour such as the end of episode six, but this series has got much more unique and intelligent humour that I have love. I'm also beginning to love the three protagonists, Edmund Blackadder (Rowan Atkinson), Baldrick (Tony Robinson) and Percy (Tim McInnerny). I've heard that Percy won't be joining me next series, though, which is a shame.I look forward to series three and, more excitingly, series four. I think Blackadder Goes Forth is the main reason this series is a legendary piece of TV. Apparently it is very unique to anything seen before. If it's better than this series I'll be a very happy boy anyway.


                
In my eyes, there has never been a "Black Adder 1" because besides a good opening song, that one had nothing going for it. This one on the other hand is closer to the Black Adder that gets the fans pleased.In this Black Adder is trying ever so desperately to remain wealthy as a friend of The Queen (Elizabeth I) whilst also trying to keep his head on his shoulders. The Queen is the only one who he never insults to the face, He is a complete bastard to all his other "companions" such as Melchett, Percy and Baldrick.The acting is fantastic, obviously Rowan Atkinson plays a good bastard, this time outside the vein of Bean. Others that have to be spoken for are Stephen Fry, Miranda Richardson, Tim McInnery, Tony Robinson and Rik Mayall (I know he was only in this for one episode but he was fantastic as Flashheart).This part of the show was written by Ben Elton and Richard Curtis so expect a historical Young Ones on a leash. You won't see Baldrick try to kill himself with laxatives but it'll be something along those lines of humor.Overall if you're a fan of this sort of thing, this series will be perfect.


                
On a production level this second season, produced 3 years later seems actually less sophisticated; cheap looking sets, much more of a standard sit-com look. But this is a sit com ala Fawlty Towers, weird, whip-smart, subversive and very dark. While I can't say for me that it quite stands up to the greatness of Fawlty Towers or Monty Python, the two shows to which it is inevitably compared, it has a ton of very funny moments, and the acting is top notch. It's 100 years plus since series one, and Blackadder is no longer the weaselly immoral wimpy swine of the first series. He's now a handsome. dashing weaselly immoral swine, a favorite of the vaguely insane Queen Elizabeth --that is when she's not threatening to execute him. It's a lot of fun to see Atkinson in this very different, non Mr. Bean persona, and he pulls it off wonderfully. And Hugh Laurie is hysterical in two completely different guest roles, while Miranda Richardson as Queen Elizabeth displays a flair for goofy silly physical comedy one would never suspect from her body of work.Very worth a view, even if you were iffy on series one.


                
