What is the most resilient parasite? An Idea! Yes, Nolan has created something with his unbelievably, incredibly and god- gifted mind which will blow the minds of the audience away. The world premiere of the movie, directed by Hollywood's most inventive dreamers, was shown in London and has already got top notch reviews worldwide and has scored maximum points! Now the question arises what the movie has that it deserve all this?Dom Cobb(Di Caprio) is an extractor who is paid to invade the dreams of various business tycoons and steal their top secret ideas. Cobb robs forcefully the psyche with practiced skill, though he's increasingly haunted by the memory of his late wife, Mal (Marion Cotillard), who has a nasty habit of showing up in his subconscious and wreaking havoc on his missions. Cobb had been involved so much in his heist work that he had lost his love!But then, as fate had decided, a wealthy business man Saito( Ken Watanabe) hands over the responsibility of dissolving the empire of his business rival Robert Fischer Jr.(Cillian Murphy). But this time his job was not to steal the idea but to plant a new one: 'Inception'Then what happens is the classic heist movie tradition. To carry out the the task, Cobb's 'brainiac' specialists team up again with him, Arthur (Joseph Gordon-Levitt), his longtime organizer; Tom Hardy (Eames), a "forger" who can shapeshift at will; and Yusuf (Dileep Rao), a powerful sedative supplier. There is only one word to describe the cinematography, the set designs and the special effects, and that is Exceptional! You don't just watch the scenes happening, you feel them. The movie is a real thrill ride. The action scenes are well picturised and the music by Hans Zimmer is electronically haunting. Never, in the runtime of the movie, you will get a chance to move your eyes from the screen to any other object.Leonardo, who is still popularly known for Jack Dawson played by him in Titanic, should be relieved as his role as Dom Cobb will be remembered forever. His performance may or may not fetch him an Oscar but it will be his finest performance till date. The supporting cast too did an extraordinary work. Christopher Nolan, ah! what a man he is. His work is nothing less than a masterpiece and he deserves all the awards in the 'Best Director' category. If "Inception" is a metaphysical puzzle, it's also a metaphorical one: It's hard not to draw connections between Cobb's dream-weaving and Nolan's film making, intended to seduce us, mess with our heads and leave an ever-lasting impression.To conclude, I would just say before your life ends, do yourself a favor by experiencing this exceptionally lucid classic created by Nolan! My Rating: 10/10Thanks & Regards


                
Dom Cobb leads a highly skilled team, specializing in stealing secrets from people's minds by entering their dreams. When they are hired by a mysterious businessman, Cobb finally has a shot at redemption, but not before achieving the near impossible. Rather than stealing an idea, they must do the complete opposite: Inception. Planting the seed of an idea.Inception has a multi-layered plot, quite literally in fact. It focuses on the emotional journey of its lead character, Cobb, but at the same time thrusts the audience into multiple levels of action packed story- telling, very distinct from one another, but all finely connected. It has been described by critics as "a film that rewards intellect", and I can assure you that it is exactly that. Director Christopher Nolan challenges the audience to keep up, and rewards those who can with a breathtaking spectacle, one that has the capability to leave you awestruck. The best part about it is that while you may feel you need to watch it again to be able to fully absorb the experience, chances are, you will probably want to.Christopher Nolan brings his unique vision to the screen with the help of a star-studded cast, including the likes of Leonardo Dicaprio (The Departed), Joseph Gordon-Levitt (500 Days Of Summer), Ellen Page (Juno), Marion Cotillard (Public Enemies), Cillian Murphy (Batman Begins), and Michael Caine (The Dark Knight), as well some amazing photography by long time collaborator Wally Pfister. The thrilling music in the film is provided by none other than Hans Zimmer, who was also set the mood for Nolan's previous film, The Dark Knight.While it may seem simple at its outset, Inception is an extremely complex film, delving deep into the subconscious of the human mind. Technical brilliance and visual splendor have rarely blended together as beautifully. The emotional depth and explosive action complement each other perfectly, delivering a film that is at the same time both heart- wrenching and heart-pounding. It's a film that manages to engross you with its complexities, yet comes together seamlessly, and will have you at the edge of your seat, quite literally from start to finish.Inception is magnificent.
Films about dreams and the subconscious are usually not very straightforward and almost always weird. "Inception" is no exception to that rule, but like its cinematic predecessors who have explored the contrast between and the questions of what is real and what is illusion (i.e. "The Matrix" (1999), "The Cell" (2000), "Abre Los Ojos" (1997) & its American remake "Vanilla Sky" (2001)), you really can't look away, nor should you."Inception" is an excellent and breathtaking movie that may be one of the only films released so far during the Summer of 2010 that lives up to its hype. It is a nearly perfect and highly original film that holds your attention until the credits roll. The less you know about this movie going in, the more you will be entranced by seeing it.Leonardo DiCaprio plays Dom Cobb, a world class criminal who, with the help of a team of sleep experts, works his way into people's subconscious and steals what people value most: ideas directly from their minds. In his last assignment to possibly clear his name, he is assigned not to steal an idea from someone, but to plant one inside that person's mind. The difficulty comes when certain people are trained to block their ideas from being taken.That plot summary only covers the basics of this pretty complicated story, but to describe every plot detail would take away the magic of this film you must see yourself to believe. DiCaprio is good in his role, but unlike many other films he has starred in, this is perhaps his only role where his character alone does not carry the weight of the movie on his shoulders or share it equally with one other co-star. Instead, this great ensemble cast teams together to make this movie work, just as their characters collaborate to pull off such a unique heist. Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Ellen Page, and Tom Hardy are especially good in their roles.The special effects in this film were also very good, which is amazing considering their simplicity compared to the "Matrix" movies. There are slow-motion shots, but no impossible kung fu fighting sequences. It's especially interesting when the film gets into the architecture of certain dreams, and impossible sequences are filmed in a way I've never seen other than in drawings.However, the special effects would mean nothing if the story wasn't good. For this reason, even something as simple as a spinning top holds your attention in a way you would never think it would when seeing it in this film. The credit here can be given to writer and director Christopher Nolan, who has not made a bad film yet. There are many twists and turns in this film, but Nolan never loses his focus in the process of telling the story. If Nolan does not get nominated for Best Director and/or Best Original Screenplay next Oscar season, there is something terribly wrong with the Academy.That being said, there was still a lot about this film I still don't get, and may require multiple viewings to better understand. However, some of the best films I've seen are confusing at first. "2001: A Space Odyssey" (1968) is a film I've seen a couple of times, and still don't understand completely. It still has a major following, though, as I'm positive this movie will. It's an incredibly entertaining movie, but it also makes you think and continues to do so after you leave the theater.
I saw Memento very recently, something that turned out to be a great miss.I saw it again, just to make a couple of thins straight-and i'll definitely do the same with Inception.Christopher Nolan keeps improving himself, with even more complex and multilayer script like this.And i thought Memento was hard to reach by most of the viewers, but no.Inception will keep you mesmerized and captivated by the genius, that's hidden behind it.And not just directors and screenwriters (or with other words-Nolan), but with acting and sound-and effects and editing as well.When you have a cast like this-i mean Leonardo DiCaprio, Joseph Gordon-Lewitt, Michael Caine, or Marion Cotillard (a personal favourite), the movie just keeps going flawlessly.Most of the crew is the same the Nolan brothers worked with on TDK and earlier in Batman Begins.So the Oscar noms in those categories are a certainty for me.The only thing one could have against the movie, is the headache one could have.See, most of my friends go to the movies for brainless action, they enjoyed Iron Man 2 and The A-Team, but this movie-you have to see it at least twice, to understand it.The levels and the layers on which thing are happening are so many, that one surely'll miss something vital.This is a reason for not fitting to the mass audience, but i hope that won't happen, because Nolan is one of my favourite directors/writers, and he showed, that the brainless action flicks aren't all of it.There are still movies like Inception out there and still people like the Nolans to make those movies, so it's not all lost.And i hope this movie could show the audience that the story is still important for the experience one could receive, not the endless, constant explosions.Because this is really a one of a lifetime event.Saying that, i must say, that in a world full of remakes, reboots, sequels, prequels and God knows what, this is a unique chance to see something different and unmatched so far-a strong movie, that, surely will be Nolan's latest masterpiece! My Grade won't change-it's the same for all Nolan movies-sheer 10!


                
Inception is truly one of a kind. A concept which has long gestated in Christopher Nolan's mind, his eye for drama mixed with his large scale sensibilities ring true in Blockbuster season making Inception a true original in the sea of reboots, remakes and sequels.To try and explain Inceptions many plot twists and incredibly intelligent arcs, would be a foolish task. As Nolan himself has been reluctant to. The best way to approach the film would be with an open mind, if you are prepared to be taken on a ride of a lifetime, then trust that you 100% will. If Avatar was a seminal film in technology (although coming out as a rather poor film, in my opinion), then Inception is seminal in it's storytelling. With a 148 minute running time, you would expect a lot to take place, but what you wouldn't expect is the pace of it all. I did not think at one time in the film about how long was left. I was simply blown away by the depth in every single part of the film. If my enthusiasm for the storytelling aspect of the film has left you worried about the spectacle, then don't worry. They are, as hinted in the trailer, incredible, looking real and unbelievable simultaneously. The most pleasing thing about the action set pieces, is that they are genuinely used to illustrate the story, rather than to blow stuff up a la Michael Bay.With this complex movie in it's high concept, a stellar cast is needed. And Nolan as always, delivers with just that. This is vintage DiCaprio, perhaps only equalled in The Aviator, which is even more impressive as his role as Cobb in Inception is not a showy one, needing DiCaprio to be the constant at the centre of the film. And he pulls off Cobb's emotional contradictions sublimely. The rest of the cast members all shine in parts of the films, Cillian Murphy shows off his usually non-existent tender side, Gordon-Levitt bottles his usual charm for his confidently reserved turn as the reliable Arthur, Watanabe is devilish as the seemingly ambiguous Saito, Page shows why she's the next big female star and Tom Hardy revels in being the comic relief of the film compared to his recent turns as decidedly psychopathic characters.Overall, Nolan has indeed surpassed himself. He has created a world as expansive as his Gotham, a plot dwarfing the intricacies of Memento and one which blows The Prestige's cinematic reveal out of the water. This is truly unmissable cinema. Revel in it, we've still got to wait a whole two years before Batman 3.


                
Usually I try to be careful with over hyping a film, or setting the expectations too high, as film geeks all are guilty for, however for Christopher Nolan's Inception, this really is not possible.This is possibly one of the only perfect films I have ever seen. It is absolutely confident in every way, something which is extremely refreshing, even more so than Avatar. Christopher Nolan gets some slack for making great to look at but ultimately heartless affairs, which I for one do not agree with, however I do not think anyone can argue that here. The emotional aspect of this film not only ties it all together but is really the centre of this film, it is the focus. I do not want to over simplify the film, by simply calling it Kubrick doing Bond, or Gondry on a huge budget, because I am sure it will be called that but it is far more than that, it is something I do not think Kubrick could have ever made. It is pure Nolan, and pure greatness.I hate writing something which is pure fan-boy gushing, but its really difficult here. I did not find a thing I did not like about it, I am sure if maybe I saw it a second time, maybe I would find something about it I didn't like, but not the first time. The way it is cut, means that there is always action on screen, if not, then the visuals are interesting enough to keep your eyes glued.The final hour of the film, is possibly one of the most complicated action sequences put on film. You have to constantly be paying attention to remember all of the layers of what is happening. Without spoiling anything, all I have to say is that is what this film is about, that is what makes this film so great, layers. Once you have seen this you will now what I am talking about.All of the actors are fantastic too, Di Caprio is the stand out here. Yes, this is probably due to the fact he is the star and given all of the emotional weight, but he handles it perfectly, similarly to his performance in Shutter Island. Ellen Page, whom I usually hate, gives a great performance here. Tom Hardy gives a break out performance here, he is quite the bad ass.I hope audiences are ready for a film like this, a pure auteur driven film which does not sacrifice a single frame for the studio. I would hope this film will change Hollywood, as it is 100 percent the directors vision yet it is definitely a marketable film, much like District 9, yet I do not think it will. I cannot recommend this film anymore than I have, I just have to say everyone and anyone should see it. Sorry about all the gushing, it is just so hard not too.If you liked this review check out my new film blog: http://thedeletedscene.wordpress.com


                
I had the privilege of seeing this movie before it came out, and, like most of DiCaprio's films, it blew me away.Inception is a well-made movie, filmed in about 6 locations all over the world. The directing was outstanding, there were only about two moments, maybe three seconds in total, where i noticed that visual effects were being used (of course defying gravity is pretty difficult). The plot was very pleasingly intricate, with a twist-and-turn, keep-you-on-the-edge-of-your-seat type feel. I noticed that this film had similarities with DiCaprios thriller Shutter Island (which i also enjoyed very much)seeing as it left you wondering what was real and what was not. It's great to see a movie with a thick and emotional plot and not just grenade-throwing action heroes who achieve greatness in the end.Inception also has a very well-composed score, which to me was the finishing touch to a perfect movie. If you're thinking about seeing Inception, definitely go! Even though i was fortunate enough to see a free show, it is worth every penny you pay. Truly unique, like nothing i've ever seen before. Christopher Nolan certainly covered new ground with this film and wasn't afraid to leave us hanging with a spectacular ending.


                
What do we ask for in a summer blockbuster? What is it that incites hysteria this time every year for whatever dross the studios churn out? Epic hugeness? Blowing stuff up? Romance? Action? Heroes? What are we looking for in a blockbuster? I think it all boils down to thrills! Audiences want the thrill of a car chase, the thrill of romance, the thrill of the spectacular! If that is the case, then Inception just might be the greatest summer blockbuster of all time as it also contains something we often don't look for...brains! "What is the most resilient parasite? An idea" says Leonardo Di Caprio's character Cobb. Well, Inception is all about ideas. It's all right there in the title. The film central idea revolves around "Extractors", who are paid to extract secrets from people's subconscious minds by sneaking into their dreams, usually for the purpose of corporate espionage. However, when one client asks them to plant an idea in the mind of their corporate rival, "Inception" is born. The less said about this film the better. It is full of ideas and invention and for each set piece I divulge, a piece of the film's genius is weakened. This is a film that cleverly and intricately brings the audience through several planes of existence simultaneously but never allows the viewer to feel lost. Such is the power of Christopher Nolan's script which, I imagine, is likely to get overlooked due to the sheer visual magnificence of his direction. But everything that makes this film so great is in the script...in the ideas! Everything else is just spectacle. This film bears an uncanny resemblance, thematically, with DiCaprio's other instant classic this year, Shutter Island. Both films investigate in depth the tricks a traumatised mind can play on the individual. Both films are luscious to watch and both films keep the audience firmly outside the realm of reality. However, Inception is an even more layered film than Shutter Island and I believe the sci-fi genre setting will prove to be less alienating for audiences than the prison noir of Scorsese's film. There is not a single dull moment in Nolan's film. There is style, charm and intelligence in every frame of the film. Every performance is pitch-perfect with some strong support by Ellen Page and Joseph Gordon-Levitt particularly who have grown up right before our eyes into undeniable movie stars. Leonardo DiCaprio gives a typically flawless performance as the muddled, grieving man who we never quite trust to be living in the real world. The best part of Inception is the large amount of effects which were done in camera. While the film does make use of CGI, there are some pretty mind-blowing practical effects which are as simple as the camera telling beautiful lies; a rare treat these days. This is a blockbuster that ticks all the boxes; smart, sexy (femme fatale, sexy brainy girl, very beautiful men in very beautiful suits) and magical. Inception is the kind of film that reminds me why cinema will never die. Because anyone who thinks it's OK to watch this film on a laptop or iPad is a fool! This is pure cinema, and proud of it. Not to be missed on the big screen!
Many of us, not least those who populate the online world with movie reviews, observations and criticisms, are aware of Chris Nolan's raw talent. Memento broke onto the screen a decade ago and provided us with a spectacle in story telling so rare that it dumbfounded us. Since then, Nolan has gained huge popularity with his revival of the Batman franchise, and even more so with the stunning Dark Knight - that still has yet to relinquish its grip on modern day cinema - with the genius of The Prestige sandwiched in between.None of this, however, could have quite prepared us for the spectacle that is INCEPTION. A script that has been worked on for over a decade, Nolan's endeavours are inescapable in its pure complexity and brilliance - quite simply, one of the best film story lines audiences will have encountered in their lifetime. All this is supplemented superbly by the film's ensemble cast - DiCaprio's performance cannot easily be done justice without seeing it. With this and Shutter Island, now must be the time for his first Oscar - he has asserted his place as truly one of the best actors currently working. All reviews will confirm that Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Tom Hardy and Ellen Page back his performance up superbly with well-worked turns. Inception's action sequences play out wonderfully, being - along with the comic relief and back-stories - an integral part of the film's unravelling, whilst we remain rooted to the film's emotional stakes, which give immense purpose to the film's complex and layered narrative.Our protagonist battles with both outer and inner demons in his quest for redemption. The unique concept of entering dreams offers the opportunity not only for a unique species of heist but also a way to dig deeper and deeper into one's subconscious, and the ability to plant an idea which could define that person, or destroy them. In theaters around the world, Nolan uses his dynamic skill to plant an idea in our minds which together allows us to experience the very dream- share the film explores, one which will remain with us long after the film's emotional climax. Inception is a cinema experience so audacious, so incredible, and in the end so gratifying, that it truly is unmissable, and will remain a benchmark for many filmmakers in years to come.10/10.
Fui ver este filme ao cinema baseando-me na classificação aqui atribuída(para o filme ocupar a terceira posição tinha que ser um bom filme), confesso que estava um pouco receoso pois a história parecia-me demasiado complexa e sem muita acção, um pouco ao género de Memento também realizado por este soberbo senhor(Christopher Nolan), sim é verdade que não achei Memento um grande filme. Não podia estar mais errado, este é sem dúvida um dos melhores filmes que já vi, a par de "Gran Torino" e "Godfather Part.I". Sim é verdade que é um filme um pouco complexo, mas é essa complexidade minuciosamente estudada e soberbamente realizada que torna o filme num grande "clássico" e futuramente relembrado como o melhor argumento original jamais escrito.Quero também saudar a prestação do elenco, de três em particular: Di Caprio não me surpreendeu pois fez o que sabe fazer como ninguém, Gordon-Levitt teve uma prestação à altura daquela que teve em "(500)Days of Summer", e Ellen Page conseguiu finalmente consagrar-se num grande filme confirmando o seu grande potencial. O resto do elenco está também de parabéns.Aconselho todo o mundo a ver este filme, mesmo aquelas pessoas que não gostam de ficção científica, pois este filme é único, e por favor não tirem os olhos do ecrã, pois cada pormenor é importante.


                
I have been reading nothing but good reviews on Inception these past few weeks, now I knew from the minute I saw the trailer, I had to see this movie but I didn't know what to expect. If you have seen the trailer to this movie, you know that it doesn't explain too much. But I saw Inception today and all I can say is: Wow! With an incredible cast and amazing director, you just can't go wrong. Inception is a movie that not only makes you think but can start a whole conversation with what you just saw on the screen. It's a very clever story that is told with skill and passion, while you do have to pay attention, I loved that it made me think. One of my friends saw a premiere and told me how he would have to see it again to understand it, but I didn't get that when I saw it today. But I would love to see the movie again, I have no problem with that. Between the performances, the story, the sounds, the editing and the incredible effects, I would love to watch this movie over and over again, it's my favorite film of the year so far.Dom Cobb is a skilled thief, the absolute best in the dangerous art of extraction, stealing valuable secrets from deep within the subconscious during the dream state, when the mind is at its most vulnerable. Cobbs rare ability has made him a coveted player in this treacherous new world of corporate espionage, but it has also made him an international fugitive and cost him everything he has ever loved. Now Cobb is being offered a chance at redemption. One last job could give him his life back but only if he can accomplish the impossible inception. He gathers a group of thieves that will pull this incredible mission off, teaching new comer, Ariadne their amazing world and how to alter it to their liking, but if gone too deep into making the dream into something strange, they could get lost and play limbo between reality and dreams. Even after all the lessons, instead of the perfect heist, Cobb and his team of specialists have to pull off the reverse: their task is not to steal an idea but to plant one.To write a dream is a riddle, I love the way this movie was written. Christopher Nolan is one of my new favorite directors, he knows exactly how to write and tell a story. The only small flaw, this is a very small complaint, is that his stories while they're incredible, can also be a bit exhausting. This film is a bit long to warn you in advance, it's a little over two and a half hours long. I felt like there were a couple of things with the story that could have been trimmed, but like I said it's such a small complaint because Inception intrigued me so much. To say that this film will be a contender for the Oscars is pretty much a guarantee with the sound, script, editing and effects. Hopefully I think it might be a runner up for best picture.One of the things I hate to do in a review is brag about a movie because I don't want others to get over hyped with the film and to be disappointed when they see it. But honestly, I don't think there isn't one person I wouldn't recommend this movie too. Inception has some of the most incredible effects mixing The Matrix and The Dark Knight, I think the "Zero Gravity" fight scene is one of the most amazing moments I've seen on the big screen. I loved how the story kept you thinking and going, guessing what would happen next and what was going on. A dream within a dream within a dream, you even begin to question with the characters what is a dream and what is reality. With a great cast and excellent director, Inception is everything I wanted and more, once again, Nolan created a masterpiece. Something from his own mind, Inception questions yours' and makes you wonder which world you are part of.10/10
When i see any upcoming NOLAN films, i cannot hold my nerves together...Starting from the sheer brilliance of MEMENTO,THE PRESTIGE,THE DARK KNIGHT n all perhaps he is the most talented and thought innovative director in Hollywood..In other words, unless u see a NOLAN film till the climax , u cant't predict it's ending n that's what i like about him...He simply keeps puzzling the past and the present in perhaps the most thoughtful way... Coming 2 the film, its another gem of a work by Di Caprio after SHUTTER ISLAND...N wen u have casting like MICHAEL CAINE,ELLEN PAGE,Joseph GORDON- LEVITT etc its surely a must watch..I can assure u that u cant't even leave a single second while watching the film..It's a sci-fi,thriller directed by NOLAN..That says it all... Afterall "YOUR MIND IS THE SCENE OF THE CRIME"... Frankly speaking a must watch movie without any doubt....


                
This review is not so much a review but rather an attempt to understand the threads of the movie. It is by no means authoritative and all encompassing.The movie lays out many clues for the viewer. Particularly the notion that an "idea" is the most insidious infection. Once an idea has taken root only death can provide a release. Furthermore, some people's realities eventually become a state of constant dreaming. Thus, it is possible for someone to constantly require to dream in order to maintain their grasp on reality.The next premise that we are introduced to is the notion that "ideas" can be taken from the mind. From that we are introduced to the notion of "inception," or the planting of an idea in the mind. The reason that inception is so difficult is because every idea that the mind has can be traced back to the source. So for most of us, ideas in our head can be traced to someone or something (a speech, a book, a movie...). Powerful ideas are self-created ideas, they can change the world (the movie explores this quite nicely).The movie takes place in the dream world and in reality. At the end of the movie it seems that Cobb is still in the dream world. But how can that be, he is reunited with his children? My thoughts: 1) We know that Cobb and his wife Mal had managed to get stuck in the final phase of dreaming--pure subconscious. It was in this place that they built a life together of reconstructed memories. Unfortunately over time Cobb had enough and wanted out. Mal did not believe that they were living in a lie.2) Cobb, in order to get Mal to get out, had to plant the idea in her head that she was dreaming and that this reality was not real. He manages to do so successfully.3) In the real world Mal commits suicide because of the idea Cobb planted. He cannot forgive himself.4) The fact that Cobb feels so much guilt about what he did IS THE CENTRAL CRUX OF THE MOVIE. It is this guilt that does not allow him to "see" his children until he forgives himself.5) The movie also introduces us to the concept of paradox, the infinite loop that can be closed etc. This is a crucial step to understand because what Cobb ultimately seeks to accomplish is a paradox.6) The movie is truly about Cobb planting an idea in his own head but not tracing it back to himself. He needs to believe that he can forgive himself but not know that he initiated it.7) Throughout most of the movie, all the characters are PROJECTIONS of his subconscious. Ariadne is perhaps one of the most important projections because through her, he is being guided to his inception seemingly by someone else. She is a manifestation of his subconscious who is in essence helping him realize what he must do. In Greek mythology Ariadne is the Mistress of the Labyrinth, a subtle clue by Nolan.8) The idea requiring inception, is that "he can return home" to his children. The idea is simple but in order to introduce it Cobb needs to CREATE THE MOST COMPLEX world possible. This is done through the multiple dreams and multiple cast members who are ultimately projections. For evidence that it is a created world, keep in mind the numbers used throughout the last acts. Those numbers appear on the ticket that Cobb is holding. Those numbers may have special significance to Cobb, (perhaps the hotel where his wife committed suicide, the ages of his children, etc).9) When Mal attacks Cobb with a knife Ariadne shoots her. After which, Cobb let's go of Mal as a memory. Memories are dangerous because they call attention to the dream. By getting rid of Mal Cobb rids himself of evidence that he is dreaming.10) When Saito makes the phone call and allows Cobb back in the U.S., it is done because Cobb can believe that someone else has taken away the restriction. It was crucial for that to be there even though Cobb at any point could have seen his children.11) The spinning top does wobble a little bit when Cobb leaves the room. This lends some credibility to the thought that it is "reality," however we do not see the top fall indicating that the whole thing may still be a dream. This seems to be a paradox, Cobb believes this is reality (top wobbles), but this is a dream (top never spins out). Can something be real to someone but still be a dream? Another paradox is discussed next.12) The movie itself reveals itself to be a paradox because Cobb's character plants an idea in his own head and then must disguise it. It means that over time Cobb figured out a way out from his guilt, it was a spontaneous idea (and quite brilliant). The problem is that he can still trace the idea back to himself. That would mean the guilt would still be there. Thus, the paradox is seemingly unsettled. How can one plant an idea in one's own head without realizing that you planted it there? 13) With respect to the ending/beginning on the beach. Keep in mind, Cobb's children appear but with backs to him on the same beach as his. It is the subconscious world. For proof that this is his dream, ask yourself "how did he get from Mal's house to Saito's?" Cobb just appeared. He "needs" to get Saito to leave because only then can he "see his children." Also the room where Saito is in is built from memory. Cobb admitted that he has a tendency to do this.Nolan has indeed incepted our minds. Thank you for reading and reviewing.
"The mind is like an iceberg, it floats with one-seventh of its bulk above water." -Sigmund Freud Christopher Nolan's "Inception" plays very much like its subject matter described so aptly above by Freud. On your first viewing, you will quite possibly only grasp just a fraction of its complexity, but the brilliance of what this reviewer proclaims as Nolan's masterpiece lies in how engaging it is- even though you cannot quite fully comprehend what Nolan is trying to say. Indeed, it may take multiple viewings for one to absorb completely his audacious new creation that dares to tackle as dense and intricate a subject as that of dreams.It isn't easy to understand the nature of dreams, particularly because they seem to defy logic. The same can probably be said of some of the elements in "Inception", but in order for one to understand what dreams really are, one has to first accept that they are not part of the conscious mind, and therefore cannot be understood by rationality. Freud proposed that the rational mind is just that one-seventh of the iceberg that we see, and the rest of the mind is made up of the preconscious and the unconscious. Freud also believed that dreams were the road to the unconscious and existed in the preconscious, a state between the conscious and the unconscious mind.It is in this context that Nolan invites his audience to approach "Inception". Here, Nolan imagines a world of corporate espionage where a thief enters a person's mind during his dreams to steal ideas. This process he terms "extraction", done by a team of people who design the architecture of the dreams, plant several people including the subject into the dream, forge identities within the dream and then proceed to steal the idea from the subject. Leonardo DiCaprio is the master thief of them all, Dom Cobb, and Joseph Gordon-Levitt his long-time right-hand man Arthur.But this latest mission is different- a tycoon Saito (Ken Watanabe) wants him to plant an idea (so termed inception) within a rival's (Cillian Murphy) mind in order that he will break up his ailing father's business empire after he takes over. Cobb agrees to this dangerous mission- a fugitive wanted for the murder of his wife, Saito promises that if Cobb succeeds, he will wipe Cobb's slate clean so he is allowed to return to the United States to see his children. So Cobb begins assembling his team- the architect Ariadne (Ellen Page), the forger Earnes (Tom Hardy) and the chemist Yusuf (Dileep Rao)- think of it like a heist, only much more complicated.As Cobb explains the rules of the game to his team while preparing for their mission, Nolan is too establishing the rules of his game to his audience- what it means to die in a dream, why one can feel pain even when you're in a dream, the significance of the people you see in your dream, the difference between dream time and real time. Not to spoil the experience to you- but suffice to say that there are many many such rules that Nolan plays by in his movie. Those who have had some experience in the study of dreams will likely grasp this more quickly, but those who have not may take more time to accept the logic and regulations behind Nolan's world- hence the multiple viewings.Regardless, there is no doubt that it is engrossingly intriguing. All this takes place in the first half of the movie, which sets the stage for the inception itself in the latter half, an ingenious conceit set within a world of layered dreams that defies any description. Nolan uses the interconnectedness of these elaborate dream layers to intercut several breathtaking action spectacles - the storming of a vault within the Arctic within a zero-gravity fight along a hotel corridor within a high-speed vehicular freeway chase. Each of these would be thrilling in their own right, but with Nolan's vision, Wally Pfister's expansive photography and Lee Smith's fine editing, the simultaneous unfolding of these set-pieces is utterly riveting.Besides grand action, Nolan also delivers heart-wringing moments courtesy of Cobb's troubled past with his late wife, Mal (Marion Cotillard), who threatens to wreak havoc on his missions by surfacing from his unconscious in the most inopportune manner. We're kept in the dark most of the time, believing that Mal is an insidious presence Cobb is unable to eradicate, but Nolan's reveal towards the end of the film that puts into perspective Cobb's unresolved guilt delivers an emotional finish that will leave you floored.As with his previous movies, Nolan displays a knack for choosing actors who can best embody the characters in his films. While DiCaprio's role here may be reminiscent of that in his earlier Shutter Island, there's no question that he anchors the movie with a perfectly calibrated performance that is equal parts intense and heartfelt. The rest of the supporting characters fill out their roles just as vividly- Joseph Gordon-Levitt radiates confidence and suavity, Ellen Page displays suitable wit and grit, and in particular Marion Cotillard exudes both sultriness and danger in an edgy yet eventually heartbreaking performance.But "Inception" is Nolan's vision through and through- and in fact, a visionary director and a master filmmaker at that. Many years Nolan spent refining his screenplay, and it shows in the great detail and complexity that makes "Inception" both an intellectual and visceral enjoyment- just take the names of the various characters, each of which have a special significance. With "Inception", Nolan invites you to open your mind to possibilities- possibilities of alternate realities, of complexities beyond the conscious mind to grasp and most importantly, of the power of imagination. It is that rare gem of a film that is so multi-layered, so profound and so fascinating that you'll want to experience it again immediately after you've seen it- just so you can fully appreciate its genius.


                
There is no way "Inception" will be a bad movie because it was directed by Christopher Nolan. There are many words to describe this movie and those are: mind-bending, imaginative, exciting, overwhelming, entertaining, and awesome. "Inception" might be the only movie this summer that has an original concept."Inception" is very unique and it is fresh to everybody. The visuals were overwhelming. The action scenes are awesome. The CGI effects were realistic and eye candy. The story is interesting and mind-bending.The performances were great. Leonardo DiCaprio is still a great actor. Tom Hardy and Ken Watanabe are one of the best parts of the movie. Cillian Murphy is disappointing though. Joseph Gordon-Levitt's performance is flawless."Inception" is mind-bending and non-stop entertaining. Once again Christopher Nolan made another successful blockbuster. "Inception" might be the best movie of the year.


                
I am not the first to claim this, I read that on a Prestige or Batman Begins board. But now I am in complete agreement with the one who said it. Inception can arguably be Nolan's best work yet, improving upon the juggernaut which was The Dark Knight. But before I comment on Inception, I want to review Nolan's work first, shedding light on the true genius he is. It all started with a short called Doodlebug. I won't spoil anything, because the film is about three minutes long, but Nolan starts one of his trademarks: the twist. I don't have a link but I know it is online and a few searches should yield a result of the short. If you like Nolan and his work, check it out. The next was Following, an ultra low budget film (around $6000), about a young man who follows people just to see what they do and where they are going. He also meets a character named Cobb... interesting name. It features Nolan's next genius trademark--the use of non-linear storytelling. Overall a nice low budget film worth spending an hour and ten minutes on. I recommend it. Now on to the complete mind f**k that was Memento. It is this film that Nolan perfects his non-linear storytelling. Shown in almost complete reverse, Memento follows a man named Leonard with a rare condition in which he cannot form new memories. We learn early on he only lives for revenge. HIGHLY recommend if you have not seen it yet. It really sets the standard for non-linear storytelling. Insomnia was Nolan's third full length film, and yet manages to add something else: an all-star cast. It features Academy Award winners Robin Williams, Hilary Swank, and finally, one of the best actors of his generation (maybe ever), Al Pacino. Pacino plays Detective Will Dormer sent to Alaska to investigate a murder. Again, plot twists and non-linear structure are used in this film. It is my least favorite of Nolan's films, but that doesn't take away anything from it. It is still very good.Now to the film that put Nolan on the map: Batman Begins. The Batman franchise was all but dead in the water until Nolan got his hands on it. Now it sets the standards for super-hero movies. Non-linear storytelling, a great cast, and plot twists are all perfectly placed in this. I personally view it as the second best super-hero movie ever made, and is, in my opinion, a great movie altogether. To break up the Batman films, Nolan did a little movie called The Prestige. Telling the story of two magicians, they are first friends, then become rivals, then end up as enemies. Starring Christian Bale and Hugh Jackman and Michael Caine, another all-star cast is present. The non-linear structure in this movie is genius, so be prepared to think a little bit. Overall a great film and one of my favorites. Now for the one everyone knows. I cannot say enough about The Dark Knight. One thing I can say is it was the first movie to exceed my expectations when they were that high. Heath Ledger's joker is my favorite character ever portrayed on screen, and will be for some time. His Academy Award is well deserved. His passing is such a shame. And although The Dark Knight did not get the Best Picture nomination, or win, it certainly had effects on the Academy. By public outrage, the 2009 Academy Awards featured ten Best Picture Nominations instead of the usual five. Without The Dark Knight, movies like Inglourious Basterds, District 9, and yes, Avatar would have never come close to being nominated. It was definitely the best film of 2008, the best superhero movie ever made, and my favorite movie ever. Until about forty-five minutes ago. That's when Inception ended and I sat staring at the credits to what I had just witnessed. I am still thinking about how the movie ended and it's safe to say I will be watching it at least two more times on the big screen. It surpasses The Dark Knight in terms of how big it is by a long shot. The acting was stellar by everyone, especially Leonardo DiCaprio. It's a bit early, but I think a Best Actor Nomination should be in order. Also another trademark of Nolan, the casting of Michael Caine. It's the fourth consecutive film to feature him. Now on to the best aspect of this film, the storytelling. Again, the non-linear structure is used, and is as perfect as it gets. Every shot has meaning. All the dialog by the characters is relevant. Some may complain it is lengthy, but if anything was cut, things would start to be confusing. I could write page after page about how good the story was, but you have to see it to truly experience it. The tag line 'Your mind is the scene of the crime' is all you should really know going into this movie. I personally avoided (painfully, i might add) every trailer, synopsis, and review i could of Inception before I saw it.This movie is not for everyone however. It is not a late night, brainless action movie like Crank or 2012. It requires the audience to have smart brain-think. So on a scale of 1-10, Inception is about a 12. This, without question, the best movie of the year. If The Academy snubs Nolan out of this Oscar, I think I might kill someone. He should have the Best Director award in the bag. However, to truly enjoy it, you have to pay attention. It's complex, but never confusing. If you enjoy a great thriller that is anything but straightforward, this is the movie for you. And be prepared to use your mind. =] And that's all I got. 10/10


                
A Movie that contains everything needed to be a Masterpiece. With Great acting from every actor in it, this movie is a have to see thriller.This PG-13 movie will make your mind question it's self. Everyone must see this movie!!! and how Brilliant it really truly is...the Action keeps the heart pumping, while the little settle ideas, keeps you thinking...From beginning to end.. no one will see the end coming.. the music complemented the acting, the area of complexion that this movie carries..everything a movie should have.. is in this one "Inception"
Inception has the capacity to blow you away.Just like the classics of decades gone by,namely The Godfather movies and movies by the likes of Scorcese and Scott, this movie is the classic of our generation and Nolan truly deserves his place among the elite.The movie has a scintillating pace throughout and the premise despite being far-fetched has a believable quality to it thanks to some amazing performances and intelligent direction.The viewer is immediately thrown into Nolan's world of corporate espionage and extraction of "ideas".The editing is magnificent as the audience is often subjected to following multiple narratives without losing connection with the plot.There is a lot of craft involved in revealing just about enough at just the right time to keep you on the edge.Once the movie pushes into the triple-dream-layer sequence one cannot help but gape in astonishment at how mind boggling special-effects are seamlessly combined with the intricacies of the plot.The climax,quite simply, takes your breath away just like the climaxes of earlier Nolan films like "Following" and "The Dark Knight".The performances are commendable and one wonders how Nolan always seems to get his casting perfectly apt.Leonardo DiCaprio has evolved so much from the days of "Titanic".His role,though similar to the one he played in "Shutter Island", evokes sympathy for the man whose inner guilt poses the greatest hazard to the mission.Its a balanced performance and his scenes with Marion Cotillard are terrific.Joseph Gordon-Levitt is a pleasant surprise turning in a very neat job with his portrayal of Arthur.Ken Watanabe is quite classy and exudes panache throughout.Tom Hardy and Ellen Page play their parts well.But the one to look out for is Cillian Murphy.In his role of an heir to a billionaire oil tycoon,he excels in bringing out the torment and angst associated with living in the shadow of his father.Michael Caine though, is a bit underused and one always yearns to see more of him.Hanz Zimmer has once again emerged with a winning score which completely takes over the movie in the final few minutes and pushes the climax a few notches higher.The undertone is a tad similar to the one used in "Shutter Island" but one enjoys the ominous music as it lends a certain gravity to the overall mood.All in all, if you watch it once,you will watch it again.And then again.And again.Because each viewing offers something new.Something extra.When I saw "The Dark Knight", I said to myself that Nolan has truly reached his pinnacle and that this here is his masterpiece.Its a pity that I did not check my totem then.I must have been dreaming!
Dom Cobb (Leonardo DiCaprio) is a skilled thief, the absolute best in the dangerous art of extraction, stealing valuable secrets from deep within the subconscious during the dream state when the mind is at its most vulnerable. Cobb's rare ability has made him a coveted player in this treacherous new world of corporate espionage, but it has also made him an international fugitive and cost him everything he has ever loved.Now Cobb is being offered a chance at redemption. One last job could give him his life back but only if he can accomplish the impossible—inception. Instead of the perfect heist, Cobb and his team of specialists have to pull off the reverse: their task is not to steal an idea but to plant one. If they succeed, it could be the perfect crime. But no amount of careful planning or expertise can prepare the team for the dangerous enemy that seems to predict their every move. An enemy that only Cobb could have seen coming Inception 10/10


                
I had the honor of seeing a pre-screening of this film tonight in Dallas. Now, I have seen lots of movies in my time, but this movie is by far...excellent. I am simply amazed at Christopher Nolan for blessing us with this film...i truly am.The trailers can only give you so much and I'm so glad they don't go too much in depth with the plot. You are literally drawn into the movie.Acting=10, Cinematography=10, Story/Plot=10, Mind Stimulation=10+ I cannot wait to read more reviews on this film. It was well worth 2+ hours and I am positive that I will be seeing it AGAIN later this week when it opens in theaters.GO SEE IT.


                
I got the opportunity to see this movie a week in advance :). Let me just say it is no disappointment in every witch way! As most of Leonardo's movies are good this one is even better! it will blow your mind, so yes i recommend everyone should see it even if you like Leo's work you will still enjoy this movie. Moments in the film keep you at the edge of your seat waiting to find out what happens next. I fell in love with this movie because of its originality and the imagination that took in to realizing this movie, Christopher Nolan has yet again made another great movie. All the cast members did an amazing job with Inception. Thank you for making this movie, I'm sure i will see it plenty more times!


                
Only a small handful of directors have the ability to make an audience wait on pins and needles for their next NON sequel release. For me, i cannot remember the last time i was this excited for a movie i know virtually nothing about. Now i know i may be speaking on my own here, but director Christopher Nolan very well may be the best director of our generation. Because the guy has not missed so far. "Memento", "The Prestige", The Batman Series......the guy is a loose cannon who fires nothing but cinematic gold. As time goes on, he only seems to get better and better. Hopefully he can continue the re-occurring trend.Okay, let me get this off my chest, because it feels like an alien ready to burst out of my chest........this is easily one of the 10 best movies i have ever seen in my entire life. And that is not because i built this up in my mind or bought into the hype generated around this film, because everything i thought this movie was going to be, fell short of what it actually was about 20 minutes into it. This movie is cinematic genius at it's best, plain and simple. We have been due for a movie like this for a loooonnngggg time. And i don't mean this year, or the recent string of poor movies that have been released......i mean we are due for a movie that actually changes the way we look at movies. Now i know one would be quick to say "Well wait a minute, Avatar already did that.". But that is where you would be wrong. James Cameron gave us a feast with "Avatar". This movie cooks you an entire Thanksgiving dinner.I could honestly sit here and try as hard as i could to try and describe the movie to you, and it wouldn't make a lick of sense because the movie is beyond in-depth. Case in point.....you remember the first time you saw the first "Matrix", and how complex and deep the plot was. Well, in words, this movie makes that idea look like "Kindergarden Cop". No disrespect to "The Matrix" at all, but this movie is probably the most in-depth, detailed, complex, and entertaining movie ever created by man.And that's all Nolan seems to do. He creates these scripts that almost take a life of their own. You get a glimpse of it in "Memento", and you certainly see it in action with "The Prestige"......how the actual plot outline and story, is the actual trick. In this movie, it deals with mazes, and in turn, the whole movie is like a giant maze that you try and figure out.But that's where Nolan's true genius comes in. Through out the entire picture, he gives you these little clues as to whats going on, like a puzzle, and he shows you how they all get put together, rather than putting it together for you. He leaves it up to the audience to do so. And that's what makes this movie great, because he challenges the audience like no other movie i have ever seen.And speaking of things i have never seen. In order for a movie written this well to work, it must be shot in the same fashion. And Nolan, once again, out does himself. If you are a fan of cinematography, as i am as well, then this movie, literally, is your wet dream. Talking about these elaborate dream sequences is one thing, but seeing them in action is beyond anything you have ever seen on the silver screen. Throughout the entire film, i kept taking a napkin to my face to wipe the clumps of drool that were collecting at the bottom of my jaw.Bottom Line, this is a movie i could write a novel about, and it certainly deserves that attention. To pretty much sum it up, if you want to see the movie that is going to win best picture of the year, go and see this movie. If you want to see one of the best movies in the past 10 years, go and see this movie. If you want to see a movie that will pretty much change your method of thinking, then go and see this movie. God only knows how many movies i have seen in my lifetime, but i can say with complete just, that this is certainly one of the 10 best i have EVER seen.


                
When I watch a movie, all sorts of machinery kicks in. I am aware of only some of that, and can massage and train only a bit of that — of what I see of myself.This machinery is based on layers, folding, recursion. It is just how the mind works, this business of seeing self. Some art — I would argue all — fits into this equation in some way: surfing, deflating, revealing some part of the flow. The most exciting to me are those that expose the machinery itself, the folding dynamics. Oh, I have no illusion that this or any simple equation is "the answer," but it seems that we do live in movies, our life is the movie we make. If we want valuable art, it will be art that reminds us of that fact: a movie that is powerful enough to let us know the limits of its power.Nolan will get credit for making an entertaining artifact. The intelligence — no simply the complexity — of the story makes us invest. It is why folding works with the marketplace: it increases the entanglement we make with the story. Then Nolan can drag in cinematic effects that otherwise would be ordinary: bombs, gunfights, carchases... and we see them as extraordinary because of the perceptive entanglement.This works as well for our relationship with the actor. in interviews, Leonardo is talking openly about what first level actors know: that you deliver the character, but you also deliver a folded presentation having to do with the knowledge the actor and viewer share about the whole process. How does one play a character that is a character within? How do you project an awareness of withinness?As with "Following" and "Memento," it isn't just about the layers; it is about how they affect one another and how they include the folds of the presentation as a film, and as we live.I would like to remark on only one aspect of how Nolan put this together: space. We have all sorts of life values represented here. We have the noir detective, the pilgrimage to family, the deceiver, the drivers... all with designated characters. In there we have the architect. She is the fourth that we know. The first is the father, played by Michael Caine. He is a master professor of some stripe — we don't really know. What we do know is Caine's face, one of the most familiar in film. Nolan knows him as Bruce Wayne's caretaker, the keeper of the enabling space for Batman (including the space carried in the costume-cape).His son, Leonardo's character, has taken his dad's empire of the mind and broken it down for use in layers. The other father here is a surrogate for Cobb's. Cobb is presumed to be the master architect, but is hampered, so he has to seek others. One we see briefly at the beginning, someone who fails. The one of interest to us is recommended by the Dad as superior to Cobb. Enter Ariadne, the goddess of the labyrinth, what in the business is called a four, a reality savant.She is the designer and guide of everything we see, everything. She is the magi, the creator; everything we see is something she made, even the illusion Cobb, has that in an inner dream he made something and lived in it for decades. Even, even the possible illusion that he returns. Even the more ambiguous architecture of lives that Cobb believes he experienced — a lifetime with his wife.There is one scene where this is not so — where the world is not Ariadne's, and for me it is the key scene. I hold it as the anchor around which I build everything.Our actual romance (Cobb and Ariadne) are in their first shared space— her first dream experience. This is Cobb's dream, his architecture. They are sitting outside by a Paris cafe, one of filmdoms most seductive places. (It seems to quote "Irma la Douce" in more ways than one, but certainly in the set.) He is seducing her into helping him build an inner world — risky, more engaging than anything can be. It is for the purpose of regaining his children (as he settles with his father) and incidentally saving the world from energy tyranny. He is grizzled, worn out from past wars of the mind. He has just suffered a defeat because of an inadequate architect. He is at the end of his life; this will be his last job. She is at the beginning of hers. Her face is fresh, her self open, her mind powerful but innocent. He explains that everything she sees is created by him. He then proceeds to create what has to be the best use of cinematic space I know; the environment deconstructs. It doesn't explode so much as is ceases to become boundaries of space and becomes space itself, dense, breathable. It is the most powerful, erotic thing I have experienced on screen; his space penetrates her skin to the core. When they awake, he knows he has her — forever.My believe is that Nolan opened the possibility that Moll was something he and she co- created as part of the labyrinth we go through with them, noir-wise. It is all about the fall, the connection among layers, the penetration into the soul. Nolan drapes a thriller around this, almost as a joke. But this is about seduction, spatial seduction. I imagine Chris with Emma. The question here is where is the idea planted and by whom. You may be fooled.Ted's Evaluation -- 4 of 3: Every cineliterate person should experience this.
Inception is the most powerful work of art created in our time. Nolan is a worthy successor to Freud. It would take a lifetime to describe in words, the heights that it reaches and the depths that it achieves. Cinema is no longer limited by the size of the screen. Inception is augmented reality. 3D without them glasses, Finally!I have never seen a movie like Inception and trust me, neither have you. Memento was only a teaser. Nolan is a master of the mind. Inception is a hypnosis, that creates mind orgasms.I happened to be one of the lucky few to catch a late night preview showing. And boy did I have to struggle for that invite. But things fell into place, and I got in, only to realize that this film isn't about you getting into the theater, to watch it, Inception gets into you. Your mind is really the scene of crime.


                
I just saw inception last night and absolutely loved it. Everything is top-notch. Most of all, like in every Nolan movie, the editing is crisp. There is no room for even a smile. Action is unique and highly entertaining; although make a note there is no adrenaline rush during any action scenes. This is where Nolan's problem lies. We would have experienced that missing adrenaline rush if he had taken some time to develop the supporting characters, in order to make us feel for them. The only characters I felt for is Cobb and Mal. Their love for each other is shown beautifully, I personally have never seen a relationship explored in this unique way. The only reason I can think why Nolan didn't spend time on other characters is because of the plot he had to first explain and then execute. The plot is hard to explain let alone execute, Nolan did a very good job given the short amount of time. At the same time he had to make sure he did not loose the audience in confusion. A job well done. Now, what I really like about this movie, is the IDEA. Nolan has this great idea for a movie about dreams. On the surface the movie is loaded with multiple tense narratives, but in the background he's also exploring how powerful the medium of dream can be. Also at the same time he maintains the through-line of the movie. Not letting anyone forget why we are watching this movie, why we should care the protagonist reaches to a conclusion. Without the strong through-line we would be lost like in dreams. I think the best actor in the movie is Marian Cotillard. She plays her part with such a beauty I just can't describe. Leonardo also convinces us to fall for his motivations and makes us want him to accomplish his mission. Joseph Gordon-Lewitt also plays his part brilliantly, he is very straight forward unlike the earlier mentioned actors. The rest of the actors are just fine. Everyone Needs to see this movie if not because it is the best Sci-Fi movie after Matrix, then for the fact that it is the best movie of the year. If only Nolan can make a movie with this tight narrative and make us fall for the characters at the same time; your heart will stop beating. 10/10


                
