I will try not to repeat some of what others have so brilliantly written in some reviews. I just add this in order to contradict the hype that has allowed this movie to be ranked so high in IMDb. The same has been happening with other movies, and that is a shame for IMDb, which is becoming unreliable.I want to stress the fact that the only complexity in this movie is trying to figure out how you can invest so much money in a script that continuously makes a fool of the average critic intelligent viewer! The story is not complex. It is deliberately confusing in order to conceal its stupidity. Nothing that really matters is explained in the movie.And there's so many embarrassing clichés (the recruiting of the team, the episode in Mombassa, the assault of the ice fortress, many of the action sequences)... the average viewer must be disappointed!And the dreams - which serve as the scenario to most of the movie - are populated by the utmost lack of imagination.Finally, there's the score, louder and louder, building a suspense that is never there, for everything is a dream, and we do not quite catch what there is exactly that can go wrong...Well, all in all, the movie is an insult to the average intelligent viewer and, having been directed by Christopher Nolan, an ultimate disappointment.
It is obvious people do enjoy psychological thrillers, virtual reality, and Leonardo DiCaprio. Inception, having it all, will astonish and marvel crowds of cinema goers into thinking they are smart and profound just for getting or liking the movie. I have to say, I admire the movie's performance into tricking its viewers like that; because that's what it is, a trick. A dream within a dream, and doesn't that sound attractive...It is the kind of movie that gets nominated for Oscar just for its crowd pleasing abilities, and Oscars are born within the capitalist world and needs all the capital it can get. Just like Avatar got nominated in the "best movie" category... I've read some review saying Inception could be the movie of the decade; obviously, the guy didn't see that many movies in the last ten years; there are better movies in 2010 only, and a bunch of them.I'm not saying the movie is bad; it's a good movie for its genre; what I didn't like about it is the fuss it created (and that fuss will disappear like it disappeared before for other crowd adored films), but mostly its lack of authenticity, therefore its PRETENTIOUSNESS.This is not a gem - it is a pile of dust in the eyes.
After reading all the amazing reviews and seeing a score of 9.3...3rd best movie of all time, I had to go watch Inception. Also I really like Memento...it was such a cool, original movie..so I was looking forward to this.I went to see this movie last weekend. It was an 11:00pm showing on Sunday night, 3 weeks after opening night and the theatre was packed! We had to sit in the second row...something I don't mind at all.Epic Fail The movie is about corporate (not even government) spies, that enter people's dreams through some unexplained technology. Once in the dream, they trick the victim into giving up his/her secrets. Pretty simple premise, and one that can be taken into many directions (after all we're in dreamland). Well the direction is down the crapper.The whole premise of the movie is so shallow, Saito, a corporate CEO hires Cobb (Leo) to go into another CEO's dream and plant an idea of breaking up his fathers empire (upon his father's death), so that Saito can have a monopoly. How's that for a story?? What a joke.Well the movie starts slow and drags on and on, besides that there are so many plot holes and explaining of everything that happens..like they manipulate the victim by having a dream, within a dream, within a dream. When you are falling in the first dream, the second layer has no gravity, but the third and forth layer has gravity?? WHAAAA??? Also even though you are in a dream, you have no super powers..you use boring guns? How about shooting lighting bolts out your you know what?? BOOORRING.To add to the boredom, Cobb's wife Mal killed herself because she thought she was dreaming. And appears regularly to bore us to death, you get the sense that she's supposed to be evil, but it never pans out.This was interesting on one level only...there was no antagonist. But then again there was no love interest either, and on top of that no danger, cause if you get killed in a dream, all you do is wake up.This movie is amoral tripe with no imagination..eg. you are in a dream world, instead of driving around in a VAN, why not fly? Instead of shooting guns, why not freeze them in their tracks? Also, there are many people (I assume teenagers) who are saying how original this movie is. The Dream within a Dream thing has been done before...it's called "A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 3: Dream Warriors"..also don't EVER compare this tripe to the "Matrix". Matrix was original, it was filled with clever allegory, it was truly awe inspiring, but there was NOTHING clever about Inceptipon.The climax was okay, but just because after 2 hours I couldn't wait to get out of there.Now the anti-climax, is an entirely different animal, like the viewer hasn't been insulted enough...we are left to ponder weather it was "all a dream" (again not very original). The answer is yes, it was all a dream, and Cobb is still in a dream..his kids look exactly the same, even wearing the same clothes as his other dreams.Please do yourself a favour and do not pay to see this garbage. So far the best movie this summer has been Predators...how sad. People think this movie is clever and original because they are teenagers..it probably is clever and original to them, but any adult will find this movie dull and boring. Inception = Fail IMDb for having Inception in your top 3 movies = EPIC FAIL.If I was the credibility Nazi, I'd say to IMDb "NO CREDIBILITY FOR YOU!"2/10 for exploiting a big budget.
Around 750, the renowned poet of the Tang dynasty, Li Po, is supposed to have asked, "Last night I dreamed I was a butterfly. Today, am I a butterfly dreaming I am a man?" Marcus Aurelius, the late Roman emperor and philosopher, wrote, "Life is a dream, a little more coherent than most." Freud concluded that dreams were the fulfillment of unconscious wishes that had managed to sneak past the dozing censor. Aboriginal Australians believed in a real parallel universe called The Dream Time in which everything and everyone who ever existed, still existed, and anybody could enter this place during sleep.Modern psychology believes that dreams are nothing more than random cortical bombardment caused by a lot of activity in sub-cortical structures associated with the filing of memories, and the cortex goes into overdrive trying to make narrative sense of them. Sex dreams are pleasant enough except when the furry little animals show up, but statistics demonstrate that the majority of dreams are truly lousy, the kind we can easily live without. Don't you get tired of running in slow motion through a swamp while being chased by an ogre? Does all this sound like pointless rambling to you? Well, then you're not going to enjoy "Inception" because it meanders at lightning speed all over the place and lives by no rules that human beings have ever known.On the other hand, if you find these adventitious allusions in some way interesting, then you should see this dark and muddled movie. You get a bonus too, because in its style it closely resembles an action movie from the 1980s. Everything is happening all at once -- or maybe not all at once. Who cares? The point is that people get shot in the forehead and buildings comes toppling down for no reason and slow-motion explosions take place at irregular but short intervals.I'm getting pretty tired of seeing films that use some bewildering metaphysical scheme as an excuse to show off still more CGIs. I couldn't watch this thing through.
Seriously? Mesmerizing? Fantastic? Genius? No.I was pretty excited about this film after all the hype, and I feel massively let down. The plot was overly drawn out and repetitive, and there was an over-reliance on action, with massive portions of the plot being taken up by filler scenes of silly shoot-outs and car chases.Christopher Nolan has given this film a superficial sheen of meaningfulness, with the admittedly astounding visuals covering for a plot so full of holes it's almost falling apart. Why are Dom and Mal shown as having grown old and grey together in limbo when they are also shown laying their head on train lines to escape limbo as 30-somethings? Why does the incessant music come to dominate the film, making every scene feel climactic, which is actually detrimental to the final climax? In a similar manner to the way in which the Wachowski brothers took the brilliant writings of Baudrillard and completely mangled them beyond all meaning in The Matrix, Nolan has taken a great idea and turned it into a teenage boy's shoot-em-up action fantasy. People might watch it and think "Wow, that's really deep". No, it's not. It has the appearance of being deep and meaningful when in fact it's just a shallow action film.I'm sure people will read this review and think "she just doesn't get it". The problem is that I do it get. Unfortunately there's just not a lot to get.
No, not intellectually: there's tons of thought (or at least editing) going on in this film. But there's no characterization, there's no heart (Leo's one anguished cry of "Jesus, noooo!" isn't "heart," it's badly directed overacting), and, worst of all, there's no morality.I'm an ill-tempered, outspoken, foul-mouthed termagant (that by way of explanation for those about to call me a right-winger, a teabagger, or a prude), but when I watched this thing I was dumbstruck not on an intellectual level (oh, golly gee, we're dream-diving! Like in "The Matrix," only inside brains instead of a mainframe! Wow. Uh, sure.) but on a moral one. See, the film has NO PROTAGONIST. It has criminals, it has those who facilitate those criminals' activities, and it has a victim. That's all.And, yes, I had-- and have-- a real (or is that "real"-- see, I'm of the camp that thinks the whole sorry mess took place in Cobb's bigger mess of a head) problem with that.Almost no one (I would have opted for a plain, sweeping "No one," no "almost," but I recall one review among dozens and dozens that hit on what I'm about to say) seems to see anything wrong with the idea that Cobb and his crew are (ostensibly-- pretermitting for the time being the perpetual argument regarding whether the whole sorry scenario is or isn't a dream) performing an act of mental violation on an innocent man. Why is this? The action isn't that impressive (even the infamous hotel-corridor sequence)-- yes, Nolan does "loud" and "in your face" very well, but the Bond films have been doing more breathtaking and cleanly shot action work for four decades now. (I actually laughed out loud when Cobb and Arthur, decked out in pimp-fashion leather coats and stocking masks, shouted threats at kidnapped Robert Fischer in a dream-warehouse-- not, of course, to be confused with a warehouse of dreams (that might invoke imagination): what, you couldn't just have your goons strong-arm a kidnappee in the "real" world, Nolan? This is as creative as you can get?) We can't just proffer "Cobb must see his kids again at any cost!" as an excuse-- or can we? (I would certainly hope not.) Is it because Fischer is a Caucasian businessman, and therefore intrinsically deserving of attack in this economically volatile era? (The argument that Fischer's business rival Saito is somehow bravely trying to prevent Fischer from forming a monopoly is weak at best: that's what anti-monopoly laws are for, and, by agreeing to attack Fischer on Saito's behalf, Cobb is merely enabling Saito to form a monopoly of his own. And, seriously, inception and/or extraction would be ridiculously iffy forms of espionage. Break into the safe inside my skull, Cobb my boy, and enjoy the five hundred verses of "I'm 'Enry the Eighth, I Am" I've got planted there.) Or is it, possibly worst of all, because Cobb and his goons "kindly" leave Fischer with happy thoughts of his coldhearted father? (From monopolies to psychiatry, then: if Robert Fischer has daddy issues, that's what analysts are for. Cobb and his stampeding creeps are in Fischer's mind to commit a crime; any "resolution" they provide him is a byproduct of that crime, and resoundingly, cruelly false.)We might argue that Cobb and his crew are anti-heroes, but they're not. "The Dirty Dozen" are anti-heroes, criminals and psychopaths nonetheless working for the forces of good by fighting an evil greater than themselves (that evil being the nasty Nazis); Dom Cobb is nothing more than a thief (and, despite the ad copy, not a very good one) perpetrating an insidious act of mental rape against an innocent man (and, by extension, all those who rely on that innocent man's business for their livelihoods). Why all the sympathy for this thug and his crew? What's the catch? When children are involved, or when guilt (real or imagined) is in the mix, are we just supposed to chuck morality out the window...? (The last sad thing, I guess: No one on the team, not even newbie Ariadne-- and, granted, she's likely either a figment of Cobb's imagination, like the story as a whole, or a plant-- questions the "right" of what they're doing. Not only does this make me deeply uncomfortable, it's incredibly shallow writing. An opportunity for character development, tossed. But that's classic Nolan, isn't it? If he can't cover it with an iconic grunt-- "She was lovely," Arthur deadpans to Ariadne, when Ariadne asks what nasty dream-shade Mal was like when she was alive (heck, Arthur, she's still, technically, "lovely"; we were looking for maybe just a touch of explanation here regarding her relationship with Cobb and the team, big boy)-- it doesn't get covered.) Or, in the end, are we just supposed to excuse the immorality of the situation by saying, "Ha! It's all a dream anyway!"? Very much bothered by this, especially since this behemoth has gulped down some one billion dollars in box-office take worldwide....... and that's why I'm giving it two stars. Cillian Murphy looks very nice in his natty suits, and he cries very prettily before Nolan realizes that-- horrors!-- someone is emoting on screen, and jerk-cuts away. Marion Cotillard does her best to squeeze dimensionality from yet another one-d Nolan-woman part; as Mal, she's a sad, psychotic, lovely mess. One star for each of them. As for the rest of it: what a pathetic reflection on values, and what a lousy story. Excellent snow-job, Mr. Nolan, but no star for you.
I waited patiently to see this in my updated home theater on Blu-ray with anticipation and excitement, mainly based on the high scores given it by IMDb and the knowledge that it had everything; cast, sound, scenery, story, etc. OK, it looked impressive, it was loud enough, but after 2 ½ hours my jaw was on floor in utter amazement at how stupid people can be praising this trash - lemmings. But maybe it's explainable: The ten star reviews here are from those either involved directly in the marketing of this film or 9 year old boys using their parents credentials to praise an adolescent epic or<U+0085> I suppose idiots who swallow tripe and enjoy making recommendations to others about how yummy their tripe tasted. The latter I almost doubt as the intellectually challenged might have difficulty in forming sentences and operating a computer machine so just who are these thousands of reviewers praising theatrical garbage? It absolutely has to be my first guess; Armies of trolls hired by the makers of Crapception.I can't even get myself to offer my reasons for disliking this film as there's nothing to review but I'll try: The repetitive overlapping of scenes seemed more to me like a demo video testing the CGI production equipment. The complete absence of explanation as to how someone can actually share a dream I feel was the biggest hole, and the hole just got deeper and deeper and more deep and then deeper still resulting in probably the most shallow of scripts ever produced for that much money.I typically like DiCaprio but the Cisco girl; Ellen Page was annoying, felt like I had a bad Juno dream during a TV commercial selling conferencing equipment and a horribly dressed adolescent was trapped in my dream spun mind. OK, that last sentence could have come straight from the writers pen of this horrible script.Not all is lost however, a valuable lesson was learned in how I will now use IMDb. I feel I can no longer rely on the score of films here and will, instead, sort reviews by lowest rank and make my viewing decisions from there. My biggest disappointment is the watering down of what once was a great resource for movie choices: IMDb. Since I'm a movie addict I've relied on IMDb since its inception, pun intended, but with Inception's 8.7 score I now see the source data is tainted and the source unreliable. IMDb might be able to fix this by taking measures to identify the reviewers and allow us to sort by them: Kids, adults, trolls, (multiple reviews from a single IP address for example) OK, maybe it's not that easy, the WEB is fraught with mistruths and deception for insipid products and offerings so why would my favorite web site be immune from this condition? I give this film 2 stars for pretty colors and loud noises.
I could explain the devices that drive the action, but that would take away the jobs of all the archetypes in the film who's job it is to endlessly spout exposition that will explain the nonsensical and unaffecting action you see on the screen.If you think one level of action clichés is enough to rot your brain to a sub-100 IQ level, imagine SEVERAL levels of action clichés, all explained for you in a "hey this isn't very interesting but we've created a world and have to explain it so we can get back to the gunfights in a dreamworld".I'd probably put this down as one of the most empty viewing experiences I've ever had in my 40 years of movie-going. I want my money and 120 minutes (I left early) back.


                
This movie was terrible. It tried to be something ground breaking and emotionally challenging, but fell terribly short on all fronts, starting with the basic premise. I am expected to believe that a group of people smart enough to construct an elaborate plot involving breaking into other people's dreams are not smart enough to reunite a man with his family without getting stopped at customs? That's stupid. Fly to Mexico and walk. Or fly the kids to you. This giant plot hole is unfathomably stupid, as is most of the dialogue in this two and a half hour nightmare. I think my personal favorite line in the movie was when DiCaprio's character told his dream wife that he could not do her justice because he could not remember all of her perfections and all of her imperfections. You can't have both stupid. This movie is probably mindblowingly deep and meaningful if your education stopped in grade school, but if you have a least a GED, don't waste your ten bucks.
This movie is just disappointing and dreadfully bad. People are victims of the marketing campaign: "this movie is complex, intellectual and multi-layered and if you don't understand it then you are stupid". People don't like to be stupid and having seen that it's written, produced and directed by the same guy who did The Dark Knight they don't think anymore and go to see Inception.So, I will show you that Mr. Nolans movie is the opposition of "complex and intelligent": SUPERFICIAL. I have at least 6 arguments:1. The characters are just silhouettes, transparent and shallow. There is no psychological deepness; the protagonists are emotionless objects moved from place to place like chess figures. They don't have any soul. But what marked a movie is his developing of characters. Sure, you try to create something deep with the relationship between DiCaprio and Cotillard but it's just pathetic, amateurish and stereotypic. And then the kids' back that we see so often that it gets on the viewer's nerves.2. The music by Hans Zimmer is a torture. It's so loud and indifferent that your head is ringing at the end. 3. The dramaturgy is completely neglected. One destruction-scene follows the next; one pursuit-scene follows the next! And the end! What a big disaster: it's like in a video game, in an ego-shooter. It's so stupid. Almost propaganda for war.4. Then, Nolan will make this movie "intelligent and complex". Do you know M. Nolan that intellectual and deep does not mean emotionless and a confusing plot? 5. Nolans idea to enter in the dream of somebody else is not so bad but the idea is not exhausted. Dreams are imagination, there are no rules, and they are bizarre and strange (Have you ever seen a film by David Lynch Mr. Nolan? That is like a dream.). So what all the guys with guns are doing there? Why are there always skyscrapers or a military base? That's stupid. There is NO IMAGINATION, your dreams are copies of real life and they are even WORSE than reality. The only good thing is the sequence with the train.6. To select a well actor like Michael Caine for saying two lines is just embarrassing and disrespectful. Mr. Nolan is capable of making great movies (Memento, The Prestige) but this one is very, very poor.Your movie is not "complex, intelligent and deep" but just superficial and an insult for the reasonably carefully viewer.
Everyone has been telling me how this movie is so complex, so confusing. That you really need to pay attention or you'll get lost.I dosed off in the middle and still knew exactly what was happening.This movie is nothing but a cross between The Matix, Dreamscape, Mission Impossible and about 3 other movies and anime films that have been coming out since the mid 1980's. The ending was the most obvious outcome it could be, you already know he doesn't except the dream version of his wife so she would be gone. But the kids<U+0085>getting home to see their faces again, they were the real focus. If you missed that in the beginning then seeing his father-in-law pick him up at the airport should have been the final tip off.Most people I ask about that missed it all; they couldn't even tell which dream was which. I think that's what scares me the most, people think this takes real intelligence to follow.Maybe if your attention deficit<U+0085>Oh wait I am and I still had no trouble following this over rated boring movie.I gave this movie 4 out of 10 stars for special effects only, for story line and acting I give it only 2 stars
The fact that 37,000+ persons voted this silly movie a "10" is either "studio feed" or proof as to why our country has gone to the dogs these past 18 months.The movie lasts 2 1/2 hours but the plot can be told in one sentence: A man seeks to reconcile to the memory of his dead wife. What we get is over two hours of pointless explosions, false and silly action scenes including having a freight train plunge down a city street. There are a few human interactions, but these don't much matter. All this is underlined by the unoriginal use of loud and intense background music (heavy on drums) giving the erroneous impression that something important is happening. Environmentalists (the real ones, not the lefty nit-wits) might be annoyed that Lloyd drops hundreds of millions of tons of collapsed buildings debris into the ocean -- for no better reason than a brat destroying a sand castle.As for the dream scenes: Wes Craven simply owns this with his brilliant "Nightmare on Elm Sreet." Craven obviously had first hand personal torment and he understood nightmares, whereas Christopher Nolan might have never been asleep, for all he knows.The few good points were DeCaprio, Ellen Page, Michael Caine, and a few good international locales.On second thought I doubt there were 37,000 nit-wits who loved this movie. The pattern is familiar. A well-hyped Warner Brothers movie starts getting 10-ratings from the first minute. Studios have been purchasing rave reviews from media critics for decades, surely they's continue doing so and corrupt this website. IMDb has no controls to prevent fraud. There was no trace of enthusiasm among the crowd tonight, just a dazed look of What Was That?
I am fascinated by the range of opinions people have about this film and I am astonished that people have rated it highly. Some people have even suggested this is one of the top 5 films of all time. Bizarre.What Inception really reminded me of was the Emporer's New Clothes. If enough people say something is great a lot of others are likely to be swept along by the idea, frightened to go against popular opinion. Well I'm glad that a lot of people have been honest enough to say that this film is not half as good as the marketing department would have us believe.The latest I heard from the pluggers was the film has to be seen more than once to appreciate it. Ha! Good try guys but I can't imagine anyone being prepared to give this another try.The script made no sense and the characters were unbelievable. Worst of all, I felt no attachment for any of the characters and did not care what happened to them.In my opinion, this is a meaningless, uninspired waste of time. Unoriginal idea, weak script, insipid acting, plot and logic holes galore do not add up to a blockbuster. The film gets 4 marks for the impressive CGI but loses 2 of those for the derivative James Bond sequence.The lady to my left spent the last two hours sound asleep. I was very jealous of her.


                
A shame that this movie is rated so highly on IMDb. Let me tell you this, this movie is NOT a masterpiece and doesn't even deserved to be among the top 250 of the best movie of all time. A true masterpiece has to be flawless and this movie is worth at most 5.8, no more. The neuro-nonsense that follow suit from a scientific and a philosophical point of view, Inception doesn't make any sense at all...Inception must start with a self-consistent theory of how the human brain works. What is a memory? What is a dream? Because most of us human beings walk around with only very fuzzy answers to these questions, filmmakers are able to take rather outlandish positions on them without arousing any hackles.In the case of Inception, the unstated premise of dreaming is that one one is asleep, one is inhabiting what essentially amounts to a parallel reality external to the mental state of the dreamer. This premise makes for an admittedly entertaining film, but it is preposterous. Dreaming is an entirely subjective experience; everything is an illusion generated and perceived by the brain itself. You can no more "enter" someone else's dream than you can enter into a movie that's playing on the multiplex screen.If you "wake up" from a dream and realize that you're still dreaming, you haven't entered a different level of some dream-reality continuum -- you've just experienced another illusory sensation. Contrary to the premise of the film, there is no "architecture" of a dream. We may feel like we're inhabiting an elaborate, detailed and consistent landscape, but that's just part of the illusion. There are some ideas about dreaming in the film that are actually accurate. For instance, it's true that they are powerfully influenced by emotion and subconscious cognition. And we often do wake ourselves with a powerful muscle spasm, which sleep researchers call a "hypnic jerk." But the movie also trades in ideas that amount to little more than folklore. It toys with the old idea that if you die in your dream, you will also die in real life.In the movie, if you die in your dream, you will enter a kind of coma. For obvious reasons, there is no evidence for bangungut-like phenomena, or rather any evidence has gone with the dreamers to their graves.What about the idea that time slows down within a dream, that an elaborate sequence of events in dream-space can take place in a few seconds of real time? As it happens, this claim has been investigated by researchers exploring lucid dreaming, and the results indicate that if there is any such effect, it is fairly small. Okay, but does any of this matter? Scientific error is rife in popular entertainment.I'm prepared to argue that Inception's misconceptions are both symptomatic and enabling of a damaging confusion that is rife in American society: namely, that between the internal subjective reality within our minds and the external, universally accessible reality of the "real world." It is this confusion that give rise to magical thinking and its myriad manifestations, from prayer-healing to "The Gift" and mystical notions about near-death experiences.Confusion about the boundary between dream and reality is particularly endemic among the religiously inclined, who often perceive dreams as the source of real-world information. The Church of the Holy Sepulchre in Israel, for instance, is located on a spot identified in a dream by the Emperor Constantine's mother, Helena.The perfect metaphor of this movie would be like this:"I liked it,""I didn't really understand what was going on, but I liked it."A tad overrated movie that need to be drop out of the top 250 movies list of all time. I'll give him 2 stars for the CGI effects who were indeed well done. That is all.


                
The special effects were great but the science was so flawed in this movie that it was incredible. The storyline made absolutely no sense at all. It also appears to be a bad ripoff of the Matrix (can you say the Architect). Even more illogical is the fact that if the "Architect" can create stairs, doors, or even an entire dream environment at will, why can't they fly, destroy anything they want any way they want, or make themselves invisible. At least in the Matrix Neo could fly.The movie just contradicts all of its own rules. People were falling all over the place throughout different dream states but no one woke up, even though a sense of falling wakes you up. Even worse was the supposed technology used to put everyone in the same dream. I don't even want to get started with that one but a pair of ear-buds just will not do it. I really think we need to stress science a little more in our schools.It was pretty cool looking though.


                
This film was supposed to knock my socks off! Well, I'm still wearing them, because this film was such a disappointment. I thought 'Memento' was brilliant, but 'Dark Knight' a con, although this was supposed to be a total Nolan film. It should have been his 'Heaven's Gate' ( a much better film by the way) but it has proved almost 'Titanic' (again a much better film). Indeed, the audience left the cinema asking each other 'did you enjoy it?' as if they thought it was rubbish, but had to find out whether it was OK to say it was! It was.Let's face it, the plot is little more than a pretend heist movie on a par with 'Ocean's 12.' But it is hidden away in a complicated story of dreams and dreamworlds - three levels worth with each level allowing more time in it compared to reality! Gottit? You should do because Di Caprio spends acres of screen time explaining it to the complete and utter boredom of the audience. Cinema, Doctor K - I think not. It all boils down to finding out why the hero's wife died and how are the gang going to plant an idea in the head of a major industrialist (eg Inception). Following this? As the climax boils (in an extremely prosaic dreamworld hardly worth the effort and CGI) on three different levels - one a minibus falling off a bridge (interminably in slow motion), the second Tom Hardy's screen test for the remake of 'On Her Majesty's Secret Service' complete with ski shooters, Blofeld's alpine fortress, and an enemy that cannot kill a hero from five yards!, and the third, a legoland where Di Caprio's wife is skulking siren-like to lure him to stay forever - the film really creaks and shows its' paucity of vision, script, characters, and downright boringness! I have to excuse some of it because I needed the loo and could not get out of my row! Yes, I had a totem which kept me firmly in reality ( I knew how long we had to go by how far the minibus had to fall!).And the plot holes - many, but the worst involved the Cillian Murphy getting killed in the second level which should have left him in mindless limbo on level 3, but he was dead there as well, while Ken Watanabe who died in level 2, became a very old man in level 3!!!! And right at the end, Cillian Murphy has been trained to resist dream thieves, and when he wakes up, he finds himself in the cabin with the gang but does not put two and two together and realise they are the real thieves having persuaded him in his dream otherwise!! Gettit? Don't bother, it was probably all Di Caprio's dream anyway - a load of old tosh that has Nolan laughing all the way to the bank, and many so-called serious critics facing the sack for lavishly overpraising a piece of mediocre tosh!!!
I had huge expectations for this film reading all its glowing reviews. And yet even before it started and the menu fired up, alarm bells were going off. Explosions left right and centre, great CGI.....all suggested a lack of substance. For the first 20 minutes, I couldn't believe just how bad this film was. Drop the viewer into a complete state of confusion to look good?.....except that this is always a risky strategy, one which a only few films have eloquently pulled off, the nearest comparable being The Matrix, which this most certainly isn't- although it tries so hard to be in terms of style and delivery. Yes the CGI and special effects are at times breathtaking. It's just such a shame that the storyline was utterly ridiculous, disjointed, confusing dispassionate and so very, very boring. Great effects DO NOT make for a great film necessarily. A note on casting. Like the film, this is truly awful....what on earth was Leonardo Di Caprio thinking?! My wife totally embraced the subject matter- she fell asleep and the only thing stopping me from dozing off was the desperate hope that that this film would improve. It didn't. Inception completely encapsulates all the worst in Hollywood. Utter rubbish.


                
The only way to describe this movie in one paragraph is it was like the first time a person has sex, it's hyped for about 2 or three years of your life till finally it's prom and you got the parents station wagon and you got a hotel in the country all set up for your first big night of love. Then you go to pick your date up and she's gotten braces over the weekend. OK, not the worst thing in the world. Then you slip and fall while shaking the dads hand and karate chop his balls and grab her mothers blouse and rip it off on the way down. Then on the way to the prom you get a flat and you go and change it and you get oil all over your tux. Then you go to the prom and you think it'll be so cool now that more people are being added to the mix. But it's not, and it sucks because there's now so much sexual tension built at this time the dudes don't wanna dance for fear of boners and the girls don't want to for the same reason... Then you finally leave and get out to the hotel and you think ah well, this whole night was crap but this will redeem it. This will make it all better... Then you realize she's got braces... And her hymen's still intact... And what ensues is 20 minutes of nothing but blood, pain, and screams of agony coming from both parties till eventually you can't even look at her anymore and you wont be able to jerk it for a month now because your scabbed penis needs time to heal.... Yeah thats what inception was like to me....Stick with Momento...esk stuff dude


                
*** This review may contain spoilers *** May be I expected too much from this movie, which was supposed to "change the way I see things". Well, it did not change anything, and certainly not the way I look at things. May be it changed the way I look at people who think this is the best movie ever made.It's long, tedious, they go through layers after layers, why, we do not really know. The characters are numerous, flat, (some may argue that this is a dream so they are supposed to be flat), but strangely enough they are quite consistent, they never change, which is not consistent at least with my dreams.And if you ask people why this movie is so fascinating and "complex", you might end up with the following conversation: "it can not be explained with words, it's a story about a guy who gather a team to go through different layer of dreams to alter, blah." "Yes, I got that and?""But I can't tell you the whole plot, I might spoil it" "I saw it, try me." "Euh, his wife blah blah... about the dream thing, life, death, redemption, there are so many themes in this movie" "And?" "Euh, I don't know, you need to think." "Ah..."I guess many people confuse complexity and redundancy. These guys just go through layers and layers of dreams, wrapped non-sense pseudo-scientific verbiage. Than he sees his wife again and again, and "kicks" back again and again, fights again bad guys again and again. And what? This is not complex, this is redundant and boring!Many people mentioned to me that there was a trick at the end of the movie... Actually, the end is a kind of pale copy of Orange Clockwork ending, and you can expect the trick from the beginning. Orange clockwork, the hurt locker, usual suspect, this is how you end a movie, and I did not see it coming from the first 15 minutes of the movie.In the category "the director tries to drive you crazy", Donnie Darko, Mulholland drive and, if we stick to Nolan universe, Memento gets my vote, not Inception. Or go watch Matrix again, or Dark city, or whatever movie you want to, that lasts less than 2 hours.Bottom line, I was bored during the projection, and that's one of the worst movie I've ever seen. 2 points because I did not leave (which makes it a better movie than Titanic to me).


                
I truly cannot understand why anyone would call this a good film. Fancy special effects, yeah, plenty many lots... but special effects do not make a film. It also needs a storyline that doesn't shoot in every direction, left, right, backwards and forwards throughout the entire film for lack of substance.OK, so the dude wants to plant an idea in someone's brain. Got that after a minute or so of viewing. And then what? It feels too much like a storm in a teacup.Frederic Dard (french novelist) used to describe futuristic gadgets by means of expressions like "he's pointing a gloombobber with spiral condensing palchromium in my direction" but, being a talented writer, he had the good taste of limiting such eccentric nonsense to a single sentence per book, whereas Inception is made up of nothing but that from beginning to end. Each time the dream-team runs into a potential nag, there comes a gloombobber out of a hat. Too predictable after a while. "This can't be done in a three-dimensional space... no problem, we'll do it in seven!" would be an adequate tag-line for Inception.I couldn't follow the storyline and am not convinced there actually was one. It reminded me of the Brownian movement observed at the surface of a pot of boiling water. It was so confusing that switching actors every two minutes for the part of the main character would have gone unnoticed in this maelstrom of nonsensical garbage.In conclusion I don't see any point in watching Inception unless you're extremely high on speed or a fan of special effects who doesn't give a whoopdeedo about well-constructed stories in the first place.


                
Not much more to add really. I managed to watch this farce for about half an hour, I desperately wanted to give it a chance, but every passing minute is such an insult to my intelligence that I cannot carry on. Then I tried again to continue, because I thought it's not fair to rate a movie without watching it to the end. But then again, I'm not a masochist.This film is the perfect example of how movie success depends hardly on movie quality, but almost solely on marketing. The same happened with the Matrix a few years back. Farcical setting, totally unrealistic story, but great marketing: Box office success.You probably already know the deal, unfortunately I was unsuspecting before I tried to watch it: Getting into other people's dreams, creating a believable world in the dream where multiple dreamers can interact with each other, and in this way, collect important information from the mark. Of course the dreams also have dreams within, and it's hard to know what is real and when your're dreaming.Whatever. No idea why anyone would WANT to watch this, other than because of the hype. But the hype has very little to do with the quality of the film.This film's whole focus is on the farcical notion of creating dreams for people, and especially, interacting with other characters in the dream who are dreaming the exact same dream. If the film were not so consumed by this outragous technicality, and it had some character and heart, some sort of purpose, I could probably let slip the ridiculousness of the whole theme. I have been known to enjoy the odd sci-fi. But it lacks any heart, all it does is try to look smart.I find it grossly unfair that this junk rates above 9 on IMDb. However, my rating of 2 is not because I want to bring the total down, it is rather what I think the realistic rating is. And that 2 is a very generous score.


                
For a film of this kind to work there are (at the very least) three script-writing requirements: a) internal logic, b) characters with depth, and c) the complete omission of wise-a*s gimmickry.The film fails on all three counts.I liked the avalanche; I liked the freight train. I laughed at the Kubrick tributes. Beyond that, the thing was too simple for words - but dressed up to be a deep and meaningful experience. You know you are watching a loser when an elevator takes you up and down the guy's consciousness. An elevator? Now who dreamed that up?World domination? A Japanese accent that is unintelligible? Cartoonish characters of all shades (to sell tickets?) Two female leads, one of whom is frighteningly out of whack with the film's storyline (she doesn't understand anything, but is designing the project!), and the other wandering through scenes meant to be scary but - hey, you need to be able to act first, and it would help to then act scary.This film is a mess - except for the avalanche and freight train.


                
I just can't believe this movie made it to number 13 on the IMDb top 250! I've watched it twice. I didn't get the whole concept and the plot in general. Yes, the special effects are what you would expect from a movie of this caliber. The acting isn't superb. I have never liked Leonardo Dicaprio, he didn't impress me in this movie as well. No matter how old he is to me he always have that teenage look that doesn't convince me especially in serious movies like this one.The movie takes us in way too many "dreams" that at one point you wonder what's the reality, are the characters in a dream, or they are in present?! For the most part i was forcing my brain to figure out what's going on instead of enjoying the entertaining parts of the film. I would only give this movie 2 stars for the modernistic, high-end special effects. Definitely doesn't deserve a top spot. Not on my list!


                
"Inception" is nothing more than a stupid, high-concept movie with an ideal target audience of geeky 14 year old boys who have little interest in the opposite sex. It's hard to believe therefore that this film has an average IMDb rating of 8.9 and has received such ecstatic levels of praise on this site.So, why don't I think that it is any good? Firstly, what is it "about"? What are it's themes? Genuinely great contemporary film makers of the rational world , such as Michael Haneke, explore the fundamental elements of human experience and modern society. Haneke has explored the failure of communication, the influence of media, the difficulties of multi-culteralism, the survival of humanity and culture, the impact of violence etc etc. In comparison "Inception" has no themes or original ideas. The most interesting visual moments are lifted from a variety of sources ranging from "2001" to James Bond. The basic narrative consists of the struggle to make one huge corporation slightly bigger than another. Where is the human element in that? Where are the morals? Where is the redemption? The Capitalist system is helping the extremely rich get richer – the wealth of the richest 1% has doubled over the last 10 years – but do ordinary office workers and blue collars workers, who are getting screwed by the system, care whether one faceless giant corporation overcomes another? Where is the drama when you don't care about the outcome and don't care about the characters? It's a film that has no philosophical or human dimension. Indeed the treatment of the "Mal" character and the failure to have her impose some sense of human or emotional responsibility on the Cobb character show the film to actually be as morally bankrupt as the casino bankers. Human emotion and relationships are overlooked by boys who are in thrall to their CGI toys.Does it achieve what it sets out to deliver so far as atmosphere and tone are concerned? That great modern film maker of the subconscious world, David Lynch, has shown us that Cinema can show the dreams and nightmares of the human psyche, can show the "other world" that lives just below the tangible surface. But "Inception" use of dream states and the "dream within a dream" is extremely mundane. Comparing a work of genius, such as "Mulholland Drive", with this pedestrian fantasy demonstrates what a failure in atmosphere there is in this film. "Inception" is also completely lacking in sex. How can you have a film about dream states and the subconscious that is as flat and banal as this? Perhaps Christopher Nolan isn't comfortable in exploring this area? That might explain why he has agreed to cast Anne Hathaway, surely one of the least sexy leading ladies in modern cinema ( unless you get excited by the 11 year old/"Bambi" look ) as sex icon Catwoman in his upcoming "The Dark Knight Rises". You just know all of the curves on this Catwoman are going to be part of the suit and as fake as the "philosophy" in "Inception"! I've enjoyed several of Nolan's earlier films and I think "Memento" in particular is a fascinating film and a film that actually DOES have themes - of identity, memory and guilt. However, I think his move into the world of "intelligent Blockbusters" ( as if there can be such a thing!? ) have made him lose his way.The cast are uniformly flat in their performances. Some excellent performers such as Cillian Murphy, Marion Cotillard, Pete Postlethwaite etc are wasted in underdeveloped roles. At the core of the film is the perpetually furrowed brow and dead eyes of Leonardo Di Crapio. Indeed, one of the great mysteries of the modern cinema age is what, once great, filmmaker Martin Scorsese sees in this rubber faced, bland, not particularly intelligent presence. That's not to say that great sci-fi can't be made with a not very bright leading man. The first "Matrix" film is a wonderful film despite the somewhat befuddled presence of Keanu. But it is a great film because it has ideas, human drama, personal politics and the subtext that "Inception" lacks.The pacing throughout "Inception" is turgid, oh how I waited and waited for that white van to fall, and the po-faced self importance of the whole thing is laughable.Now that the big corporations own the studios, the distribution and the cinemas the films that get force fed to the public are decided by air heads in suits. As a result the average audience's exposure to intelligent cinema is in serious decline. It's a shame that an essentially vacuous piece of escapism like "Inception" is being spoken of as being an intelligent piece of film making because if this is the future of "intelligent" cinema then, ladies and gentlemen, cinema is dead.
Warning: spoiler alert:After watching Inception I have this question to ask: The movie played with the idea, that we can't always tell the difference between a dream and reality. Sometimes when dreaming, we realize, that we dream and that helps us awake. Other times, we don't realize that we are dreaming and then we are stuck in the dream. The question, which everybody ask themselves is: Did Cobb awake at the end of the movie or did he kept dreaming? I would like to ask this: DOES IT MATTER? Because through the two hours, I didn't get any background of this guy. I don't know who he is, what he likes to do, where are his faults, what are his hopes for the future. I am not even sure if he has a wife- and if he does, if Mal exists, then I don't know anything about her too. Not to mention their supposedly small children. My point is: This movie didn't have any story, didn't have any heart, didn't have any life in it. All characters were just figures, with no background and no emotional structure. So what do I care about Cobb, or his wife, or his mission? Because I don't even know what his mission was- to make the Asian guy even richer? And if you think it is so wonderful, that the movie didn't gets any straight answers, let me tell you this: the movie doesn't even ask a question. It doesn't make you think, because, at the end of it- there is no story behind it. There is no moral dilemma, there is no character development. And I feel really sorry for Leonardo Dicaprio - who started as a very promising actor, but somewhere in the way decided to act important and pretend to be smart. First he made The Blood Diamond- a very good movie. Then he made 11th Hour- a very good environmental movie. And then he went vacationing with Naomi Campbell on an yacht. What better way to prove that you believe in what you preach? Don't make the mistake to believe Inception has anything to offer, but some false sense of self importance.
