This film really let me down.I didn't expect a great film but I expected something that was at least 'OK'. How wrong I was. I honestly can't understand the hype. 'Intelligent' they say?? What sort of intelligent film has to have it's protagonists explain what is happening continuously throughout the film?? Now Memento, that was a good film. And, I suppose, 'intelligent'. But by intelligent, I mean something that pushes boundaries of the viewer's understanding. I don't mean intelligent as in 1) able to do simple arithmetic, 2) develop reading and writing skills and 3) generally being one notch above a dolphin.OK, let's make a start shall we? Firstly, one of the greatest literary and cinematic arts is the use of metaphor. This film has none. One thing the film is full of is too much explanatory dialogue (not to mention pre-teen psychology - the father figure relationship in the subconscious). For example, in the first Matrix film, the viewer understands the profundity of what is being delivered through metaphor (a feature that the subsequent Matrix films sadly missed). In this film here, everything is painstakingly explained. To me, this speaks volumes.Secondly, great actors, yes. BUT ALL miscast and given appalling dialogue in an appalling script. I mean, Ellen Page was great in Juno, but here she comes out with painfully mechanical lines in the same way that Joseph Gordon-Levitt also does. In the same way that every character does. They ALL speak the same way and we are no better understanding one character by the end of the film than we were when they first appeared.Thirdly, logic. Philosophy. Call it what you want. Why was Ariadne chosen to become the architect? What does she actually DO??And Ken Watanabe. Why is he alive after dying on the third or fourth level 'down' in the subconscious after the film so adamantly stresses the dangers of dying in the 'dream'? How can he wake up on the plane?? Why, in fact, is there that scene at the start of the film where he appears old and which features the safe and the confidential papers Leonardo De Caprio finds.Why does Leonardo De Caprio constantly have to furrow his brow? Oh, yes, it's a vain attempt to look mean and manly because the poor man still has, unfortunately for him, such a baby face.Why is Cillian Murphy's character chosen to be their means of helping LDC's character get back to his kids? And isn't it convenient to have a dream sequence in a blockbuster that resembles a James Bond film snow-covered chase scene? Why does the film have to go on for two and a half hours instead of one and a half? And most importantly, if Leonardo De Caprio's character is so severely screwed up about his wife why, o why does he have to be the main character in this film? Couldn't the team work with someone more well-balanced?? Can he in fact be any use to his kids if he eventually finds them???Nonsense nonsense nonsense. Big pile of nonsensical psycho-babble. And yes, where else but America???
Cobb is a extractor, he enters the minds of powerful people and takes their ideas. Only his latest case is not as simple, instead of taking an idea, he must implant one; however Cobb is a man whose own sub-conscience is in disarray as his dead wife threatens to destroy him.I thought originally when I watched the trailer..."Interesting...But I've seen this somewhere before?"And then as I watched the film it hit me..'Paprika!', Paprika is a anime were a therapist enters the minds of patients to distinguish the problem.I am not saying that the film is a complete copy, because its not...However, the complexity of the film is quite confusing at times, even for a life long sci-fi fan; I guess that was the allure when you consider the many, many positive and glowing reviews. I enjoyed some of the action sequences, but it did not really keep me on the edge of my seat. Cillian Murphy and Ken Wattanbe, were the true stars in my opinion, they played their roles very well, while Leonardo DiCaprio was one dimensional, even though he was supposed to be the most complex and intriguing character in the film.
I'll begin by saying that I have an inbuilt prejudice against films that seem to put cleverness or 'intelligence' ahead of entertainment value. Having read a lot about this film, I wasn't sure whether I would like it, but in fact was very disappointed to end up disliking it as much as I did.For me, the film lacked two essential elements of an entertaining movie - a coherent plot and sympathetic characters. The plot didn't really start to make any sense until about halfway through (far too late) and Leonardo di Caprio as the central character, Cobb, was competent but just didn't have the charisma to carry this kind of story. His wife's death was foreshadowed a lot in the early part of the film and I found I just didn't care how or why she died. None of the other characters came across as real people and their connection to Cobb was generally unclear to me. The impression was of good actors (like Tom Hardy) being basically wasted.I almost switched off the film after the first twenty minutes because its chaotic action seemed designed almost to alienate the viewer. It started to make some sense after that, but was still a long way from what a good film should be. The over-reliance on sudden loud noises (way above the level of the dialogue) in the first half was simply irritating.The film also seemed to have trouble obeying its own internal logic. Several reviewers have mentioned that there was no consistency in what is supposed to happen when a dreamer dies during a dream; I was unimpressed by the 'projections' in the dreams apparently having their own personalities and being capable of independent thought, although the script also had them as nothing more than figments of the dreamer's imagination.Yes, the film's settings and special effects were impressive, but that's really not what an evening out (or in) should be about. If the story and characterisations are lacking, then why bother watching at all?
As long as it remains possible to spend 100 million dollars on making drivel, setting aside 10 million towards advertising in order to tell people that it's great so that they've spent 200 million on tickets before they find out otherwise, there'll be no incentive for Hollywood movie-making ever to improve.I've reviewed Angelina Jolie's latest farrago in very similar terms. While that movie bizarrely assumes that the Cold War still remains of interest to anyone (?), "Inception" insists basically that it's interesting to watch other people's dreams. Well, visually it can be - the "architecture-bending" style of "Inception" would have had great appeal, maybe in a 60-second advert for a credit card or mobile phone company.But visual appeal aside, the "plot" of the movie is not so much multi-layered as multi- pointless. The old cliché that "if you die in dream you wake up" is hauled out here with monotonous regularity, but it's never applied consistently, and even if it were, who cares? If you MUST fire a machine gun at someone in a dream (and I can't think of any reason why you'd really need to), why would you ever run out of bullets? Wouldn't you just dream up some more? If you want to blow up a dream hotel, do you really NEED dream explosives? If the fuse goes out, is it safe to return, or should you always light the dreamy blue touchpaper and stand well back? The movie's makers assume that multi-layering these various dream levels will be endlessly fascinating (as evidenced by the enormous running time), but anyone with an ounce of discernment will simply become less and less connected as the plot becomes "deeper". We're in the same childish, ill-conceived territory here as many movies about existing in "virtual reality" or even "on the holodeck". Simulate as convincingly as you like, but you can't change the laws of physics in the real world, and if you're in a dream, then there's no real need to worry about being stabbed or shot, and neither should the viewer care whether the characters are, or aren't.The urban myth being put about that "Inception" includes some sort of interesting or unexpected ending is no more than that.For a witty, snappy meditation on alternative reality, try Cronenberg's "eXistenZ", and (despite the fact that, like, when you're dreaming you know, your life goes really slowly and, like, you can live a whole lifetime in the dreamy dream state, man) try to give this bloated waste of time a miss.
Before Leonardo DiCaprio agreed to play the lead part in 'Inception', he spent months with Christopher Nolan trying to improve the script. It was at DiCaprio's insistence that the part he was playing, Cobb, the corporate dream extractor, had to have a more beefed up internal arc. Otherwise, Inception would turn out to be another shallow, action adventure thriller. Despite Cobb's triumph over his internal demons (particularly the way in which he expunges his dead wife, who has been haunting him in his subconscious), Inception is much more an exploration of the mechanics of dreaming than a chronicle of emotional catharsis. At the basic level, Inception can be divided into four distinct parts: Intro, Exposition, Journey and Resolution. The Intro consists of the initial scene, a flashback where Cobb must save his employer, a sleazy Japanese businessman, Saito, now far advanced in years, who has been stuck in a limbo-like purgatory for decades, unaware that he was mortally wounded in someone else's dream. It's a nice, little compact scene where we see a near-dead Cobb, washed up on a beach and dragged into Saito's fortress compound. A gun is left on the table in front of Saito and we're trying to figure out whether Saito is going to kill Cobb or himself. Cut to the next scene where Cobb and his associate are involved in a trying to extract information from a much younger Saito inside one of his dreams, as they all sleep on a bullet train somewhere in Japan. Apparently, Saito was expecting the dream extractors and informs them that this is their 'audition'; the extractors' 'architect', the guy in charge of designing the dreamworld, somehow lets things get out of control when a mob of men invade the room where they're all staying, and Saito later has his thugs toss the architect off the roof of a heliport. Despite the botched job, Saito is impressed that Cobb and his partner are able to move through different 'levels' in the dreamworld. Cobb's 'audition' could have been compressed into one or two minutes but Nolan insists on illustrating every aspect of his convoluted plot. We finally arrive at the film's inciting incident: Saito's proposal to Cobb that he enter the dream world of his business rival, Fischer, and plant a suggestion in his subconscious, leading to the dissolution of the rival's entire business empire. 'Inception' is the reverse of what Cobb and his team have been trained to do—extracting information and Cobb has doubts about successfully carrying out Saito's proposal. But when Saito promises to pull some strings, enabling Cobb to return to the United States, despite murder charges hanging over his head, Cobb can't resist jumping at the chance to see his two children again.The next part of 'Inception', the 'exposition', takes about an hour. This is where Cobb assembles his new carefully selected "Mission Impossible" superstar team who will penetrate Fischer's mind and plant the suggestion to break up his dying father's business empire. Nolan's explanation of the mechanics of the dreamworld is so complicated, that he has Cobb explain it to his new architect, a naive graduate student who manages to acquit herself rather well despite facing major obstacles inside multiple dreamworlds. Nolan manages to violate a major tenet of screen writing technique: Show don't tell. Unfortunately, during these expository sequences, there's a lot more 'tell' than 'show'. Yes, there is a rather neat scene (reminiscent of an M. C. Escher illustration), where one Paris landscape folds on top of another but most of the visuals are much more mundane: for example, a speeding locomotive appears out of nowhere during a car chase on a Paris street.Much has been written about the 'journey' aspect of 'Inception'. Critics seem to be impressed by the three dreamworlds the 'dream team' penetrates, coupled with the way in which they're able to return to reality—the so-called 'kicks', where a huge sound or explosion propels them through the different levels back up to the surface. Nolan, however, serves up some of the dullest and derivative landscapes that our 'heroes' must navigate through—in fact, these so-called dreams don't look like dreams at all. Take Level 1—just a typical shoot em up with faceless bad guys chasing the 'good guys'. As for level 2—I felt I was watching a parody of Space Odyssey, with our dreamers floating through a hotel without the benefit of gravity. Finally, I have heard 'Level 3', compared to 'Ice Station Zebra', the schlocky 60s action film set in the Arctic.Inception's Resolution is as unsatisfying as the earlier parts of the film. What are we to make of Cobb? Just because he has made this deal with Saito and it enables him to see his children, does not mitigate the fact that the whole plan to literally change Fischer's mind, is reprehensible. After all, shouldn't have Cobb walked away when Saito had his men murder the first architect? Cobb, by and large, remains a tainted and unsympathetic character, precisely because he looks the other way when he's quite aware that Saito has committed murder.We're also told (by Saito) that the breakup of Fischer's empire is a good thing but should we take his word for it? He's a thug and Nolan has provided us nothing to go on to evaluate the nature of the Fischer empire. Finally, why does Fischer cry at his father's deathbed? He's just learned that his father put his mother in a mental institution so shouldn't he be angry? Or are those tears of joy so that he can be now 'his own man'?The bulk of 'Inception' is merely a pastiche of mediocre action adventure espionage thrillers dating back to the 60s when the genre was in full bloom. The long-winded 'B' story, Cobb's tortured machinations in trying to literally kick his dead wife out of his subconscious mind, merely serves to distract us from the hollowness of the overall plot.
Perusing the top 250, I was shocked to see this in the list, never mind so near to the top. I make no apology for admitting, that I fell asleep on numerous occasions (though kept re-winding). This is something I haven't done since Transformers (no re-winding),despite the thundering 5.1 soundtracks. Both these movies are style with no substance, but, back to this one.Has the need to appear intelligent by "loving" this film, so resulted in an "Emporer's new clothes" atmosphere? Can the slip-shod writing and drum-roll, sign-posted direction be so easily forgiven, in lieu of it's unique premise? (nobody mention The Matrix!)I hope this tumbles off the list as time passes, because it devalues some great picks and under-ground, high-points, that have already made it, thanks to some more discerning movie-goers.
well, well, well, oh hang on, I need another well......crap, crap, crap, and yes another crap......The concept of going in a dream and stealing or planting ideas is probably acceptable, even a dream within a dream is palatable, but hey guys - let's go to the third level and while we're there, let's try for the fourth as well - what a messy, badly scripted piece of junk. This movie is all over the place and whilst you can follow it with the concentration of a chess master, the plot and storyline is weak and rather pathetic. Wasted a lot of time watching this one, so do yourself a favour and go mow the lawn or something ! Save your money and wait for the DVD if you're curious.
Inception indeed has all the marks of a bad film. This is not just apparent in the film itself, but comments fan make."If you don't like this movie, it's because you don't get it!" "If you don't like this movie, you lack class!"These sorts of things are the same things I hear when one of my hipster friends gives me a CD of some band nobody's heard of, and when I press Play, I immediately figure out why. When you like a movie that is identifiably bad, you have to come up with excuses for liking it that aren't tomfoolery, like "you just don't get it, MAN. It's too ironic for your puritanical tastes!"In the end, I find that the film itself, fans aside, is not terribly thrilling. The ideas aren't original—it was like a Matrix in the dream world. Except a bad one, because nothing gets explained, really. Watching Inception was like watching the story of Call of Duty Modern Warfare 2 play out. The question I kept asking myself was "okay, why is so-and-so doing THAT?" At the end of the movie, I decided that Christopher Nolan, like George Lucas, is talented, but has gotten too full of himself. Why do I care about Cobb's kids, to whom we are granted no real introduction? Why do I care about dueling energy companies? Why do I care about a bunch of corporate hit men and mob bosses? There's no connection.An emotional connection is something lacking, but more frustratingly is the disappearance of character development about 15 minutes in. Everything gets lost at about that point actually. The logic of the plot, the coherence of the plot, everything. It's baffling to me. I loved The Dark Knight and The Prestige—they hit that sweet spot in between baffling and straightforward. Inception missed the mark horribly.——SPOILERS DO NOT CROSS——By far, the ending is the most ridiculous. It's a contradictory ending. Although we see the top is clearly falling, and Cobb is not wearing his ring, the children look the same as they did.——SPOILERS DO NOT CROSS——
You have this basic idea and the story, they are very good. And boy did the have money. And the CGI is spectacular, yes.Further on this:Inception is constantly VERBALLY explaining what is happening, why it is happening, how it's relating to things explained earlier and so on. The rules, the plot, the inner conflicts. Even at the 2/3rd of the movie, they are still explaining basic rules. I don't see why this was necessary as most of it is repetition. You get the same stuff over and over again, supposed you didn't get it for the first time. And again: VERBALLY. Exactly like in your average, random Venezuelan soap opera.Inception does almost not have any scenes. As far as I'm concerned, movies are about scenes. Here, you'll only be able to remember certain sequences, because it's all just one big a montage of sequences. It's the montage of the master-plan from Oceans 11 for 150 minutes and it's exaggerating.The score is non-stop blaring, all the darn time, even when people are just talking to each other, music is building up constantly to give you the perception, that there are serious things going on. It's just annoying, painful for the ears and pointless. Generally important scenes are in no contrast to basic scenes. It's one big video clip.Characters. I don't remember a single name, as there is no kind of character development going on here. It's just some well dressed people. All the dialog is used up, for basic explaining like "for dummies", rather then building character, relationships, or just being generally cool dialog. Occasional tries sounds like tag-lines or slogans while being just plain unintelligent. Also, this is leaving the actors no space to - well - act... which is a waste of the great cast.Now all these things are very amateur scriptwriting mistakes, or if you prefer: it's a stupid movie. But no one seems to notice as Nolan does everything to convince you that you are watching something meaningful.The blaring music and the hectic editing, the fact that there are permanently 3 scenes of action cut together into one sequence underlined by an incredibly severe score, it's just there to distract. Because in fact the movie has nothing new to show us. Separate the sequences and you have the most basic and outdated action b-movie there is. Car chase. Fire fight. Explosion. Present it confusing enough so it seems complex. Same goes for the plot. The rules of the dream world are not complicated at all, you are absolutely able to sum it up in two sentences, just try. The Matrix set up it's world with a 10 minute sequence and we all got it where the whole theme is about equally, or more complex. Now Nolan is either deliberately confusing people for effect or simply because he doesn't have the skills as a scriptwriter to set up a movie. Neither of the versions seems too noble, but I guess it's a combination of those.Now the fact, that no one really seems to have noticed ALL THIS this is just a total riddle to me. Even famous film critics praise this movie as ground breaking and brilliant and I just can't see, where I am totally stupid, or why I'd construe all these mistakes into the movie, when in reality, they just weren't there.It's just malpractice, as what you have here is basic movie making rules ignored in the most inelegant fashion possible and then compensating for it with - well - money. Don't get me wrong, it's not knowing the rules and then breaking them, it just looks like not knowing the rules. It's what you could expect a first year student at a mediocre film school to do where his teacher then asks him to start all over again, with the first book. And it's just so "in your face". For most of the time, there is really nothing more then cutaways, the characters describing what is happening and Hans Zimmer smashing while you see expensive CGI and explosions.But everything just seems so damn serious and exclusive and the music is really dramatic. How could this movie not be good, right? But it's a trick. It's the concept of visceral over-stimulation brought to a new level and I'm shocked that it works to the point where after almost a century of film making THIS is regarded as one of the best movies of all time.IMDb TOT 250 #8. With The Godfather. Pulp Fiction. Schindler's List. The Shawshank Redemption. One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest. 12 Angry Men. Inception.4/10


                
I'm afraid I'm a bit confused. I saw "Inception" last night. I had high expectations based on miles of positive ink from reviewers and professional critics, all tripping over themselves to bestow demigod status upon Christopher Nolan. These expectations were dashed to bits within the first thirty minutes of the film, and turned to a kind of dread as I realized what folks these days will accept as "depth" in their entertainment. I wish I'd never seen those gushing reviews, I would've enjoyed the film much more. Now, don't get me wrong, I'm a fan of Christopher Nolan's Batman reboots "Batman Begins" and "The Dark Knight." For my money, those were without a doubt the second and third most effective superhero movies to date (sorry, Raimi wins.) The man certainly knows how to keep a story moving along, and he knows how to film action. In the case of The Dark Knight, Heath Ledger provided an emotional lynchpin non-pareil in his Joker portrait, and Nolan milked it for all it was worth. There was real pathos and genuine mortal horror built into the foundation of the film's impressive structure. Also, the fact that it was based on a comic book lowered the bar and allowed the audience to suspend just enough disbelief to allow most of the dorky plot elements to slip through and do their work. Now let's discuss obvious comparisons to an earlier effort in this vein—that is, an action movie dolled up to the nines as philosophical treatise. I'll admit that I was never a fan of The Matrix. I thought it was asinine in conception and brutish in execution, even as I admired some of the visual effects and spectacular stunt work. Comparing The Matrix's ridiculous endless "stream-of-consciousness" gibberish about free will with, say, Roy Batty's laconic final soliloquy in Blade Runner, is like comparing the Twilight series' moronic teen romantic angst with David Foster Wallace. Unfortunately, Inception had precisely the same effect on me, which is to say very little. Here we find the great and terrible Nolan exploring the tired territory already plundered in countless films of yore, including Hitchcock's Spellbound and 1980's genre pics such as Brain Storm, The Dead Zone, and Dreamscape. The basic premise reads like a dime store sci-fi novel's back cover: "In the future, we can enter into each other's dreams! Feel the magic of dreams, within dreams, within dreams! Experience the thrill and wonder of miraculous "Dream Time<U+0099>." Oh Boy!" Within twenty minutes of the film's somewhat intriguing intro, I knew not only how it would end—I also pretty much knew how we were getting there. Nolan plays primarily to the back row, and—no offense, America—but we've been slightly dumbed down over the past few decades, and we're much easier as a whole to entertain than we used to be. Look back at a few films of the past with vast, labyrinthine plot structures like Hawk and Faulkner's "The Big Sleep", or practically anything by the Coen Brothers. What's defines their deep-impact gravitas, as opposed to the flat and diffuse emotional landscape of Inception? It's character development, pure and simple. In this case, Nolan didn't have a single character —especially the one played with typically earnest gusto by Leo Dicaprio—with a plausibly human fatal flaw, foible, or reason for doing<U+0085> uh, whatever it was he was doing. We're simply dropped into an alternate universe with rules seemingly invented to favor nerds of any stripe —almost impossibly similar to the one in The Matrix—and told to hold onto our hats, because here<U+0085> we<U+0085> go! Except we're not actually GOING anywhere, or at least not anywhere we haven't been a thousand times before. Sorry to rain on the parade of everyone that's ready to lionize C. Nolan as the great white hope of modern blockbuster cinema, but from my vantage, there is no there there. If you want a lesson in basic existential philosophy, take a class at your local community college. You'll get more out of it, and you can keep your textbook as a souvenir. If it's great car chases you're after, rent "The French Connection," or "Ronin." In other words, keep your high-octane action movie out of my high-concept art film. These are two tastes that do not go great together. Meanwhile, if Inception somehow does "become a religion" in another five years, than I'm reconsidering my continued faith in Hollywood as some kind of egalitarian oracle, where the huddled masses can go to get their myths, and feel the true power of redemption. If this is the kind of movie that will be worshipped from now on, than the god of blockbuster cinema may truly be dead.


                
The 150 minutes in the theater seemed like 1500 minutes.Great idea. Good visuals. Horrible production. After all, what was I watching? Whom I liked? Who was the bad guy? Why were things happening on the screen? And, why for so long? That last never-ending sequence on ice. Had no idea who was doing what and why.I did understand the concept as I was prepared for it after hearing from so many people about the 'complex' script. But to me, it was plain stupid. The producers had money and wanted to use it in action sequence and special effects. Did those fit the plot? Not really. This movie didn't need much action, to be honest. The movie should have stimulated our brains, not ear drums.Anyway I went because of the hype. Should have known better. But then, it was a dollar theater and Sunday night when Texas Rangers and Steelers both were losing. So, it was OK.
I am astonished by the reviews posted. My only explanation is that this deadly dull movie put everyone else to sleep and they thought they saw a better movie. The performances were very lackluster and the actors all (except for Tom Hardy) looked like they were performing in their sleep.There was no reason for any of the characters to be involved in this plan from a personal motivation reason, and their behaviours were completely arbitrary. Did they get paid for their time or was there some other reason to what they were doing in this scheme with the main character? I felt no connection or empathy for the main character or his motivation. There was no sense of unreality or mystery one would expect in a dream. The action sequences were dull and seemed to be just shooting people because there was a perceived need to have some gun fire. I struggled to stay in the theatre and see it through let alone stay awake.


                
Inception is a sign of the times.It is the Google-Twitter-FourSquare-iPhone apps version of a movie.It is a smart idea. It is an idea that manipulates and seduces the masses. It is all about the execution. But ultimately, it is an idea with no heart.It's hard to care for the premise. In these days of BP, do we really care for an energy company vs another energy company? It's even harder to care for the characters. There isn't a Danny Oceanesque easy charm when the team is assembled. There is no single character in the team who we can gravitate towards. And the whole longing father routine doesn't really work.At least The Matrix (first movie) had a heartfelt resolution - that love is the answer. Inception...it's just cold. Clever, but cold.Gimme Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind with its tech-with-human-touch idea of pitting memories against the power of love anytime.
I can't believe I wasted 6 dollars to see this movie at the theater. It was a waste of 2 hours and 20 minutes. I don't know why this movie got so much praise, it's a pointless sci-fi movie that should have gone straight to video. I see some reviews say this movie was better than Star Wars, you have got to be kidding. Unlike Inception Star Wars had a great story, the actors even though unknown at the time impressed me; and the special effects-WOW. I must say Star Wars blows Inception out of the water still to this day. To anyone who doesn't think so must be too young to know that it took a lot more effort in the 70's to make a great film. I was really disappointed in Inception, I thought since Nolan did The Dark Knight movies this would be another success. This movie was slow, boring and really had no plot. The only thing I took from it was it was a dreams and getting into peoples heads in there most vulnerable time while they are dreaming. The ending was a WTF ending the kind that can make or break movies, but since this on was broken from the start the ending really didn't surprise me. To all who want to see a great sci-fi movie pick up the classic, like Alein, Star Wars, Blade Runner, Equilibrium, ETC.. I know from watching these movies and being a big fan of the SW saga, you won't be disappointed. Hey BTW, looking for a great TV Mini-series blockbuster from the 80's checkout V and V-The Final Battle, these movies are classics and I would recommend them to anyone who likes a great sci-fi movie.THX, Kris L. CocKayne
After reading a few of the reviews on this site, we decided to watch "Inception", and we went with great expectations. Unfortunately, the movie was a big disappointment.The impression "Inception" leaves is that the director tried to squeeze as much action as possible into one movie, and it seems that it was therefore that the story was split into reality and four additional "unreal" dreamworlds which are displayed almost simultaneously. There is hardcore-action with aggressive special effects, fighting, killing, excessive shooting, explosions, car-chases, snowmobile-chases and the liking in every layer, and the permanent hopping from one layer to another makes this a non-stop-action-flick while the story behind all this seems to take a back seat.If one likes action and special effects, the movie might be interesting - the storytelling is poor. The plot and the technology involved are so complicated that, after a while, one gets indifferent. There is almost no identification with the main characters. In this movie, almost anything can happen, and the audience will accept it because it can't follow the story. Like this, no suspension can be built, and over two hours full of action without suspense and bad storytelling can be rather tiring.The story itself is not very clever. The setup reminds of the "Matrix" - the old question of what is really real. However, the idea of an powerful Asian industrial boss who hires a crew to secretly invade his competitor's brain in order to increase his own profit (and who deliberately risks his own life during the operation) is very far fetched. He could just as well shoot all of his competitors, because according to the story, the Asian boss is so powerful that he does not have to fear any governmental action. So, why invading brains, risking the own life and the life of others instead of just getting rid of the trouble by shooting it? Then, there is a weird aspect about the dreaming itself. I can imagine that everything happens inside my own dream, but to have many people dream the same dream simultaneously because they are plugged to a special device... I don't know. I am not someone who screams for logic in movies, but this was hard to take.This movie is just an action movie disguised as clever science-fiction which it is absolutely not. There are great special effects, but there are too many of them and after a while they seem to become an end in themselves. The story is badly told, and the movie leaves you with nothing to think about.
From the suggestion of this film and numerous ads on TV during the films release I had the idea it might follow through with some of DiCaprio's better choices of scripts in recent years.Unfortunately after a long wait for the DVD release in my local rental kiosk, the rental became available a month after the commercial release.Sadly Inception was barely worth the dollar rental.Alluring special effects don't help the fact a confusing intellectual premise eventually degrades into a standard machine gun shoot em up.Very disappointing.


                
What a let down. Due to the hype and exuberant reviews I had expected something akin to Eternal Sunshine or at least something not totally unlike The Matrix. Instead we get something like 'the Cell' without the lush imagery, but with plot holes so big that even Jorge Garcia would drop through them. So what is it that makes this film so mediocre. 1. The shoot outs and action scenes. Seriously, I've seen better in James Bond films from the early eighties, even if you deem this to be impossible. But what makes those scenes so utterly annoying is that there is no purpose to them whatsoever other than to appeal to people who like to see things go 'bang' and no doubt play first-person shooters in their bedrooms. Those guns don't propel the story forward a single inch.2. The cast. Nothing happens between Leonardo and Marion. There is no spark, no chemistry, thus you can't really understand why Leonardo would consider staying in a dreamworld just to be together with his old flame that he doesn't seem to have any affection for when she was alive.3. The Alibi cutie. If you eliminate Allen Page from the script, no-one would spot the difference. Honestly folks, if the architect of a dream landscape is so important and the wrong fabric of a bathmat can thwart the success of a mission, why don't we get any insight of how this whizz kid designs those dreamscapes and what makes her so indispensable. If we had any inkling what exactly she was doing there apart from looking pretty she would have been far less annoying.4. The aforementioned holes in the plot. Too numerous to mention here, just think about this: if someone who has a dream in a dream and in the first dream he sits in a van that drops down a bridge, there is no logical way he would be weightless in the second dream cause physically he doesn't sit in the van and mentally he doesn't know about the moments without gravity. Dreams just don't work like that and it is an insult to peoples intelligence to suggest that they do.But if all that was not enough, there is so much more inconsistency here, like for instance, why would a tycoon who has the money to buy up entire airlines and the power to overrule the judicial system in America be so utterly afraid of some healthy competition that he risks being lost in his dreamworld for more than thirty years? I think 'good clean fun-loving popcorn movie' is just an euphemism for brainless mainstream crap from America but what is even worse is brainless mainstream crap that claims to be sophisticated. This film certainly is not.


                
This show is excellent. No doubt about it. But so much of this show is an absolute rip off from the anime movie Paprika by Satoshi Kon. As much as I would like this show if it wasn't for not having seen Paprika first, the only problem is, I have.It ain't exactly the same. But I felt its close enough. Implanting a memory through a dream, that's the exact same premise of both stories.For anyone who has seen Paprika, you may find an awful lot of similarities here and it is truly showing that America needs to find something better to do than copy other people's works.Nevertheless, besides my cynical behaviour, I applaud this series for what it has managed to achieve to do, as it has one of the greatest fan bases a modern movie can ask for and I still don't feel that it is overrated. I just feel that it was far too similar to Paprika.
Inception is a lie and like all legitmate hollywoods irregardless of who is doing what to whom there is only the technology that allows this hysterical calculator(that is all this film represents) in this motion picture to perhaps make money.There seems not much more to suggest and that would be if this film made money,? Well did it ? This is what is a most unusual point to all this,and that would be if this particular film did not make money what else is this film doing if in fact it did not make money? What is required to know better or perhaps to truly know well what the viewer is looking at when as a viewer,the viewer as it were watches the motion picture "Inception".There is as well another consideration and that is if in fact the very participation in the watching of any motion picture is such an experience as to be a unwholesome experience. I believe it is that(unwholesome) and even more so provides for a disguise so to mislead any who might be drawn for what ever reason to watch such a film or for that matter to watch such are the films of Hollywood,California.There is no degree of involvement in the making of this film that is in fact authentic and as illegitimate that that might sound like it is an illegal search and seizure which allows a thief to be masqueraded as the man with the candy.This film is not new nor is this film what it appears as is as well.The result when viewing such a film is that there is no time that is real nor is there a place as to any particular event is concerned and if that isn't enough there is no definition as to not if there is a capacity to dream but how do we provide the ability to interject another ability that could pass as a dream.This is the handiwork of a masquerade with any here who believe believe not in this motion picture as there is no dreaming there is only the ability to transmit the stimulus with the image that is what masquerades as a "dream".It is as well imposed upon the body of the human race so to provide a unmistakable influence.The influence as the film provides such a witness has a goal of influence pure and simple this film is merely more of the same as the same has meant since as it were its inception.It is its invention that is at the source of this worlds ability to influence anything with merely more of the same being all that the viewer will ever be looking at.The inventor as well as the inventors many inventions are all patented and do it is believed remain so.There were some 700 separate inventions with which this unwholesome day in this world occurred when one Nicola Tesla discovered how to bind energy across wide open space many many miles from nowhere including even deepest darkest space.This is the field of regard it is as well the ability to network with many disparaging elements so to influence even say Adolf Hitler(I kid you not).Though 1920 is the year of radio's invention and 1921 the year Berlin radio started to broadcast it was a good time before this point in time that Tesla's inventions and subsequent patents were in place.The better premise would be to know through Tesla's own words as to what capacity does what he invented provide and without to much trouble Tesla's's own misgivings provide for the very problem of being under the influence of a lie.Though this lie was not meant to interfere with the human race that is exactly what has occurred.The money men of Teslas's own day are at the root cause as to the necessity to influence anything outside of an antenna.They remain as perhaps a cog in the wheel that very nearly saw to its conclusion not to long ago.This wasn't Tesla's design this was there influence on his attempt to bind energy that it was not to be unless of course they could extract a measure if you will of revenge upon humanity.This is the masquerade that there is a profit motive in this foreign power as well as an aggression not to be deterred in its inability to be regulated properly.This is an imperfect science which has meted out suffering through this field of regard.(network field)It is this thief in the night and it is as well the exploiter of human flesh that this film is providing the viewer with.This is what this film is up to and it has been such since it inception.


                
This had a lot of talented actors and some nice visual effects. Sadly I could not get into the story this movie was trying to convey. Just didn't make sense to me.Leonardo has been in two flops that I just saw within a year and the other is Shutter Island.. I wouldn't waste your time trying to watch either of these movies. In closing I always like to see Ken Watanabe.Some movies that were similar to this that I really liked were the Matrix and The Fountain. This movie is nowhere near the caliber of those movies and I find it hard to compare this movie to anything, but way - WAY over rated. I really liked the movies Knight and Day with Tom Cruise and recommend that and also Resident Evil : Afterlife with Milla Jovovich.


                
I have rarely hated a movie more while I was watching it than this one, especially because I expected it to be very good to great. Despite an abundance of arresting visuals and and some good performances (especially by Madeline Cotillard), which save it from a really low rating, it is a bad movie in many ways. It is unbearably talky, overcomplicated, pretentious and boring. The last hour cycles the same four scenes over and over, and the only sign the movie is moving toward resolution is that the van the dreaming characters are riding in falls five feet closer to the river at each cycle. By then I was drifting in and out of consciousness like the characters. The film score pounds at you with incessant Teutonic heaviness. The main character is so thinly characterized that you have little reason to root for him. I like Leo much better when he plays a character in reality and stays out of dreams.
I have just read some of the bad reviews on Inception ,and I have to say that I totally agree with them.This movie is absolutely overrated,it's humorless,pretentious,overlong,underacted,repetitive....But for me,the worst thing is that it's a strange case of a boring heist movie (strange because heist movies are generally entertaining ones).Considering that,apparently in dreams,everything is so much complicated hadn't it been much easier doing it for real ? I think the real INCEPTION the movie is referring to,is the idea that this movie is actually good. May be I was not dreaming that day !!!


                
Watch out - the amount of intelligent scriptwriting you accredit this funny movie with may be surprisingly linear to the lack of simple scientific knowledge and common sense you might possess!I simply CAN NOT believe that this movie has a 9.1 rating on IMDb. It makes me question a) the people or b) people who take time to write reviews. This is actually my first comment here and its catalyzed by the imposing will to set one thing straight: It is an absolutely average Hollywood flick and the first that made me question Leo's decision. I became a fan of this excellent acting in the recent years but it was actually painful to listen to the randomly pulled together pseudo-scientific plot. If you know anything about what they try to make up you will start laughing or continue to watch and hope for the good stuff to start. The action was good and the movie definitely has it's moments but I couldn't "enjoy" it until the last hour.Watch it if you can be easily pursued into a poorly presented idea, believe it and be drawn into it. And there seems to be nothing else worth watching right now - unless you check some aspiring independent movies.Don't watch it if you like sci-fi that is believable and passionate. This one is one lame attempt -or just a blown up money grab. As overrated as Batman.


                
*MAJOR SPOILER ALERT* The biggest problem with Inception was that I had no incentive to care about any of the characters or what happened to them. Other then built in pathos (dead wife guilt issues? Check. Daddy issues? Check? Missing your family? Check) there was no real drama or tension to the piece. At the end I really didn't think for more than 2 seconds about whether the totem tipped or not. Because it made no difference one way or the other. I was in no way invested in Leo's character.Another disturbing part of the film for me was the notion that even given the damage caused by Leo's character's first use of inception (on his wife) he was perfectly willing to do it again. I found all of the characters morally repugnant and was rooting for them to fail. Problematic as well is the attempt by the film maker to introduce stakes for actions only to immediately blot them out. At one point someone asks Leo if killing the baddies is damaging the psyche of the subject. A simple "no" suffices and it is never brought up again. For what reason was it even brought up then?The film also doesn't bear up to scrutiny. The world of Inception didn't play by its own rules and as a result all the wind came out of the film's sails. During the van chase there was tension, if they crash they will be kicked out of the deeper layers. Then the van DOES crash (with lots of rolling/tipping) and this isn't a kick? It took all the tension out of later scenes. Also when the target gets shot, which up to that point was presented as lights out Leo spouts one line of expository dialogue and everything isn't kaput? We aren't very far from Captain Kirk suggesting a tachyon pulse.The most glaring fault, however, was that despite how it was couched in terms of psychology and mental representation, the producers and director clearly had the Sparknotes on Freud and the publishers blurb on Lacan. Even an action-schlock genre film like Avatar had more psychological content than this "thriller." Inception is a bloated mass of CGI and MacGuffins with nothing to say and nothing for me to care about.
The reality is that my summary basically sums up this movie. It has you questioning reality all the way through; in some ways similar to The Matrix, I suppose, although it's more obvious in this movie that there's questioning about reality to be done. This movie, however, lacks the philosophical/religious elements that The Matrix had, and stands as a pretty formulaic action type movie with the issues about reality thrown in.Essentially, this movie takes place within a dream - or within dreams to be more precise. That's the catch. Leonardo DiCaprio as Cobb plays a man who has somehow figured out not only how to get into people's dreams but how to link various people into the same dream, so that the dream becomes reality. Some tragedy has befallen Cobb as a result of this, which is finally revealed, but it does take a while. Cobb and his team are hired by a Japanese businessman who wants them to get inside the dreams of one of his corporate rivals to convince him to break his company up, thus eliminating the rivalry. The move goes from there.It's a confusing movie. There aren't just two layers to it - reality and dream. There are actually multiple layers of various kinds of reality, as characters can enter into dreams within dreams, each successive layer becoming more and more removed from what reality really is - if you get the point. It's imaginative, but it is confusing as you try to sort the layers out. In all honesty, it's not a movie that especially appealed to me. DiCaprio's performance was good but nothing more and there were some really good special effects included in this. Aside from the dream inside a dream inside a dream gimmick, though, this stacks up as an action movie among action movies, and I didn't find it an especially noteworthy addition to the genre. A friend told me it's the sort of movie you have to watch 2 or 3 times to really get your head around it. I think I have a reasonable enough attention span, and if I can't get my head around a movie on the first watching, then it's unlikely I'm going to go back to it again. I will say that this is the sort of movie that's tailor made to produce sequels. The very last scene leaves everything wide open to continue exploring whether or not Cobb is actually back in reality. (Remember, the top was still spinning on the table as the last scene faded out.) The possibilities for sequels are virtually limitless. Everything is based on a dream or dreams. You could have anything from comedy to action to historical epic to outer space adventure and it would all make sense, because it's all a dream or dreams! Still, while I can have some appreciation for the ingenuity of the writers to come up with a story that has the potential to literally go on forever, I didn't find enough here to make me want to look at the inevitable sequels.
