This film is in a loop – a vicious circle. The couple argues – they go to court – they argue some more. They bring more and more into the argument – the care-taker woman caring for the son's senile father. Then the care-taker woman's husband joins the fray. Their children join in. They all argue – and they go to see the judge – which is incidentally like Grand Central Station.Come on folks this is a soap opera. This is not epic, not fantastic, not the best, not brilliant (and all the other superlatives I keep seeing on IMDb). If it were American, Canadian, European, would anyone care for this movie?REALLY, REALLY OVER-RATED!!! BEWARE


                
This movie has a 8.5 rating so we thought let's give it a try. As with many of these kind of movies the initial high rating is based upon an political correct crowd voting high as an "socio political statement". After watching this movies for 30 minutes it became long and boring. I don't understand what's good about this movie... It's just an boring long conflict between 2 families dragging on for almost 2 hours. If there was one message i got from all this it is Iranian people inflate little problems and solve them like little kids. These kind of movies don't deserve Oscars or other prices, just because it's made in a country like Iran doesn't make it good.


                
I thought for sure this would be a good movie as a ranking of 8.5 would imply so. Not even close. A Separation is boring with a horrible storyline. I have no idea how this movie is within the rankings of other great films. I almost turned it off within the first 20-30 minutes but held on for a great ending that never was. I will not be joining the bandwagon on this one. Don't waste your time watching it.I will sum up the storyline for what it is and not try to poetically warp this mess. The wife wants to move, the husband wants to stay to take care of his elderly father, the young daughter gets caught in the middle of the parents quarrels, the caretaker chains the elderly father to the bed and leaves the house for the day, and then she blames her miscarriage on the husband when in reality she ran into the street only to be hit by a car, go figure. Now repeat the same storyline over and over.
I have watched this film 3 times now and can't believe how it could be rated so high. l have tried so hard to like it but there's nothing there. Gave it a 1 so the rating could be brought down. It should never occupy the space it does with so many other amazing films through history. Its probably a 4 at most. This boring piece or pretentious crap makes you wish there was a murder suicide starting with the daughter. So many other Iranian films are so much better, let alone world movies of that year. If you need to beat insomnia here's your pill. Only some decent acting from the lead actors give it some credence. Anyone that thinks this is a real slice of life has not lived a real life. You want to see real life try Krzysztof Kieslowski.


                
I was very excited to see this foreign film as I am a big fan of non-Hollywood movies. I saw the movie thinking it had a fresh and different theme for an Iranian movie. Most of the Iranian films I've seen relate to religion and traditions in the Arabic countries. I was also surprised to see Iranian women having a very different life style- The last Iranian movie I saw was "The Stoning of Soraya." Again, I was pleased to see a different movie. The photography was also great. The actors performances were very realistic. The grandfather really looked as if he was suffering of Alzheimer. However, I was really disappointed with the ending of this story. I was left with the feeling of an unfinished product. Who did the girl choose to live with? Whatever happen with all the lies told by the everyone involved in the abortion? What about the poor grandpa? Is the woman going to leave the country with her daughter? Did they finally get divorced? Anyway, very disappointed.


                
I have no idea how this film has been rated "the best of the year". Maybe in the middle east. It doesn't even come close to that category.The directing in itself is pretty second rate and amateurish. But then comes the plot... It follows a common thread I have seen before in Iranian films where stories are often focused on the imaginary ethics of the human character. Self glorification of the male character, that is. But rarely of the women.Nader and his wife Simin are a married couple who argue about living abroad. Simin prefers to live abroad to provide better opportunities for their only daughter. However, Nader refuses to go because he thinks he must stay in Iran and take care of his father, who suffers from Alzheimers. Simin is determined to get a divorce and leave the country. Not only is she willing to leave the country, but she is even willing to leave her own daughter behind. None of this makes any sense in the actual story.I saw this film with friends. What struck us is how misogynist it is. Every problem that Nader experiences is, of course, solely the fault of his wife Simin. He is always the good one, innocent and pure. He cooks, cleans, works, takes care of his daughter like a modern day single dad and looks after his father and is the one who is the gentle and demure one while his wife basically does nothing except put demands and create problems. He is basically the wife but with a beard. Wow! Where in the world do we find such amazing men? In the middle east? I think not.And if its not his wife, the next bad person who creates even more problems is, surprise surprise, one more woman: the troublesome cleaning lady. She lies and creates devastating legal problems for her own and Simin's family while both the husbands are honest, sacrificing and basically saints.Does no one see how utterly ridiculous and laughable the story truly is? It's middle eastern science fiction to the extreme. The plot makes no sense. How many women would abandon a man who is basically a saint? In this movie, the wife not only wants to abandon her husband but her own child. And there is no clear message as to why she want to do so. Her explanation of wanting to live abroad feels lame and staged. What the film actually shows is how female-hostile the director's own country is although I don't think it was intended that way. Had the film not been so exaggerated on the saintliness of the husband, and had a more valid reason for his wife's constant refusal to cooperate, it may have felt more believable. The film does, however, reveal a bit of the complexities of Iranian society.If this movie gets an Oscar, the Academy should be ashamed of themselves.
I started to watch that movie in a company of several friends. We all agreed that it was a waste of time after 30 minutes of watching. The movie is just boring, and I can't believe that the Academy gave that movie an award. 'Forrest Gump', a brilliant American movie, has a rating of 8.7, and 'A Separation' deserves 8.6? Also, in very rare cases I have seen a voting distribution of movie scores, where 57% of voters give a movie a score of 10, like in case of "A Separation". It is equal to distribution for the best movie of all times, the 'Shawshank Redemption". This makes me think that something is wrong here. A 'Separation' is very far from being a masterpiece, so what's going on here?


                
I consider this film as an Iranian who personally does not relate to the specific problems it addresses, so there is no emotional point for me. I also don't take part in the political voting against the pro-regime film "Ekhrajiha 3" by rating this one 10.If I had seen nothing to compare with, I could give an arbitrary rating incl. 10 to this one, but comparing "Marmoulak", "Gavaznha", "Gav", and other Iranian dramas with this one, I must say it is not the best of Iranian cinema but a decent one. In the international comparison it would fall a bit farther behind, and that's fully natural.About the content, without intention of spoiling, the film gives you quite a good insight about some very actual problems of Iranian society and has a subtle political point, and certainly it is worth watching from educational point of view. Watch it to see how totally different interests, circumstances, restrictions, hopes, and emotions clash in a society that is longing for freedom as a human right. But don't draw conclusions about Iranian cinema in general due to the fact that some of my fellow Iranians call this one the best movie ever!
I could nor believe myself watching this movie, and i don't understand the rating , I mean 8.8 , come on people, what happened to the great international movies, if you have seen "flower of war" which is also nominated, you will know what I am talking about, no comparison whatsoever, we have seen masterpieces, the best example I can give is " the lives of others" and many more, but this, is a waste of time, no plot, so storyline, very poorly directed , and least of all, so boring, I kept on watching just to see or maybe expect a twist or something but nothing good came out of this movie and i ended up wasting 2 hours of my life for this, a complete waste of time. It does not measure up to the list of movies competing with , which makes rethink of the whole golden globes, Oscars, too bad we do not have a taste anymore in movies.. sorry to say but considering myself as a great movie critic, i was very disappointed..


                
This has very weak technical setting in comparison of its rivals . Also the story is completely repetitive with no any new tactic attraction . For sake of governments limits it couldn't show an open space of vantage . from other side every body knows this year Has coincided with 33th anniversary of Islamic republic of Iran , the last year !!! and if this movie took the golden globe award - and possibly it will take the Oscar - this is related to political trends of time , not any thing else. Generally Iran always wonder world by its stuff presentations whether be cinematic titles or might be from newses ! First i should confess i respect purely to all art world specially to the cinema . but we know there are some words among our definitions which always must be with unit culture . and in this case about cinema we are just one suitable word , global being culture . how can Iran's government make and send a title to screen while they don't believe screens creed . this just shows an extreme destruction , not any more . not an art is competent for awards . which origin is showed up that shows peaceful being of all Iranian people that asghar farhady claims? this is just a joke . i live here i am always sorry for that . many of this people are asleep and will no longer wake up ! a cultural product is not always same belief shows. it can appears for making a fraud . this film mustn't be a symbol of USA and IR engagements . you can be a mysterious grudge beneath all scenes of it .<U+2642>zero zero<U+2642>
