If mainstream cinema leaves you soulless, see this film. If you have a modicum of intelligence, see this film. If you like great acting and directing, see this film. If you like great writing and editing, see this film. If you have an interest in law, see this film.If you are a parent, see this film. A Separation is not harrowing or depressing. Fear not as I did before. If you don't like subtitles, you will forget they are there. Do not read any more detailed reviews. Go without preconception. A Separation deserves all the plaudits it is getting and deserves a much wider audience. Minimalistic and economic, a Separation is one of the finest, most chiselled pieces of cinema of this millennium.


                
This is the first Iranian film I've seen, and I'm recommending it to every-one I know. It is so well-crafted; the twists of the plot throw up new moral dilemmas for all the protagonists, which are explored sensitively and without judgement - so refreshingly unlike mainstream American films. I felt sympathy for all the characters, even the threatening Hodjat, full of misplaced rage which often erupts volcanically. And as a footnote, the film felt like an intimate view into a society that our news media portray as monochromatic and extremely foreign. (I am writing this a few days after the UK embassy in Tehran was ransacked)


                
It seems that a court room drama could be the best place for Frahadi to recreate his very own world and confront us with a short and somehow faraway situations and incidents in life. We think these kinds of happenings and conflicts would not take place in our lives but with his realistic world and characters they seem so close and possible to anyone. Asghar Farhadi loves to put his audience in place of judge, as his other pictures like About Eli or Fireworks Wednesday and here with no fear he takes us straight to a court room. But the thing is that the judge does not provide any help for us to make a clear judgment and surprisingly makes the situation even more complicated. Yes Farhadi doesn't want us to make a judgment, He makes us watch and observe and leave the theater with a big fork in front of us.It Seems that any single decision creates another world full of forks and not taken ways.when nobody is clearly guilty and the line between black and white is so dim. And again here we are in Frhadi's powerful hands surprised to the end of the movie. You can't leave your chair even for one second because the story never lets you to lose even a single moment. And like a tennis ball we're always being shot from this side to the other. And finally we are the daughter shocked and disable to make a decision. May be we haven't seen or we don't want to see this side of life, where nothing is clear, when small lies and unimportant undone things and unsaid words gang up against us and turn to a big disaster. Frahadi has found his own world and his own language and his own version of life. Something we'd never seen before. We appreciate that. He can easily bombard us with information and surprise us with tiny details that seem nothing but like a snowball rolling down a slope they can form a big drama.


                
Asghar Farhadi's new film after the ingenious 'About Elly' is running for the Golden Bear at this year's Berlin Film Festival and, with half of the competition done and the rest of the program not looking too promising, appears to be an almost inevitable winner. Although maybe it won't for that very reason: Jahar Panahi's repeat inability to attend his jury duties because of Iran's government refusal to issue him a travel permit, a retrospective of his works including the 2006 Silver Bear-winning 'Offside', a variety of other Iranian productions and renewed demonstrations in Iran proper put the spotlight firmly on that country's elaborate, yet constrained film industry. All that buzz may outshine the film's artistic value, and prompt the jury to go for a less favored competitor. I should hope not, for Farhadi manages once again to embed lots of social criticism into a straight-laced, realistic narrative.As in 'About Elly', the story begins rather unassumingly and takes an abrupt turn into a spiral of increasingly dramatic events: Nader and Simin are a couple about to break up over the question of moving abroad, for which they have obtained a permit after waiting for 18 months. Nader, however, has his father to take care of, who is suffering from Alzheimer's. Sirin still wants to leave, but not without her daughter (yes, pun intended) Termeh, a somewhat shy, bespectacled 11-year-old who cannot accept her parents' break-up. She therefore decides to stay with her father, which prompts Simin not to leave the country, but move to her mother. Nader is thereby forced to hire someone to take care of his dad, and a colleague of Sirin recommends the pregnant Razieh. Being deeply religious, she should not work in a single man's household, but her husband has been out of a job for a long time and is threatened with jail by his creditors. Her pregnancy and the necessity to attend to her daughter additionally stress her out. When Nader comes home one day to find his father left alone and tied to his bed, a struggle with the returning Razieh ensues, with catastrophic consequences for everyone around...This is a much more complicated set-up than in 'About Elly', but it allows Farhadi to put a lot of additional information into his film as may be obvious to those who are just trying to follow the story (I hesitate to give examples because the film is as of yet to be released in Iran, which means an open-source comment such as this one needs to be carefully phrased). Much of the action takes place in courtrooms, where judges try to negotiate between the parties without any lawyers present. There's a lot of familiarity, and also a lot of menace, which succeeds to create the same climate of anxiety, accusation and deceit as in 'About Elly'. The realism of the narrative is embedded into a carefully planned scenography which makes almost every shot linger in the memory. And as in 'About Elly' the decisive moment, the one that solves the mystery is omitted in the picture, only to be explained verbally at the very end.What makes me feel even more for this film is the fact that it might be the last film of its kind from Iran for some time. Ali Samadi Ahadi, the German-Iranian director of the comedy 'Salami Aleikum' and the upcoming documentary on the July 2009 protests 'The Green Wave', wrote that the film industry has come to a virtual standstill. 'Nader and Simin' was in development at the time of the protests; since then, regulations have become far more repressive, with even established masters like Kiarostami or Makhmalbaf forced to work abroad, and others threatened with jail and work prohibitions, of whom Panahi is only the most famous example. All the more reason to give this film the credit it deserves - winning Berlin may cause Iran's bureaucrats to reconsider, for cinema is almost the last link remaining to our world. Without film, how could we understand that Iranians are a modern people with issues like our own, and not dangerous fanatics as some media and politicians would have us believe?


                
I'm an Iranian, but I've never been interested in Iranian cinema. I only watch Iranian films when they win awards or receive international recognition. I'm a fan of Kiarostami and Majidi, but I can't really say that I like all of their films. I watched Farhady's previous film (About Elly) about a year ago, and the first thing which struck me was how culturally detached the movie was in its depiction of an event. At the time, I believed this to have been the cause of this director's success. Watching Nader and Simin, however, proved that I was terribly mistaken.Asghar Farhady's obsession with the concept of judgment is once again the driving force behind his latest feature. The life-like depiction of the Iranian courtroom (which is in no way impartial) places the audience in the Judge's seat from the very beginning. The extremely believable acting and insanely complex script compel the viewer to make up his/her mind just like when reading a court case. As for the screenplay, I'm almost certain the events in this film actually happened in real life, because in no way could one fabricate such a chaotically complex series of events, so beautifully woven into a coherent whole.Despite being very Iranian in its narrative style and its depiction of Iranian culture (the sanctity of Family, faith, commitment towards parents and married life), I believe that this film could easily appeal to the Western audiences just like a film by Inaritu or Haneke (although I'm pretty sure it won't be nominated for an Oscar for political reasons).After seeing About Elly, I thought Farhady's success was just a one-time fling, but coming out of the theater, having watched Nader and Simin, I was proud to have another Iranian director added to my international list of favorites.


                
In Tehran, the teacher Simin (Leila Hatami) has requested the divorce from her husband, the bank clerk Nader (Peyman Moadi). Simin wishes to live abroad to give a better life to her eleven year-old daughter Termeh (Sarina Farhadi) and Nader, who is a family man but very arrogant, wants to stay to take care of his father (Ali-Asghar Shahbazi) that has Alzheimer. Simin moves to the house of her mother and Nader hires the religious Razieh (Sareh Bayat) to take care of his father while he is working. Razieh is pregnant but she does not tell her husband Hodjat (Shahab Hosseini), who owes a large amount to the creditors, that she is working. When she arrives with her daughter Somayeh (Kimia Hosseini)at Nader's house, she distracts and Nader's father goes to the street and she goes and gets him back home. On the next day, when Nader arrives home with Termeh, they find Nader's father tied up to his bed and Razieh and Somayeh are not at home. When they arrive at home, Nader accuses Razieh of theft and expels her. Razieh feels offended and argues with him, and Nader pushes her out at the front door. Razieh falls and has an abortion. She goes to the court with her husband and the witnesses are summoned to testify. "Jodaeiye Nader az Simin" or the separation of Nader and Simin, is among the best Iranian films I have seen and is a fantastic drama that shows how flawed mankind is, no matter in Iran, Brazil, Europe or wherever. Despite the different values of the Iranian society comparing with the Westerns ones, all the characters are flawed; therefore, the plot is realistic. Nader is a family man that loves his father and his daughter, but commits perjury, is stubborn and arrogant and asks his acquaintances to lie. Simin uses the secret that Razieh had told her to take advantage. Termeh lies to save her father from justice. Razieh is religious and worried with Allah and sins, but she was capable to lie fearing the reaction of her husband. Hodjat is a rude and impulsive man that is violent. The direction is perfect and the acting is top-notch. The story is engaging and believable and differences of cultures between Iran and Brazil are intriguing. I really recommend this film for any cinema lover or people interested in learning a little about the Iranian culture. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil): "A Separação" ("The Separation")
-- www.Ramascreen.com --Wow! I didn't have any expectation and that's what probably helped but A SEPARATION is a great drama. Foreign language film or not, this is just an excellent, excellent drama. You can't get a more Oscar worthy material than this. To me what makes A SEPARATION unique is that writer/director Asghar Farhadi takes conflict, secrets, relationships and other elements that we're familiar with and mixes them with the culture, religion and gender elements from that specific region. This film, to a certain extent, lets you in on how the justice system works in a place where some of us may be ignorant about. And it's really not about our way is better than theirs or vice versa, it's just how different some things are done<U+0085>And this is not just about a divorce or a separation of two individuals The film starts out that way and it ends on that note as well but what happens in between is more of a spin-off story or it stems from when the lead characters Nader and Simin stop being on the same page. A SEPARATION is a very dialogue-driven, a very character driven story, all the actors in this film are marvelous. When the tension is high, they're extremely convincing, I couldn't take my eyes off any of them, especially lead actress Leila Hatami who holds a certain photogenic beauty.On one spectrum, you have Nader and Simin with their daughter, on the other end of the spectrum you have Hodjat and Razieh with their little adorable daughter. Because Simin takes time off from her marriage with the intent to divorce her husband, Nader has to hire Razieh to take care of his father who suffers from Alzheimer's. An incident occurs that escalates into a courtroom drama but there is actually another incident or a card that Asghar Farhadi hides until it's time to show it further on in the story and the way everything progresses and eventually unravels keeps you intrigued. A big part of what draws me in is the film's depiction of Iranian law and traditions when it comes to divorces and allegations. What may be considered murder, how important it is for an individual to see someone swear on a Koran, how a judge deals with opposing alibis. I don't know how accurate it is but it's nothing short of interesting. It would certainly cause debate and discussion among the audiences as to the fairness of it all. And the story goes through those problems and makes a full round circle back to the separation of Simin from Nader. A highly engrossing film.-- www.Ramascreen.com --


                
This film won the best foreign language film for the Golden Globes. It blows just about everything this season out of the water. Don't, don't miss it. For all the hate-filled rhetoric spewed about Iran, this film should show the world, like so many other Iranian films, what brilliant artistry exists in this nation, what sensitive beautiful people Iranians are. Iranian actors have been honed and trained since the 1970's when the modern era of Iranian film began. The principal actors: Leila Hatami, Peyman Moaadi, Shahab Hosseini, Sareh Bayat, and Sarina Farhadi (the director's own daughter) are superb. From the first moments of the film you believe them and the truth of their existence. The stark intimacy of the film is stunning. The complicated plot is gripping and holds one's attention to the very end. It will also be fresh and novel for non-Iranian audiences. It is true in every instance to Iranian society and cultural life. Watch it and learn why American politicians have been misleading Americans about Iranian life.


                
"A Separation" is an intense and powerful examination of the eternal conflict between human emotions, personal convictions and Law, whether political or religious, and it happens to be –I believe- the best film of 2011.The movie is set in Iran, in an upper-middle class area, and features a series of unfortunate incidents, all guided by sincere and genuine emotions, but that nonetheless end up judged by the Islamic Law. Written and directed by Ashgar Farhadi, the film is a triumph on the field of intelligence as it never patronizes the viewer by pointing a finger on an obvious 'antagonist'. Ultimately, the victims are not innocent, nor the accusers are wrongdoers, and the only 'responsible' is a Law that fails to take into consideration human feelings.Still, Law isn't negatively portrayed as it remains true to its obligatory neutrality, a notion hinted in the very first scene of the film. Indeed, the realism and intensity of the dialog, a back and forth verbal fight between a wife and a husband sets in the very first minutes what would be the enthralling tone of the film. The core of the conflict is not unusual in family dramas, it's about a child custody, Simin (Leila Hatami) wants a divorce because her husband Nader (Peyman Moadi) refuse to emigrate in a country that would –in her opinion- provide a better education to her daughter Termeh, Sarina Farhadi as a strong-minded adolescent yet the hostage of an inextricable situation, even more ironic because the two parents don't want to divorce.But Nader gives legitimate reasons to his refusal: he must take care of his father, an old eighty-something man suffering from Alzheimer disease. "But he doesn't know you!" "Yes, but I know him", this brilliant exchange plays like the movie in microcosm; it's all about contradictory opinions guided by legitimate emotions or convictions. When the opening scene ends, those who agree with Simin's arguments understand Nader and vice-versa. If there is ever one, that's the greatest achievement of Farhadi's Oscar-nominated screenplay; still, the force of the script enough couldn't have elevated "A Separation" to such a universal and miraculously unanimous acclaim. The film works as a perfect combination of writing, acting and directing to such an extent that it could have easily been nominated to more than two Oscars without garnering much surprise.Farhadi's direction is perfect for this kind of narrative as it uses a hand-held camera work in many scenes, as to create the dizzying and uncomfortable effect of documentary-like realism. The film reminds of Cassavetes' naturalistic work in the way it conveys a sort of one-set room intimacy and place the viewer in the unsettling situation of a witness, caught in the middle of a scene, I mean by 'scene' an embarrassing and uncomfortable situation. We just see and watch, and our hearts pound from these displays of aggressiveness, hostility, cries, shouts and thankfully sometimes, love and affection. Farhadi's film is a masterpiece of storytelling on that level, proving that even plain dramas can be as emotionally engaging as thrillers, and the film does it so well that the content can invite any audience to question its own legal system, no more or no less immune from similar issues.Law has been established by men in order to find the truth within the chaotic succession of facts that can speak for two opposite sides, but the genius of "A Separation" is that it deals with a particular situation where no one is aware of all the facts, even the viewer is left with some hints and clues, and can only assemble them as the movie progresses. Razieh (Sareh Beyat) is a young religious mother hired as a caregiver for Nader's father. She has a miscarriage and pretends it was caused by Nader's brutality. Nader claims he didn't know anything about the pregnancy and was upset because she left his father alone. The domino's effect introduces the peripheral characters as Simin wants to protect Termeh from Razieh's hot tempered full-of-debts husband Hodjat (Shahab Hossein) who vents his anger on the system, and through his scene-stealing performance paints an indirect social commentary on actual Iran.The film is full of confrontations that are some of the most realistic ever: everything in the dialogs and the acting sounds true and make the whole experience so nerve-wracking that we never know if we're embarrassed to see these lives being destroyed or because the script didn't let us determine which side we're supposed to take. But "A Separation" is beyond these sterile considerations: it's not about sides to take or opinions to make, it's about the innate limits of Law. Law is even incarnated by a decent judge who shows some signs of reason and magnanimousness sometimes, and sometimes can't handle Hodjat's outbursts of anger. In a way, he embodies our position as the powerless observer of a situation that goes out of control because it engages a wide range of emotions, sometimes positive, sometimes negative but always sincere, creative a psychological cocktail about to explode if a resolution doesn't come to appease the nerves.The resolution, or let's say, the conclusion, is satisfying because it never betrays the film's 'philosophy' and leaves us with the penetrating sensation that we've just watched a miracle, a modest creation whose emotional and intellectual force spoke some uncomfortable truths about human nature and its antagonism with Law's cold realism. And on the surface, it also features an Iran far from the current stereotypes launched by the infamous "Not Without My Daughter", where women aren't all submissive chador-wearers and men macho wife-beaters.(I feel terrible to pollute this review with these comments because they insult the intelligence of the film, which already takes for granted that 'Iranian are normal people' but regarding the actual and scary political context, I guess it's necessary)


                
I think our day to day life has more than enough material for a good movie. 'A separation' engrosses you into the life of a small Persian family and shows you what happens there. You get to watch this very closely and the final result is a superbly simple and beautiful film. The story is so real, this could have happened anywhere. There is also another nice movie by the same director - 'About Elly (2009)', but I think I liked this one more. The movie lingers, makes you think, but its not heavy on your mind, you relish the thinking, it might probably remind you of the events in your own life and what you may have done in those circumstances. In some sense, you actually cherish the fact that well - this is life. There are too many beautiful moments in this film to list, go watch it, satisfaction assured.


                
I think this movie is the savior of Iranian cinema.Asghar Farhadi is a smart director and all of his movies are talking about Iranian society. Nowadays religious intolerance is the main problem of Iranian society and Farhadi decided to show this matter in his latest film.We have to appreciate him because at the age of poor Iranian movies we have a brilliant movie on screens. About the actors , that is the second experience of Peyman Moaadi who had seen before in last Farhadi's film (About Eli 2009), but he acted more professional than he is , as an intolerant person and doesn't let his family to go to abroad. About actresses , Leila Hatami & Sareh Bayat performed unconventionally great and I think that was the most important movie that they have ever acted in. I hope it will win the Best Foreign Language Film title in 84th Academy Awards. Good Luck for Iranian Movies , Directors , Actors & Actresses and .....


                
Gripping, tense, heartfelt, powerful, painful, and stirring, Asghar Farhadi's A SEPARATION is an intense drama that captivates like a thriller by boasting astounding performances and a truly compelling narrative arc. It is an Iranian film that centers on intimate domestic issues in the midst of extremely difficult circumstances - a purely humanistic narrative that gets better and better as it progresses, building upon layer after layer after layer of dense situations in which these poor characters are helplessly engulfed within. In creating a plethora of deep emotions that are carried out honestly and never over-the-top by the ensemble's pitch-perfect performances, Farhadi manages to weave together multiple angles that are both morally complex and excruciatingly truthful into each and every one of his primary characters (all of whom exist in the middle-to-lower class) . The plot is patiently set up with its pieces slowly establishing in place in the first few scenes before snaring the audience into a wonderfully played 123-minute thrill ride that places viewers right beside its characters - a feat that is executed through its seemingly naturally-crafted hand- held cinematography in conjunction with genuine acting that rarely calls attention to itself. The film never resorts to flashy and glitzy elements to further its story - it absolutely has no need to - and proves that sincerity in all its forms whether it be in writing, acting, or directing, no matter the budget nor technical limitations, can result in work of the highest quality. To put it simply, A SEPARATION is (personally) not only the best film of 2011, but arguably one of the most impressive lower-budgeted dramas (under 1 million dollars) in the past decade.


                
A married couple are faced with a difficult decision, to improve the life of their child by moving to another country or to stay in Iran and look after a deteriorating parent who has Alzheimers (plot).First thing iam sure this film will get nominated by the Academy for best foreign language film and i hope Mr.Farhadi won, because he deserved.Secend thing the film present a very simple story about Nader and Simin have been planning to move to a European country to provide better opportunities, as Simin claims in the court, for their only daughter, Termeh (Sarina Farhadi).Third thing, Nader refuse to leave his father and Simin need her daughter to go with her, but the problem with the daughter, she want one thing like all the children in the worlds, one house and lovable parents.Finally, " this film really deserves to be considered as one of the film of the year and i deserves the high rating in IMDb site, "A Separation" was good example of a real-life movie which could help people to revise their ideas about important concepts like responsibility, love and sacrifice.


                
just brilliant! I think Farhadi knows Iran Society very well. he knows what to write and what to direct! with a look into his previous films it's very vivid that he has continued what he wants to make to a more comprehending level.i think Farhadi is the best director in Iran nowadays and it's not just his directing but he being smart. some might say Farhadi has just continued what he made in fireworks Wednesday or about Elly,but I'll say it's the way to become much more perfect.this film is about 140 min, but you don't feel pass of time at all. the drama of film is very strong. movie mostly talks about judgment and the fact that what would you do in a gray situation! this film is full of gray Characters and situations. the movie is gray!


                
The new movie of Asghar Farhadi is a melodrama that captures the theme of responsibility and honesty as well as love, religiosity, and sacrifice. The movie starts with an argument for divorce between Simin (Leila Hatami) and Nader (Peyman Moaadi) before a judge in an Iranian court. Through their argument, the main storyline of the movie becomes clear for us so that we become aware that Nader and Simin have been planning to move to a European country to provide better opportunities, as Simin claims in the court, for their only daughter, Termeh (Sarina Farhadi).Although Nader was interested in the idea of living abroad a few months earlier, he refuses then because of his father (Ali-Asghar Shahbazi) who suffers from Alzheimer. When, in the court, Simin says to Nader "your father does not even know you" Nader answers "<U+0085>but I know him." Here, the responsibility of a child toward his father is very tangible. During the movie, Simin insists on the idea of going abroad; when Nader refuses, she believes there is no other way for them except to divorce. Because Simin does not live with her husband and her daughter anymore, Nader decides to hire a reliable and responsible nurse for his father. Therefore, Razieh (Sareh Bayat) enters their house as the nurse.On the first day of her arrival, Nader's father forgot to say that he needed to go to rest room. Therefore, Razieh, as a woman who really believes in strict rules of religion, does not like to come again to take care of Nader's father. Actually, she does not want to help an old man to go to rest room and even wash him. On a second thought, Razieh agrees to become his nurse again just because she needs the money. One day Nader comes and sees that his father has fallen from his bed and does not move. He thinks his father just passed away. However, he is still alive and becomes OK after a few minutes. Nader becomes very angry of what he calls " Razieh's irresponsibility" because she left the house and there is no sign of her. When she comes back, Nader brawls with her and pushes her out of the house and Razieh falls on the stairs that causes the abortion of her baby and a new challenge for Nader and Simin appears.Nader is accused of killing Razieh's baby intentionally. Razieh claims that Nader pushed her though he knew she was pregnant; Nader denies it. In the court, Razieh's husband, Hodjat (Shahab Hosseini), who is a nervous man and does not have any job and has many debts, fights several times with Nader and insults him harshly. Termeh knows that his father is lying because she is sure that Nader heard the story of Razieh's pregnancy when she was talking about it with Termeh's tutor, Miss Ghahraii (Merila Zare'i). She is right! Nader and Simin agree to give some money to them to finish the story democratically. However, Nader insists on the idea of being sure whether he was guilty or not. That is why Nader asks Razieh to swear if he is guilty of the abortion of her baby. Although Hodjat really wants to get the money, Razieh refuses to swear because she thinks she is not sure whether the abortion of her baby was because of Nader or the accident that she had on the same day. Due to her religious beliefs, she does not want to get blood money From Nader when she is not sure whether he is guilty or not.Finally, Nader and Simin agree to let Termeh choose her destiny by saying whether she prefers to live with her father or her mother. Like "about Eli", the previous film of Farhadi, the ending of the story is not clear and it is up to the audience to guess whether Termeh wants to live with her father or her mother.There are scenes in the movie that are very impressive: When Nader is washing his father's body, while crying deeply, it shows us how a child loves his father no matter he is too old or sick. In addition, when Termeh asks his father about the reason that he told a big lie to the court, we can understand once more how children monitor their parents' behavior as their reliable role models. In addition, when Nader's father holds Simin's hand strongly which shows that he knows her well and no one, even Razieh, can look after him like the way that his daughter-in-law did in the past. "Nader and Simin, a Separation" really deserves to be considered as one of the top 250 movies ever made. In the 21st century, when we are surrounded by thousands of science fiction movies, "Nader and Simin, a Separation" is a good example of a real-life movie which can help people to revise their ideas about important concepts like responsibility, love and sacrifice.
I wouldn't have been more glued to the screen if I watched a blockbuster action movie. I've seen too many of them, I forget them before the credits roll. Now, it's a film without any nudity, crime lords, drugs or swearing to pin me down for a breathless, profound two hours.What is morally right? What is morally wrong? What is legally right? What is legally wrong? It depends, is the film's answer. And do you know what? I agree. I agree with this answer from a film that comes from the other side of the world, from a country which I perceive to have religion and politics utterly different from mine. Because the film transcends the detail, it just shows the essence of being human. The characters just keep on trying to do the best for them or their family in credible situations which can apply to anyone and anywhere, but the choices they make will conflict at one time or another with some moral or legal tenet. The husband, the wife, the daughter, the old man's carer, the carer's husband, the daughter's teacher, even the judge – they all want to do the right thing, but they don't. Or do. Or don't. Or do. The beauty of this film is that it just tells the story. It doesn't take sides. It doesn't force on us an opinion on whether the choice was right or wrong. If it tried, I probably wouldn't have liked it as much, because it would have to conflict with some of my own views. Everyone has firm opinions, until life carries you to situations like this film's, and then nothing is black and white any more.For as long as there are creators like the director and writer of this film, there is hope for the independents. A story like this will beat any Hollywood-esque film to the punch. It's flawlessly played and it's technically well done. It doesn't need more to move me.


                
Today I had the pleasure of watching A Separation, a foreign film that has been critically-acclaimed for some time now. What we have here is definitely one of the year's best films. Intriguing, captivating, and ambiguous.I had no idea that this was going to turn out to be some sort of court drama. I just want to first talk about the direction. Farhadi masterfully constructs these characters, and we enter into a state in their lives where we serve as some sort of observant. Even before the actual plot of the film comes along, his tight screenplay and direction leave us trying to astutely observe what is happening around every corner of the frame. We barely know these characters, and yet, tension is arising from the simplest of every-day matters. Why? Why indeed, as it becomes apparent, the film gets more serious in its plot. It is here that the real reason as to why we are observing moments of these characters' lives comes into focus. Questions arise, as to who did what, and who saw what, and who heard this or that. The film takes a neutral ground in all of this, and yet we ourselves can't help but try to memorize even the smallest of details that could perhaps help us out in figuring out the actual truth. The film never judges its characters, which is why we also have to be sort of neutral in all of this, even when we don't want to, even when we think we know what really happened. This is a mystery in the most unusual and most natural way. We are hooked into the film's plot line, and as much as the film won't let us go, we don't want to let go. We want to hang on and catch up with it, and not miss one single beat of what is happening. Such precise and balanced filmmaking.I do want to take note of the fantastic performances. The entire cast is wonderful, especially the three main leads. Not one single moment is wasted in their portrayals. Overall, this is a near-perfect film, one of the most intriguing and engaging films of the year, and the ending serves entirely to what had come before, and is fully satisfying.


                
Nader (Peyman Moaadi) and Simin (Leila Hatami) are a middle-class, modern, urban Iranian couple. They have been married for fourteen years, but they're separating. They were going to divorce, but the court ruled that their situation wasn't dire enough to warrant it. They each have their side of the story. Simin desires to leave their country, as she does not want her eleven-year-old daughter, Termeh (Sarina Farhadi), growing up under current conditions. Nader, on the other hand, wants to stay so that he can look after his elderly father (Ali-Asghar Shahbazi), now in the advanced stages of Alzheimer's disease. Their situation becomes much more complicated after an incident, one directly involving the caregiver Nader hired to watch his father during the day. What begins as a simple argument between two people quickly escalates into arduous legal action and a heated battle over what really happened."A Separation" is surely the best film of the year. Apart from being a portrait of characters that are just as fascinating as they are compelling, it's an intelligent and uncompromising examination of culture; within the course of what appears to be a simple narrative, we will have been told a thing or two about gender roles, parenting styles, personal values, the rule of law, and religious beliefs as they apply to present-day Iran. Although not a courtroom drama in the Hollywood sense, it has the superb plotting of a tightly-wound legal thriller, the characters in a desperate struggle to reconstruct a singular event out of several accounts. It is, above all, a timely and universally resonant story of responsibility and truth, the latter of which proves to be open for debate.I want to word the rest of my review as carefully as possible, as the incident in question is dependent on actions that shouldn't be spoiled. Based on Simin's recommendation, Nader hires a lower-class young woman named Razieh (Sareh Bayat) to be his father's caregiver. Deeply religious, Razieh went against her own traditions by applying for the job without the approval of her husband. She resorted to this only because her family is desperately in need of money. There are three reasons why she proves herself the wrong person for the job, although I will only reveal two of them. First, getting to Nader's apartment requires a grueling commute on several buses. Second, she's forced to bring along her daughter, who's clearly too young to be in an environment of a man with Alzheimer's. It's not just a question of exposure to something potentially traumatic; in her innocence, she doesn't see the harm of fiddling with the pressure knob of his oxygen tank.My careful wording will now devolve into maddening vagueness. Someone makes a very bad decision, leaving someone else's life at stake. Not long after, something goes missing. The person it belongs to immediately accuses someone else of stealing, and indeed, this someone else does have a motive. This leads to a verbal altercation, which then leads to ... the incident I've alluded to several times now. At this point, an already challenging film transcends itself by drawing us into a twisted moral quandary. Several pivotal characters are introduced as the incident turns legal. We meet Razieh's husband, Houjat (Shahab Hosseini), who has been unemployed for several months now and cannot speak without resorting to anger. We also meet an upstairs neighbor, who may have witnessed something important, and Termeh's teacher, who testifies on behalf of Nader.Caught in the middle is Termeh, who not only must endure her father's legal troubles but must also watch as both her parents continue to fight. We're repeatedly compelled to ask ourselves which of them truly has her best interests at heart, although that would be senseless simply because it's never as clear cut as we would like it to be. This is the kind of film in which we can identify with both sides of an issue; each character makes valid points, just as each character makes weak arguments. The more we learn about the situation, the murkier it becomes. That's because there's far more on the table than a series of actions.What it really comes down to are the beliefs with which we shape our lives. For Razieh, it's a matter of her faith, to which she is bound. Consider the fact that she's forbidden from touching a man other than her husband; when she discovers that Nader's father is incontinent and has peed in his pants, she must make a phone call to determine whether or not she can change him. For the secular Nader and Simin, it's a matter of personal pride. One will propose a financial settlement while the other will refuse to take part in it, as it will come off as an admission of guilt. They both think they know best, not just for their daughter but also for the situation at hand. By the end of "A Separation," more than one person will be faced with making a difficult decision, one that will depend entirely on their understanding of what they perceive. And isn't that was truth is? Perception? -- Chris Pandolfi (www.atatheaternearyou.net)
Like About....... Elly, which won Farhadi the best director award at Berlin two years ago and which went on to find release in many territories, it has the potential to engage Western audiences with the right handling. The movie is centered on a couple, Nader and Simin, and their 11-year old daughter, Termeh. Nader and Simin are about to leave the country for good; however, Nader has a change of heart and decides to stay and look after his father who suffers from Alzheimer's disease. Simin is determined to get a divorce and leave the country with her daughter, but the court does not find in her favor. Simin goes to live with her mother and Termeh return Politics are ostensibly out of the picture, though the whole premise is based on a middle-class couple's divorce because the wife Simin (Iranian star Leila Hatami) wants to move abroad to find a better future for their 11-year-old daughter Termeh (Sarina Farhadi). But that may not be the real reason for the separation.Nader (Peyman Moaadi, seen in About Elly) is a decent man but a stubborn one, and he neglects his wife. Too proud to ask her to stay with him, he lets her move back to her mother's place while he and Termeh are left to look after his aged father with Alzheimer's disease. He hastily hires a poor woman named Razieh (Sareh Bayat) as a daytime caretaker, who signs on without telling him she's pregnant (or does she?). A few days later he fires her and shoves her out the door; she falls on the stairs (perhaps) and has a miscarriage. The rest of the film is a crescendo of tension as Razieh's hot-headed, debt-ridden husband Hodjat (Shahab Hosseini) takes Nader to court for manslaughter. While the intricate screenplay ratchets up tension as it raises the stakes for its characters from scene to scene, its reliance on contrivance might irritate some viewers. Indeed, the conceit of Nader and Simin's separation occasionally appears as a petty battle of wills, something that undermines the weight of other events.after 30 min , new details are added that changes the moral perspective. Rather remarkably, Farhadi's screenplay doesn't take sides with any of the characters; on the contrary, everyone seems equally right and wrong at the same time. They are all caught in a web of pride and ego, morality and religion, money and honor.
one of the best films i've seen in the last couple of years is surely 'a separation'. most of the award winning iranian films i'd watched before were either political or were showing a very dark image of the country but unlike those 'a separation' is a social drama. it's very rare that a foreign film gets praised by both national and international critics and audience.Farhadi's film takes us into lives of some ordinary people but with his brilliant script he takes our breath away and the suspense stays with us all the way until the end.another admirable thing about this film is that it shows us a real insight from inside Iran, not the way it was presented to us by Hollywood. it made me feel so much closer its people, they're not so different from us.and there was only one movie i gave a 10 in 2011 and it was 'a separation'. if you have n't watched it yet do yourself a favor and watch it.


                
In my opinion this is the best movie of the year! It is an amazing drama (you read thriller) centered around two families in Iran. The movie shows the complexity of the Iranian society (something that is missing in our media). The dialogues are breathtaking, acts are amazing and the script is one of the best I have ever seen.from here contains spoiler....!I had never heard my heart beating so hard, as it was beating when the judge called Termeh (Sarina Farhadi) inside the little court room to ask her if she, in fact was the one who told her dad about the pregnancy!And my favorite dialogue of the movie was when Nader was practicing some vocabulary with Temeh, he was reading some words of foreign origin (in Persian) and Termeh was supposed to answer the Persian equivalent of them. They reached to the word "Guaranty", Termeh answered with an Arabic word, at this point Nader objected by saying that this is Arabic not Persian, so he offered a Persian word instead. Termeh then said but our teacher said so, and Nader goes:"What is wrong is wrong to matter who said it or where it is written." Perfect!
Simplest in its approach, minimalist in its presentation, economic in its creation & artistically subtle<U+0085> A Separation is one of the perfectly flawless films of 21st century and arguably the finest that Cinema of Iran has offered so far. It's a riveting, suspenseful drama that is highly gripping & involving, tough to let go, morally & emotionally draining but in the end, it's totally worth it.It's difficult to say whether it's the writing or the direction that's the best part of this film because Asghar Farhadi has done a tremendous job in both fields and the film is only elevated to further greatness by its sheer perfection in other filmmaking departments like performances, cinematography, editing etc and even with its simplest narration manages to keep the best of our attention throughout its runtime.Definitely the best film of its year & certainly one of world cinema's finest, A Separation is a gritty portrayal of a domestic life in contemporary Iran that is destined to be remembered & admired for a long, long time. An Instant Classic. A Solid Masterpiece. Strongly Recommended.Full Review at: cinemaclown.wordpress.com


                
This is unlike any movie you have seen. The depth of the character development is a refreshing change from the Hollywood genre. The characters create an emotional storm from protagonist to antagonist on a dime. At the end of the movie, ask yourself how much you relate to the characters, and you will come to the same conclusion.The carefully crafted story is genius. Topics from the law, to dedication to family, religion, and the truth all come to light. This movie will leave you thinking. As with the entire Persian movie genre, expect it to challenge you personally and institutionally. The open ended plot will leave you talking about this movie for years to come.The acting is absolutely haunting. I have never seen a movie bring to light the chemistry and absolute Stanislovsky approach to acting that this movie does seamlessly. Roger Ebert called this the best movie of the year. For me, it was the best movie of the decade.


                
I was expecting an excellent film and got even more than I expected. I was lucky enough to have an Irani friend for about six years before I moved from Northern California. During those six years I began to see a humanity in my friend that I did not expect. Like almost everyone in America we have been taught that Iran is our enemy. That their religious beliefs were so different than ours that there was little hope of closing that gap. That reconciling those differences would forever cause us a chasm. Or at the very least a great tension.When I came to the movie I expected things to go very wrong. The screen writer leads us into deep tension in which most movies would treat differently. The characters treated us with how much compassion there could be amongst us all.If there was a lesson to learn it is that being right can be wrong, and being wrong can be right. Its a paradox that the movie respects the audience enough to come to their own conclusions.It is too bad that the movie could not be nominated for an Oscar as the best film of the year. Its a great tribute to independent film. I can only hope we see more movies like this.
Where there is limitation, lurks beauty and art. This best justifies why "A Separation" engulfs the viewer to contemplate on more than meets the eye on screen. In a cinema (Iran), which barely leaves any room to openly debate, or perhaps pitch into beliefs and disbelieves, this gem ingeniously sneaks out from dilemmas involved in matrimony state of a couple, depreciated and devastated enough to take refuge in a separation. "A Separation" is about inability of judiciary system when it comes to moral phenomenons, while ironically implies on corrupted legal systems and its vicious regression. We are being asked by many complicated questions during the entire movie. A predicament where an immaculate child is condemned to confess what is not ethically right, nor is true, just in order to sustain the union of her semi-disjointed family viable. Farhadi masters the story while developing it in such a way which incapacitates the viewer to make unequivocal and straightforward judgments by asking labyrinth-like questions within a situation where all of us could have been through. Last but not least, through the entire movie the viewer is somehow being interrogated about the inevitable intersection of religion, faith and beliefs.


                
