Netflix continues it's quest to fill their service with quality content. And again, they succeed. This time not with a drama series or movie, but a documentary series. All based around the same main theme; the best restaurants in the world and the great minds that created them.The stories of the origins of these restaurants, and especially the chef's who created them, are moving and inspiring. The series successfully puts a human face on these places, which would otherwise be regarded as extravagant and out of reach by most. The passion and drive of the chef's, as well as the struggles they had to undergo to be where they are today, makes you feel glad for their success. Never before have I seen a documentary with such vivid cinematography. The kitchen time-lapses, the environmental shots and the close-ups of the dishes are all phenomenal. Combine this with an excellent classical score, which fits the images perfectly, and you are left with near perfection.This series is a must-see for cooking and food enthusiasts and I cannot recommend it more to anyone who is looking for an inspirational story or simply a quality documentary.


                
Is a mere recipe really worth risking 'failure in life' over? Is food really something that can be meaningful and life-affirming?I love the process of creating and serving food and people who devote themselves to making the world a better place one serving at a time. And as I watched the first episode of Netflix's production called Chef's Table featuring Massimo Bottura, I have never felt so utterly moved by a chef's ideas and philosophy about life.I don't care whether Massimo Bottura's restaurant 'Osteria Francescana' has the envious rep of being the world's third best restaurant in the world as much as the man himself and what and how he thinks, because after all, history is littered with the corpses of people who never made it, despite being mindblowingly original and creative and bold and 'I'm gonna go out there and make a dent in the universe' attitude - qualities that I worship.Yes, worship.No, what takes me by the neck and inspires me to raise my own consciousness is Mr. Bottura's passion for life and being original while living it each day. What gives me goosebumps is his way of taking a failure and throwing it back on the wall and turning it into a metaphorical fresco when lesser people would have just slumped down and given up.Steven Soderbergh, while accepting his Oscar for directing 'Erin Brockovich', dedicated his prize to "anyone who has ever created something - i don't care whether its a book or music or whatever".I too reserve the greatest respect for anyone who has ever dared to create something that moves this world forward in ANY sense against the forces of disorder and apathy and emotional and physical entropy and brings order and energy back into our lives.I will definitely be watching more of Chef's Table's episodes, and I hope you would too and spread the word. In this mostly sad, pathetic, morose, inert, world we need all the inspiration we can get. I know I do.


                
"Chef's Table", created by David Gelb (of "Jiro Dreams of Sushi" fame) might at first glance seem to be yet another show celebrating food but in retrospect its title makes it clear that its main theme is the chefs themselves. It certainly celebrates food in the way that no movie or show about an artist can't help but to celebrate their work (and does so magnificently with some of the sexiest "food porn" ever shot) but "Chef's Table" is almost entirely about the creators. What makes their creativity tick? Where do they come from? How does their personal past and present influence their work? How do they live? What does their artistic "voice" say about what food could and SHOULD be?From an attempt to challenge the ultra-traditional notions of cooking in Italy to trying to find an identity for a still-being-defined Australian cuisine. From the oddly modern and crucial-for-the-future appreciation of the old ways of farming and foraging (which still can't help but be influenced by current advances in technology) to the almost unavoidable requirement of having at least some traditional studies in France or under French chefs (like at least half of the 6 chefs featured so far in this series have). From the importance of rigor and effort to achieve perfection to the importance of experimentation and relaxation to achieve, well... perfection; "Chef's Table" shows us the many challenges, contradictions and impulses that these chefs have had to face in order to be recognized amongst the best in the world, but most importantly, to have a voice of their own.While shows like Anthony Bourdain's tell us the wonders of food by means of traveling externally and seeing the infinite possibilities found around the world, "Chef's Table" shows us the wonders of traveling inwards, of finding infinite possibilities in one's own memories, origins and desires. The defining elements that tie all of these chefs together is that they all needed cuisine as a way to express themselves and that they've had to carve niches of their own to be able to feel comfortable and satisfied in being themselves, in saying what they WANT to say. Much like when one first knows of the existence of "film language" and in doing so begins understanding and appreciating the art form far more than before, "Chef's Table" is a series that makes one understand "food language" in the best way possible: directly from 6 of its most honestly individual voices, from 6 of its own "auteurs".


                
I am almost finished watching the first season and I am feeling a little panicked that it will be over soon. I never watch TV because I am simply too busy. That said, I am a food enthusiast (food blogger, home cook, food photographer) and I simply can not resist a well done food show. That said, we booted the cable and I was worried about losing my beloved food TV shows via that network. Chef's Table is far and away superior to any other food related show I have ever seen - including full length movies. I LOVED the photography, the music, the way the stories are told and the voice given to the chefs. I was hoping to discover if another season would be forthcoming by logging on here. Please tell me that it is, because this show is Simply the best. Thank you, Wendi


                
I normally watch comedy on Netflix but I decided to give this show a try and I fell in love with the stories of these incredibly passionate chefs. The cinematography is breath taking. I feel like I'm watching a nature documentary. The food is beautiful and if it weren't for this show I would never see it because these restaurants are waaaaay outside my price range.


                
This is the first review of a show I have ever done. I randomly found the Chefs Table searching through Netfix. This just might become a need instead of a want. Humanity, inspiration, beauty, passion, diversity all served artfully. I feel as if I have found home. As if I have been hydrated after a long summer. I fear that I have tasted and it may be taken away. May it not be a one night stand? Where is the next place, the next one, A film for TV? The food makes my mouth water, the stories cause me grow spiritually, the people challenge my purpose. To be so brave and live as they do. To sit at the chefs table again. I need. My soul thanks you ... bravo.


                
When Netflix began releasing titles I never expected them to turn to the streets for commercial venue. By the streets, I mean, are those which we come by naturally, on our everyday lives. Hotels, restaurants, plazas, touristic organizations represent some examples.As it resonated with my cuisine interests, Chef's Table caught my eye as a way to kill an hour and a half.Never have I experienced such emotional development or communicated elation through watching a food review show. It really becomes something much more than simply a show; instead, a reality one can fully connect with, as the people depicted are not actors, but unmasked human beings.


                
I am not your typical person who loves to watch documentaries, least of all on food. However, there is something truly unique about Chef's Table. Each episode stands on its own and it is amazing to see the different processes of different chefs. The show does such a great job of showing the true personalities of chefs that the audience is able to make comparisons and differences with each passing episode.All of the chefs that are talked to have many common traits and it is so fascinating to see. All have a certain feverishness for cooking, an amazing work ethic, and have traveled abroad to expand their knowledge in hopes of becoming a food auteur.Their souls are put into each meal that they make for their customers and they view the process of cooking as a beautiful art. Each chef is currently questioning the food landscape around them in hopes of changing the views of people and the way they see food.My only complaint of the show is that it can be a little artsy, but it is amazing and I thoroughly enjoy the show. That is my only warning going in. Please watch the show, it is amazing!!!


                
My mom and I found this in one of those I-have-no-idea-what-I-want-to- watch-lets-wander-Netflix evenings. We were halfway through the first episode when my husband came in and he was so fascinated he asked if we could start over. The three of us binge watched all of the first season in a couple of days. I love how passionate and creative these chefs are. It makes you really think about your food. Where it comes from, how its grown and raised. It makes you want to cook something as beautiful as these chefs. It also made me go to the web to look up some of the restaurants and chefs to find out where they're located and how expensive it would be to dine in the 3rd best restaurant in the world. We cannot wait for another season!


                
I liked the format and production values of this Netflix series. Each episode is like getting to know a new friend, who happens to be a culinary genius. The span across the planet is a good idea. It keeps it from feeling too formulaic. The cinematography is excellent and adds a travelogue quality. And, I even liked most of the subjects.Like the overpriced eating experiences in these restaurants, the series felt like a guilty pleasure. As long as I focused on the artistic aspect of the episodes, I could forget about the insanity of gourmet meals on an ecologically challenged and overpopulated planet where only 10% of the population can afford to eat like this. Niki Nakayama is my favorite chef of the bunch. Ben Shewry's restaurant was my favorite setting. Magnus Nilsson gets my award for the most personable chef.I hope Netflix has the wisdom to continue this series. Moving away from Michelin and more toward sustainable food genius would be a plus in my book.
I remember watching the first couple of seasons, and the French chefs' especial episodes, and being amazed by each story and the food that was created because of that stories, being the food the center piece of the whole show. The attention to details was outstanding. It was an A+ show. This last few seasons have turned into something else, a different kind of dish, maybe a little less about the food and about something else, even politics. I miss the way the "old show" felt more tightly focused, more surprising. I think it worked so much better and was far more exquisite. It used to feel especial, a rare treat. But if I have to grade it now, it would barely be a B-.


                
The show deserves no more than a 7 but I cannot help but gift an extra point on account of its uniqueness.The food is so well presented, contextualized, and explained. It takes us on a beautiful voyage. These dishes are pinnacles of gastronomic expression, nothing less than a consummate sensory blend of artistry. If you have been at such a table, you know what I mean. It is a painting and a sculpture and a literary journey and... a merging and submerging of taste, smell, texture, temperature, bliss.And there is no small amount of genius than to showcase these culinary gems but on the gritty hands of the workers that mine them. Because, you see, almost without exception (although, there are exceptions), these chefs are conceited and self-important to the point of utter ridiculousness. The contrast is magnificent.One could hope for a better lot of human beings, at least less vain, but the sprinkle of imperfection on perfection, the intimation that while we are so, so flawed, we are nonetheless capable of so much... it is inspiring.There is a real need for more shows like this one.


                
Season 1-4 plus the French episodes are amazing and truly inspirational! One of the best things Netflix have put out.I understand there's only a handful of extraordinary chefs, but there's gotta be some more interesting chefs than those they've included in the last two seasons. At least put more focus on the food rather than dragging it out. I used to turn on chefs table to be inspired, now I turn it on for sleep aid.


                
I just finished the first episode of the third season and this docu-series just keeps on getting better. I grapple for words to describe just how much of an impact this is having on me. This is not a cooking show although this is about food. This is all about the artists behind the art of cooking. The motivations, pain, philosophy, culture, and events that spun the wheel of creativity of these geniuses and propelled them to greatness.The show in itself is art. It begins with a fresh outlook, a unique personality changing the landscape of the culinary arts. Then it crescendoes into the journey, the history, and finally an understanding of the beauty of their creations.For me the most beautiful aspect of the show is how it just lets the chefs talk spontaneously and how they open up and reveal themselves in their happiest and most vulnerable. There is always a lesson to be learned from every chef featured on each episode. The philosophy ranges from the out of this world to the simplest and most basic and it will leave you in awe every time the closing credits roll.


                
I am just loving this. I always had a different perspective about those having top restaurants in the world. They do live in luxury and just enjoy opening their new branches around but my image was totally ridiculous after seeing this documentary it is not only about culinary journey it is about how determination and hard work produces sth extraordinary. Creation, invention and doing sth completely denovo every time a high degree of pressure and stress as well. I only was hoping to see also a very very short instruction of one of those remarkably astonishing foods at the end but anyway this is absolutely recommended to watch to all ages. I was crying my eyes out how we never realized we could look at messed up things in another way.


                
There should be a show that is done of equal quality about farmers. We are inventive, artistic and equally important. Without the farmers no one would eat and chefs would not have a medium for their art.


                
I don't even want to describe it (so I don't spoil it). I saw every episode (including the french season) and even rewatched some. I'd rewatch it all many more times.Astonishing shots that softly, tastefully and masterfully serve the purpose of cutting into the body and heart of the artist in the kitchen.In every one of them, every different (very different) chef is analized and is given the chance to speak through words and actions and the soul filling works of art and science and alchemy that we call 'dishes'.This is a show in which each piece does its part in the fashion of a ballet rehearsed till exhaustion.
A documentary where the person behind the camera stretches their open hand and is then greeted with the exquisit fruit of the sweat and tears and blood and fire and brains and faith of the simple person that, day after day, peels potatoes and slices onions and then lets go of their ephimerous creations, entrusting them on the hands of waiters, resting assured that their masterpieces are off to the sea of tables and will burn in the mouths of the people and lie to rest deep within the waves of our unconscious.
One may come to realize chefs are the most political artists to ever step on this little grape we call Earth.


                
Why must every chef present his/her life as a mystical journey. Just stop.The most brilliant chefs? sure, but let us see some cooking, some dishes... pathetic.Watched two episodes and now feel like i wasted my life.AVOID AT ALL COSTS


                
Amazing Chefs! All episodes have amazing chefs with outstanding talent. The slow pace of the show is sometimes good, because you really get to know the "food artists" and their background. It is special and one of a kind. But is just over dramatic. After Some episodes it gets really annoying! Although the cooks are absolutely fantastic in what they do, it feels like an over dramatic ego show. the cinematography is good, the chefs are amazing, really good food! But over dramatic to a point it is annoying. It is like : my tears are running down my face when I chop up the lamb. And when I crush that oyster, my whole life flashes before my eyes. Like...please shut up and do ur thanggg! It is all so poetic and over acted. But still a 7. Because it is something fresh and new; and with heart.


                
Inspirational stories applicable to any walk of life about having a vision / a dream and having the conviction and faith to pursue it, no matter the cost...most episodes bring me to tears and leave me feeling enthralled - truly exceptional and utterly compelling!


                
Beautiful, emotional, insightful, and evocative, the second season, has really refined and expanded on this theme and the emotionalism of the first season. The locations and their unexpected beauty, provide a beautiful, palate cleansing counterpoint, to what, in the hands of a lesser producer and director, could descend into a foodie travelogue. Not here. History, culture, and family, are at the heart of this series and heart is the operative word here I highly recommend this to any and all who want another look at our De facto global language, food.Note: one critique I have here, is the stark and noticeable absence of African, African-American, and Middle Eastern chefs. This is something that the chefs interviews themselves reveal as a shortcoming, (in their own words), our commercialized (American and European) culinary biases, about what is delicious, or finely crafted. I find the said absence of African, African-American, and middle Eastern chefs, strange, since the entire internationalist narrative of this series, is so advanced and inclusive. Season three: I'm counting on you! Bring Africa, Black America, and the Middle east to the chef's table! I Implore you!Piero Amadeo Infante


                
I'm not a foodie, not a chef, and although I like cooking, I"m not in interested in cooking shows.I started to watch the series as someone told me the images of the show were brilliant, 4k HDR and I was checking out how it would look on my new 4k HDR TV..... expecting to watch 5-10 minutes and that's it.... oh boy... was I in for a treat!Seriously .... amazingly creative people, talented / extremely hard working, absolutely focused, to an extreme.... most if not all have a single passion for creativity, freedom, pursuit of excellent.... whatever drives them is completely unique to each Chef... and vastly different from one another.... The way its filmed, the music, the angles, the perspectives of what drives them and the sacrifices they had to make to get there, some selfishly others in pursuit only of their craft and nothing else... extremely interesting, touching, moving... Every single episode I find myself in awe by the amazing creations, hoping one they I would have the chance (and the money) to experience and savor one of the restaurants/chefs. But above all, I'm moved but why its filmed, the aspect, the human in the story, the journey it takes us the viewer to discover the Chef, its life, what drives them, the people around them to support and give them the structure they need to achieve their vision....If you go in expecting great images, like I did, you will certainly find the best of what is available right now in 4K HDR streaming.... but, hopefully, you will stick around, and discover so much more.... Amazing show.... give it a go....


                
People trying to make their lives sound interesting. Not really.


                
This show started with a bang throughout the first two seasons, maybe even three. Since it's moved along, the once creative gem displaying the results of artistic, emotional cooking from the kitchen and restaurant has gone sour and stale. It is now a "raw" attempt at cultural exposure through a biographical narrative and lacking any exposure to the actual creative work performed in the kitchen.We want to know the details of how you developed such complex dishes, where the ingredients are harvested, how you bring them together. Yet all we get now is a short biography and then the name of the dish. Wow! Interesting! It's called "some supposed inspirational name". I guess we should deduce that name from the lengthy bio we just watched. We can reduce the show time by 30 minutes, let's just post the menus or names of the dishes.


                
It's super interesting to see any of the chapters, it's more than just a show about food, its about art and life. Its about the lives of these chefs, what makes them unique, how they are changing cuisine and what being a chef means to them in a very different way.Its beautifully filmed, the plates, the ingredients, all the images you see transport you to their restaurants. Though i was disappointed not to see ONE french chef!!!!! , I mean at least one chapter should be filmed in France!!! It's only my point of view, because I have been there and what they are doing there its like nowhere else. There's definitely french chefs showing a new way to cook french food, and I feel not metion them, it doesn't make sense to me. Its like talking about arts like painting or literature, you have to talk about victor hugo or monet. Let's talk about the french young chefs that are working hard on the field too. In just 2015, from all the chefs with michelin stars in the world, in the top 10, you have 6 french chefs. How can this series not talk about ONE!!!!!!!!!


                
