I am not your typical person who loves to watch documentaries, least of all on food. However, there is something truly unique about Chef's Table. Each episode stands on its own and it is amazing to see the different processes of different chefs. The show does such a great job of showing the true personalities of chefs that the audience is able to make comparisons and differences with each passing episode.All of the chefs that are talked to have many common traits and it is so fascinating to see. All have a certain feverishness for cooking, an amazing work ethic, and have traveled abroad to expand their knowledge in hopes of becoming a food auteur.Their souls are put into each meal that they make for their customers and they view the process of cooking as a beautiful art. Each chef is currently questioning the food landscape around them in hopes of changing the views of people and the way they see food.My only complaint of the show is that it can be a little artsy, but it is amazing and I thoroughly enjoy the show. That is my only warning going in. Please watch the show, it is amazing!!!


                
I liked the format and production values of this Netflix series. Each episode is like getting to know a new friend, who happens to be a culinary genius. The span across the planet is a good idea. It keeps it from feeling too formulaic. The cinematography is excellent and adds a travelogue quality. And, I even liked most of the subjects.Like the overpriced eating experiences in these restaurants, the series felt like a guilty pleasure. As long as I focused on the artistic aspect of the episodes, I could forget about the insanity of gourmet meals on an ecologically challenged and overpopulated planet where only 10% of the population can afford to eat like this. Niki Nakayama is my favorite chef of the bunch. Ben Shewry's restaurant was my favorite setting. Magnus Nilsson gets my award for the most personable chef.I hope Netflix has the wisdom to continue this series. Moving away from Michelin and more toward sustainable food genius would be a plus in my book.
The show deserves no more than a 7 but I cannot help but gift an extra point on account of its uniqueness.The food is so well presented, contextualized, and explained. It takes us on a beautiful voyage. These dishes are pinnacles of gastronomic expression, nothing less than a consummate sensory blend of artistry. If you have been at such a table, you know what I mean. It is a painting and a sculpture and a literary journey and... a merging and submerging of taste, smell, texture, temperature, bliss.And there is no small amount of genius than to showcase these culinary gems but on the gritty hands of the workers that mine them. Because, you see, almost without exception (although, there are exceptions), these chefs are conceited and self-important to the point of utter ridiculousness. The contrast is magnificent.One could hope for a better lot of human beings, at least less vain, but the sprinkle of imperfection on perfection, the intimation that while we are so, so flawed, we are nonetheless capable of so much... it is inspiring.There is a real need for more shows like this one.


                
It's super interesting to see any of the chapters, it's more than just a show about food, its about art and life. Its about the lives of these chefs, what makes them unique, how they are changing cuisine and what being a chef means to them in a very different way.Its beautifully filmed, the plates, the ingredients, all the images you see transport you to their restaurants. Though i was disappointed not to see ONE french chef!!!!! , I mean at least one chapter should be filmed in France!!! It's only my point of view, because I have been there and what they are doing there its like nowhere else. There's definitely french chefs showing a new way to cook french food, and I feel not metion them, it doesn't make sense to me. Its like talking about arts like painting or literature, you have to talk about victor hugo or monet. Let's talk about the french young chefs that are working hard on the field too. In just 2015, from all the chefs with michelin stars in the world, in the top 10, you have 6 french chefs. How can this series not talk about ONE!!!!!!!!!


                
