In the Two Towers (TT) we are re-united with most of our heroes from the Fellowship of the Ring (FotR). Split apart by betrayal, and a company of orcs, Frodo and Sam have begun the last leg of their quest to Mordor. Ant and Dec (sorry, Merry and Pippin) are prisoners of the orcs, pursued by Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli <U+0096> a quest that brings the company, and the people of Rohan, closer to conflict.Opinion is divided about the second film. The entertainment junkies seem to think it's better than the first, largely on account of the Battle of Helms Deep, which is rather impressive. I thought it was a bit weaker, mainly because, in a wilderness adventure, there's more emphasis on the characters than in the spectacle of set piece action; and because the CGI is less subtle as a result.Once again, liberties are taken with the story. There's no riding of the Grey Company. There's a more obvious tension between Eowyn and Aragorn (Legolas has to remind Aragorn who he's dating), and (controversial among the Tolkienites) Faramir's character has been darkened somewhat. In fact, the directorial trait of adding more colour to the main characters while painting out the subtlety of the peripheral ones continues from FotR. Partly because we're introduced to more characters in TT, the overall effect leaves the film slightly two-dimensional. On balance I thought the treatment of Faramir to be less heinous than that of Denethor in Return of the King, but more on that later.The mood, though, remains pure Tolkien and that, more than anything, is the triumph of the movie. From the Beowulf-like set for Meduseld (Tolkien famously nicked his description of the seat of Rohan from the UK's first epic) to the majestic sweep of New Zealand, the film more than once reminded me of my own mental images of Tolkien's world. And, once again, I found myself interested in the story.So, to the flaws. I mentioned in an earlier review of FotR the astonishing heighism in Peter Jackson's adaptation. You can imagine Jackson scratching his head wondering what to do for laughs now that Ant and Dec have been nicked by Ugluk, Grishnakh and the lads. His solution is ingenious; find the next shortest member of the company. Gimli, therefore, shoulders the mantle of comedy relief. As a strapping man of 6'4'' I am allowed a certain disdainful disinterest to such a phenomenon; but it is worth noting. Also worth noticing is the astonishing transformation of Arwen from a feisty, most un-Tolkien lady in FotR to the submissive pre-Raphaelite stereotype of the books. I guess this is because Eowyn has turned up, but still. The Elves still speak like they're doped up, except the peculiarly immune elfin fancy boy, Legolas. On that note, was it really necessary for him to mount his horse that way? Or surf his way down a staircase at the battle of Helms Deep? Jim Horner should do an alternative Beach Boys theme for that scene.Anyway, these are minor points in a film that is, if not a major, then at least a minor, triumph. As mentioned by others, the film is worth seeing for Gollum alone. And I can think of many more reasons to see it. You could also check out the extended version, which is even better. 7/10.


                
Welcome back to my reviews of the Middle-Earth saga. We've gone on An Unexpected Journey, visited The Desolation of Smaug, witnessed The Battle of the Five Armies, and met The Fellowship of the Ring. Today, we are going to go on our next stop of the Lord of the Rings saga. Fasten your seatbelts, it's time to get hit by a waterfall. Let's enter......The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers. The Two Towers follows several different plot threads: Sam and Frodo continue their quest to get to Mount Doom, as a creature named Gollum accompanies them; Aragon, Gimli, and Legolas all go in search of the Hobbits, and later head to Edoras in Rohan to assist in battle; Merry and Pippin are taken captive by Urku-hai and later meet a Ent that may help them in their quest.This is probably my least favorite of the three films, let me just tell you that before we begin. Of course, that doesn't mean it's not a good film, it's a fantastic one. It's just I don't like some of the new characters we are introduced to and Merry and Pippin's story isn't that interesting to me. Anyway, let's get on with the review.As usual, the best thing about the film is it's music. The music created by Howard Shore is always welcome, even in the film's most slow areas. The acting is really great too, by all members, but especially Elijah Wood and Sean Astin. Wood really portrays Frodo's desperation and slow descent into a form of madness due to him being influenced by the ring. Astin really works well with Wood, making Sam more than just a sidekick, but both a rock and friend that Frodo needs in his times of desperation.The special effects are just as good as the previous films, if not better. Treebeard and Gollum are the obvious highlights, and they are created so convincingly that I couldn't really see any issues with them. I recently read that Treebeard was filmed on a green screen, and honestly, I couldn't tell, even when I watched some of the scenes in HD. Magnificent.The cinematography and, well, shots of the film both are done beautifully. Every scene where groups are riding to battle and scenes where we see sweeping shots of landscapes look amazing, and you can tell that Jackson and anybody else working on that part of the film really wanted it to look good. The best example of this, in my opinion, is the first scene right before we get into what happened to Gandalf.The plot works, for the most part. I found the scenes in Rohan to be the most interesting. Like Peter Jackson said, The Two Towers is mainly focused on Aragorn. It's his main story. So, obviously, that was going to be the most interesting and the most focused upon. I also liked Frodo, Sam and Gollum's story. Gollum's internal struggle is made that much harder halfway through the film, when Frodo has to do something that he didn't want to do. I have to wonder, if that hadn't have happened, would Gollum have been more accepting of not leading Frodo and Sam where they end up in Return of the King?I don't know. I did think that the weakest story, and the one that I don't like to watch, is the story with Merry, Pippin, and Treebeard. I like the character of Treebeard, but it doesn't really work for me. It's just so boring, and it's usually cutting away from the more intriguing stories. Less focus on their tale would have worked for me.In conclusion, overall, The Two Towers is a intriguing follow-up to The Fellowship of the Ring. While I had some issues with Merry and Pippin's storyline, the film itself is a action-packed ride and a great lead- up to the grand finale in The Return of the King.10/10. Grade: A


                
I went to see this with great expectations. It was like going to see Phantom Menace; I really, really wanted it to be great.But, no, sorry, it really, really wasn't. At the start it goes straight into the action, no preamble, no 'setting the scene', I dont even remember there being any credits. Then it was very episodic. No acting, no characterisation to speak of. The scenes were short, not much interaction between the characters. Just loads and loads of orcs every where.The best thing in it is Sam Gamgee.


                
I'm not sure how this film could have gone so wrong but it did.  All the power and heart of the first film (The Fellowship of the Ring) is completely gone.  It's like Peter Jackson took a few weeks off while George Lucas and Steven Spielberg came in and took over direction for him.  These two directors can be good and even excellent at times but have the habit of pleasing the masses too much.  The great thing about The Fellowship was that it was original and not full of Hollywood clichés.  With The Two Towers Peter Jackson seemed hell bent on filling it with nothing but Hollywood clichés and wiping away the integrity of The Fellowship.The only thing interesting in this film were the trees that walked and talked, but even they got a little tiresome especially since one of them had R2-D2 and C3-PO (Yes, I'm aware that's not their names.  It's sarcasm - see George Lucas reference above.) in it's branches for a majority of the film.This film was a real disappointment, but I have hope that the Return of the King will be better.  A part of me hopes Return is just as bad because if it's good then when it comes time to buy the movies I'll be left without a middle.  If Return is bad then I can just buy The Fellowship and just use my imagination to fill in the rest.


                
I may be committing cinema heresy here, but I have complaints about the second Lord of the Rings film, The Two Towers. Number One: It is excessively long. I know the books that the movie is based on is really really long, and for a book, that's a good thing. When someone is reading a good book, they never want to put it down, they want to be with Frodo and Sam forever as they dodge ring raiders and enter Mordor, the home of Mt. Doom where the ring must finally end up. However, for a movie, it's tough to sit through a 3 hour plus movie, especially one that consists of nearly one hour of fighting between the good guys and the bad guys. What I personally find fascinating with the Lord of the Rings, the mythology of the ring and how the different characters are allowed to act within the rules of the Middle Earth universe, is there, but is pushed aside in favor of a dark, muddy fight. That leads to Complaint Number Two: There are too many characters for non-die hards to keep track of. Perhaps these two complaints come from the fact that my attention span is not as good as it used to be. Now the good: Gollum makes Jar-Jar Binks looks like a Simpsons' cartoon character. The combination of stop-action and CGI animation, Gollum the whithered hobbit looks totally believable and is the most interesting character in the saga, I think. What happened to him? Will the same thing happen to Frodo? These are questions I had that were spurred on by watching the Two Towers. The walking, talking trees are also a triumph in technology, something like this could not happen just a few years ago. The Empire Strikes Back is the best of the 3 Star Wars films, I think The Two Towers is the weakest of the Lord of the Rings films, so there is no definitive word on whether the middle chapter of trilogy suffers or gains compared to the surrounding chapters. It is not a bad film, again it looks great, has interesting characters, but I just wish some fat was trimmed off the film. I know die-hards would have a fit, but the length does keep some casual movie go-ers away, and there is plenty, especially in the end fight scene, to be taken away. But Peter Jackson has a houseful of Oscars, and I don't, so what do I know?
Even after seeing Fellowship, I still haven't read the books but after just seeing Two Towers on the beautiful extended edition DVD I am now motivated to see the end of the trilogy before it ends its theatrical run. The story progresses nicely in this the second chapter which is in my opinion the most difficult of the three to execute. Once again director Jackson impressively conveyed the scope and grandeur of Middle Earth mostly through state of the art computer animation and special effects. Speaking of that, Gollum the CGI character, while a technical marvel, became extremely annoying. That's just my individual opinion. By the way, I think Jar Jar Binks is brilliant comic relief in The Phantom Menace (I'm not prejudiced against CGI characters!) The acting from the cast was also spot on though frankly I don't think the material was that challenging (ie. no one deserved an Oscar nomination). The costumes, props, and beautiful location photography were also uniformly excellent as befits a production of this magnitude. 8/10. I should note that I haven't seen the original theatrical cut of the film so I don't know what else besides background on the Boromir (?) character was added. I look forward to the conclusion of the trilogy!


                
This is definitely a very entertaining film and the special effects are terrific but I don't think its as good a film as the first one. We've come to know the characters already so the film dives right in with the action while the first film took its time setting up the story. I do have one major gripe in this film and its the part of the film with the two hobbits Merry and Pippin and those tree creatures. The film comes to a screeching halt when the scenes shift to that part. The tree creatures talk slow, walk slow and all the scenes with them crawl along like a drunk snail. Another complaint I have is Ian McKellen as Gandolf is hardly in the film at all. And Cate Blanchett has only one scene! The most exciting part of the film is the battle at Helm's Deep of course. These scenes are not only exciting but very impressive looking as far as filmmaking is concerned. This part of the film is really an achievement. Of course during the whole course of this bloody battle the character Aragorn (Viggo Mortensen) never gets hurt. So while this is going on Frodo and Sam (Elijah Wood and Sean Astin) are off in another direction battling Christopher Lee. So they're really is three stories going on at the same time. Where the first film took its time in its narrative this film plunges head first into action. The two films really are different. This is an extremely well made film and Peter Jackson should be proud but I don't think its a great film. Impressive looking and very entertaining but I'm hoping the third film will be better.


                
In my review of 'The Chamber of Secrets' I mentioned how tough the job of Chris Columbus, director of the Harry Potter movies was. However when it comes to adapting books to film his job looks straightforward compared to Peter Jackson's. Over a thousand pages of novel had to be trimmed and shaped into six hours of film, perhaps two dozen important characters to bring to life, millions of devoted Tolkien fans and also the general filmgoing public to satisfy. I thought he did an amazing job with 'The Fellowship of the Ring', which was, aside from a few overwrought moments, probably as good an adaption as could possibly have been made. Unfortunately I can not say the same for 'The Two Towers'.Oh, it is very good - Jackson again shows what a master he is at staging battle scenes and creating moments of wonder and horror, the special effects and New Zealand scenery are breathtaking and the quality cast again do a good job. But there are moments that are a bit corny and scenes that could have been more tense and exciting than they were.The story consists of three seperate plot lines - Merry and Pippin journey into Fangorn Forest where they meet the Ents, the ancient Shepherds of the Trees, Frodo and Sam head closer to Mordor with Gollum, the twisted former possessor of the One Ring, and the remaining members of the Fellowship fight to save the kingdom of Rohan from the forces of Saruman, who has used magic and a treacherous advisor to enfeeble Theoden, Rohan's king.While it is packed with characters and events, there is not as much in 'The Two Towers' as there was in 'Fellowship', so while it does not have quite the variety of locations events that the first film did, Jackson has been able to create a film that is not as episodic this time (which was inevitable with the theatrical version of 'Fellowship' - see the extended DVD version for a longer, better-paced cut). The three-pronged story is still which was the screenwriters and editors biggest problem, as they had to try and juggle and balance the plots so that the viewer follows what is going on while the movie's momentum is maintained. Generally I think Jackson and company did a fine job but, especially towards the end of the movie, they could have done a better one. The film cuts between the climaxes of all three plots which reduces the power of each of them, especially the epic battle of Helm's Deep. The battle is a huge, superbly choreographed sequence but the tension that it creates gets released too often as we shift to what Sam and Frodo or Merry and Pippin are doing. I think it would have been better to finish Sam and Frodo's story, except for the epilogue with Gollum, which belongs at the end, before cutting between the battle at Helm's Deep and the hobbits' dealings with the Ents.Partly to provide a climax, a lot has been changed from the book. Many things that were in 'The Two Towers' will now be in the third movie (which makes me wonder how they will fit everything into 'The Return of the King') and a few things have been added. Some of the additions, such as the battle with the warg-riders and the Black Rider's sweep over the Dead Marshes, are very good. Others, such as Aragorn's near-death experience and his triumphant return, the slow-motion fall of Haldir and the reunion of a mother with her children are cliched. The screenplay is a flawed one: it does not always explain what is going on adequately and there are a disappointing number of melodramatic moments. I could have done with less shots of frightened women and children, less inspirational speeches, less beams of shining light and, though he was funny, less of Gimli the dwarf as comic relief. Sometimes, as at Helm's Deep, the atmosphere should be grim and frightening and a joke spoils the mood. As do a few cute, anachronistic moments such as when Legolas skates down stairs on a shield or when Sam talks about what it would be like to be a character in a great story. 'The Lord of the Rings' is not supposed to be postmodern - such moments just take you out of the alternative world that the movie is trying to create by reminding you that it is a movie.But while it is not up to the very high standard of 'Fellowship', 'The Two Towers' is still a quality movie: spectacular, sometimes stirring and gorgious to look at and listen to. There is one other thing that would make it worth seeing: Gollum. The first CGI character to actually act well, Gollum, with his split personality, creepy voice and pale, veiny, superbly rendered body, is fascinating to watch. All his scenes are among the movie's best. If 'The Two Towers' does get an Oscar nomination for acting Andy Serkis, who did the voice and the movements that Gollum was based on, will probably be the one. I suspect though that this won't be the year that Peter Jackson gets to go up for Best Director or Best Film. Oh well, there's still 'The Return of the King.'7 1/2 / 10


                
as a fan of the books and a really big movie buff, i was nonetheless disappointed with TTT. maybe because the first one was so excellent, especially the extended version, which unfortunately one can only watch television-size. it seems to me that a pattern in emerging, where you leave all the quiet, but very important, scenes between actors out of the theatrical version, and instead concentrate on the action pieces. but the tenth shot of an uruk-hai bellowing or of women and children looking frightened becomes boring or pathetic pretty soon. and of course there are the story changes: most of them totally unnecessary and not helping the plot at all. i dont mind the scenes between elrond and arwen (although elrond is really painfully miscast) and the conflict of mortality that arwen faces. in fact, those dream-love scenes were a welcome respite from the action pieces. speaking of which, the whole warg-attack was so useless and stupid! it reminded me of star wars, not a good comparison in my mind. and that aragorn drops off the cliff was dramatically ridiculous. not even people who havent read the book will believe that one of the main characters would die like that in the middle of the movie. furthermore it just mirrored gandalfs fall in the first movie, but at the same time belittled that event. i could go on and analyse the whole movie like that, but whats the point? the addition of laborous action pieces seems the main intent, and not staying closer to the book in terms of story-telling. i think its wrong to consider those movies as pure action-flicks that have to cater to teenage boys. after all, the books are very much loved by men and women alike.so i can only wait for the extended version, where all the really important scenes might have been put back again.... i really love the first movie, but after TTT im sadly pessismistic about part three. the filmmakers left out so many important story-elements, they will never be able to finish the story in any way that resembles tolkiens book!


                
Sorry to you devoted fans out there, but I just had to give the movie a 7/10.  The 20 minute "10,000 barbarians storm the castle" was just way over the top, even for Hollywood.OK, I GET IT... now can we move on?I'm surely in the minority, but it's still my opinion.  If it weren't for that scene, I'd give the movie a 10.More of anything is not always better.  This is the purpose of the cutting room floor.


                
The Two Towers is an enjoyable, and sometimes very good movie, but was a dissappointment to me in the wake of the sheer masterpiece that was The Fellowship Of The Ring.Director Peter Jackson was able to fill the FOTR with a variety of well-developed characters, a sweeping cinematic landscape, a tense and intriguing storyline, and an overall depth that the book itself possessed. I am no expert on the books, but I do know that FOTR truly delivered the spirit of the book.Now having said that, one could just take all the battles and action, and hordes of armies and violent characters that exist in the books, plunk them into a bunch of fighting sequences, and make great action movies.  The FOTR went beyond that, and captured the true heart of the original book, which is why it was so good, and will go down as a cinematic classic, much in the same way the books will go down as litterary classics.Being Peter Jackson more or less filmed the trilogy of Lord Of The Rings films back-to-back, I figured that the sheer brilliance put forth in FOTR would be present.  That is not the case.Instead, Jackson has delivered the aforementioned action movie.  There's epic battle after epic battle, swordsman after swordsman, but little else. The centerpiece of the books and the first film -- the Hobbits -- are something of an afterthought in the TT, while swashbuckling swordsman Aragorn and bow and arrow marksmen Legolas take the spotlight.  These are characters who are embody the standard action movie hero in every sense, but again, don't begin to scrape the depths of the book, which is so much more than what is on display here.There's word that Jackson did a lot of re-shooting and editing to the TT in the last 12 months.  Perhaps he felt the pressure to follow up to the mammoth success of FOTR, and decided to take the safe way out.  But what he may have failed to realise is that what made FOTR so great and popular was it's depth beyond your standard action flick.  In the wake of the downward spiral of the Star Wars films, which suffer from the same condition plauging the TT, movie fans were looking to latch on to a new fantasy epic, that could provide the great effects and all of that good stuff, but also deliver the goods in terms of story, charachter, and overall depth.Complaints aside, this is still a fun movie.  For starters, you know that you enjoyed a movie when it clocks in at 3 hours long, and you don't find yourself getting restless, whcih I did not.  Additionally, The CGI is ultra-impressive, there are lots of incredible visuals (though not on par with the first film), and the action sequences are truly amazing.  I just came out dissappointed because one year ago, I went into the theatre to see FOTR not knowing what to expect, and I was given a completley unexpected masterpiece.  This time, I went into the TT expect to see another classic, and instead I was delivered a big-budget action flick.  Fun movie?  Yes. Great special effects? Yes.  Another classic?  No.On a closing note, I think Roger Ebert's review of this movie hits the nail right on the head, and he is able to articulate many of the thoughts I have on this film very successfully.


                
TTT should be taken for what it is, a visually attractive, popcorn fun, crowd-pleaser.  In this respect, the movie does it perfect.  The action is well choreographed, and very interesting to watch.  Peter Jackson is very good at this.  He makes movies interesting.  He makes movies fun to watch. This whole movie was a big story, with really no inner message.  My mind did not go through any thought process this whole movie.  I just sat in my cushioned seat, and absorbed the action/adventure fest this movie gave me. And as I said, this movie does that well.The cinematography was amazing.  You could tell that most of the time making movie was spent in a little room, on a computer, animating Golem, who felt like a real person.  Also, considering most of the background and sets were made by computers, they did a great job with that.The story also was very good, mainly because it is from what is considered one of the greatest books of all time.Also, the movie is very eye-catching, and you can tell Peter threw in some things just to make sure you were watching (Legolos jumping onto his horse is a perfect example).  This makes the movie feel like "The Matrix", which is something many directors trying to make an epic DO NOT want.The love story could have been done without, as I forgot every part of the movie with that in it.  I can't even remember who was in love with Liv Tyler.  This felt like they were trying to add more meaning into the battle scenes with whoever she loved, but I could see no connection between the two.Also the character development... wasn't their.  Unless you consider Gandalf becoming "White", or Frodo becoming woozier, character development, i felt none in the movie.There are many movies that I sit and wonder after, not because of I being confusing, because that is what the director wants you to do.  The Pianist, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, Chinatown, 2001, A Clockwork Orange and others all made me do this.  After seeing this in theaters, I was right out of the theater, and discussing how "cool" the battle scenes were.  Wow. Gripping.But I would be lying if I said I didn't enjoy it.  Throughout the whole movie, my eyes were fixed on the screen.  I mean, almost any male, despite how "inner" they say they are, can't resist 25 minute battle scenes with fire and ogres.But this movie was easily forgotten in the thoughtful part of my mind. But it will always be in the "Wow!  Look at that!  Once in a lifetime!" part.I give The Two Towers:  7/10


                
Peter Jackson is one of finest directors in our time with a magnificent adventure he took us to middle earth. It has a very good beginning in the first film although this one didn't take the story any where near its purpose although it has an outstanding preform ans from very big stars but it wasted our time with three hours took us nowhere.


                
Once again, I think as a movie alone, TT was fairly spectacular.  However, the changes made to this one were in a few ways not only significant, they left me with a bad taste in my mouth, as they weren't even necessary.  Not to say Jackson doesn't redeem himself with the overall film, but I felt it could have been much more.


                
The Two Towers continues the story from the Fellowship of the Ring, but it has a lot more action. The first one took a while to get started and didn't have many epic battles. Regardless, it was a great movie. The second installment has got much more action and the end battle at Helm's deep is amazing. The cast and crew still do an excellent job with acting and special effects. I do have a couple of complaints. The movie didn't continue the story as much as it could have. Other than Gollum becoming a more important character, you probably could have skipped this one and caught up quickly in the third film, but you would have missed out on some great scenes. I also did not like the walking-talking trees. I found them boring and a little irritating as they didn't do much. Other than those forgivable flaws, this is a fantastic adventure that makes you drool in anticipation for the conclusion. 7/10


                
I enjoyed the first film and could barely wait for this movie to be released. Well I was entertained (and this is by no way a bad movie) there are a few issues I have with it.The first and most obvious being Faramir. Faramir is supposed to be the opposite of his brother, strong and not prone to the usual weaknesses of men. But Peter Jackson portrays him as being corrupted by the ring as soon as he sets eyes on it. Yes, he does eventually let Frodo go but there was no need for this alteration to have ever been made. It really spoiled the film for me.The only other big thing was the ENT's. This didn't bother me as much as Faramir, but it was still an unnecessary change from the book. The ENT's are supposed to agree in the ENT Moot that they will fight in the war - not the way they do it in the film. Oh yeah - and the attack on Isengard, I know its difficult in film to show ENT's digging a new path for a river over a couple of days - but what idiot builds his fortress next to a massive, crumbling dam ???Winging over. Apart from these major (and a couple of minor points) I did still enjoy the film and probably would have enjoyed it a lot more if I hadn't already read the books. 6/10.


                
Thrown in with the other movies that come out each year, Two Towers was great!  It had action, romance, and characters you can truly love.Two Towers, however, was not "just" another movie.  It is the second part, third and fourth chapters of "The Lord Of The Rings."  As such, a higher standard was expected than turned out.  While I realize that some "poetic" license needed to be taken to make it understandable to the viewing public (plus to keep it under six hours!), I did not understand a lot of Peter Jackson's inclusions that weren't a part of the original story (such as the attack on the traveling Rohirrim), nor did I understand several of his omissions.  The "hunky-dory"-style ending, where all was well with the world, if only for a minute, didn't strike me the right way.  Jackson could have picked a better place to end the movie, as well... leaving those who haven't read the books hanging on the edge of their seats.I find it hard to see how Jackson will have time to cover everything he needs to to wrap it up in the third movie... and I am disconcerted to hear rumor that he will be cutting out one of the defining parts of the story that occurs near the end.Overall, I was expecting greatness, and walked away feeling a bit disappointed.  I only hope "Return of the King" leaves me feeling complete about the whole thing.-NG038


                
In Tolkien's "The Hobbit", after Bilbo uses the ring to ditch Gollum and get out of the goblin caves, he tells Gandalf, Thorin, and the other dwarves that he escaped without mentioning the ring.  Later, while helping them out of another bind, he reveals to the dwarves that he can use the ring to become invisible at will, and the dwarves force him to retell the escape story with the ring included.  Like Thorin and company, I feel that Peter Jackson's first telling of the Two Towers left out far too much core material; in the extended, the character modifications make sense, and the events flow together better.I wrote an earlier review expressing some mixed feelings about a few of the characters and plot elements after seeing the original, and took the opportunity to view the extended edition on screen Monday.  It is superior in every way to the first release, moreso than the extended FotR was to the original.  However, this is a disturbing trend.  I would rather have seen *only* the extended edition rather than fart around with the inferior shortened product, but I suspect New Line is raking in the DVD profits with all these second releases. What can I say?  Many of the gripes I had with the film are fixed in the extended release.  It was enjoyable, heart wrenching, humourous, terrifying, and awe-inspiring.  Yet somehow, I feel cheated.  No doubt the same thing will happen in RotK, and we'll all gladly pony up the cash for an extra DVD purchase and maybe extra movie tickets too.


                
Thank heavens for Peter Jackson. The out-of-the-blue Aussie auteur, previously best known for the 1996 Michael J. Fox bomb The Frighteners, has managed to deliver where so many others have failed, or feared to even attempt. He has successfully translated J.R.R. Tolkien's massive Lord of the Rings trilogy to the big screen with maximum verve and minimal crap. Last year's Fellowship of the Ring scored a bulls-eye with moviegoers and critics alike, and there was an audible sigh of relief among hardcore LOTR fanatics when the long-awaited film was finally released to smashing success.So, where does Mr. Jackson go from there? He took a gamble in filming all three of the LOTR movies one after the other - what if Fellowship tanked? The whole franchise would have been up the creek. Thankfully, that fear was soon vanquished, but now Jackson has yet another roadblock to overcome: expectation. Hype. Buzz. Fellowship set the standard for Jackson and his crew - now all they can do is surpass it. That's a lot of pressure. I mean, a LOT of pressure. Thus, The Two Towers is arguably the most important film in the trilogy, simply because it has to live up to the expectations of millions of LOTR fans, AND the general movie going public, AND the critics, AND the studios that pay for the whole shebang. I'm amazed that Jackson hasn't had a stroke by now, or at least one mother of an ulcer.
So when all is said and done, does The Two Towers deliver? Yes. Is it as good as Fellowship? No. Does it still kick ass? For the most part, yes. It's just not very graceful doing it.Simply put, The Two Towers is an exhausting movie. By the end, I felt like I'd been through a war zone. The film is just SO LONG, and there is SO MUCH GOING ON, from epic battles to flowery speeches to zombified swamps to talking trees....the first word that came to mind when I left the theater was "overstuffed". I feel like I'm beating on a dead horse, though - these movies are complete adaptations of the novels, and as such, there's going to be a whole lot of stuff packed into 3 hours. But even so, those 3 hours don't have to feel like 6. I can see where Jackson and company could have trimmed a bit here, shuffled a bit there, moved around a few parts here, just to make the narrative flow more freely. TTT's plot is heaps more complex than Fellowship's, and the best way to deal with that is to tell the story in the simplest, most direct way possible. But Jackson jumps back and forth between plot lines like Quentin Tarantino on speed, and it just doesn't work. This may be Jackson's way of keeping us from getting bored, but it's ultimately distracting and unnecessary. Yes, there are a lot of plot threads to juggle - from Frodo and Sam's descent into hell, to Aragorn's crew trying to rescue Merry and Pippin, to Merry and Pippin themselves just trying to stay alive, and more subplots than you can shake a wizard's staff at - but they should be juggled, not thrown into the air and allowed to crash back to Earth. The plot itself is average at best, and when coupled with the smothering story structure, makes for a rather underwhelming experience.Fortunately, there is still plenty of good here, and a whole lot of great. The performances are once again top-notch, save for some flat dialogue and a few stilted scenes. The characters still feel the need to turn every sentence into a poetic work of art, Arwen still needs a shot of caffeine, and Frodo and Sam still need to get a room already, but otherwise the acting is very good. The gorgeous scenery and cinematography are back in full force, and it's likely the best eye candy you'll taste all year. The world of Middle-Earth just comes alive on screen - it's like you're RIGHT THERE. I don't know about you, but I'm booking myself a vacation to New Zealand ASAP.
But where TTT really shines is, yes, the butt kicking. The battle scenes are simply breathtaking (and cringe-inducing at some points - dammit, that sword just came right at my face!), and the final showdown at Helm's Deep is just unbelievable. There's so much buildup, and such palpable tension, that when the battle finally occurs it feels like you're going to war right alongside Aragorn and the Elves. There are so many fighters on screen, so much attention to detail, so much pure EXCITEMENT that I simply couldn't take my eyes off the spectacle, not even for a second (or a much-needed bathroom break). Oh, and Gandalf is alive. But you probably already knew that.
There are certain things that work in The Two Towers, and there are things that don't. Unfortunately, the good doesn't outweigh the bad, so TTT manages to find a fairly neutral middle ground. Will The Two Towers disappoint LOTR fans? Probably not. Will it disappoint everyone else? It's hard to say. But one thing is for sure: TTT is an experience you won't forget. Just try to ignore the rampant Hobbit homoeroticism, and you'll have a blast.
My Grade: 7/10


                
It was always going to be difficult to equal the fellowship, and the two towers doesn't.I have now seen it three times and I really do enjoy it. However, some of the scenes and the dialogue are so awful that should never have seen the light of day.The ongoing Antipodean joke about Dwarf tossing is simply unnecessary, and why does John Rhys Davies do the voice of Treebeard. Indeed it is the Ents that were the most disappointing part for me. They were always going to be difficult, but I found their deevelopment as characters superficial and the storyline fluctuated between being true to Tolkein and expediency.I will see this film again and again because I really do like it, but I suspect many attracted to the story by the fellowship will be put off by this attempt at developing the story. And as for Legolas skateboarding down the stairs on shield - it just isn't needed.


                
I don't understand how many users are heralding this film as the greatest of all time.  It's filled with horrible dialogue, gaping plot holes and melodrama.  This isn't a good movie, its just an expensive one.  Without the expensive special effects, there would be nothing at all to compliment this movie on.Major spoilers follow:The Ents:  Theres no end to the problems I had with the ents.  First off, where the hell did they all come from when Treebeard shouted.  Were there a hundred Ents waiting on the other side of the trees?  And if so, why was Treebeard so shocked when he saw how many trees had been cut down. Shouldn't news of something like that have spread amongst the ents fairly quickly?  If a large chunk of your town got blown up I'm sure the news would get around.Gimli:  So how tall is Gimli exactly?  Because the movie changed its mind several times throughout.  At one point he was a head shorter than Legolas but the battlement scene had him significantly shorter than that simply for the sake of a joke.  Jokes are another problem I had with Peter Jackson's use of Gimli.  That's ALL he was used for, comic relief.  Nearly every second of screen time that Gimli had was supposed to be funny.  Why didn't they just give him a clown costume.This isn't the greatest movie of the year and it certainly isn't the greatest of all time yet for some reason its fighting for first on the top 250.  Every time I ask someone why they thought it was a great movie I get mostly the same answers.  "The special effects were great!" Yes, they were but special effects alone dont make a good movie.  If you handed anyone three hundred million dollars I'm sure they could make a movie with good special effects but not neccesarily a good film.
The movie was somewhat disappointing. The first one was imply awesome but Two Towers lacked the same kind of magic. Lot's of fighting doesn't erase the fact that the plot was poorly constructed. Telling 3 stories at the same time ate a lot of excitement from Frodo's and Sam's adventure. Don't read the book if you truly want to enjoy this movie. Or vice versa.


                
Aside from one or two minor complaints, I found the movie very entertaining and enjoyable and would highly recommend the movie to anyone. I would like to point out that very little if anything has been mentioned about Andy Serkis and the character of Gollum/Smeagol. For myself, that was the most memorable character in the entire film. The animation sequences of Gollum/Smeagol were nothing short of phenomenal. They left me feeling almost as if he were real and deserved to be nominated for best supporting actor. At the very least, a new category of best voice over should be added. Andy Serkis most definitely deserves something for giving Gollum such amazing depth. I've done some acting and know firsthand it is no easy task to bring to life a live character. I can only imagine how much more difficult it is to bring so much  life to an animated character as to cause to me willingly suspend my disbelief for nearly 3 hours and actually feel pity for the character. Call it an overstatement if you will. I stand by my comments about Serkis' performance and would be willing to cast my vote for him as a best supporting actor.


                
Now I'll start by saying that for me the second installment of the Lord of the rings trilogy, hasn't meant as much to me as FoTR and RoTK.But two things has meant a lot to me; Gollum and parts of the books we'll see in RoTK, and Boromirs Last Stand.The film is a great epic war movie. And for me thats not good enough. The story is fare from what i remember. The most important scenes in the film are the ones in Helms Deep. Tolkien also lies much weight on these chapters but not as much as PJ & co. The scenes are well made and probably only seen better a few times before. That Massive system really works out great. I have no problem with the battle in helm deep, beside the fact that i think it's too long. And here I wonder. Why is there is teen scenes we never read about in the books, too end the movie five chapters or so before the book. Before that we already knew that one chapter would be cut from TTT, Boromir's Last Stand. Where have the original story gone? Instead they put the elves in the middle of the story, where they don't belong. Why? So we have a more clear love story. For most of the fans I guess we don't need it, and beside, isn't there warm feelings between Aragorn and Eowyn? But wait that isn't the only new scene. Varges? Where do they come from and the result of the fight with the varges doesn't even support any of the important story lines that we have in this film, why should he fall? Well, to make it more hectic and give it more speed and action, yes, but isn't there enough when the Uruk-hai's are killed, when Theoden King is freed from the poison of Isengard and the battle of Helms Deep? And we even get to see some action in a place where Frodo, Sam and Gollum never went. Another new scene, but this is so short and important to clear out what Faramir has to do, this probably was a hard task.There's plenty of action and incredible scenes as in FoTR, and some are betters, much better.The Judgement: This is still one of the best films seen the last year, terrifying at points, beautiful, actionpacked and deep most of the time and remarkable in every scene. But besides the fact the it isn't excatly what the book is telling at some points, it is a great epic journey to a new part of Middle Earth.The designs, the effects, the music everything helps us fall in to the world and feel that this is a historic film, not a fantasy film. I love it, but it lacks magic and suffers under that the makers sees it as a middle part to guide our heroes to their destiny in RoTK, because that is what it is. We see magic places, but not because of beauty and history of the place but because the story takes them there, not as in FoTR, where it all is new and exciting. I hope that in the last installment they have regained the exciting feeling of the project too make a great end to what stil is the best trilogy so fare.
Gollum. Gollum is so perfect, incredible and realistic like no other thing I've seen in movies. Andy Serkis delivers a great performances and defintely is the right choice. He is the movie. I would like to see those deleted scenes with him in the movie and a couple of minutes less battle and new scenes, would have savved the movie.I like the first half and of course Gollum in every scene. It is a great intro to the movie with, Gandalf and the Balrog, and of course our first glimce of Gollum. It is great up to the point the varges attack, and after that in few periodes. The battle of Helms Deep is epic and historic, but too long. And the destruction of Isengard is well done. But to make it one of the last scenes, it doesn't work for me.I still love the movie and I give it 7 out of 10, because of the grandness of the story and the very beautiful images of Middle Earth.


                
