"At the risk of sounding sentimental, I believe the monarchy stands for a fairness that we like to think represents us. I hope 'Downton Abbey' has a similar decency about it." - Julian Fellowes "Downton Abbey's" written by Julian Fellowes, a Tory peer, Baron, monarchist and husband-to-royalty, so right away you know it has a clear agenda. Restorative nostalgia to the max, and released to coincide with a fresh round of British austerity measures, the television series sees a family of early 20th century aristocrats living in a palatial estate and tended to by a sprightly band of servants. Sounds interesting? Forget Renoir's "The Rules of the Game", Altman's "Gosford Park", and the past 500 years of human history and social theory. No. In "Downton Abbey", the class system exists for the benefits of those at the bottom, and proves as bothersome to those unfortunate few at the top as it does those lower down the social hierarchy.Fellowes serves up the platonic ideal of an English aristocrat. Good, selfless and caring, our Lords and Ladys bend over backwards to serve their servants, graciously offering them jobs, assistance, compassion, awards and so forth. They are benign despots, all-powerful, their authority final, but more sage and caring than any elected politician could ever be. The rich, in other words, are socially responsible father figures. They are invested in their households, in their communities, and provide a far reaching social benefit; without the rich to mercifully protect them, the poor would be forced out into the cold to fend for themselves. Indeed, Fellowes frequently has his rich folk sacrifice their bodies, their status and their wealth for the servant class (joining war efforts, taking on limping servants etc). The message - rife with false binaries - isn't only that servants should be content with their roles, but that one, regardless of class, cannot and should not avoid servitude. Even the rich are servants to their fellowman.Significantly, the series' villains are all either homosexuals, socialists or members of the servant class. In the second series, villains become figures of new wealth; modern capitalists who don't respect the supposedly loving, symbiotic relationships of late aristocracy. As the series focuses on an individual household rather than systems, the nobility and selflessness of Fellowes' aristocrats justify the system in which they spin. It's a very classically conservative notion of history (in actuality, servants couldn't look at, let alone speak to their masters), a proudly hierarchical world in which all social conflicts and tensions are resolved without any restructuring of class relations. Stratification is posited as being natural, optimal and only the deviant or repellent are incapable of adapting or finding accommodation within it. No talk, of course, of where our Earls and Lords acquired their wealth, land enclosures, the lives of the impoverished outside the mansions or how the system's social relations hinge on an in-build bondage ingrained within "economics" (ie money) itself. Elsewhere the series brings up occasional Big Issues (war, feminism, Ireland etc), but only to engage in the smug, back-patting afforded by hindsight. This is a benign, liberal aristocracy, for an age of "caring" capitalists.All "Abbey's" arguments in favour for the class system were once put forth by George Fitzhugh, an American social theorist who published racial and slavery based sociological theories in the antebellum era. Fitzhugh essentially argued that Negro slaves needed "strong white daddies to look after them". That slavery "protects the Negro", "ensured that blacks would be economically secure and morally civilised" and that the evils of modern capitalism, which was gradually replacing slavery, would expose poor blacks to persecution and suffering. The new rich, Fitzhugh argued, were promoting a form of competition which would harm blacks. Afterall, the slave belongs to its owner, and owners take care of their capital, take care of what they own, provide them with food and shelter, unlike those pesky capitalists who merely rent labour. Fitzhugh even went so far as to defend slavery because "capitalists are anti Negro racists, whilst slavery is not racist".Fellowes is doing the same. Or rather, the arguments are always the same, no matter the social reconfiguration taking place. Hence, slavery is good because slave owners take care of their slaves, aristocracy is good because the aristocracy takes care of their servants, and capitalism is good because employees take care of their labourers. What each argument does, regardless of historical time period, is posit the lower classes as dependent on power without questioning how and why this power is structured, created and propagated in the first place.In the early 1980s, Immanuel Wallerstein, a renowned social scientist, outlined 12 characteristics which he believed were "unique" to modern world systems. His aim was to show that modern capitalism, in the affluent 80s, was a kind of "step up" from both the aristocracy of "Downton's" era and the feudalism of the distant past. By 1989, though, Wallerstein had completely reversed his position. All the presumably unique characteristics of the "modern world system" were also true of the medieval and ancient world systems. He could find no substantial distinctions that would satisfy his categorisations. The point isn't only that there were no clean transition from feudalism to aristocracy to capitalism as such, but that power proves capable of propagating itself.But why would a series which glorifies the class system, posits class hierarchies as inherently benevolent and idealises master/servant bonds, be suddenly so very popular? Why would a series about inherited privilege, ineluctable servitude, be popular in an era of Occupy, Austerity, Bank Bailouts and massive corporate tax dodging? Perhaps because "Downton" presents a Utopian version of the past for the purposes of painting, and thereby bolstering, a contemporary system capable of weathering any upheaval or shock. Or perhaps it's simply a severe form of Stockholm Syndrome.4/10 - See "Remains of the Day", "Eyes Wide Shut" and "Never Let Me Go". Worth no viewings.
I'm amazed to find that not only do many Americans give high marks to this badly written, poorly directed, and frequently ham-acted period soap opera but so do plenty of Brits.For me it's all in the writing, which is awful. Not just that much of the history is incorrect or missing key elements but the characters are never fleshed-out and remain one-dimensional. Plot lines quickly fade away, never to reappear without any just cause. Other plots go on for far too long.The writing by Julian Fellowes, is surprisingly poor, even for an actor. The obvious lack of research is for me unnerving. Worse than that is Fellowes simply plagiarizes most of the story and even characters. A little Waugh, Jan Struther, Jean Marsh and Eileen Atkins, Coward, Alcott, Forster and Christie to name but a few. Even Maggie Smith's character comes off as one dimensional; a sassy dowager stock character with nothing to offer other than witty one-line barbs.If Fellowes' name (I only know of him as the writer of Gosford Park - but that film had a strong director, Robert Altman) is enough to get a project green-lighted, surely the production budget allows enough for a script doctor? Downton Abbey is in dire need of one.And because I am familiar with a few of the fine actors in Downton Abbey, watching them wrestle with a weak script and simply terrible plot lines, it's embarrassing to witness. Only Siobhan Finneran seems to be able to rise above the putrid pablum.Yes the gowns, jewels, men's suits, complexions, interior sets, exteriors etc...are all gorgeous and beautiful. But that's it. There is nothing beneath the exquisite facade. No substance. It's incredible how many awards this trash has won in both the UK and US. Downtown Abbey should be shown to screenwriters and playwrights for how NOT to write. It's also incredible that this program scores so highly on IMDb; just unbelievable.If you like period dramas, Masterpiece Theatre, BBC stuff - you should search out Granada TV's 1981 Brideshead Revisited, PBS' 1970's Upstairs Downstairs (produced by the excellent John Hawkesworth) or Christine Edzard's Little Dorrit (1988), BBC's more recent Bleak House (2005) and Little Dorrit (2008).


                
Downton Abbey is absolute unmitigated drivel. I have never seen or heard such tripe! I felt sure it was written by an American, given the deliberate blurring of social strata, with sullen and insolent staff, naive and over-familiar upper-class, and altogether far too much scheming and intrigue. It smacks of a daytime soap opera! What nonsense! It's also terribly "choppy", with scenes lasting only 30 seconds to a minute (perhaps why it's so popular in the U.S.). The characters are also too entirely comical and cliché. The distant, preoccupied lord, clueless as to the goings-on under his own roof, the stuffy butler, the fussy cook, the meddling house-keeper. Good grief! I cannot believe that people actually buy this insipid vomit! From a cultural and historically social perspective, it is entirely inaccurate. The writing is like from some Harlequin novel rubbish. And the acting is over-done and clumsy (they are all trying far too hard to "act"!).Garbage that is all-too-easily upstaged by the likes of "Upstairs Downstairs". The only "spoiler" in this offal is that it was written in the first place.


                
The bizarre casting, the soggy script - I use the term 'script' loosely - the feeble, predictable story line and the equally predictable, one-dimensional characters all combine to create unbelievably awful telly. Parts of it were so bad, I actually laughed out loud.The big mysteries for me are: What on earth is Maggie Smith doing in this drivel? and...why do so many people like it?! And did someone tell the actors that behaving like you're on tranquillizers is a good way to look typically 'Briddish'? Avoid like the plague, except if you want to use it as an example of how NOT to make an historical drama.


                
I tried to watch Downton Abbey when it started but found it boring. After hearing rave reviews I thought I would give it another try! It would seem viewers are easily pleased these days! With the outstanding quality of recent "period" shows, I was disappointed by Downton Abbeys idea of what the period would look like. I highly doubt servants had perfectly groomed eyebrows and impeccable makeup which the servants seem to have on this show. The costumes are a hit and miss affair with often inaccurate attire for the period. I must mention the servants beautifully ironed and kept uniforms which are again, a real put off! I find any show produced today that is based in a particular period must make the effort and be realistic because the bar has been set extremely high! The ridiculous lack of authenticity really puts me off! Then we get to the script! I couldn't tell if someone was a servant or an aristocrat the way they were talking to each other in particular, Mary and Anna. The familiarity and connection between the servants and the main characters is beyond stupid, but must appeal to soap opera lovers! I am astounded this show is so popular considering the numerous inaccuracies and the terrible accents which, again, are in no way realistic, Viewers seem to be easily pleased these days or have very low standards!


                
The worst show I have ever watched. It is depressing, boring and the storyline goes absolutely nowhere!! It is just plain awful!! The acting is actually annoying and I honestly don't see why anyone would bother watching this. If anyone is looking for a show to cheer them up then do not watch this. It is always full of sad British people blabbing on about boring boring stuff. I don't know why everybody likes it, honestly I just think people like it because of the publicity it gets. So if anyone hasn't watched then please save yourself from possible suicide and don't watch it. So my overall review of this show is: Amazingly horrible, just terrible.


                
We've enjoyed the Elizabeth Gaskell collection, "Little Dorrit", "The Lady in White", etc. and thought Downton Abbey would be just as enjoyable. We were sorely disappointed. While beautifully made and well acted, we were shocked at the in-your-face homosexual relationship that popped up. Seriously? There was no need for it, it certainly did not add anything of value. We picked up right away on the insinuation of a relationship between the two men, there was no need to add such an offensive scene. Downton Abbey began with much promise, but we turned it off after that and threw away the Blu-ray set we'd just bought at Costco. Won't recommend it to ANYONE.
I must admit that the 1st thing that attracted me to this series was the theme music. A splendid rendering of magnificence and descending glory.Then it comes as no surprise that the theme of the whole show is thusly.Of course the writer is merely transcribing the descent of the English upper classes. However my personal "gut" feeling is that these kinds of events occurred even in their (upper classes) ascent.Therefore this rose tinted exposition of the fancifully illustrated decline of the upper classes masqueraded as inevitable result of a more cognizant society tries ones patience to the point of breakage...but apparently box office success for this pap is assured.


                
This period drama television series is slow and boring. I can't understand how this manages to gain millions of viewers in the United Kingdom. Even more puzzling than its success in the UK is its large following in the United States - it must be like another world to Americans, so I don't see how it appeals to them.


                
I watched the intro to the first episode and it made me want to start doing heroin again. Then I just fell asleep. 100% do not recommend this show, do something useful with your life, not snobs talking in a manor. The plot it goes off is very desperate to try and make more episodes, the video quality is bad 140p. After hearing Carson talk it reminded me of self harming and killing myself. Don't watch this show!!!!


                
I find it completely incredulous that so many reviewers are drooling over this garbage. I'm a Brit BTW, so I have no inherent reason to dislike the show, as some Americans might.My wife (an American) and I watched one full episode. We easily concluded this was a great show to watch if you need some TV to bore you to death before falling asleep for the night.This how had absolutely ZERO redeeming qualities. NO action, NO plot, NO reasonable activity, etc. Just rank crap!Stay away, unless you love being bored to tears. Watching this show is akin to staying in solitary confinement.....Dr. Harvey Kindle


                
