Back in the 1980s Granada made two long drama serials at almost the same time. One was "Brideshead Revisited" based on Evelyn Waugh's novel and the other was "Jewel in the Crown" – the dramatisation of Paul Scott's extraordinary "Raj Quartet". Both these series were masterpieces and if you watch them today you will find they have stood well the test of time. The drama tradition of Granada, of some of the other commercial companies and, of course, of the BBC is strong and is something of a jewel in the crown of British television. It is also an important source of revenue, not least in the United States, where posh British TV has a small but well-heeled following. This brings me to "Downton Abbey", superficially in the great tradition and with obvious links also to the very successful and ground-breaking "Forsyte Saga" and "Upstairs Downstairs" of the 1960s and 1970s. Downton is set in the second and third decades of the twentieth century and we have moved from Edwardian complacency and excesses through the horrors of the Great War to the early 1920s. As with "Upstairs Downstairs" we see life, and to an extent history, through the eyes of the aristocracy and simultaneously from the perspective of those in the Servants' Hall.Over the 16 episodes that have so far been transmitted, spanning the years 1912-1920, the stories are reminiscent of a Soap like "Eastenders" or "Coronation Street" in that there are episode ending cliff-hangers and improbably extreme story developments. Every historic event from the sinking of the Titanic through women's suffrage, the Irish independence movement, the Battle of the Somme, the post-war Flu epidemic and many others is a trigger for something to happen in the plot. In addition we have adultery, murder, homosexuality, alcoholism, illness and recovery or death, the black market, inter-class affairs and marriage, and most of the seven deadly sins in sharp relief. The stories are often signalled rather obviously and it is an amusing parlour game to predict what will happen next - as with any soap. Taken as a whole the story is totally preposterous and the "issues" are not handled with any subtlety at all – there is none of the restraint of a Galsworthy, a Waugh or a Scott.The starting point for Downton Abbey was in the creative mind of the writer Julian Fellowes and its main inspiration was clearly that author's film script for "Gosford Park" - which won an Oscar for Best Original Screenplay in 2002. But whereas this film lasts a couple of hours and was tightly directed by Robert Altman Downton goes on for 20 – and running! The characters are largely pastiches of real people. Maggie Smith, for example, is wonderful as the Dowager a figure straight out of Pantomime - Dame Maggie overtly seeks hisses from the stalls. Fine actors like Hugh Bonneville, Penelope Wilton and Dan Stevens struggle with a script that is always close to parody and sometimes spills over into farce. Indeed at times there is a slight sense that they know what they are being asked to say, or the absurd plot twist in which they are expected to participate, has moved into lampoon territory and that Mel Brooks or the Directors of "Airplane" or "Something about Mary" are in charge.The great strength of Brideshead Revisited, Jewel in the Crown and the Forsyte Saga is that the stories had passed the tough test of being seen as credible in the original novel format. They were great books before they became great television. The original screenplay of "Downton Abbey" has had none of the checks and balances that apply to the written word. And because the medium is only to be visual, and in a number of time-limited episodes, it is presumed that there is a need to provide colourful action rather than attempt any true characterisation. We are supposed to like the Earl of Grantham because he is a benevolent toff – fragile but caring with a true sense of noblesse oblige. But compare his character, which is utterly superficially sketched, with the way that Evelyn Waugh gradually introduces Lord Marchmain in Brideshead - we feel we know the Marquess long before we meet him. The same superficiality applies to Downton's "below stairs" characters most of whom are stereotypes we have met frequently before.The visual impact of "Downton Abbey" is strong and in this area the production values are high. The sets, both in the studio and on location, are beautifully designed and the costumes and other artifacts are good and look authentic. There is a strange paradox here which I suspect has led some to assume that because it looks good then it is good - perhaps ignoring the often wooden acting and sloppy direction. Downton's viewing figures are good and this is no doubt reflected directly in the income received from advertisers and the revenue from the sale of overseas rights and DVDs etc. - it is evidently a profitable venture. So a legitimate response to those critics who deplore the triviality of the series would be to never mind the quality and weigh the receipts.There is nothing really wrong with "Downton Abbey" if you see it for what it is – a Soap of fleeting interest with can pass the time on an autumnal evening. However Downton does take itself quite seriously at times and some of the acting is so pompously self-important that it can only be seen as light comedy, which it isn't meant to be, or over-written moralising trash - which at times it comes dangerously close to being.


                
This show offers you good acting, some humor and nice camera work. But if you value details and/or have knowledge about the era, you might want to punch the screen. For example in the first scene you can notice servants wearing white bow tie (only gentlemen are allowed to wear white). You can see Ford Model T several times, a car that is produced after 1921. Moreover they talk about "Turkey" which is founded in 1923 and they call a Turkish man with his surname, but Turkey didn't use surname until 1934. Furthermore language and social interactions are so much modern for 1910s. Also, all men are perfectly shaved. In reality at least half of them should have unique mustache. Downton Abbey should be labeled as high-end soap opera, if you are looking for a time piece, you will be so much disappointed.


                
Lovely clothes, locations, and I like the apparently unlikely relationships between the staff and the earl's family. But while I watch this show, which DOESN'T HAVE AN ENDING, I find myself scoffing or wincing at the unlikely plot. The evil downstairs help stay on even though they are caught stealing from, scheming against, and even causing the death of a member of the family. If the earl were really so nice, so forgiving, he'd have gone broke years ago because his tenants in and around Grantham, who are from whom most of those big landowners make their money, would have told him "the check's in the mail" and laughed behind his back.Almost every character upstairs is an unlikeable cartoon. Matthew is too dreadfully dull and feckless for a lawyer. Mary is the lost rich girl. Edith is sort of cool, flirting with every man with a few bucks in his pocket, but she does only have one thread, doesn't she, to get Mary? The only admirable upstairs character is the sister who's trying to get the maid a secretarial position. And the fact that I can't remember her name is the fault of the writers, not of mine.Downstairs the characters have interesting pasts, but boring presents. Fatherly Mr. Carson was a stage performer. Perfect Mr. Bates was a thief and a killer and what else. Thomas couldn't be more evil, at all times. Unless he's going to be a serial killer, he has to have a human moment sometimes. O'Brien is a bit more realistic. She has a bit of a soft spot for the lady, but is absolutely cruel to her peers.Well, tonight I watched the end of Lovely Bones instead of catching the beginning of Downton Abbey. That is a very bad sign for me, for I love English period pieces.
This drama was an entertaining and thoroughly enjoyable show in season one, and I eagerly anticipated more of the same in season two. What a disappointment I experienced. The second season brought extremely poor writing, meaningless character conflicts and interactions along with inane situations that never would have been allowed to continue in the time period the show is set in. Season three brought more of the same, with even more bizarre plot contrivances aimed at bringing drama and interest to the production.Yet sadly they all failed. The biggest failure, beyond the poor writing and a script that jumps all over the place with no seaming rhyme or reason as regards the plot (if there actually is one), is the writers need to try and inject 21st century political correctness and thought into early 20th century upper class society. His attempt fails miserably.It requires a suspension of common sense to believe that this culture at this time would be so understanding and accepting of homosexuality and the intermarriage of upper and lower classes. That they would offer tacit support to the Irish rebellion, would allow their hired help so much latitude and that their children would so casually profess no belief in God in front of everyone. The show is a fanciful creation of what the author wishes the period he was writing about was like. It is too bad he felt the need to inject so much of his own political/cultural ideology into the show through the dialog and actions of the characters. What was a great production initially has,by the end of season three, become nothing more than a very badly written soap opera with wooden, one dimensional characters, no focus and no real point. The settings and dress are beautiful and realistic, sadly the characters and story are not.
Despite some annoying camera sequences, this is beautifully shot with lovely costumes and big-name and competent actors. I don't even mind that no matter the season, it is always sunny, warm and green in this mythical part of Yorkshire or that the Edwardian class structures are softened a bit for modern audiences, or the numerous historical and scientific and medical lapses.It is after all a fantasy Jerusalem and a good warm fuzzy place and time to escape the real world. I understand why this appeals to so many people and it is relaxing and enjoyable in that sense.However, Downton is so very disappointing as well, and I would have been satisfied with soap-level plots and characterizations ala Young and Restless or Lovejoy. With someone like Julian Fellowes, I had hoped for Gosford Park and but would have settled for Monarch of the Glen with eye-candy.The many annoying inconsistencies of the characters, the silliness of the plots, are all contrived for Pee Wee Herman manipulations of the audience to cheer and jeer and the appropriate times. I am waiting for aliens to appear - we already had some Battlestar Galactica mysticism...The incredibly poor scripting and outlandish plot elements not only make watching this tiresome as you try to filter out everything that doesn't make sense but sadly ruins the illusion. I don't need complete historical accuracy, but the characters need to be true, and the stories need to make enough sense for me to escape into that time and place that never was...I guess I can always dust off old copies of Howard's End or Remains of the Day.Too bad - Downton is such a beautiful place... why couldn't the Bellamy's live there...


                
What a disappointment in comparison with the truly deliciously immoral connivings of season one! It is as if everyone has been brushed by TV goody-goody dust. O'Brien, Thomas, Edith, Mary....all rendered sweet and sympathetic. The only villains are characters that enter and exit from the periphery, never shaking the moral high ground of the central cast of the high born and servant classes. And I get that the Great War is supposed to be viewed as the Great Equalizer, but the level of intimacy between the servants and the Earl of Grantham's family is SO unrealistic for the period (although slightly later, just look to Julian Fellowes' own Gosford Park for verification). No one is truly concerned for anyone's reputation, everyone expresses the right contemporary moral sentiments...Even the upright grande dame of Lady Violet stumbles upon the scullery maid in a state of distress and chooses to use the opportunity to tenderly feed her motherly advice. Yeah, sure, that would happen.The writing is just downright lazy! There are so many instances of facile exchanges that tie off loose ends with absolutely no faithfulness to authentic character development. It is like a TV movie of the week! I think my "favorite" one was when the Earl says to his wife "do you think there could be something I have overlooked about this whole affair" in relation to his daughter's betrothal to the evil Richard, it creates an opening for exposing the GREAT SECRET that you could drive a truck through, and his wife obligingly spills all.I wouldn't be so negative if I hadn't seen Gosford Park and enjoyed season one somewhat. But clearly Fellowes must be given credit for knowing what his audience wants (or at least the American version) as the comments here and at IMDb are uniformly positive. I just wish he could have pulled it all off with a bit more integrity. What is so grinding is that we've got so much evidence from his other work that he knows how to do it; he just clearly chose not to.After reviewing the minority negative reviews of the entire show, I wonder if even season one was as good as I thought it was. Maybe I was overdazzled by the high production values and the well cast group of actors. All I know is that I really wanted to laugh at Maggie Smith's zinger at season 2's close ("Do you promise?")....but it was all just too convenient.
I don't understand why this series receives so much appreciation. I won't make this long. Each part is filmed very beautiful and detailed. The costumes are stunning and as an admirer of historic clothing I applaud the effort. But that is all. The show offers in long distances boring scenes. The plot stays one-dimensional as well as the characters. Seriously don't watch it if you want to be entertained. Actually this would it be from my side. But the guidelines require me for more... Well then I would say that I recommend Downton Abbey for the ones who want to switch off after work or so. Everybody who is too tired to give enough attention like a show like MadMen would require. I will go on watching because I want to know if at least the plot speeds up a little.


                
I wanted to like this, and it started strong, but Downton Abbey is just terribly written and awkwardly paced. Every time it creates a little tension, it seems to want to relieve it, post-haste. And the resolutions it comes up with are often trite, sometimes out of character, and almost always anticlimactic. It's fluff at best, with some entertaining bits and pieces. Maggie Smith, in particular, carries the whole thing, like Atlas. But it's Maggie Smith, not the character and definitely not the script, at work in that one consistently good thread. By the last episode, even the lethargic, bland yellow lab got under my skin when it appeared, as if all its scenes had been shot in the same 10 minutes.


                
This series has everything going for it except heart and soul. It's beautiful, charming, enchanting but utterly vacant and vapid. It took me five episodes before I discovered this. What happened was I began to be annoyed by the storyline which became repetitive and depressing - way too much tragedy. Anthony Trollope and Jane Austin do not dwell on depressing story lines but contemporary writers like Julian Fellowes do. As hard as I tried there is not a single character in the story that I have empathy for and that says it all. As much as I like Elizabeth McGovern, for example, her character just did not flesh out the way I thought she should and it is never explained as far as I can recall why she is American in a British cast.


                
I must say that I am sorely disappointed in Season 4. I felt that it had so much potential and the show (writers) just backed out and decided to abandon some great storyline in favor of sterilized resolutions. I think Edith deserves more screen time The young lady Rose is a very interesting character and her relationship with the jazz singer should have been played more fully. This storyline had a huge buildup then ended on a whimper. That love triangle between Alfred, Ivy, and Daisey should have been played out and expanded more fully. Perhaps they just did not have the time to play out these complex story lines. a real pity. Who are they writing for? Grand Parents? I have them know that most Grand parents today are in their 60's and 70's and this is the children of the decadent 60's. We want more racy story lines or at least see them push the envelope more. The loves of Lady Mary is just too boring.


                
it was the first time that i have found a show that has been rated so high been of such poor standards. i wonder what people were thinking when they decided to rate this extrapolation of the rich kinda drama an very undeserving 8.8. pilots are supposed bring about intrigue and make you suffer through the week's gap that was to follow, but all this made me do was procrastinate my watching of the second episode in order to put away my suffering and yes i call it a suffering, i mean seriously rich people wondering about money thats what this show is about. i don't feel for any character apart from the audience itself.maid being cruel to other maids and lords being pompous and self righteous with ladies being ladies oh my god, and to add to the stereotypical nature of this show Britishers thinking that they are better than the rest. i mean seriously i don't give two hoots about how rich people do nothing and earn money but, if you were to have you brains aroused by this by all means watch it and wonder why you bust your but 70-80 hours a week to pay for you cable or internet connection to watch this brilliantly worthless show


                
