I will cherish my lst and 2nd season DVDs of DA, but will buy no more. Why they thought they had to hype the 3rd, who knows, but hyped it was. Now with the entrée of the 4th season, the skids are actually in sight unless they pick it up from those first two wretched hours. We're talking a loss of zest and vital connection that made DA the blockbuster hit it became. This applies to the writing, directing and even the acting. This stellar cast could not overcome insipid and recycled themes and some were actually wooden, especially noticed in the kitchen sequences with Ms. Patmore (who always rang the chimes) and Daisy. Some of their exchanges were like a high school play reading. It was just overall flat - really off. However, in reading reviews of some who have seen the UK complete season say it starts slow and picks up. Man, does it really need to.


                
I enjoyed the first season of Downton Abbey, despite the cartoonesque characters. They were really unidimensional caricatures in the beginning. Then what appears to have happened is that the writer, Julian Fellowes, realized that he had to throw in some twisters to string along the viewers through another season. The problem was that changing the characters to be less of caricatures and more like real human beings also made some of them rather incoherent, Mary being a case in point. The storyline started to oscillate almost sinusoidally. By now, having just finished watching the first episode of Season 3, in which Shirley Maclaine appears to reestablish the importance of caricatures--she being the obnoxious nouveau riche American who has crossed the ocean to attend the wedding of Matthew and Mary--I fear that much, much more incoherence lies ahead.My prediction: Mr. Bates will be revealed to be a serial killer or something along those lines. Obviously he killed his wife Vera, the only question being: how many others????? Will the bones of his victims be found literally in his closet by Anna? Only time will tell. Perhaps Anna will discover that she is really a man trapped in a woman's body and seek a sex change. There must be something wrong with this happy loving couple, because they have been incessantly painted as saints in servants' clothing.Why has this series been so highly acclaimed? It's puzzling in some ways, but I believe that I have discovered the answer. Think about the people who watch Downton Abbey. They hail nearly entirely from the middle class. This series is beloved to the middle class because it reveals how lucky we are not to be a part of the rigid class system depicted. We are neither wealthy aristocrats nor their servants. That is why we enjoy watching Downton Abbey. It makes us feel a bit like we do while watch The Wire, except that the world to which we gain voyeuristic access is not a housing project in Baltimore, but the village of the Grantham clan. Downton Abbey could also be compared to bad reality television. There is quite a lot of bad acting--with Cora topping the list of characters who should have been finished off by the Spanish flu. The plot twists are somewhat juvenile and ridiculous, too. And has this clan never heard of genetics? It's 1920, and Mary and Matthew are cousins preparing to wed (so that Mary will not lose the estate which her father has already lost through bad investments during the war--like I was saying, incoherent plot twists...) and produce cyclops babies with two heads or perhaps they'll have three breasts or hemophilia. Who knows? They have not a clue. The probability of two deadly or deformative recessive genes combining with devastating effects is much, much higher in such cases of inbreeding. Wasn't this discovered in the nineteenth century?I'll continue to watch for the chuckles for now. Violet is always good for a snarky laugh. ----------------------- Update: I made it through half of season 4 and have now thrown in the tea towel. The remaining characters are cringe worthy and the plots have just become too pathetic. Sorry, fans.My rating plummeted by two stars with each successive season. Not a masterpiece. Not even close.
