For me at least Downton Abbey was elegant, controlled and subtly witty. The scenery, of course, is very good. (anyone interested can find short interviews with actor Hugh Bonneville and writer Julian Fellowes via youtube and be infected with their enthusiasm as well as getting an explanation, if you need one, of the setting) The house is suitably dramatic and the fabrics, the costumes, the camera shots of ringing bells and curious meal courses in the form of fences of asparagus, the morning light, or lit windows across the lawn, and the smooth work of all the actors make it something to watch and be both interested and relaxed. There is just enough drama and just enough calm, nothing seems overdone, and (after two episodes) the characters, as it switches between moments of their various days, are none of them an unwelcome change from the view of the last. It is a costume drama but 1912 after all was just as real as 2010 and it is, quite separate from costumes, about people, several different people, house workers and owners, their motives, their histories, pain, relationships, scheming allegiances, awkwardness or ease, old ways and the coming of those things we now call modern<U+0085> electric lights, the middle class<U+0085>Enjoyable so far. However, if you find these things dull, if you need constant shocks, use the word inoffensive as an insult or dislike all period dramas, scenery or rich people<U+0085>stay away. It's not hard to do.


                
"Downton Abbey" has many qualities, which have already been highlighted: splendid period reconstitution, mix of historical events and individual stories, consistent central plot with ramifications, multiple character focus, witty dialogues, excellent acting, etc.This review (based on Season 1) analyses just one of them: how aristocrats and servants evolve in two parallel worlds that do not connect, yet present troubling similarities.1. DISCONNECTIONThe series manages to show two physically close environments as if they were on different planets. This underlines the disparities between social milieus in early 20th century Britain.Servants frequently go from the basement to the ground floor, however we never see them arriving there or leaving. This disconnection is first spatial: they sometimes start climbing the stairs, yet the camera never follows thoroughly (there are travelling shots following characters, but they always happen on the same storey). It is also temporal: we suddenly see servants on the ground floor without a link to previous action in the basement. Granted, there is a technical reason for that: all action on the ground floor and above was shot on site (Highclere Castle, UK), while action in the basement was shot in Ealing studios, since the castle's basement was not suited for period settings. Nonetheless, it would have been easy to film the servants going up the stairs in the studio and then edit their arrival on the ground floor (or conversely), which the series never does.Likewise, we see servants in above floors (aristocrats' bedrooms and servants quarters), yet never witness them arriving there. We do see them in the side staircase, but never going from there to the different levels: it is as if these stairs were separate quarters disconnected from the rest of the castle. Stairs could represent the possible link between servants and aristocrats (below versus above), but are denied their symbolic connection since they seem to lead nowhere. Here the reason cannot be technical as for the above topic, since the stairs are effectively located in the castle.Lighting on the ground floor and the aristocrats' bedrooms is generally bright, while in the basement and the servants' quarters it is always dim. Naturally, this can be explained by the windows sizes, however the contrast is pushed to the extreme: on cloudy days, the aristocrats' levels could be grim which rarely happens, while on sunny days the servants' levels could be bright which never occurs. Moreover, in the aristocrats' levels, colours are generally warm (yellow, red, white), while in the servants' levels they are usually cold (grey, brown, blue).Camera movements in the aristocrats' levels are fluid, poised, lengthy, while in the servants' levels they are brisker, faster, shorter. In the basement, the camera is frequently hand-held, highlighting the intensity of the work performed. Also, there sometimes is a character or an object in the foreground while action occurs in the background: we seem to bump into elements. The use of long lenses (foreground is blurred, background is sharp) increases this sensation of confinement. By contrast, in the aristocrats' levels, image is generally sharp.*** WARNING: CONTAINS SPOILERS ***2. SIMILARITIESDespite the symbolic gap between them, aristocrats and servants sometimes experience similar events. The message seems to be: regardless of social differences, we are all humans, with joys, grieves, qualities, flaws and secrets. Here are just a few examples (I will refer to characters either by their first or last name, depending on what is most common in the series).Servants are all decent, with two notable exceptions, who are real "villains": O'Brien and Thomas. Aristocrats are all decent, with two notable exceptions, who are real b**ches: Edith and Mary (although Mary reveals herself as more complex towards the end of Season 1).Servants cannot marry because of their function: Mrs Hughes turns down her lover; Carson is a long-time bachelor; the love between Anna and Bates remains chaste. The Crawley daughters cannot marry: Mary turns down pretenders including Matthew, who then turns her down; Edith is turned down by Anthony Strallon; Sybil is still young.William loves Daisy, who loves Thomas<U+0085> who prefers men. Edith loves Matthew, who loves Mary<U+0085> who does not love anybody. Both settings progressively evolve, however they occupy most of Season 1.Bates has a complex and shameful past: war, alcohol, thievery, jail. Mary has sexual relations before marriage, which was scandalous at the time, especially for an aristocrat; and it provoked the death of her lover Kemal Pamuk. All these terrible secrets will progressively be revealed.Various lesser intrigues between the aristocrats are echoed with the servants, and conversely. For instance: Thomas sends a letter to compromise Bates; Edith sends a letter to compromise her sister Mary. Gossip is widespread between the two milieus and within each.-----On both above topics, "The Rules of the Game" (Renoir, 1939) greatly influenced the series as well as "Gosford Park" (Altman, 2001), written by Julian Fellowes himself. Yet "Downton Abbey" manages to create a specific atmosphere, distinct from these two movies.If I had to rate Season 1 compared to a cinema feature, I would probably give it 7/10: despite all its qualities, it does have some downsides. Characters are Manichean. It triggers easy emotions. Some events are far-fetched (e.g. the feud between Mary and Edith, Kemal's heart attack). It mostly shows early 20th century as good old times and aristocracy as a benevolent power. The worst villains are all non-aristocrats: O'Brien, Thomas, Carson's ex-stage partner, the drunken mob at the suffragette rally.However, most of these drawbacks can be explained by the series format, which generally requires simplification to maintain attention on the long term. Hence as a series it probably rates 9/10 for all the qualities briefly described at the beginning of this review. The final rating 8/10 is an average of the two: entertaining and convincing but not essential.
Oh my. I just changed my 10 star review to 5. Downton Abbey really turned out to be an incredible disappointment. What a silly, silly show. Yes, the acting is wonderful. The costumes and sets are sublime. The music is wonderful. But the writing? Oh dear, how embarrassing. What really gets me, more than the soap-opera-esque plot lines that insult even average intelligence, is how many of the plots just drop off into thin air, while other torturous boring plots just won't ever end. Plots that go nowhere actually started in right in the beginning with Season 1. Examples of Plots in DA that go absolutely no where: 1. The first plot that really got me interested in the show was The Countesses plot to "smash the entail." As she sits there with Lady Grantham discussing this, we discover not only that the countess has the conniving intention to radically smash the entail but also the juicy indication that she and the countess are not friendly mother and daughter-in-law. What a wonderful set up for things to come. Didn't you think this was going to be the central theme of the entire series? I was so intrigued. But these two plot lines go absolutely nowhere. There is no "smashing of the entail" nor any real attempt to do so. Lady Grantham is told "sorry Charlie. Your money is tied up in the estate for good," and the plot is dead, face down in the water. And the tension between mom and daughter in law? Nothing. What a waste. 2. Second potentially great plot line (if a bit silly) that really goes nowhere: The Turk in Mary's bed who just suddenly dies. A healthy 22 year old just dies? Didn't you think it was going to be poisoning or something? Didn't you think we were going to find out why he died? Nope. The only thing that comes of it is a silly sister quarrel and Edith's attempt to tattle tale. The word ridiculous comes to mind. 3. Another potentially good plot that goes no where: Ethel's flirtations with the farmer. Now this could have been really really good. Rich young woman getting involved with a poor farmer – uh-oh<U+0085>a MARRIED farmer<U+0085> But nope. Goes nowhere. 4. Next plot that disappears (kind of glad actually) like a fart in the wind: The disfigured military dude who says he is Patrick- the heir to the estate that supposedly died on the Titanic. This is where I really turned my back on Downton Abbey. I literally laughed out loud. But even if the plot line was soap opera silly in the third degree, at least have the plot properly develop and resolve. Once again the plot falls off a cliff: The mysterious soldier suddenly makes an unusual gesture that Lord Grantham recognizes. Remember that? What was that gesture? Interesting.... Where will this go? whups... Nope. Goes nowhere. 5. Lady Grantham is pregnant? Ooo this is good! What if it is a boy? The heir to the estate is in question again. Uh. Nope. Within 10 minutes of finding out she is pregnant she slips on soap that her lady's maid leaves on the floor outside the tub and loses the baby. Next. 6. Lord Grantham's "affair?" Sloppy, rushed, no development, no anticipation, no build. He just suddenly leans over and kisses a maid. Really really awful. Yet with all these potentially interesting plots that don't develop and/or completely dissipate, we are forced to endure other plots that leave us utterly exasperated. I really couldn't have endured one more minute of the 20 year old Anna and the 50 year old fat-faced Bates, yet we were tortured with this stupid tale for 2 seasons. OK. Nuf said. Downton Abbey has made me Down-right Crabby.
Downton Abbey isn't for everybody. That is not to say that it is a progressive, experimental series that only caters for viewers with peculiar taste. I've read the reviews of those who have found it 'soapy' and 'redundant' and found them excessively harsh. The series doesn't take itself too seriously, after all, hence the small number of episodes.If you're a fan of period drama, you're in for a treat. The costumes are gorgeous, the sets, lavish, and the scenery, dreamlike. The characters are never one-dimensional and you're sure to sympathize with them, for various reasons. There are those you love and there are those you love to hate. But nobody in here could possibly leave you indifferent, and isn't this the purpose of a series ? To build an attachment between the viewer and the characters ?Sure, it's a little too sunny for the English countryside. Sure, there are a few plot hole which I'm sure will be filled in season 3. Sure, those aristocrats are a tad too indulgent and familiar with their 'servants'. But these are some of the elements that make Downton Abbey so interesting. If you don't shed a tear or two, then there is no hope for this cold, technology-fueled world.


                
While I never watch adaptations of Austen & Dickens, due to deep dislike of the novels, this drama was original & had Maggie Smith. As expected, Maggie stole the series, but as it moved on, other characters got their chance to shine. I loved Brendan Coyle (Bates) & Joanne Froggatt (Anna) who are just so sweet together. In contrast I hated Thomas, oozing evil from every pore & his partner in crime, O'Brien. I booed and hissed at their nasty schemes. I had no sympathy for Mary and Edith proved just as bad, but Sybil's interest in the rights of women and her kindness to servants made her a heroine to root for. Each episode builds on the next and makes the series stronger. Plot lines are left hanging for Series 2. I look forward to it. Quality entertainment. 8/10


                
How is it possible that I've waited until now to watch this wonderful period drama? I definitely knew of it when it was airing a couple months ago. Did I just not think it would appeal to me? I actually think I just didn't pay attention to it because I've been spending all my free time reading<U+0085>Whatever the reason, I finally decided to watch it this week and marathoned it all in two days. I was hooked from the first minute.It's set pre-WWII and focuses on both the family of Downton Abbey and its servants. The series takes place over two years, which can be a bit confusing, as months pass from episode to episode. It starts after the sinking of the Titanic (and death of the heir and his son) to the outbreak of WWII in 1914. It's basically a soap opera, with some of its almost melodramatic story lines. I hate soap operas, but I loved Downton Abbey because, unlike the former, DA has good acting and production values! The whole cast was excellent. My favorite was Maggie Smith as the Dowager Countess of Grantham. From the previews I expected her to just be an uppity snobby bitch used only for comic relief. But really, she wasn't. She was a snob, yes. But she had a heart even in the beginning, showing it more as the series went on and was a well-rounded character. I was also surprised by Lady Mary, played by Michelle Dockery. I thought I would hate her after I saw the first episode, but while she got on my nerves a lot, she grew on me.I can't forget the "downstairs" characters either.It was interesting to watch all the goings-on "behind the scenes", so to speak. I went into this expecting to go ga-ga for Dan Stevens as Matthew, the new heir. But instead I found myself falling for Mr. Bates, the lame valet. The villains, lady's maid O'Brien and gay footman Thomas, seemed a bit over the top to me in the beginning but I liked how in the end, O'Brien wasn't as evil as even she thought herself. Too bad she realized it too late.I don't want to be too spoilery, but Lady Mary's "seduction" in episode 3 really made me uneasy. To me, the whole situation seemed at best a coercion, and at worst a rape. Yet afterward, Mary was racked with guilt about it, claimed it was not forced, and referred to her seducer as her "lover." That's not what I saw! Was this intentional on the part of the writers, showing the double standard of the time? Maybe that's the whole idea and I'm over thinking things. Still, I loved the series despite this issue and give it an 8/10.
Elizabeth Montgomery is the weak link in this series.
Otherwise, I thoroughly enjoy this series. Z3


                
What a wonderful way to end "Downton Abbey". The final season seemed more to be a wrap up of previous story lines, however there were some twists and turns and in the end we stay positive in hoping the family continues on in a happy manner.


                
Im a huge fan of British TV Series. As for Downton Abbey, I might not be a qualified person to review this kind of series with a rich of cultures and historical potraits that keep giving you some beautiful things to picture passing through centuries.Yet you can take my words. All the characters are well played, even in a different century, yet we can see the reality of characters from various classes with different kind of conflicts. A struggle between kindness and hatred, ideal world and the real one, the powerfull and the helpless. The mixture of those gave us a mixed feelings that keep engaging us from the series. That feeling is more than everything.


                
The end of December was the date of the release of the last episode of the last season of Downton Abbey. I kept up with the series from the beginning, so now I can look back at my reflections and impressions. Generally speaking, it is a drama about the noble family and their servants capturing the time spin from 1912 to 1925. What makes it outstanding is a great variety of characters, each with a remarkable appearance and personality. It feels so good to watch the play of talented attractive British actors, look at British landscapes and listen to the adorable British pronunciation.I believe the allure of the great interiors and meticulous historical details kept the majority of the series' audience. I was excited to learn that some of the scenes were filmed in the real estate building and the premises. You won't find any teapot or machine that is out of the epoch. Hosanna to the film's artists and stylists! The script is not the strongest point in the series. Dynamic at the beginning, there are plenty of hackneyed turns that you expect to see in the third- rate romance but not there. Some of the characters do not change and mature as the time goes by. Petty home wars which ended with peace in one season are revived in the following one, it seems, because the script writers couldn't have boiled the interest of the audience without the old dusty conflict. Still, the first three seasons are really worth watching, and the last three can be skipped. But I was glued to the series up to the very end.


                
I never began watching Downton when it first aired, it wasn't until my friends introduced it to me that I got hooked. By this point, series 2 had already finished. I began watching series 1 and fell in love with everything about the show. I found the acting to be fantastic, every single actor has managed to capture their character perfectly. The writing was also brilliant, there's never a dull moment in Downton. I feel like I have felt sympathy, empathy and pure love exactly where it was due, due to the creativeness of the actors. Recently I feel that the series has started to capture outside Downton life a lot more and I'm really enjoying this, I hope that there will be a lot more development of Rose's character. The latest series lacked a bit of story, but this was made up for with the characters, beautiful set design and a bigger look of the outside world. I do feel that, regardless of the fact that the most recent series was not as strong as the rest of them, it has set the series up perfectly for the next few years.
Very good show. Acting is really good but above all, what I really like about this show is the fact that every single scene in this show is rich and very purposeful. Enjoy.


                
I managed to finish watching the total of six seasons in a week, but disappointment had gradually risen up, beating the pleasure at last.
You see, with the tale progressing, the story seem to be flooded with ordinary routines and romances. I see no more of thrills as a person would see when witnessing the big turning point of history. The contradiction between the new and the old and between reserving and adapting just seem to be a cliche, as a result of no other ups and downs which are expected in the best stories. Along with that, I had grown so tired of Carson, murmuring about all that etiquette from the beginning to the end.
But one has to admit that the cast had done a wonderful job, especially Michelle Dockery. I've read that Lady Mary is seen nasty by some audience in the end, though she is adored by much most of the time. But I really think she is who she is and that it's far from the stupidity of the screenwriter. On the contrary, I feel it's a masterpiece of the screenwriter. I like her as I've always do. She has grown from such a foolish and vain little lady to a sensible and passionate woman. As for her vanity, it might be best explained by her granny, and I quote, "You've always tried to be so arrogant, vainglorious and cold-blooded, as the rest of us try not to be considered like that." I would admit she IS arrogant, vainglorious and cold-blooded to some degree notwithstanding. I resemble her so much that I would be sure to tell you that.
If there is a certain point that I've lost interests in this TV series, it must be the death of cousin Mathew. I adore him, not only because of his looking but also his characteristics. There's no other man who can bring the best of Mary, since that requires both love and finance. Furthermore, conflicts by the nature would also be needed to make sparkles. The love story between Mary and Henry is quite romantic, in fact, too romantic. But romance won't satisfy me, a realist, just as Lady Mary herself. I'd rather see the contradiction be settled in other fields instead of money and position. Only then will Mary have some happiness being a realist and the audience be satisfied in the same time, instead of abandoning who she is and believing love can conquer these things. Well, I may be more tolerant to Henry Talbot, if Mathew Goode acted better. Because I really don't see that Henry makes a perfect match for Mary, so even "love" or such things cannot persuade me.
The best part in the last season must be the transition of Thomas. His collapse elicits our sympathy and signifies the light of humanity. As for the adaptation of other servants, sometimes they are either too rash or too stubborn to face it. But they're doing it better and better. However, even this turns boring as it becomes a cliche.
To put an end to it, I can't say that I hate romances, but the delights they bring are mainly meaningless. And it is the same for the happy endings. Tragedies are always the best arts.
I have never committed myself into a TV series like I did with Downton Abbey. although in many aspects it is a Soap Opera, but a very good soap is used, the stories inside reflect the changes that took place after the world war I in an informative and engaging way, there is no one character in the long list of the cast who wasn't presented in a human, very touching way. the conversation is excellent. and MAGGIE SMITH....GOD....MAGGIE SMITH...She is beyond words,..the strength of the character and how she played it is something that should be taught in Drama schools. Daisy, the cook girl, was another great role. very touching.


                
Eminently entertaining! The plots are densely interwoven and they kept me gripped, often in spite of myself. It's all so elegant and well acted that it draws one in to be pampered by it's ornate splendour. I enjoyed the most recent episode where they drew so many threads together and niftily contrived some reversals of stereotype. Racial prejudice is gently gone over, (It was actually embedded in the culture and ruthlessly applied in those days) and reversed for the sake of variety, so Lord Sinderby is shown to be the one concerned with a mixed-race marriage. His thoughts can be summed up as 'They're all very nice but I wouldn't want my son to marry one'. The Earl is far more urbane but I'm sure that there's some unspoken thoughts drifting through his mind such as 'Some of 'em have bank accounts this big.' Any historian could build a career out of picking holes in Downton but they're welcome to their ivory towers and leave the rest of us to merrily suspend belief and disbelief and enjoy the entertainment.
Downton Abbey Season 4 is a show that takes place in 1912 during the sinking of the Titanic. Set on an Edwardian country house in Downton Abbey Season 4, life is idyllic and busting for a family called the Crawley's. The inhabitants of Downton Abbey, Robert, Earl of Grantham, his American heiress wife Cora and their three daughters, along with Robert's mother Violet, haven't lived a particularly tough life living in luxury with the help of a cadre of servants.After an unexpected tragedy with the sinking of the Titanic, home in This upcoming season will be something that will wow us all. After the death of Matthew and the arrival of an actor elite like Paul Giamatti could bring a slew of amazing sound bits.Downton Abbey Season 4is hit hard. With the untimely death of Lord Grantham's heir, James Crawley, and his son Patrick to the frigid prison of the abyss of the Atlantic Ocean, the question becomes – Who will be the new heir to the earldom? Mary, previously engaged to Patrick whom died on the Titanic, short lives her sorrow for his passing and soon finds another suitor, the Duke of Crowborough.The drama among the aristocrats in Downton Abbey Season 4 is palpable. Including in this drama soon follows with the servants and the recent arrival of John Bates, a new valet, with a pronounced limp that would make his unfit to perform his duties. Bates seems to have a very shady past and is linked to Robert. Along with Bates in the servant's quarters, is an individual behind the scenes that is entangled with the fortunes of the family he serves. A good place to get information including episodes are www.downtonabbeyseason4.com


                
Of course I am hooked on this show, as are so many others...but I have found some of the episodes to be a bit ridiculous.However, I find that the UK version makes much more sense. And some of the hokey bits are absent in this version. I won't go into detail since I don't want to spoil things for others, so I'll leave it there.The series does not accurately reflect the customs and mores of the period, yet I find it satisfying to watch. It just annoys me that they purport to be so accurate to the times, and yet I find it definitely inaccurate. Doesn't the Earl ever go to the House of Lords? He seems never to leave the house! Somehow they are all surprisingly modern, which seems odd since the peerage has usually been the last to succumb to modernity.Anyhow...I recommend the UK version!


                
Downton Abbey is an incredible TV show.It has this capacity of making you travel through time, to share some moments with the Crawley family. During this amazing trip, you'll discover all the little details that made the usual day of the 20th century Britishmen. The fact that one (very aristocratic)family had so many domestics seems unreal.What makes this TV show so great is, to my opinion, the slow evolution of the characters, following the evolution of the English society through the beginning the 20th century.A TV show to watch indeed!


                
Downton AbbeyFellowes has successfully managed to make a soap opera melodrama, luxury rather than a necessity. This royal family and the impact it casts upon others surrounding them is the ultimate definition of royalty, in terms of that it spews each of our assumptions of the livelihood of people residing in such palace onto the screen with elegance and stature that does more than people-pleasing work. The emotions comes in plethora of it- hence arguable the titled genre melodrama- but what doesn't come in hand is the content, the writers fiddles with you with such panache that you are rumble down to be gullible enough to nod at anything offered. And this is primary the reason, why in its middle seasons, where the writing was questioned and yet loved and accepted by us effervescently.Its primary theme that it adapts or conjures for an episode is shared by an entire cast that makes the episode balance and all the tracks, no matter how long they may carry on later, gets a definite period within that hour for you to pin down your decision. The most difficult part of the writers is to pass on information or rumors in this too-big-a-palace but with flawed three dimensional characters, it is weaved out with excellent justifying reasons leaving you in an awe of it.Fellowes doesn't share its cast, nor a scene, nor humor, nor any anchor that would weight him down to take bold risks, he doesn't compromise on lopping off a character from the screen or adding one despite of being shared by so many, he has managed to reboot the drama until every last viewers gets that point jaggedly on mark. The series is also blessed with incredible cast like Dockery, Bonneville, Carter, Coyle and Smith that stands out among plenty other performances. Downton Abbey is, yes, cheesy, but each aspect of the series owns it, and with commitment like such comes maturity and just good storytelling.


                
