DOWNTON ABBEY is the kind of "Masterpiece Theatre" material that the British do with such finesse that one can only sit back and marvel at the sets, costumes, music, and above all, the performances that are all on an extraordinarily high level.The moment the first series ended, I wanted to see more--so no doubt I'll be ordering my copy of Season 2. Central among the gifted performers are Maggie Smith (as the Dowager Countess Violet), Hugh Bonneville as the Earl of Grantham, and Elizabeth McGovern as Cora, his American wife. But all of the lesser roles are played to perfection with special mention for Brendan Coyle as John Bates, Joanne Froggatt as Ana, Michelle Dockery and Laura Carmichael.Complicit in schemes involving wicked behavior are two of the downstairs help played brilliantly by Siobhan Finneran and Rob-James Collier as Thomas, both of whom cast a shadow over the household.The plot has dialog that is always witty and good for a quick chuckle or a gasp of disapproval and the character motivations are all played out in a convincing manner true to each person involved.Very compelling to view the fluid story unfold with its many sub-plots and shadings of the class warfare that existed in the U.K. then and now.Absolutely one of the most rewarding and richly satisfying shows from Great Britain that have come along in recent years. The color photography amid location settings create the proper atmosphere for the entire story which takes place just before WWI among a wealthy titled household undergoing some major changes inside the castle walls.


                
At 19 minutes in I was hooked.I remember when Lady Marjorie Bellamy of Upstairs, Downstairs died on the Titanic and the impact it had on my family. We felt this because of the investment we had made in the series.This is a series where one can become just as addicted.The lives and loves of the Grantham and the Crawly family are well-written and performed beautifully. The castle and the grounds a pleasure to look at, as are the costumes of the time.As Elizabeth McGovern and I are equal in age, and I have grown up watching her on the silver screen, hers was a warming and dignified touchstone for me personally.The cast couldn't be better suited for their roles, not one can be called a weak link.Maggie Smith has a presences all her own, making each of her projects shine.I am on episode four and can't wait for the remainder.Once again our cousins across the pond show us "how good drama" can be.


                
...and this show is the perfect example. I managed to watch both seasons in just 2 days. It was like reading a good book, I just couldn't put down my laptop :) I am doing the second round right now, taking it slower and enjoying it minute by minute.I have to start by pointing out that the writing is not perfect. The plot is not exactly new, you may have seen or read something similar a thousand times before. The lack of originality in writing is usually a deal-breaker for me but in this case, I must say that I am astonished by how much I like this particular show. I believe there are several factors responsible for that.Firstly, there's the acting. The characters in the show may seem kind of black & white at first but as the story continues and plot unravels, you realise there's more than meets the eye to everyone involved. The actors are doing superb job peeling of the layers and showing the viewer what's hidden underneath. Also, I feel it's very simple to connect with the characters, there are those you instantly like and root for and those you're almost allergic to but even they may surprise you and make you question your point of view.Second element that puts this show on the top is its visual side. The costumes are highly detailed and altogether breathtaking. I don't remember when was the last time I was so inspired, the fashion of the era was so beautiful and the show displays it in all its glory. I also enjoy the environment of Downton. The show was shot in a real location and it's not just another piece of studio work that makes you claustrophobic. You get the sense of real space in every scene, every shot, which is so rare these days with most of movies and TV shows using computer technology all the time.The last thing I feel I have to mention is the music. The scoring in Downton Abbey is very delicate and yet very powerful. It perfectly underlines the story.In conclusion, I cannot say there's no place for criticism and improvement in Downton Abbey but despite its insufficiencies it's still one of the best shows on television these days because it stays true to certain standards that we might have forgotten lately and I am truly thankful for such a beautiful reminder...


                
I will admit upfront I was more than a bit dismissive about Downton Abbey upfront. It sounded like another attempt at recreating Upstairs, Downstairs. I knew of the pedigree of Julian Fellowes, having watched and enjoyed Gosford Park. The acting and writing were first rate there, but I found much of it to be overly romantic about a system designed solely to benefit the privileged. In Gosford Park, that world is the setting for a mystery,; here, it's a soap opera (ok, drama). Doesn't sound appealing to a firmly middle class American revolutionary,does it? And yet, it is.Fellowes is a cagey writer. Just when I want to take him to task for romanticizing an oppressive system of privilege, he goes and has characters do just that. Meanwhile, he makes these characters real people, both in the privileged world and the subservient. They have virtues and their shortcomings. They love and hate and scheme; yet, they have real emotions. Even the nastiest, most self-interested character has moments that help you understand what lies at the heart of their outlook and their plans.The cast are all first rate and I noticed many familiar faces; but, I must single out Maggie Smith and Penelope Whilton. They are a treat to watch as they spar. Smith has always been a force, but I have enjoyed Whilton more and more, ever since I first encountered her in Cry Freedom.The rest of the cast are equally up to the task and play all sides. Even when we learn to hate Thomas and O'Brien for their plots and schemes, they let their guard down and give you a peak at the insecurities that drive them. The two actors get a lot of meat to work with and don't waste an ounce of it.The time period is very revealing, as we see how this social system began to crumble, with the war and the cries for change. The family sees its youngest daughter become an activist and a nurse, wanting to be a positive force for change, even at the loss of her privileged life. We see young men go off to war and the horrors it inflicts upon them. We see the losses of the families left behind and how their world has been turned upside down, for good or ill. We see the casualties of war, as they try to rebuild their lives, but things are never as they were. We also see a romance that twists and turns, thrust together and pulled apart. We get to see the neglected ones shine through, the faithful rewarded and hurt. In short, we see life, even if it is tweaked for dramatic purposes.No, this isn't just another romanticized period drama. It's a bit more than that. Not quite a historical record, not just a character study. It's what the best of literature and drama should be; a commentary on life via a slight distortion of it. It uses a different world (whether place or time) to allow us to see our world without our blinders that help us get through the day to day. I certainly want to see the show continue, but hope they have the good sense to wrap it up when it is logically time to do so. There is always pressure to keep a successful series going, well after all of the stories have been told. Let's hope the curtain comes down when it should; just not quite yet.
This is so much than a glorified soap opera. The costumes and sets are first rate as is the acting.Downtown Abbey is far above anything else offered on U.S. television.No one does costume period dramas like the British. I look forward to it and , so far, have not been disappointed.Don't let the naysayers scare you away from this series. Downtown Abbey is a lot of fun. It is a guilty pleasure we all can enjoy.I have formed an attachment to most of the characters. They have changed and grown throughout Seasons 1 and 2.I wouldn't call this "absolute drivel" as one reviewer has said. There are horrible T.V. shows. Downtown Abbey isn't one of them.


                
This British TV series has gotten lots of attention here in the USA for the past season or two, I've only heard vague things about it, including some buzz that it had won some awards. So today, being a slow day in Southern Texas, cool and rainy, I looked into it and lo, I beheld that Netflix has the first season, 7 episodes, available for streaming on demand. So I took the plunge. I watched the first episode, approximately 65 minutes, and immediately watched the second, approximately 45 minutes.As the first episode opens we are shown that it is 1912, in the beautiful English country. I didn't attach too much to the date, other than it was just over 100 years ago, until a telegram came in, everyone seemed very concerned, and some began to ask of survivors. Then it hit me ... the sinking of the Titanic. That event is used as the catalyst for the series of stories that make up this English family soap opera.The immediate and great impact is that the two heirs of the estate featured here were among those lost at sea in the sinking of the ship. Since the gentleman of the estate had three daughters but no son, by British law the estate at his passing would go to the nearest of kin male, which happens to be a member of the working class, a lawyer and 3rd cousin once removed, someone the family doesn't even know.Of course there is much more to learn about the story, as I am only two episodes in, but already I can see why the series has such a following. The writing and acting are first-rate and the stories interesting. Thre are lots of interaction issues between the service staff down below and the family members above. In many ways I was reminded of the excellent movie "Gosford Park." Anyway I believe I am hooked, I don't believe I can ignore the rest of the episodes.In May 2013 I watched season 2 on DVD, and it was almost impossible to NOT watch the whole thing in one sitting. Really captivating, its main subject is WW1 and turning Downton Abbey into a recovery center for wounded soldiers. The series employs a historical adviser so it is reasonable to assume the stories, while fiction, are authentic.Over 3 days in July 2013 I watched the whole 3rd season on DVD, set in the 1920s. The more I watch it the more I enjoy it.The main setting for the series is Highclere Castle which is to the west of London, not far from the M4 and Newbury.
Downton Abbey is a masterpiece for many of the same reasons other classics remain timeless: superb acting, extraordinary setting, make-up and costuming, authentic detail in different time periods, beautiful complementary music, a fresh continuing storyline and abundant plots to keep everyone guessing.I promised myself not to get caught up in the splendor of Downton Abbey and held back tears for Sybil on her deathbed although my eyes welled up for Edith during her horrific wedding day spectacle. Sir Anthony could be in big trouble if he shows up in the States and I don't mean Sebastian.Downton Abbey picks up on the "Upstairs, Downstairs" theme. The two worlds often collide, blend or explode when the alternate universes of the servants and the affluent conjunct with one another in the spacious halls of Downton Abbey.I can't help but speculate what might happen in future episodes. My prediction is Edith will eventually be drawn to the newborn because she has an insatiable appetite to care for someone, anyone. Ma-Maw, Pa-Paw, GrandMa-Maw and Mary will agree to a marriage of convenience on the condition that the baby, Edith and the Irish chauffeur remain at Downton Abbey instead of Dublin. All is well for a time but the former chauffeur falls for another causing yet another unbearable heartache for Edith who puts an end to her life of misery. This scenario would undoubtedly cause large tears to gush from my eyes. I almost hope it doesn't happen as it might be unbearable for me.In the meantime, I must say O'Brien is my favorite. One knows exactly what she is thinking by the slightest change in her facial expression. Very few are able to do this successfully and Siobhan Finneran is a master of her profession. Maggie Smith is most wonderful to behold in all her glory. She always brings everyone and everything back to reality. I really couldn't handle her demise. Did I mention the music is perfect?
I loved this series. They are well worth of a 9!! Amazing acting, amazing production and a compelling plot. I don't understand how anyone could not enjoy this series. Yes, the story isn't full of drama and excitement, but it builds up, season by season, and it makes you love the main characters and understand their behaviour!!


                
This series is magnificent. Excess & more excess contrasted to the not as bright & polished kitchen & downstairs service sciences. All characters have depth & strong likeablility. Except for character Thomas, whose path is an interesting essay on the lives of WWI soldiers returning to service work.
Some characters grow & blossom such as Daisy. Even tho Mrs apatmore is dependable & devoted to her family, she blossoms in her own way as well.


                
Amazing depth, great character development, and a roller coaster of emotions. If you like British television, deep character development, or a good romance, then you're in luck!! If you like all three, then this will grab you, and you will be quickly wrapped up in that "binge watching" life.


                
Well this would not typify what I like to watch. We started watching it together and she loves it. I guess I like it too, on season 4 or 5 now. I would highly recommend it solely as a period piece but also the drama is quite something.I guess it is fascinating how a the servant population interacts with the wealthy. The picking order of the servants, the levels of who's in charge, etc are also fascinating. Throw in the drama and relationships of the staff and the family, sometimes crossing over, and you have a show that is very easy to watch. I think that there is something to be said for watching long term shows what with the sameness of it, recognition, a feeling of welcome back each time you watch. I honestly think that aspect is the addicting part. Very strong with long running shows like Cheers. Downton has that same 'welcome back' draw each show you watch.


                
I don't usually like watching anything about British aristocracy, or anything on that class-type, simply because it is not a representation of the true grit of humanity, but rather, a sort of lavish and haughty clique, but, nonetheless, my wife turned me on to Downton Abbey and I was hooked. It was tremendously detailed, paralleling the rapid shift in culture, of an aristocracy trying to survive in an industrial age where workers rights, women's equality, and the general standard of living no longer supported the oblivious rich-class and those servile to them. A great deal of attention was put into showing the rapid shift in fashion, technology and the morphing of the culture from strict old crusty British tradition with lords and dukes and such, to a leveling of the playing field. The plot is well-thought out, the intrigue is enough to hold you, and if you can stomach the snobbery and the over-rated sense of important that the aristocracy entitled themselves to, the dialogue is both eloquent and insightful. I really enjoyed it, and for me, considering my dislike for this class, that is saying a lot. I recommend it and it is one of the few television series I have seen which has the ending you would like to see.


                
Love the character development! Plot can be a bit twisty/contrived, but it works.!! third season spoiler!!!!!!!!!!!!! I was so mad at Matthew's death at the end of the third season that it took me awhile before I could bring myself to watch the rest - I had to divorce myself from memories of Matthew. I think his and Mary's relationship is/was one of the best I've seen.I also like the relationship between Anna and Bates. With all the back story, Bates turns out to be a complicated man! !! end of spoiler!!


                
The show starts in April 1912 with the news of the sinking of the Titanic. Robert Crawley, Earl of Grantham (Hugh Bonneville) has no son and the heir is on board. The new heir is distant cousin Matthew Crawley (Dan Stevens) who is a small Manchester lawyer. The easiest solution is to push oldest daughter Mary (Michelle Dockery) onto the new heir. Sibling rivalry can be cruel on plain middle daughter Edith (Laura Carmichael). The youngest Sybil (Jessica Brown Findlay) is sweet and independent. The staff working downstairs is led by Mr. Carson (Jim Carter). Mr. Bates (Brendan Coyle) suffers a leg injury from the Second Boer War and is hired by Robert Crawley. Thomas (Rob James-Collier) and Miss O'Brien (Siobhan Finneran) the villains of the downstairs world. The upstairs and downstairs worlds of Downton Abbey is changed over the years.This is an addictive soap opera wrapped in a costume drama. That's the genius of this show. The episodes move along quickly in intervals of months. It's about big dramas and delicious personalities. All of it anchored by great relationships whether it's Mary and Matthew or Bates and Anna. At this point, I hope the show ends properly and doesn't lose its way. It does tend to hit on the big historical points a lot. The big loss at the end of season 3 does concern me a little but that's the way of modern TV.


                
As someone who enjoys British drama and historical fiction, I could hardly pass up this series when it began. I know not everyone enjoys this type of television entertainment laid on with a large dose of deluxe settings and costumes. Keeping this in mind, I will admit I was a easy catch for the marketers of this spectacle. I admire how the creators of the series have produced a story from the Edwardian period that draws on the theme of the Upstairs Downstairs television series from the 1970's. The 1992 movie Gosford Park is closer in style with its cinematography and costumes than the television series, which was marked by fine acting and simple stage sets. The script is very well written and acted. Maggie Smith plays a character similar to her role in Gosford Park. Julian Fellowes, the scriptwriter for Gosford Park, also wrote the script for this series. The actors in Downton Abbey also include Hugh Bonneville, the Earl of Grantham and master of the estate, who resists change but in his personal life, often bends over backwards to break out of the cast of a cold aristocrat. His daughter Mary, played by Michelle Dockery, begins her role as the arrogant and beautiful daughter, who is adored by the staff. Her life and her attitudes evolve as she faces one crisis after another during changing times. She is a pragmatist and the evolution of life at Downton is often because of her. Lord Grantham's wife Cora is an American, played by Elizabeth McGovern, whose fortune was used to rescue Downton from a low ebb. She has made the transition to a British country estate as a gracious and elegant woman who can also exercise her authority when the need arises to restore order to the household. The rivalry between Maggie Smith and Penelope Wilton is a source of entertainment and much tension. Maggie Smith is the perfect dowager countess, out of touch with the changing times, but certainly not out of touch with what's happening in her own world. She is the most popular of the cast and with good reason. Not only is her acting top-notch but her lines are easily the best written and most pointed. Penelope Wilton, as Isobel Crawley, represents the reforming zeal of the new age, which draws battle lines with the dowager. The clash of wits and strong opinions produces sparks but builds strong respect on both sides.Dan Stevens plays her son, the dashing boy wonder Matthew Crawley, whose personal fortune plays into the plot. The only badly-cast role is that of Shirely McLaine as Cora's mother, a wealthy widow from New York who drips with sarcasm and contempt when she visits Downton. Lord Grantham and his mother the Dowager Countess can barely tolerate her obnoxious behaviour. Hardly a role worthy of McLaine's vast talent. However, her good hearted nature does come out in a crisis and there are hard truths in her criticisms of Downton's traditions and English society in general. Other actors include Jim Carter as Carson, the head butler, who is more than a capable successor to Angus Hudson on Upstairs Downstairs. Phyllis Logan as Mrs. Hughes, oversees the household staff and is a disciplinarian with a heart of gold. I could go on and on with the names of everyone on the cast. Suffice to say, this Masterpiece Theatre production is one superb presentation, with its landscape photography, great costumes, and a story that keeps you wanting to tune in to the next episode. A great yarn taking place over many years, it appears to be headed for a number of seasons. The show does have its share of tragedy so be prepared for the ups and downs on this roller-coaster of a show.


                
This is a period drama from 1912 to around 1930 about an earl (Robert Crawley) who has recently lost his heir and is trying to make the future of his estate stable. Very well written and edited. There are a lot of stories progressing in parallel upstairs (the home owners and their guests) and downstairs (the butler, footmen, cook, maids and other helps).The story is quite unpredictable and full of twists. This is a fast paced drama with witty one-liners, many relatable and unforgettable characters and a lot of twists to keep you interested. A lot happens in a single episode and as each episode ends, you want to start the next one ASAP. Quite addictive!There is no black or white character. The strength and weakness of human emotions are portrayed with such depth and detail, that you can't blame anyone for doing even the most evil things. You feel their helplessness, euphoria, pain, relief, determination and conflict.A must watch series. Even if it's set in early 20th century, it's like a classic which raises questions that are still relevant. And it proves that human nature is one of the most incomprehensible things.


                
I just finished watching the first 5 seasons. What a fantastic show. Everything, well, almost everything, about it is superb: the acting, the script, plot(s), visuals. I loved the way the individual dramas of the different characters, on both sides of the stairs, intermingled with each other. For the most part, all the dramas going on are gripping and believable. As indicated, the acting is superb: Hugh Bonneville, Maggie Smith, Michelle Dockery, Phyllis Logan, Laura Carmichael, Jim Carter, and the list goes on of the actors who are so outstanding in this series. So why I didn't give it a 10 - because I was appalled and amazed that the producers of the show could keep one actor in it who in my opinion is not only not good, but is terrible, and that is Elizabeth McGovern. No matter what else she may do quite well, acting is not one of those things. From the nails-on-chalkboard tone of her voice, to the awkward and almost grotesque facial expressions, to her inability to show mood or emotion, to her sometimes bizarre way of speaking, in a group of excellent actors she stands out as the exception. It's a testimony to the quality of the rest of the show that I could pretty much ignore her presence and lines, though at times it was difficult. Asking myself if maybe it's just me, I read through other reviews and found one which referred to her "crinkled face" or something like that. Well, that's being kind. In light of all of the above, I look forward to watching the next season of Downton Abbey, TV viewing at its finest...well, almost.


                
When i was browsing and came across this, i thought it may be a Jane Austen novel movie. but watching it, i felt it was a little poorly written, with some bad acting with the exception of a few (like Maggie smith, always great) however it drew me in, and i couldn't resist. and after watching for a while, i have to say, i LOVE IT!The only episode i have seen so far, is an episode where they turned the old house into a soldier home for injured soldiers, and a girl (i am not familiar with the characters yet sorry) met a soldier who knew her, and come to find out he is some long lost Heir? i think? who was thought to be dead on the titanic, but had amnesia in Canada or something along those lines. so, first thought was it was terrible. but even with some bad acting and poor writers, i cant stop watching. its wonderful!
