Akira Kurosawa had given the world so much throughout the 50's and 60's: Seven Samurai, Throne Of Blood, Ikiru, Rashomon, Yojimbo to name a few. These are 5 brilliant movies in their own right that any director would want to have had their name attached to in any way, shape or form.But the 70's, 80's and 90's seemed to be difficult for Kurosawa to make movies: He only made 7 films from 1970 up until his death in 1998. He was getting trouble for funding his movies, some people criticised him for being too western and old-fashioned. Kurosawa even attempted suicide at one point, but thankfully he survived. He had wanted to make "Ran" for over a decade, but he couldn't find the funding, until Serge Silberman helped him out with the funding.So it was 10 years in the planning, the entire storyboard was painted by Kurosawa, the costumes were designed by Kurosawa and created over a 2 year period, 1400 extras and 200 horses were used in the battle scenes, Kurosawa's wife even died during the production of the film. After all the difficulty in making the film, how did "Ran" turn out? Extremely well, extremely well indeed.Ran is the story of Hidetora Ichimonji, a powerful Warlord in feudal Japan. A man who has spent almost his entire life fighting for control, and has decided to hand over his power to his 3 sons, hoping to restore peace to the land after a lifetime of bloodshed. However, his youngest son Saburo voices his concerns bluntly, which Hidetora does not appreciate: He banishes Saburo and one of his vassals who defended Saburo (The fiercely loyal Tango).What follows is a glorious exploration of greed, sexual politics, ambition, madness, loyalty, corruption, war, faith and revenge. Beautifully photographed, hauntingly scored, with incredible acting and brilliant direction culminate into one of the most emotionally shattering and incredible movies ever made. Not only is it the best film Akira Kurosawa ever made, it is also one of the greatest movies ever made. Akira Kurosawa has cemented his place as one of the greatest director's of all time with this film.


                
This is a ridiculous film, basically unwatchable.  For this thing to be included among the list of the best films ever made is absurd. This silly film looks like something from 1935.  Please don't tell me this is great art.  If a black kid from Chicago made it, it would have never seen daylight.  Films should be judged in the context of the period they were made in.  The thing that makes a great film, domestic or foreign, is the ultimate watchability of the piece.  If you can watch this without fast forwarding, you have either fallen asleep or you are forcing your eyes open.  There is no pleasure here.Great war scenes?  Please.  Lame and silly are more like it. Watch at your own risk!!!!!!!!


                
This movie gets raves for being cinematic but I found the movie rather boring. The obvious King Lear plot leaves little to guess how this will turn out and the much vaunted battle scenes were rather clumsy. Compared to Kurosawa's early work in Seven Samurai with the wonderful characters or the stunning photography in one of my favorite films, Kagemusha, this film is just dull. It misses completely on the tragedy side since the characters are never really developed and much of the film looks like it was shot in a bowl of a volcano with dirt and dust everywhere. The comic relief of Kyoami, the jester/fool, is just whiny and annoying. When the great lord finally reaches the end of his wits his deep comments on life just seem silly. He is too stilted too play the "mad" role properly and all the long shots and very heavy make up leave little opportunity for facial expression. All in all not the first or even second Kurosawa film I would choose to watch.
Viewed on DVD. Costumes/makeup = ten (10) stars; restoration = ten (10) stars; score = nine (9) stars; set/decoration = nine (9) stars; sound = five (5) stars. Today's mega-budgeted, tent-pole films consist of spectacular, computer-generated technical set pieces strung together like beads on an extremely thin (or near nonexistent) plot string. Director Akira Kurosawa has employed a similar approach here. There are two major technical beads on his string (and a fair number of minor ones). One of the majors is presented in the opening scenes where costumes (and actors' makeup) are overwhelming spectacular and, perhaps, the most gorgeous ever filmed for a samurai-like movie. The other major technical set piece occurs in the closing scenes of intricate military maneuvers by huge (some real, some not) armies. The plot string is excessively stretched/padded-out as well as twisted up and knotted to the point of numbing confusion. (I am not a fan of voice overs, but this is one film that could really use one!) Acting is hammy and sometimes ludicrous (a Kurosawa trademark) with characters using dialog styles that are often challenging to comprehend even with the subtitles turned on (another Kurosawa trademark). Some sound dubbing is poorly executed with outdoor scenes sounding like they were recorded in an echo chamber. Sets (indoor and out) are/appear completely authentic (filming occurred around and inside the most spectacular extant castles in Japan (except for the royal family's). Stunt work is curious with each stunt fall from a horse looking pretty much identical (same stunt person each time or reuse of the same filmed sequence?). Viewers who are riders will find mounting a horse on the right especially interesting. Camera format could have greatly benefited from a much wider aspect ratio to engender a more epic feel. Film score is rich and integrates well with scenes. Restoration is outstanding. Bottom-line: This is an overly long in effect documentary on some of the technical aspects of making a movie masquerading as a movie. WILLIAM FLANIGAN, PhD.
What the hell is going on here??? Here my list on why this movie is the weakest of all of Kurosawa's films 1)About an hour too long. Boring. 2)It sucks! 3)It's an ugly mess. Ugly colors and ugly backgrounds. 4)It sucks! 5)Horrible overacting by all. 6)Again, its way too long!! 7)This movie will be long forgotten and rightly deserves to be.This film was an utter mess and a letdown. How did this happen?How is this like King Lear? And why wasn't Shakespeare given screen credit for his 'contribution'?Yoda says,"The garbage bin it goes."


                
