The 'Kurosawa' adaptation of King Lear in his film 'Ran' is a tremendous memorable film.It is a very dramatic film with many soliloquies and dialogue, but if you are patient with it, you are treated to some of the most epic scenes of cinematic brilliance that Kurosawa made.  After all it is Shakespeare and one must be patient with it if they are not a fan of the old school theatre.Colourfull clashing armies, The lord awaiting his fate in a burning castle, a brilliant execution scene (I consider the BEST I have ever seen film ever), and the blind being left in the hands of Buddha?While Seven Samurai will always be his perfection, Ran is more than an enjoyable movie that should be seen.  Just stick with it and you'll never forget it.Rating 9 out of 10.


                
One of the last great films directed by Akira Kurosawa. A father gives his land and his power to his three sons. They turn against each other and against their father.Based on Shakespeare's King Lear 'Ran' is a very good film. It was very expensive and you can see that. Over ten years Kurosawa was busy on this project and in 1985 it was finally there. Very well made, with beautiful costumes, music and cinematography, a great direction and some good performances. Although I think Kurosawa has done better ('Rashomon', 'Ikiru', 'Yojimbo' and of course 'Shichinin no Samurai') 'Ran' definitely belongs to his best.


                
Pasan los días, pasan los años y los siglos, y la sociedad humana sigue sin entender nada sobre la existencia. Lo único que necesitamos es aprender a vivir en hermandad los unos con los otros, pero, en principio, desde los mismos gobernantes se da el maldito ejemplo de todo lo contrario: se compite, se rivaliza, se usurpa, se invade y se aniquila. Con esto, los gobiernos son el peor enemigo de la justicia social, y de ellos parte el atraso ideológico conque se empobrece a la humanidad. Si desaparecieran los absurdos afanes de poder, ¡sería tan fácil vivir en hermandad! Bastaría que nadie acumulase, que la tierra fuera para todos y que, el trabajo, la comida y la vivienda, se garantizaran a cada ser humano.Pero, ¡se vislumbra tan lejano ese bello día de la luz y la comprensión que traería dicha para todos y cada uno de los hombres! Por esto, me sumo a ese grito kurosawano de uno de los personajes de esta brillante versión que, de "El Rey Lear", ha hecho el maestro japonés: "Son los dioses quienes lloran. Nos ven matándonos, una y otra vez, desde el comienzo de los tiempos. No pueden salvarnos de nosotros mismos. Los hombres prefieren la pena a la alegría, el sufrimiento a la paz<U+0085> y festejan la muerte".Alguien muy iluso, pensó por allá en el siglo XVII, que la barbarie de "El Rey Lear" era cosa del pasado, y desde entonces, se adaptó a la obra un final feliz que se sostuvo durante algunos años<U+0085> hasta cuando otros concluyeron que, aún el hombre, carecía de la suficiente claridad para aprender a vivir en paz y que, los abruptos caminos de la obra, seguían siendo trazados por muchos hombres en la actualidad."RAN" significa caos y es el más palpable y doloroso ejemplo de la invidencia humana que se ha mantenido por siglos. Los hombres se matan por el poder externo, se envidian por las posesiones materiales, se autodestruyen por ley de compensación, y desconocedores de toda historia, repiten y repiten el mismo proceso aniquilador hasta el infinito.Una versión muy personal y aleccionadora; una lúcida y clarificadora adaptación de una obra que, por su trascendencia, permanece con el paso de los siglos. William Shakespeare será siempre irremplazable dentro de la literatura universal, y "el emperador" Akira Kurosawa, permanecerá eterno en la dignificación del arte cinematográfico.Esta es la clase de película que me gustaría regalarle a todos los "poderosos".


                
What a wonderfully varied medium film can be! Here we have a film that is both truly great and in a different way a clumsy mistake.By now you know that this was made by a master filmmaker at the end of his life -- in preparation for ten years and Asia's most expensive film. He intended it to be his last, his masterpiece.The Good: This work of art is a sequence of masterfully composed images. The camera remains stationary or virtually so, and each scene is richly rewarding in all the visual dimensions, including motion. The costumes are the most cinematic I have seen. There is a use of grasshopper sounds that is the best example I know of amplifying an image by sound. The frame of the picture is the landscape -- little takes place indoors, and that action always refers to some larger, exterior motion. In my experience, this is the best complement of Wells' Othello, the most masterful use of interior space I know.I give it a ten because it is a masterpiece in this area of cinematic communication, one that seems exceptionally underaddressed.The Bad: The Master attempted too much in trying to match his cinematic virtuosity by swallowing Shakespeare's Lear to produce an equally rich story. In this he fails -- so many problems here. First, Shakespeare wrote plays for a barren stage where the images grow from the mind, supported by super-rich language and interwoven visual metaphor. The scene grows from our understanding of the character and what that character says. Kurosawa tries it backwards here by placing characters is a vast scheme that came from his own mind, off-screen as it were, and it doesn't quite work.As it happens, Ran's emphasis is on grand motion. Little time is spent on character development, except with the scheming wife of the first son (a story element that has little Shakespearean counterpart). Lear is a play about demons and leaves the question open as to how many are from opportunistic devilment and which are internally generated. All this is discarded here, as well as the Gloucester counterplot. Among the great losses from the source are the continuous examinations of what sight means and what it can conceive. How fertile that would have been as dramatic scaffolding for Kurosawa's vision.There's a problem with language as well. Not knowing Japanese, I cannot judge how rich or intricate in metaphor is the film's dialogue. But the sound and dramatic utility of the speech is about as far from Shakespeare as you can get. Shakespeare uses his actors' speech to simultaneously move the dramatic action and to serve as a surrogate for the viewer's mind. Both the story and your own ruminations on the story are contained therein. This depends on a continuous, predictable assumed rythmic base which is articulated by a rich consonant based, cheating rubato. Japanese consists of staccato vowels that I suspect are overly dramatized in the short blasts we get from these characters. Could hardly be more unShakespearean. I assume there is a Noh legacy being mined here instead, which is not available to this western viewer.A side note: after seeing these battle scenes you'll never appreciate Speilberg's blatant ripoff in the first part of Sgt Ryan.


                
Hidetora is an old warlord whose wars over the past 50 years have "spilled an ocean of blood". He is now ready to pass on his castles and lands to his three sons, and wants his legacy to be one of peace. But the three sons quickly become enemies as they vie for power, and plunge the kingdom into chaos and war.The plot and characters are brilliantly adapted from King Lear - the plot is complex and characters' fates intertwine with one another beautifully."Ran" is beautifully shot - it is set in a mountainous region of Kyushu Island, and it makes you want to travel there. The sight of dozens of cavalrymen dressed in 16th century armor, thundering across ridges and fording rivers, sends chills up your spine.The "jester" is brilliant in the alternating roles of caregiving and ridiculer of the aging Hidetora, and has a knack for coming up with lines both amusing and deeply illuminating.The battle scenes are incredible. Over 1,400 extras were used, and a suit of armor had to be made for each. Some 200 horses were used. The stunts also are amazing... there had to be some bones broken when you see these guys falling off their horses at a full run. There's another scene where an infantry soldier tries to get out of the way of a cavalryman thundering toward him, and the horse's breast hits him full in the chest, sending him flying.There a really memorable scene where Kurosawa has built a $1.5M replica of a castle, and burns it to the ground. The sight of the castle, fully engulfed, and Hidetora walking down the steps in his descent toward madness, has to be one of the best all-time film scenes.My only criticism is the length - it lags a couple of times. Kurosawa really liked lingering on scenes so the viewer can fully absorb and think about them.


                
Last night, I had this rare fortune of watching one more of Akira Kurosawa's magic "Ran". If you still haven't been able to lay your hands on it, make it the first thing on your priority list. How I wish, "Seven Samurai" could have been made in color. This movie is a pure joy to watch <U+0096> as good as are other attributes of the movie, the cinematographic excellence leaves any other movie ever made so far behind. I have liked "The Last Samurai" for its imagery and amazing color presentation, but even that movie pales if compared to "Ran". Opening scene is spellbinding - music score along with those moments of deafening silence is way too good. No doubt, it was the most expensive Japanese film ever made. Lord Hidetora is superiorly awesome (especially when he turns mad) and Lady Kaede at times seems to be even more ruthless than Nurse Ratched (was in "One flew over cuckoo's nest"). Also, so many subtle and some not so-subtle references to Buddha are timely and apt. However, I would confess that movie is not perfect - the attack on the third castle is more or less ordinary, and I do wonder how even in that wilderness, Kyoami was able to maintain squeaky clean clothes for himself and his master. So, if you really love movies, go and grab it - a movie must to watch before you die!!!


                
Ran was not what I expected, I saw it in my local video shop and thought I would check it out as I have an interest in the time period. When I was finished watching it I was amazed at the genius of Kurosawa. He creates a story wrought with betrayal and honour. And with characters (which I found to be one of the few times I have actually felt for) you either hate or feel sorry for them, like Hidetora's madness induced by his two sons betrayal and how he has made his own destruction. Plus, you actually hate the character of the two older brothers, Taro and Jiro and how they have conspired against Hidetora. But especially Lady Kaede when she died it was one of the best parts of the film as from the start she was a conniving and ruthless character which you felt no love for. The battles were also very good and graphic. In all Ran a movie I thought was just about Samurai, turned out to be the best film or one of I have ever seen 10/10 most definitely


                
Put simply, this is an excellent Samurai version of Shakespeare's King Lear. To be fair if you combine Shakespearean tragedy with Samurai swords, medieval castles and fuedal savagery, you can't really go too far wrong.This was produced and directed by Akira Kurosawa, the most beloved of all Japanese filmmakers. His work is much more accessible than arguably Japan's finest ever film director, Ozu. This is probably Akira Kurosawa's most popular film after Yojimbo and Sanjuro. This is one of the few Akira Kurosawa films shot in color. This movie can also lay claim to the fact that George Lucas and Steven Spielberg ponied up the dough to fund and release it to a worldwide audience. That almost made up for Howard the Duck and 1941.If you're not familiar with the story of King Lear, here is the deal. It's finally time that an aging senile king must divide up his kingdom between his three daughters. Two are conniving moles whose tongues only ever drip honeyed platitudes to their Father. Since they tell him what he wants to hear, he hands them the largest pieces of his royal pie, while the third, the honest and pious but bluntly speaking youngest daughter is pushed to the side. Being the wisest, she bides her time, fully expecting her older sisters to annihilate one another and ready to step in to salvage whatever is left of her Father's kingdom, whom she only wants to preserve in order to honour her ailing father. Clearly the tragedy is that her Father should have chosen her over her nasty cold hearted siblings.So swap that for an aging Samurai lord and his three Male heirs and you basically get the idea. To complicate that family tragedy, old enemy armies stand at the border, massing to attack his land, while the old senile fool is dithering over who gets to eat pie and who gets stand in the shadows. This is one excellent samurai action war film. It's a good primer in getting acquainted with the art and story telling of sensei Kurosawa, himself an actual member of the Samurai class, so it is something of a poignant thing for him to tell stories purely exploring the national character of both feudal and modern Japan.I own the bluray version of this movie and the picture is stunning.
Days pass, years pass and the centuries, human society still does not understand anything about existence. All we need is to learn to live in brotherhood with each other, but, in principle, from the rulers themselves given the damn example of the opposite: there is competition, rivals will be usurped, is invaded and destroyed. With this, governments are the worst enemy of social justice, and they share the ideological backwardness is so impoverishing humanity. If they disappeared the absurd desire for power, would be so easy to live in brotherhood! Would be enough for anybody accumulate, the land was for everyone and that food and housing, were guaranteed to every human being.But so far in sight that beautiful day of light and understanding that would bring happiness to each and every one of the men! Therefore, I join the cry kurosawan one of the characters in this brilliant version of "King Lear", has made the Japanese master, "is the gods who weep. We are killing ourselves, over and over again from the beginning of time. They can not save us from ourselves. Men prefer sorrow to joy and suffering to peace... and celebrate death". Someone very naive, he thought there in the seventeenth century, that the barbarism of "King Lear" was a thing of the past, and since then, adapted the play a happy ending that was sustained for several years... even when others concluded that even man, lacked sufficient clarity to learn to live in peace and that the steep roads of the work, were still drawn for many men today."RAN" means chaos and is the most obvious and painful example of the human blind has been maintained for centuries. The men are killed by the external power is envied by material possessions, self-destruct by law of compensation, and ignorant of all history, they repeat and repeat the same process annihilating to infinity. A very personal version and sobering, a lucid and illuminating adaptation of a work which, by its importance, remains over the centuries. William Shakespeare will always be irreplaceable in the literature, and "Emperor" Akira Kurosawa, will remain eternal in the dignity of film art. A film worthy of the highest praise.


                
I saw this movie when it first came out but remembered very little of it. How fortunate I was to be able to see a new print of this movie on a cinema screen recently!I have seen many of Kurosawa's movies and have to say that this is certainly among the best of them. For pure spectacle nothing else he did comes close, with remarkably choreographed battle scenes, but that is just the icing on the cake. The actors, headed by the truly splendid Nakadai, all acquit themselves well including, most especially, Mieko Harada who gives a volcanic performance as the archetypal femme fatale sowing ruin wherever she goes. The story is epic and timeless, and the cinematography and editing are wonderful. The whole enterprise is spiced with Kurosawa's laser-like focus on human folly.If you have the opportunity to see this movie, particularly in a cinema, do not miss it. Then watch Yojimbo and compare the two -- they are both great films from the same maker yet refreshingly distinct treatments of the smallness, cruelty, stupidity and majesty of humans.


                
Over the decades Akira Kurosawa has always maintained his own directing style and approach of a story and characters. For this he got acclaimed mostly throughout his early career, when he made movies like "Kakushi-toride no san-akunin", "Shichinin no samurai", "Rashômon" and "Yojimbo". Many people however seem to forget that Kurosawa never stopped making great movies. Reason why his later movies aren't acclaimed as much is because they were all less revolutionary and refreshing, while his earlier works was still very much unlike anything else and influenced lots of western film-makers.The story is told in a typical slow Kurosawa way and also itself features lots of typical Kurosawa approaches and angles in it. The story itself is based on Shakespeare's King Lear, set in the early days of a small Japanese lordship. It has themes such as power and greed in it, which also provides the movie with plenty of intriguing characters, who all have their own agendas throughout the movie. It's characters, themes and definitely the directing of it all is the reason why "Ran" works out as a great Japanese epic.The movie often doesn't use to many words to tell its story but the words that it does pick are effectively and carefully chosen. The movie tells the story slowly and things take a while to unravel. But ultimately in the end it turns out to be all very rewarding, like so often is the case with movies being told in such a specific manner.It's a grand movie, with big looking settings, set in the natural environment and on the in- and outside of some large constructed castles. The movie also has lots of extra's in it, of course mostly during its big battle sequences.It's a very stylish movies, of course mainly thanks to Kurosawa's directing. Kurosawa was almost completely blind at the time of making this movie but it didn't prevented him from delivering a visual masterpiece. Each shot and every frame are carefully thought about it seems and everything is planned out and executed into the smallest detail. The movie used three different cinematographers for some reason, who all provided the movie with some beautiful as well as powerful shots.A great late Kurosawa epic!9/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
"Ran" directed by Akira Kurosawa is truly a masterpiece in film. The essence of camera movement and capturing nature makes it one of a kind. Adapted from William Shakespeare, King Lear, the story centers around three sons, whose father decides to hand down his power and kingdom to one of his sons. After this moment, the sons are truly separated from each other by their need for hubris. Kurosawa does a excellent job with the long shot and capturing the beauty of the scene and the moment. Nature, is also another character in the film, that Kurosawa captures beautifully. At times of chaos it seems that nature responds to reveal a religious entity. By having instances of meaningful emptiness, it allows the audience to have a moments of reflection, which many other films do not offer. Also the pristine use of color in the movie really makes it a wonderful piece of art. Each brother in the movie contains their own color and when these colors clash, it reveals the essence of art. For instance, when the red and yellow sides clash, they cause an orange fire that is set in the castle, to reveal what happens when two sides merge. It may cause destruction and utter chaos. Also the music in the film really makes the film more captivating and worth watching. I highly recommend this film for its use of color, nature, and incredible camera movement.
&#65279; RanThe story opens with a hunting expedition. The men are of royalty. They sit in the fields surrounded by the King's accouterments and dine, discussing political matters, when the king announces his resignation and assignment of the throne to his eldest son, Taro (in yellow). The youngest male, Saburo (in blue), objects and is banished.As time passes, the king realizes the changing of leadership status has caused a perceived decline in respect from Taro, and small acts of false pride result in his banishment from the castle. The brings rise to evolves into a complicated political struggle from factions previously beaten into submission from the very family now feuding within itself. Suspicions are fueled by the daughter of one of these subservient clans (Kaede,) and she is a strong, wily woman with great ambition and the will to win. Taro and Jiro (in red,) stir a cauldron of debate resulting in Taro's assassination and Kaede's self professed machinations for her own ends only, with no love lost over her dead husband. She seduces Jiro, winner of the brothers' duel. Meanwhile, the old king wanders the outdoors in an up-welling of senility and despair. His face becomes increasingly white and mask-like, as if one of the living dead. His wandering fool companion (a hall mark of Shakespearean tragedy,) watches him pick flowers aimlessly and declares "only the mad are sane." Like Saburo, the fool, Kyomani, lives in the same paradox of wandering homeless as a price for telling the truth.More of the ranks who fell to the Ichimonji clan are revealed: Suei and Tsurumaru, two siblings defeated by the old king. One was subjected to marriage to a royal son, and the other was blinded as a price for sparing his life. Now the old king's exploits are beginning to glow in stark relief. Now the old patriarch of peace is seen from the other side. Old Ichimonji and the fool seek refuge in Tsurumaru the blind's house. The young man has nothing of substance to offer except to play a song on the flute after he declares "Hospitality of the heart is the only pleasure I have left." Even in total impoverishment, happiness is a possibility. Jiro is cajoled and prompted by Kaede to carry out her designs. She even over powers him physically to gain his compliance and to seduce him. The one who assassinated his oldest brother is spineless with this woman; this woman who tears apart the whole cabinet of trusted officials and has them all extradited.Out in the wilds, the old King "shelters in the ruins of the castles he burned," as Kyomani the fool states. Manjo, a former cabinet adviser, finds the pair and persuades Kyomani that Saburo must re-connect with his father. Meanwhile, Jiro dies under Saburo's sword and outside forces seek to encroach upon castle three, Saburo's former domain. Saburo's men prevail, and Saburo finds his father in the woods, demented and run down, and tries to reconcile. They do, but the son is immediately killed by a bullet and never knows the spoils of his army's victory on castle three. The summation of the plot: the old king asks "are there no gods?" and Kyomani replies "The gods weep...it is we who can't save ourselves." This hails back to the question in Rashoman.Kaede is killed by Jiro's former adviser, the king is buried, and I won't spoil the end for you.It is King Lear, The God Father, Death of a Salesman, and The Brothers Karamazov. Overwhelming, breath taking, holographic like a Rodin sculpture. You won't see the likes of such a film maker again.I give this a 9.
The best intrepetation of human Greed and once you insise the circle you became animal with human skin.


                
Greetings from Lithuania.To shortly sumarize "Ran" (1985), a movie made by a legendary Akira Kurosawa - this is a great movie. It is superbly crafted, greatly acted and written and wonderfully directed. There are few battle scenes, but both are memorable in its own way - especially the haunting castle siege scene done without sound effects, accompanied only by haunting score - amazing sequence. I also highly enjoyed the story itself - its shows that one has to know how to give a power to the others, even if others are his family and how it can turn out if its done not in a right way - something to be learned even in these times.Overall, "Ran" is a pure classic. Superbly made with themes that done age - this is sure must see for everyone who appreciate great cinema.


                
The man was a genius when it came to directing these long Japanese war epics and Ran is no different. This is Kurosawa's interpretation of Shakespeare's King Lear, a play that unfortunately I did not study. The plot consists of Lord Hidetora abdicating his empire and splitting the kingdom between his three sons, who each want to have total control. And so many castles are raided and many horseback battles are conceived. Whatever the scene, everything was filmed to perfection. I just adore Kurosawa's style, he doesn't rush a single scene. Leave a castle burning for 30 seconds, watch a man run through a field for 30 seconds or even look at the sky for 30 seconds. In theory, I should be bored...but his artistic integrity and majestic style is a sight to behold. What resonated with me the most was the screenplay, also by Kurosawa. Several lines of dialogue felt like Shakespeare and it's admirable to see an influential film maker be...well...influenced by another famous writer. Scenes where Hidetora descends into madness are great examples of this. Tatsuya Nakadai, who portrayed Hidetora, was once again outstanding. This equals his role from Kagemusha, it was an emotive and poignant portrayal of a father who has been betrayed by his children. The battle scenes were masterful work, hundreds of extras in clan attire definitely filled up the screen with contrasting colours. The costume and production design were yet again wonderful to look at. I do love me the traditional Japanese environment that Kurosawa captures with ease. Lady Kaeda though, was the manifestation of evil...her manipulative skills were fascinating to watch. This leads me to my only problem, which is that none of the major characters are likeable, even Hidetora had issues. So I struggled to become emotionally invested in these characters. However, the purpose of this iteration was to explore themes of betrayal and insanity, Kurosawa conveyed them to technical perfection. Not a complete masterpiece, but extremely close to being one.


                
Unlike director Ang Lee's 2000 film CROUCHING TIGER, HIDDEN DRAGON, or director Yimou Zhang's American wide releases earlier this century (HERO in 2002, HOUSE OF THE FLYING DAGGERS in 2004, and CURSE OF THE GOLDEN FLOWER in 2006), viewers of Akira Kurosawa's 1985 epic RAN not only are treated to period warfare much more colorful than equivalent movies in European settings, but also get a sense of realism (as in, these things actually could have happened on planet Earth) missing from the four more recent Asian martial dramas.Since it was not Kurosawa's original intention to remake KING LEAR, and since only a few of the touches (such as youngest son Saburo's shading of his "sleeping" father's form in the opening scene, or the presence of Kyoami, a European-style court jester) are distinct "borrowings" from Shakespeare's play, film fans with an antipathy toward the bard should not be put off by RAN being listed as an "adaptation" of LEAR.Finally, if I were to compare a character from RAN with one from Shakespeare's opus, I would tend toward noting the similarity between the amoral ambitions of Lady Macbeth in the tragedy named for her hen-pecked husband to RAN's Lady Kaede (a brilliant Mieko Harada), who earns the fate of Macbeth himself with her no-holds-barred unquenchable thirst for revenge.
The story of Ran was based on "King Lear", and Akira Kurosawa adopted Japanese values and historical background in this film. Although we have to take more than two hours to watch "Ran", many people can probably enjoy that like me because of two reasons. Firstly, the performances of actors and actresses were so wonderful. Especially, I was moved by Tatsuya Nakadai, who played Hidetora, and Mieko Harada, who played Kaede. Mr. Nakadai could express both mental agony and madness of his role. In addition, Ms.Harada's act was very terrible in the scene that Kaede frightened Jiro after Taro was killed. Finally, the film sets were excellent such as many kinds of weapons and castles. By the sets, the scenes of the battle and a castle,which burned fiercely, were impressive. Thus, I would like to recommend "Ran" to the people, who like to watch movies!!


                
My love for film that is. When I saw this almost 20 years ago, I realised that art was something different to what I'd previously imagined. I recently watched this again, and time has indeed been kind to this film. I was yet again totally enthralled by the sweeping vistas and clever action. Even though it was an interpretation of a Shakespearean play,it still came across as fresh and vivid. It takes a brave artist to feel they could add to Shakespeare's work. This film is a success at every level. The slow treachery that builds up is exquisite to watch. As with all Japanese films, the theme of loss is recurrent all through the film. But its the pacing that sets this film above and beyond the reach of others. From start to finish it is a treat for the eye and for the mind. A superb, stunning piece of work.


                
This movie is a masterpiece, and that it was made by Kurosawa at such a late point in his life is truly amazing.As has been previously noted, this movie is a rough adaptation of a play by Shakespeare (though not 'Macbeth,' as the previous review indicated, but 'King Lear'). However, the setting has been transferred to feudal Japan, and the themes updated somewhat by Kurosawa. The result is a reinterpretation that needs no understanding of the original play, and is on its own one of the great artistic masterpieces of film in the 1980's.The image from this movie that stays with most people, I think, is a clear comment of the world surrounding Kurosawa in the decade of Star Wars (the Reagan program) and the invasion of Afghanistan (by the USSR). The most lasting image of this movie points to a world on the brink of apocalypse, and Kurosawa uses his cinematic techniques to bring a story of feudal Japan into the modern world, and it contains messages still relevant in our current time (with the revival of Star Wars and the new invasion of Afghanistan - among other countries - it is clear that we are not too far from the world of the 80's).This movie can convey an artistic point that is still relevant through it's oblique interaction with the modern world, and aside from that, it is a great work of art.


                
Oh boy, what did I just watch.Another Akira Kurosawa's masterpiece. Absolutely loved it. Great acting and cinematography. Old story but told in such smart way. And the ending was just fantastic. That man was ahead of his time. GOAT.


                
An absolute masterwork, the human being's dark sides as the main protagonists. Vengeance, hatred, betrayal, greed and what they bring with themselves. It's the deepest film that I've seen so far on Kurosawa's filmography. Visually beautiful, pure poetry in every frame and every death. There is strong symbolism on the red color and the fire. The history of humanity has been covered by blood and fueled with greed since the very beginning, among these beautiful landscapes, the human race have been destroying themselves no matter the family bond or friendship. Not only Kurosawa's best, but also the best film adaptation of Shakespeare.


                
This was my fourth Kurosawa film and my favourite to date. Previously, I'd started off by watching SEVEN SAMURAI (a great film), then trying out KAGEMUSHA (which I thought was okay, but too constrained by budget). Next up was an early classic, RASHOMON, which was a fine human drama, and now comes RAN, Kurosawa's final historical epic and the film that he claimed KAGEMUSHA was a mere warm-up for. I can see that. RAN is an epic film, truly epic and one of the best-shot films I've ever seen. Every frame of the film seems to have been painstakingly composed and the result is a bright, colourful, and vivid production that fully brings to life the castles, costumes, and characters of feudal Japan.Tatsuya Nakadai, returning from KAGEMUSHA, here plays Lord Ichimonji, an immensely powerful ruler who concedes that power to his three sons at the film's beginning. However, his plans quickly go awry and before too long he finds himself ostracised from Japanese society and a literal outcast. This film is a loose reworking of the Shakespeare classic King Lear (another favourite of mine), something I really enjoyed as Kurosawa takes elements of the Shakespeare plot without following it slavishly. One of the best inclusions is the fool, who comments on the on-screen antics the same way as he did in the Shakespeare play.It goes without saying that RAN is a tragedy and, indeed, it must be one of the most tragic films I've ever witnessed. Those looking for a happy ending should go elsewhere as this is all about doom, despair, and overall the failings of human nature. There's a fine cast of stand-out performers but one of the best has to be Mieko Harada, whose Lady Macbeth-style character is vengeful and terrifying. Nakadai, unrecognisable in ghostly, age-old makeup, is outstanding as the lord losing his mind, and Kurosawa is there to capture every little nuance. The most dramatic part of the film is a massacre set in a castle which is full of on screen death and destruction and successfully depicts the ferocity of battle better than 99% of other films do.Like most of the Kurosawa historical epics, this is a lengthy and slow moving film, one that emphasis characterisation over action, plot over incident, but it's well worth sitting through. In the end, I found this one of the most rewarding films I've ever watched and anybody who professes themselves to be a fan of the cinematic medium should have it in their collection.
"Ran" is a poignant epic based on Shakespeare's King Lear. Many call it one of the best (if not the best) Shakespeare film adaptations, and while I haven't seen enough Shakespeare films to say for sure, it's hard to see any other one topping this one.The film begins on huge rolling hills, where Lord Hidetora has gathered his acquaintances and his three sons. He blacks out, and suddenly he decides he will choose his successor right there. He picks his oldest son, Taro. Taro and the middle son, Jiro, suck up to their father by saying they will serve him loyally until his death. The youngest son, Sabaro, knows exactly what is going on. He calls them out on it. Then Lord Hidetora decides he will give power to all three of his sons, but Sabaro once again sees flaws in this. He knows the three brothers will not get along. He is banished, since Hidetora needs everyone to be loyal and follow him blindly, rather than taking criticism when he needs to.This causes a slow downward spiral. Taro is convinced by his wife, whose family was killed and village was burned by Hidetora, to force his father to give him complete power, but he is clearly not cut out for being a King. He already can't control his soldiers. Hidetora leaves the kingdom and while he is gone, Tango Hiragana, one of his advisers, comes to him with gifts given from peasants. Hidetora is told that the samurai never accepts charity, so he orders the peasants dead, but he finds out from Tango that those peasants were told by Taro to never send food to Hidetora, or else they will die. These people were pushing away Taro and asking for Hidetora back, but he just killed them. Tango suggests Hidetora should put Sabaro as king, but Hidetora didn't want the truth. He now has no where. Hidetora is told that Tango is just trying to stir up trouble between his family and take the throne for himself. He pretends that he did nothing wrong, but this causes his downfall. Both Taro and Jiro betray him and invade the castle at the same time, in an incredibly violent and intense scene. Not only have Hidetoras sons betrayed him, but all of his loyal followers have died in front of his face and it was his fault. Despite nearly dying many times, and arrows and gunfire flying all around him, Hidetora comes out alive, and what follows is his punishment, his personal hell. He confronts all of his past atrocities, such as a boy whose family he killed, and eyes torn out. The wreckage of a palace he burnt to the ground. But the two most truthful people in the film, aside from Sabaro, Lady Kaede, his loyal jester whom he saves earlier in the film (part of what shows Hidetora has the potential to be a good person, since she jokes about his foolishness frequently), and Tango. They look for Sabaro. Meanwhile, his son Jiro, who killed his other son that was taking the throne, is sitting atop the throne, but he is being controlled by his brothers widow, who is now his wife. She threatens him and then she controls him by earning his trust. Jiro isn't strong enough to be a leader of his own, so he succumbs to blind loyalty to his new "wife". Sabaro confronts Jiro, and this is where Jiros downfall begins. He is told by many that he shouldn't start a war with Sabaro, and he tells Sabaro he won't, yet he stabs him in the back the first chance he gets. He attacks, but Sabaro has a plan. There are men in the woods firing guns at the oncoming attackers, and despite Jiros orders, which they don't want to follow since he didn't truly earn their trust, the men retreat. Jiros wife reveals that she was just trying to get revenge for her family, and she did it. Then she is killed. Sabaro then reunites with Hidetora, and Hidetora at first can't forgive himself and doesn't think Sabaro will forgive him, but he comes to his senses and seems completely changed, and he essentially had redeemed himself. All he cares about anymore is Sabaro. Then Sabaro is killed by one of Jiros soldiers. Lady Kaede blames the gods who she worshiped, but the true blame is on man. As one soldier states, the gods try to make things right, but man has to always go and make things worse. We have an obsession with violence and our rulers will always continue to kill and kill, until the rational ones die and the cycle repeats itself. Then we get a poignant shot of Tsurumaru, the kid who had his eyes torn out, dropping a portrait of Buddha as he stands atop a mountain, showing how humans themselves deny justice from the gods and truly control things. And the good will always go out with a whimper, not a bang. They don't get to go out as valiant soldiers.
This film, Akira Kurosawa's version of 'King Lear' set in feudal Japan, tells the story of Lord Hidetora Ichimonji and his three sons Taro, Jiro and Saburo. The elderly lord gathers his family and talks about how he started off in a small castle but gradually defeated all his rivals and now controls the entire area from the largest caste. He finishes by saying that he had decided to retire; he states that Taro, his eldest son, is to inherit the absolute leadership and Jiro and Saburo will inherit the second and third castles respectively and must support Taro. Saburo, the youngest son, suggests that his father must be mad to stand down arguing it will only be a matter of time before Taro and Jiro turn on him. This leads to Saburo's banishment but it isn't long before his words start to be proved right; first Taro makes his father's position at the First Castle untenable then Jiro refuses his men access to the Second Castle forcing him to head to another castle. Here Taro and Jiro's forces attack; Taro is killed and Jiro takes his place as dominant warlord; Hidetora escapes with his fool but Jiro still wants him dead<U+0085> anybody familiar with Shakespearian tragedies will know that there won't be a happy ending for any major character.As with his previous adaptions of Shakespeare plays director Akira Kurosawa does a brilliant job transferring the stories to Feudal Japan<U+0085> their themes fit the era perfectly. It explores the idea of revenge as Lady Kaede, Taro's wife whose family was killed and lands taken by Hidetora, seeks to destroy the family from within. Likewise it shows the thirst for power as Taro then Jiro try to destroy their elderly father despite the fact that he has handed over all the real power. The battle scenes have an epic feel; especially when Hidetora is the sole survivor as the castle burns and arrows fly past him. Hidetora's subsequent descent into inevitable madness is shown as he travels through various places he destroyed on his rise to power. Overall I'd certainly recommend this; you don't have to be a fan of Shakespeare or familiar with Kurosawa's other films to enjoy this.These comments are based on watching the film in Japanese with English subtitles.
