Ikiru ("to live")is a Kurosawa film devoid of samurai or Toshiro Mifune. It is an oddity in his canon, neither an adaptation, nor an epic, or even a detective story. Instead, it is the simple and touching story of the last months of the life of a man, Watanabbe, public official, who decides to give a meaning to his life by transcending the obtuse and stiff mind of government bureaucracy to get a small public children's park built. As a parable for the soulless workings of modern bureaucracy, the goal is set pretty high, and Kurosawa goes even further, giving this story a lot of character, frequent humor, life and, most of all, heart. And going beyond the strengths of the direction and script, is the central performance by Takashi Shimura (later Kambei in Seven Samurai). Shimura gives his character such a transparently good heart and such great pain that every second of Watanabe's plight and struggle tugs at your heart, not in an overwhelmingly sentimental manner, but in one than feels honest and pure. If even many hardened souls will be drawn to tears, it is not for pity, but, admirably, because of envy for Watanabe's beautiful human dignity in the end, and for a film to have such power is beyond pure accomplishment, as the need to see this and, more importantly, feel it, goes beyond pure necessity...


                
I can safely say that I have seen no finer film than Kurosawa's true masterpiece, Ikiru.  The story of a dying petty bureaucrat in 1950's Japan, Ikiru is as uncompromisingly honest and beautiful a film as has ever been made on the subject of life.  Kurosawa elevates a story that could have been simple melodrama to the level of masterwork with a genuine love of his characters, and with an incredible technical direction.  The film's structure accentuates and deepens its many, many lessons on life, and the performances, including a heartbreakingly earnest turn by Shimura are all flawless.In short, Ikiru is easily one of the greatest works committed to film, and no discerning film aficionado should avoid experiencing it.  Had Kurosawa directed only this film, it would still be enough to include him in the pantheon of the greatest storytellers who ever lived.  Fortunately for us, it is simply the pinnacle of a staggeringly amazing career.  It is the absolute definition of a 10/10 film.


                
Akira Kurosawa knew how to get in touch with human nature through his art. With his visual expressiveness and storytelling, he could pierce through his subjects, even in his big and occasionally comical samurai films, and find the elemental things do work. What he probably learned off of Rashomon probably helped out with Ikiru (To Live), a story of an old man who finds out he will die within a year, as both stories deal with perceptions of the significance of a life spent and a life wasted. Though that was to a different degree in Rashomon, with Ikiru Kurosawa expands into full-on existentialism. The old man Kanji Watanabe (in a wholly believable and often heart-breaking performance by Takashi Shimura) knows his life hasn't amounted to much as a (chief) clerk for the city. He knows he hasn't had a great kinship with his son. He's accepting his fate with a heavy soul. One of the tenets of existentialism is that there's free-will, and the responsibility to accept what is done with one's life. Kurosawa might've (as I speculate, I don't entirely know) caught onto this for his lead, and it works, especially with the little details.Such little details, unforgettable ones, have been expounded upon by other reviewers and critics, such as the drunken, sullen singing of "Life is short, fall in love my maiden" in the bar. A scene like that almost speaks for itself and yet it's also subtle. But one scene that had me was one not too many talk about. It's when Watanabe is in the Deputy Mayor's office, asking for permission so that a park can be built. At first the Mayor ignores him, but then Watanabe begs, but not in a way that manipulates the audience for sympathy with the old man. The mayor must be sensing something in his eyes, desperate and weak, however determined, and it's something that probably most of the audience can identify with as well, even if they don't entirely identify with the character.But aside from the emotional impact Ikiru can have on a viewer, composition-wise (with the help of Asakazu Nakai, wonderful cinematographer on less than a dozen Kurosawa films) and editing-wise the film is ahead of its time and another example of Kurosawa's intuitive eye. There are some to-tomy shots sometimes (which could be called typical via master Ozu or other), but everything appears so precise on a first viewing, so descriptive. I think I almost can't go into all of them without a repeat viewing, but there were two that are still fresh in me. The first was right as Watanabe was about to sing in the bar, and there were these bead-strings looming in front of the camera. Perhaps mysterious, but definitely evocative. The other was when Watanabe and one of the other clerks are on a bridge during a dark part of the day. Both characters are in silhouette, and Watanabe gives an indication to the character that he will die soon. But for me, I wasn't even paying a terrible amount of attention to the words. The way the two are lit as they are, with the light in the background and darkness in the foreground, it could maybe give an indication of what Kurosawa's trying to say: we're all not in the light of life, but it doesn't have to be an entire down-ward spiral if the will is good. Whether you're into philosophy (ies) or not, Ikiru won't disappoint newcomers to Kurosawa via his action pictures. A+


                
Kanji Watanabi is a quiet, melancholy man who has spent all his life behind his office desk doing sweet eff-all. When he is diagnosed with stomach cancer he realizes that he has been petty much dead his whole life, and searches desperately for away to live again.This is Akira Kurosawa's masterpiece, yes, even better than Rashomon and The Seven Samauri. It is a perfect true story of everybody's life- how we don't even realize we have it until we know it will be over in a short while. Watanabi's quest for self-discovery is one of the greatest from any motion picture ever made. The all-too-true paradox is one to end all paradoxes- that Watanabi is dead, and had been all his life, until he realized he was sick, which is when he began living for the first time. Takashi Shimura, the actor best known for his role as the wise, bald-headed Samauri in The Seven Samauri, and the professor out of the early Godzilla films, plays Watanabi perfectly- in my mind, it's one of the greatest film performances of all time. Not everyone will love this movie. It was made a long time ago, the main character is an old fogey, it has subtitles, and it's pretty long. Many people today, especially young kids, would find it boring. Well, let 'em. There's no need to worry about them, they'll always have Pirates of the Carribbean, they'll always have The Matrix. Leave Ikiru and films like it to the true lovers of cinema.


                
A quiet, but very moving film. Kanji Watanabe (Takashi Shimura) is a clerk who has been living a dull, unsatisfying life working in the government's offices who is diagnosed with cancer and is given one year to live. He tries to enjoy his days by picking up a former co-worker (Miki Odagiri) and taking her out on the town. She finally convinces him that this is not the way to spend the rest of his life. He soon realizes that he has a strong desire to do something with his life so that it will not have been a total waste. Therefore he begins to work in cooperation with the people... accomplishing something that nobody in the office had the nerve to do before.I consider Ikiru to be Kurosawa's first truly excellent film. The story moves along very low-key and we gradually realize the power and emotion that is in this great film. Roger Ebert said of Ikiru that it is one of the few films that can actually change the way you look at life after watching it.


                
Being one of the Founding Fathers of Cinema, Kurosawa shines to all directions. In his diverse oeuvre it is hard, if not impossible, to find a weak work.Ikiru is the most humane film of this grand Humanist. Kurosawa's story telling skills are sublime, and he has surpassed himself with this movie.The slow pace and ditto camera movements (except in the night with 'Mephistofeles' where all is logically much more frantic) enhances the story superbly. What a pity some of the nowadays public can't find the tranquility and maybe serenity to watch a gorgeous film like that. That part of the movie lovers will miss a brilliant film, that would have lingered in the mind forever...


                
'Ikuru' (Japanese for 'To Live') was one of Kurosawa's personal favorites. Prominent film critics worldwide put it, along with "Seven Samurai" and "Rashomon", on their lists of the best films ever made by anyone. When first shown in the USA during the 1950's , all three quickly earned widespread critical acclaim and strong patronage. USA film enthusiasts by then had clearly grown weary of the tired formulas followed by Hollywood studios in the timid post-war years. They welcomed the more thoughtful and challenging films from Kurosawa and from other acclaimed film directors in Japan (Ozu and Misoguchi), Italy (Rosselini, De Sica), France (Troufault, Bresson), and England (Lean). All of these great film directors were also able to hold and move their audiences while developing somber themes. 'Ikuru', however, is even more deeply philosophical than any other film that I recall by asking what is needed for us 'to live' well.Takashi Shimura gives an absolutely convincing performance of a tired old man, numb and alone. After learning he has terminal cancer, he learns that dissipation offers no solution. Then he clings to a cute, vivacious girl, taking her to shops and restaurants. She wearies of his dreary, cringing manner but agrees to have one more dinner together. In the powerful climactic scene at the restaurant, he learns why she is happy in her new job packaging toys. 'I feel all the babies in Japan are my friends!!' This gives him an idea. He, too, can do something to help children. 'There's still time!!', he cries, and runs off while she stares in bewilderment. He keeps moving quickly towards his cheerful new life. Shimura reminded me of Albert Camus' essay 'The Myth of Sisyphus.' Sisyphus plods off to yet another day of struggle but has won over the gods, after all, because he is aware of his quest. 'We must imagine Sisyphus happy,' urges Camus. We must also feel the same for the old man in Ikuru when we see how he is reborn and truly alive for the first time.
There are good, very good, and even great movies. But among them there are just a few that go beyond great. They belong to the league of their own. Akira Kurosawa's "Ikiru" (To Live), 1952 is one of them. The film of rare humanity, profoundly moving and often funny "Ikiru" tells the story of a dying man's last crusade that turned out to be his triumph, the best thing he had ever done in his life; something he will be remembered for. The film reveals both absurdity of life and the ability of man to find meaning in it through selfless action.Two years before he played the tough lead in "Seven Samurai", Takashi Shimara gave even finer performance in a very different role as a government bureaucrat Kanji Watanabe who seemed to lead a life of quiet desperation at his job and at home. Then, he learns that he has terminal cancer and faced with the fact of death, he first tries to take from life as much as possible and spends the half of his savings on gambling, drinking and women. It leads him nowhere and gradually he determines to achieve one good thing before he dies, and settles on converting a junkyard into a playground for children. Rather than make a feel good movie with co-workers helping Kanji Watanabe in his quest and his family around him at his last moment, Kurosawa portrays him as a lonely crusader <U+0096> no one can understand why this park is so important to him. The answer is very simple <U+0096> he does not have time and he wants to live to see the park open. His family and co-workers don't even know how ill he is what makes some scenes even more powerful and poignant. His words, "I am not angry with anyone, I have no time for that"; the look at his face when asked by a mafia member if he did not care for his life - the film has many quiet but compelling moments like these.For me, watching "Ikiru" was as close to earth shattering experience as it goes. I think it is one of very few films that could really change one's life. I could not help comparing it to "Cries and Whispers" - how devastated I was by the theme of inevitable death, how ugly it is, and how helpless we all are while facing it. "Ikiru" is about a dying man, too but how hopeful and life affirming it is. The film did not tell or teach me something I had not known before but it confirmed once more that it is never too late to do something even if you have only few months to live.


                
I saw this movie 5 days ago and i cant stop thinking about this movie, for me its Kurosawas human masterpiece , and that swing scene ,brilliant brilliant ,i don't understand how so a short scene can be so powerful and touching. The acting is superb,Takeshi Shimura brings us a powerful performance as a weak men, without doubt Shimura belongs to the list of the greatest actors of all time.I truly mean that this is one of the greatest movies of all time. But i have a single problem with this movie.After i saw it , every other movie i see it looks for me a waste of time.Watch it !!!


                
I think that Ikiru is one of Akira Kurosawa's most personal films. This shows in the identification the viewer has with the main character of the movie. Every development in Watanabe's life is like a experience in the own viewers life. I have never been so touched and at the same time been amazed by a film.I just can't see why so many people have trouble appreciating this movie. Maybe because they aren't used to black and white pictures these days.Ikiru is a movie that can't be missed, so be sure to see it. 10/10


                
Akira Kurosawa's Ikiru has Takashi Shimura perfectly portray Kanji Watanabe, an aging bureacrat who has been diagnosed with stomach cancer. The movie is told in two parts, one showing Watanabe final days and the other showing flashbacks between guests at his funeral. Kurosawa tells the story by showing a man who has never lived and finds out he doesn't have much time to live. Kanji says this phrase many times in the movie. " I cant die,I've never lived"-Kanji Watanabe. Ikiru is a true masterpiece of international cinema. The greatest scene and most climatic scene in Ikiru (little spoilers ahead)is when Watanabe is swinging on the swing in tha park he saved and sings "Life is Breif, Fall in Love Dear Maidens" in the snow. I give Ikiru a 10 out of 10 and will always be one of my favorite movies.
IKIRU is a masterpiece.  I couldn't disagree more with the last reviewer who thought this was overrated!For me it truly deservers to mentioned among the greatest features. Takashi Shimura, playing the dying bureaucrat, Watanabe gives one of the finest performances ever.  In this feature, he looked so weak and fragile.  But in SEVEN SAMURAI (as the head samurai Kamebi), he is strong and able.   Some might think it was two different actors!The man is dying of cancer for goodness sake.  Not everyone handles the situation the same.  Watanabe is just another soul trying to cope with the despair, and for me this was powerful stuff. (I should give kudos to Kurosawa.  The man was able to do more than just epic samurai movies).Hollywood tearjerkers don't compare with IKIRU.   And eventhough this is a 50 year-old black and white foreign movie with subtitles, it shouldn't be an excuse not to watch this.  Expand your horizons.  You may be pleasantly surprised.


                
Ikiru is a beautiful film conceived by an incredible filmmaker at the peak of his talents.The film portrays a fatally ill Japanese bureaucrat, Kanji Watanabe (played by the brilliant Takashi Shimura), attempting to reinvigorate his life for the last few months that remain. The opening few scenes depict a group of empowered local women appealing to various bureaucratic departments to clean up a polluted residential playground in their neighbourhood. They are sent hither and thither to various departments to no avail until Watanabe decides to use his clout to see the park restored to its natural state.Several scenes stand out as memorable: In the early-going, Watanabe's son and young wife (or fiancée) come home only to see the ghastly figure of Watanabe staring blankly in the darkness of their room. The expression on his face conveys his emotional state so well.Later on, Watanabe is confronted by some threatening gangsters opposing his desire to clean up the park. One of them warns Watanabe that he is "risking his life." Watanabe could not be happier to hear this and smiles jubilantly at the gangster. The gangsters, up to this point very tough and menacing, are startled and confused at Watanabe's sheer disregard for his own life.Lastly (you should really just watch the movie) there is the scene of a drunken Watanabe tearfully singing a mournful song accompanied by a jazz pianist. This is perhaps one of the most beautiful scenes in all of Kurosawa.
I suppose it isn't truly a spoiler to say the main character, Watanabe, dies of cancer at the end of the film. For most directors, this probably would have been a overly sentimental death drama. Kurosawa is far to talented and sophisticated for such triteness. This is a rich, meaningful, touching story of a man's attempt to live. The themes of this film are so universal, we can access it even 50 years after its release. Several good films have been made along similar themes. "Wild Strawberries" is one of the best. I have not seen "Umberto D.", but I understand it is very similar. Bergman and Kirusawa are very similar filmmakers. Bergman seems to me to be more metaphorical and Kirusawa is more aesthetic. They are both superb writers/directors. "Ikiru" is a heavy layered film. After listening to the commentary on the Criterion Edition, you learn that this film makes many significant social comments on Japanese life. At the same time, as I said earlier, the emotions and themes of this film are ubiquitous. You don't have to possess a knowledge of 1950s Japanese politics to understand it. You simply have to be human and possess a desire to live a meaningful life. There are many images from the film that linger with you. Kirusawa, like Bergman and Hitchcock, was so good a composition. His films are so visually active that you can know everything you need to know without the dialogue. However, the dialogue is simple and very effective. The characters talk the way normal people talk, yet the say things normal people don't say. That to me is great dialogue. I was disappointed in the film stock from which the DVD came. It was not in good condition. That is a real shame. I am not sure why that is. Criterion does great work with the classics. They must not have been able to obtain anywhere near pristine stock. This is such a beautiful film. It would great to see it from the original negatives.
I first saw Ikiru during Japanese-my teacher would often have us watch movies to try and pick up on some of what was being said. I instantly fell in love with the film: it's symbolism and the way in which the subject matter was held. It really captures that government dead-end, run-around that see far to often when trying to get something very important done, while also dealing with the let-downs and triumphs that we sometimes see in our own lives. This movie was so wonderful that I borrowed it from my teacher to show all my friends, and even my parents (my dad needed to see in particular as he was a state worker vaguely resembling Wantanabe). I found this to be a very touching, very inspirational, yet also sad and cynical movie. I think that anyone who watches it would understand what I mean. I would definitely suggest everyone see it!


                
As a person that can boast about having seen over 3,000 films, I have to say that Ikiru ranks up there in the top five. It is a story about a man that has to face what most humans fear to even talk about the most: death. It is his journey to cherish the last days of his life that he felt he took for granted all these years. Ikiru is only one of two films that I have ever cried to. Kurasawa makes you feel for this man with the greatest empathy. He takes you into the movie and really makes you question what life is all about and the importance of it. I close this review by saying this: if you only have to see five films in your entire life, let Ikiru be one of them.
"Ikiru" is Akira Kurosawa's greatest film. Ikiru in Japanese means "to live." And the film tells the story of a man who, upon learning he is terminally ill, doesn't just realize he has lead a meaningless life <U+0097> but that he hasn't lived at all <U+0097> a story of a man who begins to live only after he learns he is dying.The first part of the film shows us Watanabe's "life" before, and after, he learns he has stomach cancer, and has only three months to live. He realizes he has never really lived. The film informs us that Watanabe thrashing his way through empty efforts to live, to find some meaning to his life. At the end of the film's first half, he finally sees something that opens his eyes to how he must spend his remaining days.The film then takes us to its second half <U+0097> which begins at a wake held in honor of the late Kanji Watanabe. The rest of the story, how Watanabe spent his remaining days, is told in the flashback recollections of Watanabe's former workmates. Ikiru opens with Watanabe, a widower, at work stamping papers in his dreary civil servant job at Tokyo City Hall. He hasn't missed a day of work in 30 years, and never takes vacations. He lives with his callous son, and his inheritance-obsessed daughter-in-law.The film begins with a group of women arriving at his department to complain about a cesspool in their neighborhood. They want it filled so the site won't be a health hazard; it should be filled in so the site can be a playground for their children. Watanabe dismissively tells them they must take their problem to the engineering department. Off they go, shuffled from department to department until they end up back at Watanabe's department, empty-handed. When Watanabe discovers he is terminally ill, he fails to show up for work. No one at the office sees him for days. He wanders the streets, until one night he is at a bar and begins to talk to a novelist about his fading life. The young man takes Watanabe on a tour of Tokyo's night spots. Maybe a little frivolity is the missing ingredient in Watanabe's life.At one of these places, Watanabe kills the festive atmosphere when the piano player asks for song requests. Watanabe mumbles that he wants to hear an old song, "Life is Brief."As the pianist plays the sedate, lovely, tune, Watanabe tearfully sings the song: Life is brief, Fall in love, maidens; Before the crimson bloom, Fades from your lips; Before the tides of passion, Cool within you; For those of you, Who knows no tomorrow.It is a beautiful scene, which will be revisited in a different, more memorable way near the end of the film.Night turns into morning, and Watanabe doesn't want to have another night on the town. He then encounters a young girl who used to work at his office, and they eat lunch.He begins to spend a lot of time with her, and is able to laugh with her hoping part of her liveliness will rub off on him. However, the girl tires of the dour old man, but agrees to meet him for one more dinner. Watanabe tells the girl he is dying and was hoping he could somehow discover from her how to live.During the dinner, she does something that gives Watanabe his breakthrough. He now knows what he must do. He goes back to his office, and digs out the proposal to fix the cesspool and build a park at the site. He immediately takes the proposal to another city department to shepherd the proposal to completion.Next, the movie takes us to the wake, where we learn the park was completed. The women who stormed city hall at the beginning of the film arrive to mourn for Watanabe. And they really mourn, while the opportunistic deputy mayor <U+0097> who tried to kill the park proposal, then later took credit for it <U+0097> silently watches. Tellingly, the women have nothing to say to the deputy mayor or the other city officials present. Kurosawa's camera focuses close-up on face after face, the embarrassed expression on the face of each city official reveals they know the truth they won't admit: It is Watanabe who deserves credit for building the park.Later, Watanabe's former co-workers debate his dogged dedication to building the park. The officials, by now drunk, recall his final successful struggle to create the park, but cynically misinterpret everything he did.The fact that they fail to grasp the simple kindness of Watanabe that redeems his otherwise wasted, unhappy life underscores something the funeral party does not comprehend: that Watanabe, not any of them, was the true victor and happy man. The last person to see Watanabe alive, a policeman on patrol, comes to the wake to honor Watanabe. Watanabe's body was found in the park the night before. But the policeman describes, what seemed to him, an eerie site.The film's last flashback shows us what he saw: Watanabe is at the park late at night, using the park's swing set while snow gently falls on him. While slowly swinging, he sings "Life is Brief." This scene is one of the most beautiful, memorable experiences in all of cinema. Try watching it without tears welling up in your eyes.Ikiru is a masterpiece -- It doesn't call attention to itself. It is only afterward that Ikiru's brilliance becomes plain <U+0097> the perfection of style and the dignity and sorrow of Shimura's acting.By Brian Cole


                
It's hard to find the words to make someone ready to see something you love without revealing your own pomposity. To put it another way, you can damn with hyperbole just as surely as you can with faint praise. And I really don't want to do that to this movie, because it's amazingly well done, definitely worth seeing, and you'll be a better person if I don't turn you off before you scour the library and independent video outlets for it. So if, like me, you're the sort of counter-dependent brat who revels in ignoring advice that isn't your own, please rent the movie just to prove what an ass I am.For the rest of you who don't use your late fees to prove you cultural sophistication, I'd nonetheless recommend using extended rental policies to see this one a few times. Admittedly, I haven't seen this movie since my VHS days, so the DVD might include the usual goodies that I have no business commenting on. I'll poach off another commenter here and describe Ikiru as a movie about a life almost unlived, and how we find real reasons to overcome the inertial slide to death. Watanabe is the sort of bureaucrat that makes Kafka look like Schwartenegger, and his tentative walking coma at the movie's outset still resonates among those of us making our living in cubicle farms, whacking computer keys like lab rats for our paycheck-pellet rewards.The news that he's dying forces Watanabe into a painful contemplation of the life he's wasted, and the scenes that reveal his back-story are touching and human. When I saw Watanabe's anguish in his doctors' wait room, I was reminded of the pediatrician's office I visited as a child. And when Watanabe's young son humiliates him with embarrassed shame at the boy's baseball game, I felt the guilt a son feels when he doesn't honor his father. When Watanabe finally decides to act, we are moved by his humble desperation to feel alive.I'd agree with other commenters that the final third of the film is a bit stilted; considering the subject matter, however, we can hardly fault Kurosawa for being accurate. Furthermore, I'd rather not take any of the slow, subtle joy you'll get out of this movie by endlessly pontificating about it. Go see it, and if you're not the dork I am, tell others about it too.


                
The film's structure alone is masterful. The storytelling techniques used by Kurosawa are still unmatched. Also worth mentioning is the acting-Shimura Takashi proves himself as one of the greatest actors of all time with his portrayal of Watanabe Kanji. You may recognize him from his role as the wise leader Kambei in Shichinin no Samurai, but this is his greatest achievement. Several of Kurosawa's core group of actors are also in this movie, such as Fujiwara Kamatari. I would recommend this film not only for film buffs, but for anyone interested in powerful, intelligent cinema.


                
Ikiru (To Live) gets my vote for movie of the century.  If you can tolerate an older, slow-paced B&W film with subtitles, give it a try.  It's set in urban Japan, around 1950, so it's less "foreign" than some other Japanese films made around that time.  I've seen it in several video rental stores over the years, both dubbed and subtitled.In order not to spoil the plot, let's just say that as a result of a series of events, a bureaucrat approaching retirement age realizes that his life to date hasn't amounted to much, and, given an opportunity to reflect, tries to do something about it.  Then, just as you find yourself thinking "Gee, that sure was a short, sweet movie!" there is the bonus of a long and fascinating denouement.  As movies go, it's a two-fer.Now I'm firmly in the camp of "keep your expectations under control and you'll have a better chance of enjoying the film."  But, much as I believe that another Kurosawa film, Rashomon, illustrates human truth (one truth per person), I think Ikiru illustrates, in a wonderful story with no preaching, the meaning of human life:  it's what we put into it.


                
"Ikiru" is a film that expresses itself through two separate parts. The first half is the exploration of a bitter man's death and the second half is an affirmation of life provided through the awareness of mortality, recalled by those whom he knew best.Kanji Watanabe (Takashi Shimura) is the protagonist of the story, a bureaucrat whose job provides him with little more than paper-shuffling and pen-pushing.The movie opens with an x-ray of Watanabe's stomach and the cancer that thrives within it. His doctor tells him he will die soon.Throughout the first half of the film, Watanabe stumbles about helplessly, remembering his life and trying to figure out what has come of it. He lives with his son, whose resentment for his own father has peaked over the years.Watanabe realizes no one in his life actually knows or loves him. He walks about in a permanent stupor of self-loathing. He embarks on a friendship with a younger female co-worker, but even she soon hates him and thinks he is "creepy." Towards the end of the film, Watanabe finally dies and the second half is the recounting of his final days by co-workers. We realize Watanabe's life changed drastically towards the end and he dedicated his final days to the construction of a playground for children.The Criterion DVD is excellent, and inside is an essay written by a Kurosawa biographer. He notes that the film is a study of existentialism and mirrors a few themes from Orson Welles' "Citizen Kane," which is true - I was very much reminded of Welles' film at certain moments throughout "Ikiru." Both films offer solid examinations of life and death and what propels the man stuck in between - in both cases the cruelties of life broke apart the men, leaving hollow shells where souls once existed. In Watanabe's case, his seeking of his own soul finally brings him to a state of contentment and inner satisfaction - his death is, at the beginning of the film, a lingering doom; and at the end a peaceful pact.This movie can change the way you look at life if you open your eyes. Kurosawa might have made better films but "Ikiru" is his most emotionally resonant and powerful that I've seen.


                
yes id just like to add to the database a little extra information for non-japanese speakersnamely about the nice song the film takes as its theme, as u will notice there is a break in the subtitles when "our hero" is singing it in the night club, i think some translation has been left out because it would not make sense exactly without explanaition ( or being japanese )the song is called gondora no uta , which is kinda like "the gonola song" and it was released around 1915 if my memory serves me.at that time in japan men and women were not allowed to "date" or be seen together alone in public, so basically the song is this guy singing to his sweetheart, come, take my hand and come on this boat etc etc, so that they wont be seen and they can be alone without being frowned upon.just thought ppl might like to know, as for my opinion of the film, bloody marvelous, one of the very very best :)


                
Ikiru is unafraid to set itself in contemporary Japan, with the modern threats of bureaucracy and sloth (as opposed to The Seven Samurai, which was guised in a historical setting). The characters are more recognizable and real to the viewer because of this, and Kurosawa exploits their personalities to the fullest. We have the novelist, who can comment on everything but practice nothing; the businessmen, who do their jobs; and the young and vibrant girl, who just lives, and doesn't even understand how Watanabe can envy her. This movie is one of a very few that leave a lasting impression behind, and push the viewer to further pursuits. What is motivation? Is it possible to meet Watanabe's standard, or your own, without the threat of death directly in front of you? Few other movies can express this theme so realistically.
*SPOILERS AHEAD*The little man in Ikiru is simply one of cinema's most memorable characters. I don't cry in many movies (not even Schindler's List), but this one made me weep like a little baby. Kurosawa brings human emotion to the forefront in Ikiru, making us all sympathize with Watanabe. The final scene in which he swings in his newly made sunset just hours before his death, amidst raindrops and singing "Life is Short" is in my opinion, the greatest scene ever filmed. Takashi Shimura gives the performance of a lifetime as Watanabe. The close-ups of his face are some of the most moving still images ever put onto the screen. I think that this is a movie that is so emotionally engaging and powerful that it could actually change a person's life.
Superb acting, camera work, cutting, blending of past and present -- Kurasawa and his team take what could be a hokey, sentimental story and create a masterpiece about (sorry to be so trite, but...) the meaning of life. It may be a bit far fetched but this movie recalled to my mind Homer's Odyssey, in the sense that it too is about "doing the right thing" -- honor -- heroic response to challenge. In the case of the movie, this is set in a banal, "everyman" context of the timid petty bureaucrat Watanabi. The B&W photography, perhaps not deliberately since that was still common in the early '50s, emphasizes the metaphorical aspects of the story.Watch it!


                
