The good rating this movie has achieved at IMDb is due to the fact that people who choose to watch a Japanese movie from the 50's are capable of appreciating such a movie. In other words...the rating has not been given be a mean of the people.Personally I can't stand the blockbusters from Hollywood, so in my search for more interesting films I watched this one. I like deep movies, but this one was just too slow. The old man was mumbling the few times he spoke, and unless my subtitles were messing with me he always ended up saying "In other words..." or "What I'm trying to say..." It gave a funny view on the bureaucratism and what life is all about, that must be said, but this is a typical example of a film being overrated just because it's different. Applause for the diversity in the film-making, but this is not worth watching unless you really enjoy the odd stuff.


                
Viewed on DVD. Restoration = seven (7) stars. To say this is a film that "deep dives depression" would be an understatement. How to confront living with a terminal disease tied to the aftermath of nuclear fallout may have been especially relevant for Japanese audiences in the early 1950's. And profitable at the box-office. But when viewed today, the theme remains relevant, but it is obvious that the movie itself is depressing in it's conception and execution. In short, what we have here is a depiction of depression that is, well, depressing. The script and direction relentlessly milk the sad subject matter resulting in tedious monotony quickly followed by boredom. The film seems to come alive only after the protagonist has died (starting with the scenes at his wake). But by then, most viewers may be beyond the point of caring or long departed. To provide comedy relief (and to keep theater audiences in their seats?), the director has mixed in some hilarious depictions of the inherent dysfunction of contemporary, local-level bureaucracies. But the impact of these scenes is insufficient to prevent being buried under the unrelenting, repetitious plodding that depicts the depressing subject matter. All of this makes for a film that is much too long by half. (If cut back by starting with, say, the wake and using more flashbacks, it might be more tolerable and a bit better at holding the viewer's interest.) Restoration is adequate, but still a work in progress. Vertical wear lines appear through out the first half of the movie, and some scenes remain just too dark to see much of anything. Music is heard sporadically (the best accomplices the opening credits). The voice over is gratuitous (and distracting). Subtitles are fine and especially needed to decipher the muttering and slurred dialog delivered by the lead actor (Takashi Shimura). Sound stage "exteriors" look pretty phony. One take away: Humans are mortal; bureaucracies not so much. WILLIAM FLANIGAN, PhD.
