Ikuri (To Live) currently stands as the 124th highest rated movie on IMDB, and though I respect the accomplishment of getting onto that list I have to say the films are very often not to my taste.The film tells the story of a bureaucrat who learns that he has an incurable stomach cancer and has between 6 months to a year to live. He's spent 30 years in the same boring job and is faced with his mortality and the question of whether he has wasted his life.What would you do if you knew you had months to live? That is the challenge facing our protagonist and it makes for a bleak, yet oddly uplifting human tale.Being Toho I expected it to be well made, it was. Being an Akira Kurosawa film I expected it to be dark, it was. And being that it starred Takashi Shimura I expected it to be well acted, I can confidently say this is a career best.The multi award winning epic certainly deserves it's accolades, Takashi is amazing.On the flipside I think some of the writing is underpar and the films construction is head scratching in places. Despite this however the film is riddled with fantastic messages of both hope and despair and coveys them perfectly.Not the easiest of viewing but regardless still a fantastic piece of Japanese cinema.The Good:Incredible performance by Takashi ShimuraExcellent underlining messagesThe Bad:Poorly constructed in placesThings I Learnt From This Movie:I can't figure out how businesses got patrons before the smoking ban


                
Looking back at Akira Kurosawa's impressive fifty-year career in filmmaking, it's impossible to determine which film was his best. Fans of the late Japanese legend might cite The Seven Samurai or The Hidden Fortress, while critics believe that it should be Rashomon or Ran.A growing band of Kurosawa worshippers has recently named Ikiru as his indisputable masterpiece. Unfortunately, I don't see myself joining the latter soon. Yes, Ikiru is Kurosawa's most deepest and reflective film, though in my opinion it's far from the masterpiece that it's touted to be. Ikiru is a film best described as 'a game of two halves'. The first hour is vintage Kurosawa. It starts out with an X-ray image of a stomach diagnosed with cancer, and then introduces the film's pitiful lead character Kanji (Takashi Shimura) to the viewers. Kanji is a government official who has been loyally serving his department for many decades.Upon receiving news that he's suffering from terminal cancer, he decides to take an extended break from work (which he has never done before) to reflect about his life. After some inner soul searching, Kanji realized that he has been missing out on life since he began working. He sets himself on a quest to live out his final months with a motto, "I cannot die until I'm satisfied with my life".Cancer has taught people that life cannot be taken for granted. Kanji is a character that we can all relate to, from his humble personality to his simple outlook on life. Kurosawa cajoled out a magnificent performance from Shimura, not only was Shimura able to make us feel sympathetic toward his character, but his character was also able to earn our admiration by the end of the picture.However, Kurosawa is no Yasujiro Ozu (Tokyo Story, Late Spring). Those familiar with the works of these two Japanese legends will know that Ikiru is the kind of story that Ozu would have relished. Kurosawa is simply not as capable in handling intense dramatic material as Ozu. This is perhaps the reason the second hour of the film fails to capture the greatness of the first. Kurosawa focused too much on the bureaucratic aspects and its faceless officials during the long funeral sequence than Kanji's final farewell gift to the community after an immense struggle involving politics and red tape.Ikiru's lackluster second half dilutes the film's emotional value. Kurosawa did not have an off day; it's just that he was too ambitious to have attempted such a complex urban drama, though his ambitions have often led him to more successes than failures in life.GRADE: B- (www.filmnomenon.blogspot.com) All rights reserved.
Some people consider "Ikiru" ("To Live") as the greatest movie that Japanese director Akira Kurosawa ever made. And remember, this is the same man who also directed acclaimed masterworks such as "Ran," "Kagemusha," "Seven Samurai," "Yojimbo," and "Rashomon." Many of Kurosawa's movies also touched on a human level amongst their scenes of gritty, visceral violence and the brilliance of "Ikiru" is that its emotional levels outscore all of those without one clip of actual, physical barbarism unless you count a death threat scene near the end of the picture.No swords are swung, no blood is sprayed in "Ikiru" because this is not a period piece like "Seven Samurai" or "Kagemusha." Set in modern-day Japan, a middle-aged bureaucrat discovers despite his doctor's attempts to hide the truth from him, that he has stomach cancer in that he will die in six months...or less. The bureaucrat, Kanji Watanabe, played by the great Takashi Shimura in what may be his finest performance, mourns over the lack of a real life that he has had so far. At work, one of his unenthusiastic employees calls him "the mummy" because he does live life to its fullest. He has spent his entire life stamping sheets of paper without bonding with his son or enjoying the time he has on earth. As the title would hit, Watanabe decides that he has "to live" before he inevitably dies, and leave something for him to be remembered by.The ways that Akira Kurosawa tugs on our heart strings is utterly brilliant. The level of sympathy that our souls generate for poor Watanabe is simply amazing as even the younger generations can identify with his fears. I don't think there's a person alive on this earth who is not at least subliminally afraid of the dreadful disease of cancer and the even greater fear of knowing that you only have a short time left to live. Like John Wayne's last film "The Shootist," we develop incredible amounts of sympathy and remorse for the protagonist and the tender moments are truly tear-jerking.Kurosawa's storytelling skills are displayed to their absolute fullest in the first two-thirds of "Ikiru" when Watanabe discovers he has cancer and then begins to encompass all opportunities that he has left to him. There's a wonderful subplot where he begins to bond with a younger woman who has an unbelievable passion for living. Now this sounds like a formula for a creepy, off-putting payoff, but it does not. Rather, this becomes one of the most enthralling elements of the picture.Now, I will admit it, "Ikiru" is not, to my mind, a perfect motion picture and therefore it is not on the same level (to me) as some of Kurosawa's other films. The reason why is because the last third of the picture, I'm terribly sorry to say, runs out of steam. It does not stretch out with the same passion and enthralling emotions that the previous two-thirds did. Perhaps it just did not flow through the way I had wanted it to.But then again, I am still rather young. Film critic Roger Ebert has stated that "Ikiru" was his choice for Kurosawa's best film and that every time he saw it, it became more powerful for him because as he grew older, he identified more and more with Kanji Watanabe. I shall undoubtedly come to cherish and adore "Ikiru" as I grow older. As it is now, in my youth, I see it as a wonderful movie that does a tremendous job up to a certain point where it only runs slow just by a smidgen. Everything before that is absolutely wonderful and absorbing. "Ikiru" is one of Kurosawa's most emotionally-strong pictures and one of the greatest to tackle the subjects of cancer and more importantly, life and death.


                
Watanabe (Takashi Shimura) is a long widowed & long time (over 30 years) city government clerk whose married son & wife live in his home. W's job, as section chief, is to review paper work produced by his section and apply his stamp to make them official. It's always been a meaningless, pretend work job, just as is the work in all the other sections.W. has increasingly suffered from stomach and digestive problems. He finally sees a doctor but, just before seeing him, he chats with a fellow patient in the waiting room from whom he learns that, if he has certain symptoms (all of which W. has), his doctor will tell him he has a mild ulcer, to eat the foods that agree with him, etc.--but he really has stomach cancer and less than a year to live. After examination, his doctor tells W. he has a mild ulcer and to eat the foods that agree with him, etc. W. realizes his life is near its end.He tries to tell his uncaring son but he's disinterested and doesn't hear. W. has been frugal, saving money--but for what? He withdraws some and a new acquaintance suggests W. live it up with drink, dance, and wild women and serves as W's guide through his futile attempt to find meaning this way.A spark happens when a young woman who works in his department resigns because she can't stand its meaninglessness. W. is attracted by her vitality and spends time with her until she pushes him away. But then he finds a purpose to accomplish: some mothers have been trying to get a swampy, buggy area in their neighborhood drained and converted into a playground for their children. But, typically, they've been shuffled from department to department fruitlessly without any progress. W. takes up their cause and accomplishes the deed just before his death. During his last breaths, he gently swings in the new playground in the snow, smiling, at peace, softly singing a song about seizing life before it's too late.After W's death, there's a wake at which his supervisors and coworkers drink and discuss W's legacy--did he accomplish anything?--did he know he had cancer?I saw this in a "great films" group. All others probably rated it as 10/10 stars--they were very moved by and loved it. I also thought it was good, worthwhile, but I'd rate it as 7/10. The cause of my disappointments: I thought ALL of the characters were VERY one-dimensional stereotypes and that the work situation & appearance were over-the-top caricatures. Those qualities reminded me most of plays in puppet theaters and that resemblance diminished its power for me. But the film DID give a worthwhile experience and message (although not ANYwhere near that of "Rashomon").
Ikiru is a classic piece of cinema about a man who starts "to live" when he finds out that his days are soon over, directed by non other than the great Akira Kurosawa."Ikiru" is a tragedy about a man named Kanji Watanabe (Shimura), who works as a bureaucrat. Kanji spends his whole working life doing nothing, just like his colleagues, and finds out one day that he has stomach cancer and will die in few days. Knowing that life will end very soon, he tries to live."Ikiru" is very radical in its style of narrative, for its time. The film starts with a third person narrative, that tell us about the character's situation, It simplify the story, so we don't have too use to much time, or put too much effort, to get into the protagonist's dilemma. Another example is a scene where we see how the officers reply the people who come in with questions and complaints. The scenes are shot in a very "documentary" sort of way, where it looks like that the officers are replying to the same question, a technique later used in documentary shows.The plot of the film is new for it's time, and starts right on the subject. The script is a bit confusing though, because the story focus on the character, and then goes to the world he is living in, where it makes you think that it changed it's focus to the "system", on the society, and not this particular individual, and then it comes back to the protagonist. It gives the character more dept and makes him more real, that makes sense, until a part of the film ,where it jumps back to the society again. Other than that, the sequences are set chronologically in order , with a few flashbacks that gives the protagonist, and other characters a lot of development. It gives us a better understanding of relationships between the individual characters.The cinematography, and usage of the camera gives a lot development and dept to the protagonist, and his situation. Throughout the film there are several close-ups, and extreme-close-up-shots, of Kanji. Showing us his facial expression, that shows depression, emptiness, illness, loneliness, and delivers an overall tragic feel. An example is during a conversation with a female colleague at a restaurant. The film also have a scene, just after he finds out about his illness, where shots fades into each other to create a disturbed atmosphere, this effect is used by other directors in later films, an example is the opening scene of 1980s, "Tetsou" by Shinya Tsukamoto. The flashback scenes are very clear, again thanks to the cinematography, where the picture dissolve to the flashback, Visually the story is easy to follow.Most of the characters in this film are " types ", instead of individuals, for example you got the "happy girl", "the mean boss", "the selfish son" , and so on. The characters are developed in a very "Henrik Ibsen" sort of way (a famous Scandinavian dramatist). The actors portrayed the roles very well, but the only well developed character is the protagonist. Takashi Shimura, who portrays Kanji Watanabe, menages to express Kanji's feelings through facial expressions. Because the character itself talks very unclear. That gives us a disturbing feeling of, that this man can't express his pain. The character is so real, that we actually sympathize with him. Antoher impressive thing with his character is how he develops through the film. Everything from his voice to his ability to talk, gives us an view of his condition. Shimura's acting was also appreciated internationally, and he was nominated for BAFTA award for best foreign actor (1952). The cast of this film is seen in almost every Kurosawa film, to name up a few examples : Seiji Miyaguchi, Minoru Chiaki, Daisuke Kato, Isao Kimura, Katamari Fujiwara, Takashi Shimura etc., but their roles are very different from the other films, that underlines their versatility, and is maybe the reason why Kurosawa works with them frequently.The setting is very different from Kurosawa's atmospheric samurai films, that made him so famous. The story is set in a "westernized" Tokyo. Everything from the characters's clothes and hairstyles, to the music they listen to, and the clubs they go to, is pretty western. An example is a scene, where Kanji, visits a club, the girls are wearing western skirts, are listening to jazz, and dancing in a way like they did in the US, back in the 50s. In a early interview with Kurosawa, he mentioned that one of his autheurs in his films are "the theme itself" ( Ref. "Reading A Japanese Film: Cinema In Contex", by Keiko I.McDonald ). A question, that "Why can't people live happy together"?. He claimed that this question is raised in all of his films, there are "places", in this film as well, where this question is raised, an example on that is, the relationship between Kanji, and his son.Overall the film offers some wonderful effects, and great performances, and an interesting plot, on the contrary side, the focus of the film is a bit unclear, what or who, it is about. The protagonist or the society he is living in?


                
Ikiru is a film about life and death. It told through our hero Kanji Watanabe who is a symbol of people who work in a jaded office. I believe everyone who is not happy with his job will identify himself with Watanabe. Ikiru shows us no matter how boring our job or how meaningless and loveless our lives are, we should live a good life and make good changes in our lives long before we consider the day we die. I do not believe Watanabe is particularly boring or a "mummy" since his friends and his children do not seem to love him. That is why he is feeling outcast and he can not identify himself with his environment.Ikiru also tells us about the dis-functionality of bureaucracy. After Watanabe learns that he has six months, he not only tries to change his thirty-year life, but also the mechanism of the things at the office. This makes Watanabe a hero.


                
Loosely based on Leo Tolstoy's "The Death of Ivan Ilyich", Akira Kurosawa's "Ikiru" stars Takashi Shimura as Kanji Watanabe, a middle-aged bureaucrat who discovers that he will soon die of cancer. Determined to indulge in pleasures he spent a lifetime avoiding, Kanji begins partying about town. Finding little joy in such self-centred activities, Kanji eventually decides to do something which he believes will give his life "meaning". As such, he embarks upon a quest to get a children's playground built where once lay a cesspool."Ikiru's" early scenes expertly convey the alienation and drudgery of an increasingly bureaucratic post-war Japan. People are consumed by monotonous work, countrymen wrestle with red tape, compassion is deemed an inconvenience, everyone's erecting personal barriers and Japan's state apparatus is sketched as a wholly dehumanising and indifferent thing.Like Tolstoy's tale, "Ikiru" then develops into a little philosophical parable. For both Tolstoy and Kurosawa, lives dedicated to self-interests are hollow and ultimately harmful. Their characters aren't only dying of medical ailments, but already dead - already living as dead - and so in desperate need of connection and so life. Both artists then recommend that such states of despair be assuaged with compassion, communal responsibility and service to others."Neither fear nor self-interest can convert the soul," theologian Bernard of Clairvaux once wrote. "Only charity can free man!" Unsurprisingly, Kurosawa identified as a radical when in his teens. Following the mass arrests of members of Japan's Communist Party in the late 1920s, he'd join the Proletarian Artists' League and was for years involved in illegal underground socialist organisations, even serving a brief stint in prison for his activities. Tolstoy was himself a bit of a Christian Socialist, and believed that society should be directed toward social-ethical ends. Today, of course, 21st century man's overriding stance is the opposite: individuals determine "ends", individuals must be given the "freedom" to pursue their own desires and self-interests, man is "nautrally selfish" and such "selfishness" ultimately works out for the good of everyone anyway. Such a stance is today not chiefly contested by the church or religion, but by science, post neo-classical economists and neurobiology. Here desires are seen to be inherited or imported, never originating from "authentic selves", and the societal rules and laws which foster individual "self-interests" are mostly not in either the individual's or group's best interests anyway. Studies into things like William's Syndrome, in which missing chromosomes cause patients to be ceaselessly friendly to everyone, even if such behaviour results in self-harm, likewise show that kindness has a genetic underpinning. In short, compassion, altruism and self-sacrifice often make selfish sense."The individual has become more conscious than ever of his dependence upon society," Albert Einstein wrote decades ago, "but he does not experience this dependence as a positive asset, as an organic tie, as a protective force, but rather as a threat to his natural rights, or even to his economic existence. Moreover, society is such that the egotistical drives of his make-up are constantly being accentuated, while his social drives progressively deteriorate. All human beings are suffering from this process of deterioration. Unknowingly prisoners of their own egotism, they feel insecure, lonely, and deprived. Man can find meaning in life, short and perilous as it is, only through devoting himself to society." This tension between "accentuated drives" and "social needs" is conveyed well during "Ikiru's" final act. Here Kanji triumphs against the odds and successfully creates a children's playground. Now essentially a Frank Capra hero, Kanji finds himself exalted by co-workers and various politicians, all of whom promise to learn from Kanji and be more responsive to community needs. These promises are subverted by Kurosawa, who launches into a subplot in which these men slowly renege upon their resolutions. Whether these betrayals are due to something innate in human beings, to ideological forces, to Japan's whole mode of social organisation (characters constantly complain about "bogus democracy", Japan is clearly still under the thumb of US Imperial designs and civil services and public institutions are seen to be serving something other than common people), or whether Kurosawa believes collective actions as a method of social change always begin with almost militantly "individualistic" people anyway, is left ambiguous."Ikiru" boasts an interesting narrative structure. It opens with a shot of an X-ray, cancer eating a gut. From the diseased internal wirings of a man, we move outward to the workplace, where humans depressingly toil. The film then dips into an orgy of pleasures, sights, smells and sounds, "antidotes" to the workplace which Kurosawa swiftly deems unsatisfying lest shared. From here the film shifts from the personal, private and the interior to the social, communal and the exterior; Kanji launches a campaign to build a playground. Bizarrely, the film then dwells on the lives of Kanji's successors, who spend a long time cynically evaluating the "worth" of Kanji's life. These successors eventually decide to dedicate their lives to social causes, but find themselves unable to. The film then closes with Kanji, ghost-like, singing "Life is Short" whilst crying on the park swing he helped create.Interestingly shot and widely regarded as a masterpiece, "Ikiru" is also mercilessly unsubtle. Sentimental, cartoonish and heavy-handed, Kurosawa conveys every point and emotion with the grace of a sledgehammer. Takashi Shimura's sad-faced performance, overly emphatic, is also at times comically ridiculous. Other Kurosawa trademarks - screen wipes and a talkative narrator - seem unsuited to a film whose material demands restraint.8/10 – See Zhang Yimou's "The Story of Qui Ju".
Takashi Shimura is Watanabe, a man in late middle age who discovers, almost by accident, that he has stomach cancer that will kill him within a year. He can't stop it. What can he do with the time he has left? For thirty years he's worked in one of those Kafkaesque bureaucracies where everyone is buried in sheafs of papers. The shelves are full of binders and folders. The desks overflow with petitions. And when a citizen's committee of poor housewives show up to complain about a sewer in their neighborhood -- it smells terrible, the water tastes awful, it breeds mosquitoes, the children are sick -- they get shuffled from one minor bureaucrat to another, from the Parks Department to Pest Control to Sewage Disposal to the Transit Authority, until they wind up where they started. It's all meaningless and Watanabe, like everyone else, has been doing his best to keep it that way.And now he's faced with dissolution. He tells no one about it. His son and daughter-in-law, with whom he lives, treat him as part of the furniture and behind his back they whisper about how much money he might leave them some day. No good trying to tell them.So he stops going to the crowded office for a few days to think things over, and the first thing he decides to do is what I would do. He goes to a bar and falls in with a dissolute but sympathetic novelist who decides to introduce the old chap to la dolce vita. There are some whirligig scenes of Watanabe buying a ridiculously unbecoming hat, learning how to play pachinko, and getting drunk in jammed nightclubs.It only works for one night. The next day you have to start all over again -- and this time you're hung over. So he latches on to a young lady. She's far from beautiful but she's smart, vivacious, full of life, you might say, and he hopes to borrow a little of it. But by this time Watanabe, nicknamed "The Mummy" at work, is getting positively creepy with anxiety. His eyeballs are beginning to bulge with it. And despite his showering her with gifts and free lunches, she becomes both bored and scared and runs off.Well, Watanabe has found that self indulgence isn't the answer -- but what is? If there is any answer at all? He discovers something that will lend meaning to his remaining days. He goes back to work, rips into the petitions on his desk, strips away all the qualifications and rejections, and by dint of sheer persistence, even in the face of physical threat, he sees to it that the sewer those ladies from the citizens committee complained of is covered over and turned into a park with a playground for children.A narrator tells us that Watanabe has died and there is a very long (too long) sequence at his wake. When the "Big Shots" from the office feel they've spent enough time at the wake, they leave politely and promptly. The remainder, Watanabe's co-workers, get drunk and swear things will change from now on, now that Watanabe has set the example. But they don't change.Kurosawa was both writer and director of this 1952 film, and movies about fatal illnesses have to be treated very delicately otherwise they wind up like "Love Story." In these movies the elderly don't really need a fatal disease. It's understood that they won't be around long. "Old age," says Mr. Bernstein in "Citizen Kane", "it's the only disease you don't look forward to being cured of." Kurosawa does a good job of avoiding cheap sentiment. Ozu did at least as good a job in "Tokyo Story" without any flash. In American movies, the moribund tend to find whatever passes for an answer within themselves. In "Harry and Tonto," Harry loses Tonto but finds he's still capable of loving. In "Whose Life Is It Anyway," Richard Dreyfuss finds the strength to tell them to shut off the machine. But this is a Japanese movie. Instead of relying on inner strength, a final act of self actualization like John Wayne in "The Shootist," Watanabe finds the answer in a contribution to the community. His final determined act leads to self fulfillment but also promotes the general welfare. And he does it all with humility and politesse. He sits in waiting rooms for days. He knocks on the mayor's door timidly. He stands and holds his stupid hat while others ignore him. Yet he gets the job done in the end and it stands as a more enduring monument than the drunken praises of his mourners.
the director lingers on the moment. sometimes its great because its a very interesting situation , but other times you might just not be interested . The story is a bit contrived but thats OK because its also very deep in places and the performances are generally top notch , apart from the protagonist himself , whose general patheticness got on my nerves after a while. the supporting cast however, the gentlemen he meets at the beginning was excellent and the girl is absolutely amazing , i wish I knew her so we could get married . the last third of the film is interesting as well but the ending is a bit too clichéd. but i have to admit , i rarely enjoy something this slow moving so I'm giving it a 7


                
The reviews for this film were fantastic so keep in mind I went in to this with expectations. This film I think had a very decent beginning, and even second act, but as soon as it felt it would go somewhere... it switched. I appreciate the way Kurosawa decided to structure the story like he did, but it did feel like it took me out of the film, and paid less attention to the man and more on the bureaucracy. Perhaps that was the intent, but I wish it had a more impactful ending, though the themes and development of certain characters were impactful, I can't help but feel it fell short of expectations.


                
Set in post war Japan, we see Tokyo's bureaucracy at play. A group of women have been on a runaround being sent from department to another with no resolve. They are complaining about a cesspool where they live. No one wants to do anything about it. In fact these bureaucrats shuffle paper but do little of consequence.Watanabe is an elderly bureaucrat who has worked for 30 years without taking a day off. He has got a nice home and accumulated a nice pension. His son and daughter in law lives with him. When he is diagnosed with stomach cancer and realises that he ha little time left, it dawns on him that he has accomplished little in his life.There have been lots of movies contemplating the meaning of life but not by 1952. Akira Kurosawa examines a life unfulfilled. If you are a viewer over the first blush of youth, you could understand what Watanabe is going through. You might have built a home, raised a family, loved a woman, have a pension to look forward to but have you really made a difference?Watanabe delves into the Tokyo nightlife including a sequence where a woman dances the Jitterbug in a nightclub and he sings a sad old song. This is not enough for him. Eventually he meets a young woman who wants his signature so she can resign from her job. She finds the job boring and he sees in her a zest for life which is infectious. He spends some time with her.The last third of the film is set after his death as a wake his held. His son never found out that he was dying. His work colleagues finally guessed he knew he was dying. In his final months he wanted to zealously accomplish something. That thing was to turn that cesspit into a children's playground and he went from one department to another cajoling and not taking no for an answer. The old man withstood threats and faced humiliation but showed a steely, determined side of his character.The women we saw at the beginning of the film drop by later to pay their respects.Watanabe died in a snowy night, playing on the swings on the park he help built.


                
"Ikiru" or "To Live"This is one of the Japanese dramas that helped define the genre and reinforced the Japanese cinema's focus on the human side of the plot with deep well-written characters one can't help but relate to. As the title might hint, Akira kurosawa tried to present his approach to life and how one should strive to live it. We follow the main character, Mr. Shimura as his life is completely subverted when he's diagnosed with terminal cancer.One of the most remarkable aspects of the protagonists performance (Kanji Watanabe) were his facial expressions. as the dialogue was kind of simplistic at times, the director relied on the actor's facial expressions to convey how he felt about the cornucopia of events taking place. Coupled with relatively interesting editing, these still expressions seemed to stick with the viewer for long after the scene is over. The sets were varied and enabled to characters to evolve by interacting with various elements of their environments. Personally, I found the music to be mostly gloomy which is in perfect accord with the movie's general mood.This is what usually call a "thought-provoking" movie, which might suitable for older audiences as they're more aware of the issues at hand and can, hence, appreciate the messages beyond.In a nutshell, This movie aims at changing the viewer's perspective and approach to life and the way it should be lived. And I think it succeeded to a certain extent, as it will certainly leave you pondering long after the ending credits roll up.


                
"Ikiru" is a drama movie in which we watch a man tries to find a meaning in his life after he discovers that he has terminal cancer on stomach. Also we watch him had some problems with his family and he as unable to talk to them. After his death and especially in his funeral we watch his co - workers discuss his behavior over the last several months and debate if he knew that he had cancer or not and if he had maybe that it was something that changed his perspective of many things.I liked this movie because of the plot which I found very innovative for those times and also very different from these that Akira Kurosawa used us to expect from him. The direction of this movie was made from the master Akira Kurosawa and it was simply breathtaking. I also liked the interpretation of Takashi Shimura who played as Kanji Watanabe and he was simply outstanding on it.Finally I believe that "Ikiru" is a must see movie because it shows and represents many things according to family and an illness and how this influence a person. Also it shows us how this influences not only the person that has this illness but also his family, friends and people in general.


                
