This great film by Kurosawa is probably less well known than his Samurai tales, but is none the worse for that. The film is both long and slow-paced, but the impact is incredible.We begin with 'our hero' (as Kurosawa calls him) Watanabe's stomach x-ray, and we are told that he has cancer. We then see Watanabe sitting at his desk in the Tokyo city civil service, slowly marking a great pile of papers with his little rubber stamp. He sits at the head of a group of people doing much the same thing, shuffling papers from one place to another, and we are told that he has been doing this for 30 years! We see a group of ladies complaining about stagnant water directed from one office to another as the bureaucratic machinery churns mechanically onwards.Against this background, Watanabe goes to the doctor with his stomach complaint. He meets a strange man who precisely describes Watanabe's symptoms, and tells him that the doctors will lie to him, as the disease is terminal. This comes true and Watanabe realises that he is to die soon. The stunning waste of his life then becomes apparent to him, and in a really powerful scene he falls asleep, crying below a commendation from the office for 25 years of service. He isn't worried by dying, rather he's worried by never having lived. He stops going to work, he buys expensive sake and goes to the bright lights, but this fails to make him happy. He then spends time with a young girl from the office, and it is on an evening out with her that he realises what he must do. This realisation is combined with a roomful of people singing 'Happy Birthday' for a friend...but it is clear that they are singing for Watanabe's rebirth. Watanabe goes back to the office and picks up the file concerning the stagnant water...he is determined to do something about it after 30 years of doing nothing!The next section of the film is the real key to its impact. We are at Watanabe's funeral, with a number of the technocrats from the City Council. My expectation was that they would all be complimenting the memory of Watanabe and his achievement in clearing the stagnant water and building a park in record time...but they aren't! I was frustrated...I wanted them to recognise that he knew he was ill, and fought the established order so as to achieve something with his life.As they drink more and more, they begin to reflect on what Watanabe had achieved. They become emotional, realising that he knew he was ill, and realising that with determination, the system can be used to achieve things. The final scene, however, is of one of the men present at the funeral subsiding below a pile of papers, unable to change anything.The bitter ending is tempered by the powerful feelings stimulated by Kurosawa during the funeral scene. I reached the end feeling that one man can make a difference if he is determined, and that this can only be achieved by reflecting on your life and achievements, and then making a conscious decision to do something!
In a Post-War Tokyo, when the bureaucratic chief of department of the City Hall Kanji Watanabe (Takashi Shimura) finds that he has a terminal cancer, he decides to intensively live his last months of life. While dying, he finds the meaning of life, and fights for the construction of a playground in a poor zone of the city and the legacy of his existence."Ikiru" is another beautiful movie of Master Akira Kurosawa. The story is very touching and shows the lifestyle of Japan in the 50's. The performance of Takashi Shimura is amazing and heartbreaking, in the role of a man that finds that he spent his life for nothing: his son, motive of his sacrifice, does not care for him and his unproductive job does nothing but useless paperwork and a pejorative nickname of "Mummy". In the end, a wonderful message that never is too late to live, watch the sunset and plant a seed of love. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil): "Viver" ("To Live")


                
The main character, so ably played in this movie, is an older bureaucrat whose life has little, if any, significance. After 30 years on the job, he has little to show for himself. This becomes very apparent once he finds out that he is dying from stomach cancer and has only months to live.Now, so far, this does NOT sound like a movie most people would want to see. However, instead of dwelling on death and the meaningless of life, Kurasawa goes beyond that. Much of the movie actually focuses on this man trying to find meaning in his life and ultimately deciding to devote his final days to fighting for the creation of a park in some godforsaken part of Tokyo. Despite a general atmosphere of apathy, he ultimately succeeds in getting the park created.About 2/3 of the way through the picture, the man dies. I thought the movie was over, but then it cuts to a scene at his funeral. A group of bureaucrats and the deputy mayor attend, but few others. What happens next is important, as the movie becomes very philosophical and those in attendance begin to ponder his life and their own as well.In many ways, this movie is both uplifting and cynical. I won't say much more but encourage you to see it for itself. I will say, though, that unlike Bergman's films (which often have talked about death or mental illness), Ikiru is unusual in that it seeks meaning and goes beyond "life is meaningless and then you die".
Incompetent Watanabe worked in a government organization. Although he was a manager, he could do nothing but affixed his seal on countless papers. He had been working like that for nearly 30 years. One day he learned that he got lung cancer and had half year to live. His peaceful life did not exist any more. How to deal with the rest days was an imminent task for pitiful Watanabe.Comparing with another similar movie My life without me, Ikiru was more uplifting and meaningful. Maybe what Watanabe did was too late. But in my eyes it is never too late to mend your way.Japanese master Akira Kurosawa brought us many excellent movies. For example Shichini no samurai, Rashomon, Ran etc. I think that Ikiru is his best work.An all time classic. 9/10
This Kurosawa favorite veers awfully close to  *Now, Voyager*  territory; to "Beaches"  territory; to  *Love Story*  territory.  In the final analysis, a director -- even the greatest one who ever lived -- is never so manipulative as when he chooses a cancer victim for the subject of his film. We all know someone who has, or has had, cancer, and we all know just how horrible it can be for those it strikes.  Therefore, Kurosawa has already plunged the knife in our hearts from the first frame, which shows us an X-ray of our protagonist's cancerous stomach.  All Kurosawa has to do from here on out is twist the handle.Thankfully, the director listened to the wise counsel of co-writer Hideo Oguni, who insisted on having the main character die -- unseen -- a little more than half-way through the film . . . thereby setting up what is perhaps the greatest 45 minutes in all of cinema:  Watanabe's Wake, With Flashbacks. To tell the truth, this  "second part"  of  *Ikiru*  stands completely on its own merits, and would by any reckoning rank as the greatest  "short" feature film ever made.  Which is not to say that there wasn't any great stuff in the preceding hour and fifteen minutes.  Believe me, there's great stuff.  However, there's also a lot of maudlin stuff.  Put it this way:  one thoroughly sympathizes with a young woman who exclaims to Watanabe  (Takashi Shimura), "There's that long face again!"  Kurosawa frankly overdoes the closeups of actor Shimura's face, which is half hangdog, half agonized. It's also half comical, after a while.  And while I can dig the verisimilitude of Watanabe's incoherent mutterings and unfinished phrases (he always says, "What I mean to say is . . ."  but he never finishes the sentence), that doesn't mean that the whole thing isn't slightly irritating. The film finally threatens to become downright bad when Kurosawa zooms in on Shimura as he sings a sappy old Japanese love song from the turn of the century:  the hushed voice trembles, the tears spill.<SPOILERS THROUGH THE REST OF THE REVIEW>  Yes, enough is enough . . . but perhaps we required this nadir of maudlin despair for us  (and Watanabe, for that matter)  to bounce back and re-engage us.  Kurosawa masterfully raises the stakes with each set-piece that follows, until the last time we see him alive he's back at his civil service job, heading off to survey a site for a recreational park.  "You can do anything, if you put your minds to it!"  he declares to his dubious subordinates.  And then, CUT!He's dead, and we're at his wake.  Kurosawa, who loved American-style detective fiction, proceeds to give us a mystery, of sorts:  was Watanabe REALLY responsible for the city's beloved new park?  and if so, how did he manage it?  AND did he know about his stomach cancer, or was it unexpected? what accounted for his odd yet heroic behavior during the last months of his life?  The rest of the narrative is related via flashback by Watanabe's various co-workers and subordinates.  Of course, the  "proper"  thing for a critic to say is that we should NEVER be in doubt early on, as to whether or not Watanabe made the park possible.  But the first time I saw this, I had been put off by the sentimentality just enough to where I questioned the whole thing, and had thought how funny it would've been if this little bureaucrat had been forced to rely on his dreadful  "colleagues"  to finally accomplish something worthwhile in his life.  The fact is, I can't tolerate saints.  (Oh well, I guess I'm not a very nice person.)  But the wonder of this sequence comes from the exceedingly witty manner in which Watanabe's feats are told and retold during the increasingly drunken wake.  The little old man, at least in the memory of his fellow bureaucrats, disproves the adage that you Can't Fight City Hall.  The crescendo of the wake sequence, followed by the sober-light-of-morning denouement, are together ruefully true-to-life.A final observation:  I don't think  *Ikiru*  is as  "existential"  as some critics have made it out to be.  Watanabe in the end makes a tangible difference in the world he leaves behind.  That park EXISTS in the Real World.  Kurosawa was a HUMANIST, not an existentialist.
The portrayal is absolutely superb by the actors under Kurosawa's direction. Relative to movies of the 1980's and 1990's the pace of the story is relaxed, or even sedate, but it truly fits the serious nature of the story being told. Furthermore the movie provides a rare peek into the japanese society and its workings.(Spoiler) This is a truly amazing story of a city clerk's reaction to the fact that he is told he is about to die. In short he tries to accomplish some good before his passing, and thus faces the system, that he was so much a part of whilst unaware of his own mortality.
Ikiru was my favorite Kurosawa film even before I saw it.  I had read Roger Ebert?s wonderful commentary at his "The Great Movies" page and told myself many times that I must get it and never quite got around to it.  I had purchased "Seven Samurai" and "Hidden Fortress" and found both of them delightful.  The former is probably the greatest action movie ever made and the latter has scenes as intense as anything modern directors ever put on celluloid.  But somehow while I figured Ikiru to be more my type of movie than any of the samurai flicks, I still held off buying it.  I told myself many times to do so, and searched high and low for the DVD, but no American company is willing to come out with a version yet.  I finally settled for having one shipped from China and as of this writing it has yet to arrive.     Then I found out a co-worker is dying of cancer.  Having read multiple reviews, searched for months for the DVD and visited almost every Kurosawa site out there, I felt comfortable recommending a movie I had never seen when I almost never recommend a movie to people at all.  I immediately purchased a copy of the video and the afore-mentioned DVD from eBay; the video for him and the DVD for myself.  I received the video last night, banished the wife and kids to bed and for the next three hours sat awed as the story of Watanabe?s life unfolded before me.      I could not have made a better choice.  The story takes hold of you and you follow it and never want to let go.  There are several slow spots that you have to work through, but that is the point of this movie.  This is not a movie to check your brain at the door for.  If you are looking for action and adventure with a plot you'll forget about when you try to tell your friends about it the next day, you are in the wrong place.  If you want a deep movie that will make you think and re-examine your life then this is your ticket.


                
IKIRU is a great film, and a universal one as well. It could translate to any society where there are individuals who live their lives in jobs that are meaningless, who have little personal joy, who don't really know how to enjoy the blessing of life that they have. They won't die homeless but they often die alone and unrecognized. The message of IKIRU is amazing in that it's about the difference one man can make without being preachy or contrived. Mr. Watanabe isn't a great man, nor is he a bad man. He is an ordinary man, undoubtedly drawn from real-life examples of Japanese government workers in the post-WWII era. The thing about his life is that everyone is comfortable with his state of being, until he finds out he's dying and sets out to fulfill a nearly-impossible building task. After that, no one, including him, is comfortable, and that splits between the people who think he's out of his mind and the people who realize that he is driven to make a positive difference before he dies.The most remarkable facet of IKIRU is that we get a sense of this division without seeing any truly evil characters. Mr. Watanabe's son is not likable, but we sense he's got more of a backstory with his often-absent father than we could suspect and don't just hate him (though he's most outspoken about refusing to try and understand what his father was thinking). And the transformation of this man, from a catatonic civil servant to a dynamo obsessed with change, does include an element of madness, albeit in a focused and positive form. And that made me have more respect for Mr. Watanabe than I ever could for someone who was the classic white knight figure. He fought through the barriers that had delineated his spare, safe life and really accomplished something. That's the lesson here, one that Akira Kurosawa presents without jumping up and down about it, and that makes IKIRU a timeless masterpiece.


                
Ikiru, one of Akira Kurosawa's most underrated films, is among my favorites. The reasons for this are many. I don't want to over-analyze the film, because a simple story warrants a simple review, so I'll keep this brief.Kenji Watanabe is a mid-level, middle-aged Tokyo bureaucrat. Every day he reports to City Hall and review memos. Actually, that's being generous. Really, his job is to glance at papers and stamp them, showing that he took a few seconds to look at them. It's not that he hates his life, he just doesn't have anything to live for. His wife is long dead, his son is married and simply doesn't care about him, and he's worked at the same department for 30 years. Not exactly movie material.However, his soul is crushed when he finds that he has stomach cancer, with months to live. After this revelation, he tries to think of his accomplishments (none), and hopes (nil), and realizes that he has nothing ahead of him but a painful death. He decides that if he has nothing left, he should at least try to find some pleasure in his last days.He attempts to find relief in a hedonistic, party-life, as well as pursuing a woman many years younger than he. Naturally, this fails. Finally, he decides that if he can't find fun in living for himself, he will try to change the world for the better. He attempts to have a public park built in the stead of a garbage dump, and dies soon after, triumphant.Still, putting it like that make the film sound much more depressing than it is. Yes, it's not the most happy ending in the world; after all, the last hour of the film takes place at Watanabe's funeral, with him already dead. However, in a particularly memorable scene, he is challenged by a local Yakuza boss because of his ventures, and simply turns the other cheek, leaving the mobster with his tail between his legs.One of the main reason the film works, besides Kurosawa's careful direction, is the main performance of Watanabe, played by Takeshi Shimura. Hardcore movie buffs may recognize him as Shimada, the old man from Seven Samurai. However, this is his best performance. With his wide, sad, puppy-dog eyes, it is nearly impossible not to sympathize, and indeed love the guy. He walks hunched over, slowly, as if walking afraid of his own shadow. But by the time the film is nearly over, he is able to look up into the sky and sing his beautiful farewell as he dies peacefully, in the snowy playground which he has created.But the most important aspect of the film's success is the fact that it actually improves over time. No, the film itself is still in outdated, ugly, faded black-and-white, but viewing it as a teen, and viewing it as an adult will render completely different reactions. Roger Ebert put it best; "Over the years I have seen "Ikiru" every five years or so, and each time it has moved me, and made me think. And the older I get, the less Watanabe seems like a pathetic old man, and the more he seems like every one of us." Well said, Mr. Ebert.
Like you can expect from basically every Kurosawa picture, this movie is something unique and beautiful. It's a very well crafted movie, that this time for most part gets uplifted by its story.It has a very simple and also very effective concept about a middle-aged bureaucrat, who suddenly finds out he only has a couple of more months to live. He then realizes he has never achieved anything or enjoyed live and only committed himself mostly only to his work. Even though it of course has a sad premise, the movie itself is really about life and how you should treasure and enjoy it and don't only commit yourself to one thing your whole life without any change, fore before you know you're life will be over and you'll not be able to look back at a fully lived one.It's a character movie that also gets very well constructed story-wise. Seems that Kurosawa had been inspired by "Citizen Kane", since it pretty much uses the same way of storytelling. The movie is basically one of two parts. In the first we get to know the main character and see how he tries to cope with his nearing end and tries to enjoy life and achieve something significant as well. The second halve mostly consist out of flashbacks after the death of the main character and shows how he achieved to do something significant and also affected a lot of people around him, mostly his colleagues, who realize that they way they are conducting their jobs is not in the best interest of everyone. It's also a movie that is a comment against the bureaucracy it seems. It's not a movie though that tries hard to be sentimental or preachy with any of its messages. It's a real subtly done movie, that therefore also tends to become a real effective one. It's also more an ode to life than a sad movie about a dying man really.Granted that the movie is a bit too long, making some of its sequences a bit overlong at times but this is something you more or less always have to take for granted in an old fashioned Japanese production. It's also hardly a complained for this movie but I guess it will still turn some people off.Takashi Shimura is really great as the dying man, who is mostly expressing himself with his face, rather than words. You see his pain, grief and desperateness in his eyes. Shimura also was only in his 40's at the time but they did a great job with making him look much older but credit for this of course also has to go to Takashi Shimura himself for this. Shimura is an actor who used to work quite a lot with and is also in some of his best known movies like "Shichinin no samurai", "Rashômon", "Yojimbo" and "Kakushi-toride no san-akunin". Yet he never had been that well known or recognized as for instance Toshirô Mifune. Perhaps because he was mostly normally playing the secondary characters but in this movie Kurosawa really allows him to shine and gives him a stage for perhaps his greatest performance. It at least is his most memorable one.A really fine made and told movie!9/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
I too have seen all the Samurai films. It was gratifying to watch this tender little film. How would we act if we knew when the end was coming? There are so many terrifying and tender moments in this film. The scenes with the young office mate went from charming to cold-- we knew there was no more than companionship, but she can't really even give him that anymore. The scene when he is about to tell his son about his condition and the young man goes off on a rant about how embarrassingly his father has been acting actually brought me to tears. Of course, it's the price he pays for his cold distance all those years. Then there's the whole bureaucratic nightmare of the office. Even at the wake they don't want to give credit. All the buck passers want a share of his legacy. Maybe families who are living on the edge should watch this movie. Even after more than 50 years, it wears extremely well.


                
Our leadsman in Ikiru, Kanji Watanabe, is an older, exhaustive looking man caught up in the rat race of everyday, robotic living. Exuberance stripped, joy absent, utterly banal. It is only when he learns he's contracted an incurable stomach cancer that he begins to suffer from an existential crisis, plagued by frustration and the dread of approaching death. His language becomes almost ineffable, his soul harrowed up with an array of unwanted emotions, his memory elusive and soon to "vanish away." Realizing his life is near expired and with no significant contributions etched into the hallmark of the living, something inside him changes; the instinctive will "to live" overwhelms him. As the disenchanted novelist he meets puts it, "We don't realize how beautiful (or precious) life is until we chance upon death." The words resonate in Watanabe's mind. He seems to understand Sartre's credo, "Death must enter life only to define it." Suddenly, he fearfully and frantically yearns to define his life, overcome the petty existence he's wasted and atone for the quality of life and gratification he's lost, thus rendering death ineffectual. It is a message not only for Watanabe, but for all of humanity—to live the cosmic wow right now without reserve or fear of death.The difficulty Watanabe faces, however, is that the person he's shaped and ultimately become is without adequate faith and determination to face the future. Not only is he ill-prepared to be ordained with vitality, he is without dreams, goals and direction on where to foster his newborn energy to live. It would be likened unto a small child wanting to drive his father's brand new dodge viper yet without the necessary skill, maturity and knowledge needed to operate such a heavy piece of machinery. Watanabe is no different. He only knows that he desires a second chance at life—a life lived to its utmost potential. Clinging to this desire for positive self-transformation, he begins his newly awakened journey by touring the fleshpots of Tokyo, seeking joy through transient means: nightclubs, girls, liquor and other places of revelry. None of these places seem to bring about the type of life he's looking for. He moves on. He tries to make retirement arrangements with his much adorned son who ironically misperceives him. He fails.He then endeavors to capture the secret to living life from his dainty female colleague who appears to have it all: zest, humor, vitality, etc. The secret, he discovers, is not grandiose but utterly simplistic—she enjoys making wind-up bunny rabbits for "the children of Japan." It's a timely message to understand because it shows that the great and grand secret to living life is found where most would have it not be found. There is no secret. According to the film's subtext, "to live" a life most fruitful is to be found in a collection of seemingly insignificant moments: laughter between two friends, a chocolate ice-cream cone, a gathering at the theater, the smile of a lover, etc. Watanabe, like all of us, is learning to extract the extraordinary from the ordinary. And slowly but surely, he is.At the close of his journey, he turns his search for life's meaning to a civil service project buried deep under bureaucratic red tape, each member of his department having passed the buck from one office to the next. He personally takes it upon himself to see the project through—to turn a sewage gauntlet into an established play park for children. Though the end product isn't revolutionary, it is Watanabe's last chance for redeeming all of those years of self-absorption, self-loathing and regret. It is his last charitable contribution to life's hallmark academy, be it ever so small; that final part of his positive self-transformation. When he finally dies, the impact it makes parallels the proverb "our work is never appreciated until we are dead." Likewise, people are usually never venerated until they pass on. There is something deeply mystifying about death's impact on the human consciousness that causes it to understand not its own depth until the hour of separation. The film is remarkable in this way in that it creates a hoped for paradigm shift in the viewer, showing the precariousness and evanescence of life. Life, to be fully appreciated, must be threatened with death intermediately throughout and finally absorbed completely in the end. As the poet Tweedy observed, "You have to learn how to die—if you want to be alive." Kurosawa makes an astute commentary on the culture and values of bureaucracies, how we are all to some degree mini-bureaucrats caught up in the cyclical nature of zoning out, taking life for granted, and becoming programmed automatons who seek nothing but self-preservation and creature comforts. Life for Kurosawa is not to be lived by hiding in the seas of faces, hoping to be unobserved, but by making something of one's self, taking healthy risks, living Socrates' "life examined" and recognizing the small and simple things that make life worth defending. The secret to life is the recognition of the simple, the ordinary, the plain and mundane. It is that recognition that creates a sort of exuberance in the traveler's life—one that follows in existentialist shadows and gains genuine and authentic meaning by one's active level of participation in it.
After ten pages, most of which laud the mastery and humanity of the director, page 11 seems to denigrate this masterpiece. Why? There have been few films that explain what is like to be old and alone as well as this film does. Only DeSica's "Umberto D" and Bergman's "Wild Strawberries" even come near it psychologically. Kurosawa's hero is more than a passive observant, regretful of the life that has passed them by. Here the civil-servant is hell-bent on living the life that he might have had, had he the courage to live. Has there ever been anything in cinema as touching and pathetic as this old man's attraction to the simple, self-absorbed and not too bright office worker whom he befriends and entertains only to be rejected by her as a creep. Emil Jannings in "Blue Angel" gets caught in the net of self-hatred and self-abuse, but Kurosawa's hero learns from what's left of life, moves on and does something positive, only to die without due credit for his act. It is a supremely ironic story, devoid of sentimentality. Has there even been a Western director who has told the story of old age with such clear-eyed honesty???


                
The opening of this film was just what everyone would think of bureaucracies that we deal with every day. The people wanted a park and they just got shuffled from one office to another. No one wanted to do anything that they could later be criticized for.Wantanabe (Takashi Shimura) was no different. He spent 30 years in government and rose to section chief without doing a thing. He just came to work every day and avoided "rocking the boat." His life was so boring that others called him "The Mummy." When he found out that he had stomach cancer and less than a year to live, he searched for something to give his life meaning. He went out with a writer (Yûnosuke Itô) to bars and strip clubs to find something, but it wasn't enough.He started hanging around with a young office worker (Miki Odagiri) who gave him pleasure (non sexual, you pervert) until she was tired of being with him. But, before she left him, she gave him an idea, and he started his life anew trying to build that park. Even as a Section Chief, taking on the bureaucracy was an uphill battle.We do not see the struggle until after he dies and all the other functionaries at his wake start telling his story as they try to figure out why he did what he did.Kurosawa and Shimura gave us a treasure about life and one that would do us well to watch over and over.Sacrificing yourself to serve the many. What a message!


                
In the last three months i have discovered the films of Japanese Director Akira Kurosawa. Thanks to some superb recommendations my movie watching experiences has been broadened and enlightened . Kurosawa's is a masterful story teller and although his films aren't perfect they leave an indelible mark on your brain that will forever be there. Ikiru is my favourite of his films that i have seen so far and i urge anyone who is thinking about discovering Akira Kurosawa's movies to make this one the first. Ikiru is the modern-day tale of a lonely man confronting death in post-war Tokyo. One of the greatest actors of Japanese cinema, Takashi Shimura, plays Kanji Watanabe, a middle-aged civil servant who has slavishly devoted himself to his job for thirty years, only to find that he now has inoperable stomach cancer. With limited time left, and the feeling that he has never truly lived at all, Watanabe embarks on a quest to make the most of his remaining days. After bouts of self-pity, a spell of hedonism and a doomed attempt at a platonic relationship, he commits himself doggedly to the task of converting a city dump into a children's playground.Takashi Shimura was an am amazing actor. His facial expression were masterful. He could light up the screen when he smiled and when he was sad the audience felt his misery. His portrayal of cancer stricken watanabe is amazing. When he says" I can't afford to hate people. I don't have that kind of time." you believe every word.Ikiru is a story that makes you wonder why we trudge along in our everyday lives and what would we do or say if we were told we only had months to live and why would we wait for news like that to start living our lives?Ikiru translation into English is "To Live" and you have not lived until you have seen this movie.9 out of 10


                
What if in the dreary days of middle-age, as you were cruising along in the set routine of your life, you came to understand you had six months left to live? And further, that your son and his wife looked forward to their inheritance more than they cared for you, and that your co-workers mocked you for how little you accomplished in your meaningless, bureaucratic job? Such is the fate of Kanji Watanabe, played by Takashi Shimura, in an excellent movie by Akira Kurosawa. It may sound depressing and I suppose parts of it are, but Shimura's face evokes such a depth of emotions, Kurosawa's story-telling is so brilliant, and the movie is so profound, that you can't help being gripped by it. Ikiru – To Live – what does it mean to live, what is the meaning of life, when it's so brief? Can there be meaning?Watanabe at first 'lives it up', going out on a bender with a stranger he meets, playing pachinko, visiting dance halls, drinking, and going to a strip club. It's the reaction some have to the horrifying transience of life, and in some sense, the characters are right when they say that he has begun to live when he found out he was going to die. It's an immature, unsatisfying reaction, however. He attempts to get closer to a much younger woman from his office, played with childish spunk by Miki Odagiri, not in an attempt to seduce her, but because he admires her passion, and her decision at an early age to leave her boring job. She ever-so-subtly steers him onto the right path by saying he needs to find his own things to make, and he has the idea to use his remaining time fighting for the cause of park which has is stuck in a bureaucratic quagmire. Therein lies his redemption.The movie is distinctly Japanese, with customs like bowing and strict hierarchy on full display, but on the other hand, it has a universal feel to it. Faust and 'Ecce Homo' are referenced. The screenplay was influenced by Tolstoy's "The Death of Ivan Ilyich". The nightclub scenes are highly Western, particularly the piano player. There is evidence of Kurosawa's artistry throughout the movie, with scenes in light and shadow that might remind you of paintings by Caravaggio. The film itself may also remind you of Ingmar Bergman's masterpiece, 'Wild Strawberries'. And of course, the theme itself connects us all at that most fundamental of levels.The story is often told in flashbacks, and revealed gradually. It's poignant seeing Watanabe's relationship with his son over the years. It's profound that he eventually realizes he needs to do good deeds with the time remaining, and that, despite obstacles in his path, he says "I can't afford to hate people – I haven't got the time". If only we could all come to this realization! He will see the beauty in a sunset, and perhaps in the most moving scene, swing on the playground in the park he built, singing 'Gondola no Uta', whose lyrics are "life is brief; fall in love, maidens, before the crimson bloom fades from your lips." While he had sung those words despondently before, he now sings them in quiet triumph, knowing he may be the only one who ever understands his life and his truths. Perhaps it's the best any of us can hope for.


                
... and a masterpiece acting job for Takashi Shimura for his incredibly moving performance as Watanabe, a dying bureaucrat who realizes he has squandered his life in his unrewarding, dead end job. What to do, now that he is facing death? That question is the key to IKIRU, perhaps Kurosawa's best picture and one of the best I have ever seen.Action fans, there is no action, no fighting, no battle scenes. This is an intense character study which hinges on Shimura's bravura acting job, who was himself an action hero in other Kurosawa films. I thought his ability to plumb the depths of sorrow and despair was astonishing, and he was able to sustain the overall impact despite the fact that he was in virtually every scene.I don't think IKIRU could be made today, or if it were it would have a very limited audience. It moves slowly for its length and requires too much involvement with its characters for modern audiences with their abbreviated attention spans. Movies for grownups are such a chore in 2011.


                
How tragic that man can never realise how beautiful life is until he is face to face with death. How tragic, indeed! Akira Kurosawa's thought-provoking commentary on life is such a powerful work of first-rate storytelling that it can transform lives. Narrated with flair, handled with care & bolstered by a marvellous performance, it is one of cinema's greatest triumphs.Ikiru (also known as To Live) tells the story of a middle-aged bureaucrat who has lived the same monotonous life for 30 years. But everything changes when he learns that he has terminal cancer and less than a year to live. After coming to terms with his impending death, he sets off on a quest to find his purpose in life and does all in his power to leave behind a meaningful legacy.Co-written & directed by Akira Kurosawa, Ikiru is crafted with both patience & perseverance, and takes ample time to acquaint the viewers with every facet of our protagonist's life. Through his work, the film illustrates the corruption & inefficiency that runs through a bureaucracy while his time at home captures the diminishing value of family life, and it's all portrayed very effectively.Kurosawa's direction is top-notch, the writing is just as impressive and the arc of our protagonist is thoroughly compelling. Cinematography employs numerous close-ups & lingering shots that allows for better examination. Editing allows the plot to unravel at an unhurried pace but it may still bother some, set pieces are wonderfully detailed while the background score is in sync with the unfolding events.Coming to the performances, Ikiru is Takashi Shimura's show all the way, for the actor commands the screen from the first frame to the last. Making an impression with his facial expressions rather than choice of words, Shimura's top-tier acting accurately reflects the inner turmoil his character is undergoing at any given time, and he's well-supported by the rest of the cast, even if they are no match to his faultless rendition.On an overall scale, Ikiru is an ingeniously directed, deftly written, intelligently photographed, aptly edited & expertly performed masterpiece that's as relevant today as it was at its time of release. A strong reminder that passion & purpose are key to living a happy & content life, and that it's never too late to turn things around, this introspective study of life, death, regret & human nature is a timeless classic that not only ranks amongst Akira Kurosawa's finest works but is one of the most essential films in existence. Highly recommended.


                
By far, Ikiru has been a favourite among Kurosawa's movies for me. While Takashi Shimura is featured in most of his movies, Ikiru witnesses one of his best performances. Unlike Kurosawa's many other movies, this one lacks of violence and battle save for the protagonist's battle against a deadly stomach cancer, threatening to perish him and his monotonous life to oblivion.Bureaucracy, a choking network with unbiased existence in most countries in our world, can break the best of the stubborn. Wanatabe(our protagonist), a natural victim realises his folly after painfully boring 30 years of his life. This movie aimed neither for a happy ending nor for a revolution but just the daunting reality.And undoubtedly the soundtrack 'Gondola No Uta' deserves a special mention. It is a most wonderful music, apt for this movie.


                
Based loosely on Tolstoy's "Death of Ivan Ilych", this is a tale of the tragedy and redemption of a man whom few directors would dare featuring: a faceless, lifeless bureaucrat. Takashi Shimura plays said bureaucrat with stolid grace, never overplaying the physical and psychic pain that defines him for the first third of the film. He is estranged from his family, his employers, his life, until an improbable encounter with a lively, lovely former coworker and a pet rabbit. At last he sees how his life, so close to its end, can mean something.I highly recommend the 2-disc Criterion set, which includes two documentaries on Kurosawa's life and work, and a commentary track by Kurosawa scholar Stephen Prince, who's done similar work for Criterion's releases of "Throne of Blood", "Seven Samarai", "Ran" and several others. My lone complaint is with the transfer; typically a strength of Criterion's classic discs. While most scenes are clear, bright and unblemished, others have long stretches of vertical scratches and faded black tones. Knowing the attention to detail that other, even older, films have enjoyed, it's a bit jarring to see.


                
All the Kurosawa movies I have seen yet were either samurai based or mythological. Ikiru is way way way different than all those movies. To begin with, this is the most philosophical Kurosawa movie I have seen explaining life and death. The movie is about an aged bureaucrat who has not taken official leave for 30 years, lives his life almost like a robot or a mummy - lifeless. His life takes a massive turn when he comes to know that he has about 6 months to live because of a terminal stomach cancer. The things he does in the remaining part of his short life constitutes the movie. The movie is not only about living your life, it also states that one does not need to party 24/7 or go travel the world for the remaining life-span to enjoy it, if one does the work given to him in the most honest way and enjoys it, it leads to a fulfilled life. The movie also talks about the petty politics that takes place in the low-level bureaucracy in any government system.Takashi Shimura has been in all the Kurosawa movies I have seen. The difference though was those movies also featured Toshiro Mifune who always hijacked the movie and fairly so. This movie was meant for an aging actor who you would not even consider if he stands next to you. Takashi Shimura fits the bill perfectly. He has done a splendid job. Sometimes though, I wanted to shout and say, 'Why are you silent, slap your son and tell him your illness'. His portrayal of helplessness forces one to do so. Bollywood classic movie Anand can be said to have inspired from Ikiru. Enough Said.Rating : 8/10


                
THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS. FAIR WARNING!First, I want to get the negative out of the way and in so doing, point out that this film was finished and released in 1952. Perhaps melodrama of this type was the norm, but I came away feeling that this man's immanent death and his reaction to that inevitability was a bit overplayed. There, that is out of the way.I love the way Akira Kurosawa put this together. The film opens on the dull and crushingly boring life of Kanji Watanabe. He is a bureaucrat in the office of public affairs. For thirty years his primary responsibility has been to shift what ever comes to his office to some other department. In short he does nothing. He is a "rubber-stamp" official.Early in the film Watanabe realizes he has terminal cancer. Worse he is not told the truth by his doctor, but finds out from another patient. It is clear he is going to die; and he realizes that he has lived too regimented a life. He has done nothing useful and this, not his impending death, is what really bothers him. The fact that he has managed, for three decades, to waste not only his own time, but the time of others.Fortune is kind to him though. In his despair, he first encounters a novelist who has a penchant for words. This writer, played by Yûnosuke Itô, perfectly expresses what Kanji is going through and applauds his every effort to rectify his wasted life, but it not enough for Kanji.The next day he runs into the youngest coworker in his office. He soon realizes that she has a childlike joy of life and he begins to experience envy and a longing to see life as she does. He eventually frightens her by wanting to spend so much time with her. This is perhaps the best casting done for the entire film, Miki Odagiri as Toyo, delivers such boundless joy and enthusiasm you forget that she's acting.Eventually Kanji finds a purpose for his life and the first three fourths of the film closes on his death. You don't know what he actually accomplished, but you do know by this point that he found a purpose; perhaps now he can die in peace.The last quarter of the film is Kanji's wake and the revelation that he almost single-handedly got this special project completed. His co-workers refuse to believe it at first, but as the wake wears on and the participants become more inebriated, revelations come about that prove that the lowly Watanabi did indeed accomplish his task.It is interestingly done. This could be a very dull story about a small and almost insignificant man and his life. But Kurosawa completely immerses us in Kanji's pain, dismay, and confusion. We become Watanabe. We cannot help but feel very deeply for this character.Just when you would expect the story to tell of Kanji's triumph Kurasawa kills the character and tells the remainder of his story through a series of flash-backs revealing the truth of Kanji's deeds at his funeral. It is almost astounding how many flash-backs there are yet Kurosawa manages to keep the story cohesive and easy to follow.It is a masterwork of story telling, though it seems overly melodramatic by today's standards of cinema.


                
This is awesome & show you the way to go. Very Powerful film. This film will motivate you to find more about your life.this is one of the few movies that might actually be able to inspire someone to lead their life a little differently.One of the most heart warming movies I've ever seen.Lead actor Takashi Shimura nailed it with his acting. And the direction of Akira Kurosawa is just perfect.One of the greatest achievements by Akira Kurosawa.The conversation with the co-workers too much lengthy & sometimes irritating. I believe If they show more about the lead actors last days more, then the conversation, it would be more enjoyable.Anyway, this movie is great in all perspective.


                
My introduction to this movie occurred at a particularly poignant moment in my own life, so I believe it resonated deeper than I could have foreseen. It is a message that bridges the gap between despair and hope. The main character Watanabe, upon finding out he will be dying of stomach cancer (in a vague, clearly paternalistic way as far as the medical system is concerned), puts his life into perspective and struggles with how to proceed during his final days. This struggle is seen very viscerally during the night club scene, when everyone around him is dancing with reckless abandon, "living their lives", as it was, yet they do so without direct recognition of their own mortality. When the idea of death comes piercing through the night in the guise of the melancholic tune Watanabe sings, dancing stops and what is translated is how difficult it really is to enjoy life when its end becomes transparent.He is led through the maze of self-transformation, through the auspices of "a good Mephistopheles who seeks no reward," and the ever-empowering feminine presence, the Anima (in Jungian terms). He desperately seeks to adopt the persona of those who are not sentenced to a more imminent demise, turn them into an eternity-conferring selfobject. But, alas, it is not to be, but rather than admit defeat and wither into the grave as a defeated wretch to the whims of time, he builds upon the energy instilled in him, and in a poignant moment new consciousness is born as a group of adolescents sing "happy birthday" just as he is descending the staircase. The transcendence of his passing manifests through the retelling of his final days during his wake, he has managed to cheat death in remaining in the hearts and memories of the ones he left behind. His ultimate demise represents his knowledge of inevitable annihilation and rebirth, the never-ending cycle that besieges all living creatures; he, in essence, "fuses" with nature and allows himself to be reintegrated into it. The meaning of life is truly that it goes on, and you can in effect conquer death by understanding what lies behind life. And that is something Kurosawa did beautifully in this film.
Like most existentialist movies, Ikiru managed to give me a fresh perspective about life.Very surprisingly, it was not as depressing as I thought it would be.Blown away by the stunning scene when Watanabe-san, nearing death swinging on a swing set. Snow falling while the camera slowly moving from the side of the jungle gym next to the swing set then cutting to him looking the happiest in the whole movie and singing a haunting song about how people should fall in love before their passions hurry away.Oh my gosh, how I melted.
