This popularity of this show baffles me. This is an example of a joke on One Piece: huhuhuh look at his weird face huhuhuh aren't we funny he made a silly face durrr. The character designs are nonsensical and not in a good creative adventure time way. More like what would a six year old on Acid think is funny. And nothing ever happens except luffy and his poorly voice acted friends beat people up and someone is always crying for some reason. And also why does EVERYONE need a tragic backstory in this show you the tragic back story works for a couple of characters but if 98% of them have sad back stories it's unbelievable and insulting to the audiences intelligence. And all the women in the show look the same except for different hair color. Oda has obviously become a perverted lunatic because every female wears overly revealing outfits no matter what the occasion with the same uhm "interesting" body type used for every character. Lastly if oda is going to drag out a series for another 10 years like he says that is every person with a brain/life/values their time to abandon the never ending repetitive and STUPID adventures of Luffy and his merry band of one dimensional characters. The soundtrack sucks the animation sucks the story sucks and the voice acting is pure assault on the ears.


                
What the hell is happening to One piece, its getting worst day by day. It used have so much fun, action, drama and emotion. Now its just stupid character with their stupid power. I think one piece writer is out of new ideas. I mean look at the characters earlier and look the characters these days, stupid and mostly irritating. They are just stretching a single episode with no story at all. You wait the whole week and get this piece of crap. What is hell right? I am really getting annoyed with Big Mom chasing for stupid cake. Seriously guys? Is this the best you guys can offer? Where is that awesome story and emotion and comedy that one piece used to provide. Even burning Going Merry made most of us cry. Sorry One piece but this is not going well.


                
I am a big fan of Japanese animes like Code Geass, Naruto, DB, DBZ etc. I started watching this anime since it was one of the most famous one.But, I have never seen an anime this slow paced. Best thing about this anime is that you will never miss the story. Because, even after missing 100s of episodes. The story will still be same. For example, the white beard pirates war against government ran more than the world war 1 and 2 put together. Luffy started to run towards his brother at some point in the anime, even after skipping 50 episodes. he was still running towards his brother. I seriously don't understand how people can watch this anime if they have seen Dragon ball, which is extremely fast paced and from the legendary Akira Toriyama.Its a shame that One Piece author claims that he is inspired by Goku from DB. If you want to waste time on utterly useless thing, this has to be the one. Trust me, I have wasted my time till now, not anymore.
I hate the names of the characters and what they look like. The plot is dumb, and now the creators have turned luffy into Goku for some reason. A Toddler with any IQ above room temperature could have created a better show than this. Besides, pirate themed movies and television shows are always boring to watch. Hell, even Naruto is better, and it's story is so slow Internet Explorer was able to look up the show's premise faster than it took for one episode to end.And yet everyone seems to think that One Piece is infinitely better than Bleach. Please give me one good reason why that is and I will remove this review. After all, I also thought that the new Star Wars movie was stupid, and a lot of people agreed with me.


                
