We all know the story by now. In June 2004, 4Kids bought the license to One Piece and decided to mock us by dubbing the first opening theme to the series "We Are". There efforts worked for a while, since virtually everyone fell for it.Then.....that fateful day came. when it made it's premiere on the FoxBox (now known as 4KidsTV) on September 18th, 2004. Everyone was expecting the opening they were teased with the summer before, thinking that 4Kids would get it right. When the moment finally came for One Piece to make it's debut in America.......fans were unanimously horrified.What we got was not the beautiful rendition of "We Are," but a bubblegum rap song performed by white people. But it only got worse from there, since the entire soundtrack for the series was replaced. No longer did we have the beautiful orchestral score of the original, but instead a chockful of stock music and scores that don;t fit any scenes at all.Over the course of three years, fans had been treated to some of the worst voice acting in the business, from people who have too much emotion, to having an upbeat personality during very dramatic moments, and voices that mimic virtually every stereotype you can imagine, whether it's hoarse throat New Yorkers, southern hicks, among others.To go along with the voices, the scripts have been altered indefinitely, featuring really bad puns, in every single minute of every scene, even from characters that would otherwise refrain from saying them.Viewers were also treated to virtually every form of censorship known to anime history, from name changes (Zoro --> Zolo, Ace --> Trace, Smoker --> Chaser), to image alterations (rice ball to cookies), signs with words to signs with NO words, guns were changed into supersoakers (and in one infamous scene, a hammertoy), and other assorted variations.Death was danced around in every single moment when they happened, even when it was extremely important to the plot (like Zor(l)o's old friend, or Nami's tragic past with Arlong) all for the sake of the little ones, who they assumed were too stupid or too easily frightened to understand.The stories were also butchered for time, whether it was merging various episodes into one, switching and rearranging scenes from some episodes and putting them into another, and even resorted to cutting entire sagas from the show altogether.The only reason the show was able to last this long was because Cartoon Network fully supported it after it;s fallout with the FoxBox. With lingering ratings and failed merchandising, including the lowest selling DVDs on the market (sold less volumes than Hikaru no Go), Toei finally had enough and pulled the license from 4Kids filthy little fingers and decided to give it to more competent ones, and that was Funimation, the people who brought DragonBall Z, Yu Yu Hakusho and Case Closed.In April 2007, it was announced that One Piece would be given a complete makeover with n a new voice cast, new script translators, and all the music would be kept, with only the most minimal editing, and would premiere in it;s true form on Cartoon Network in August 2007 (pushed to September 29th), and when it happened, fans everywhere sighed with the most soul-satisfying relief they ever could. instead of a rap song, we were treated to an English dubbed version of Hikare E (OP 3 for the series), what followed was conformed it.The new voice cast stunned viewers, as they now fit their characters; Luffy no longer yelled every line he says, Sanji no longer has a deep Brooklyn accent but now had a regular voice, Nico Robin was no longer a Southern hick but has a more mature and beautiful voice, and Chopper no longer went through puberty when he transformed into his beast form, but the voice that got the most praise from viewers was Ussop, who virtually right off the bat nailed down the role where the original voice could not. The only gripes were the name changes being kept, though that is easily forgivable since the uncut DVDs will have the originals.Even though it's only been on for three weeks, Funimation's dub has shown more quality in these three episodes than 4Kids had for three years, and as the series goes on, things can only get better from here, so let us thank our lucky stars that our beloved Strawhat crew has been salvaged from the graveyard in the hands of 4Shame in the American market, and can now roam freely in the seas of Funimation for hereon after. Sail on Go Merry..... Sail on.


                
This is probably one of the best anime I've seen and I've seen quite a few. I'm not going to go into the details of the plot but I can tell you that the story is excellent and it never gets boring or bland. I've found that if I watch an anime with over a 100 episodes I'll probably take a break in between and stop watching for a while so I don't get bored. However, with this one that is not a problem at all. The story always tends to refresh itself and keep me hooked.The characters are likable, the action is exciting, the voice acting(Japanese) is very well performed. the comedic parts are hilarious and the sorrowful parts give me throat lumps. But the best thing about the anime is that there are a very few fillers, in contrast to most popular anime. Even the fillers themselves aren't that bland, though obviously not as memorable as the episodes actually related to the plot. My only complaint would be that the sub plots get a bit predictable at times. This is not really a big problem because it doesn't distract from the greatness of this anime.Overall, I think I can safely say that this is my favourite mainstream anime. I haven't seen any other anime in the mainstream which matches this one even remotely. Go ahead and watch it, but remember to avoid the English version as what I've seen of it is terrible.


                
I started watching one piece in 2006. My initial thoughts about this anime were "just OK" simply because of its animation quality. I decided to leave but somehow i kept watching and thankfully it was worth it because later i found out that this anime has a brilliant and well articulated story line. The best thing i love about one piece is how they have defined FRIENDSHIP. Its about group of friends joined together to fulfill their dreams. its a story about a corrupt world system against which no body dares to stand except straw hats and revolutionaries. I will recommend you to must watch this anime. its pure love
Hmmm, now how do I put this? Should I point out the pros and cons, or should I simply be biased and say that the series has no flaws? I'm gonna go with biased. Sorry haters. First off I'll start with the basic plot line and characters, move on to other things then give my summary. Sound good? Maybe I'll convince one more person to watch the series. Plot Line: Childish Monkey D. Luffy only has one goal in mind... To be king of the pirates! But this kid is no joke, as he appears at first glance, he's dead serious, and he'll achieve his goal or die trying. He assembles his own crew the "Straw Hat" pirates, consisting of Sanji, The Martial Artist womanizer, Nami, the trickster thief with a deep desire for treasure, Zoro, the swordsman of the team, Usopp, the somewhat cowardly sniper, and Toni Toni Chopper, the half-deer-half-human that packs a large punch. Now, Luffy and his crew will stop at nothing to achieve their goals.Now that I've got that out of the way, I can go on about my personal opinion and attributes of the series. First off, there are the characters who are deep to the core and realistic. For example, even though Nami is pretty serious, she could be laughing along with Luffy's antics just as everyone else. Another thing I need to point out is the action, despite what you've heard (Darn you 4Kids!) the action is amazing, and just as good as any other series. It never ceases to amaze me. As well as action there is a fair share of comedy, and funny to boot. This series can have you crying one minute, laughing the next. That's fine with me. One thing that might scare potential viewers away is the animation, but if you just start watching, you'll grow to love it and it's contribute to the unique-ness of the series.In a personal summary, I'd recommend this to anyone, with characters that are deep, action that will awe, a plot line that never stops shining and comedy scenes that will make you laugh your head off, One Piece is sure to not disappoint.NOTE: All the above points to the original version of One Piece, and not the 4Kids version, which is some kind of bad joke.


                
There are two responses I get, without fail, every time I try to get someone new to watch this show. "I don't like the art style," or "I've seen the dub - NO THANKS." I'm guilty of both of these myself. But if there's one thing I need to stress before even getting started on this review, it's that the 4Kids dub is NOT One Piece. For the love of god, PLEASE do not think it is. If you've suffered the misfortune of seeing some of the 4Kids episodes, just erase them from your mind and start fresh. They butchered it, there's really no other way to put it. They cut episodes, changed the dialogue to fit a MUCH younger and apparently far less intelligent audience (almost insultingly so), gave the characters RIDICULOUS voices, and pretty much watered down the entire series. FUNimation has done a much better job so far from what I've seen, but regardless, watching it in its original Japanese form with subtitles is really the way to go.As for the art style, it's true, it's completely different from almost anything else I've seen. Much more "cartoonish" and maybe not what you'd expect from an anime. Despite that, you end up loving it. I wouldn't even say that you have to "get used to it" because it's not something that detracts from the rest of the series in any way. It didn't even take me two episodes before I was thoroughly enjoying it and seeing it as a fresh, new style, exciting almost and unlike anything I'd experienced before. Now, some 300+ episodes later, I can't remember ever NOT liking it, or even why I would have. Especially now with One Piece being aired in high definition, the art is crisp, clean, colorful - VERY sharp and wonderful to look at.Now that we've got those two points out of the way...One Piece is actually one of the best shows I've ever seen, anime or otherwise. The plot is pretty basic at first. Monkey D. Luffy has just set out on his own to find the legendary treasure 'one piece' and become Pirate King, and he's looking for a crew to sail with him. You'll find yourself falling in love with each and every new member as Luffy finds them. They're all extremely well developed, with interesting backgrounds and unique, fun personalities. They form one very quirky crew that's always discovering new adventures and somehow getting themselves into trouble as they strive to achieve their dreams. Each main story arc introduces new minor characters as well, and they're just as much fun and easy to fall in love with as the Straw Hat crew. Not one character is left out or feels like they're there for no reason. Everyone has a purpose and adds to the storyline, and one of the really cool things about One Piece is that these 'purposes' often resurface at later points in the series. No detail is left untouched, and you'll seriously be amazed by the way Oda threads together plots and characters and blends all their stories perfectly the more the series progresses.The plot itself, though fairly straightforward at first like I said, quickly evolves into something HUGE. Much of the beginning of the series is dedicated to forming the crew and letting you get to know the characters, though it's definitely never lacking in action, but once they reach the Grand Line, you're swept up in adventure after adventure and following some of the most fantastic story arcs you'll ever watch. The battles and fights are well-paced, with the final boss fight almost always being completely EPIC. But even through the action, One Piece never quite loses it's lighthearted, humorous edge. The episodes are sprinkled with PLENTY of funny moments, never too many and never too few. There's always a wonderful balance of action and humor.One Piece also has its fair share of heart-wrenching moments, which may take you by surprise! There are some EXTREMELY powerful scenes and episodes that kind of blindside you and leave you wondering when you became quite so emotionally attached to certain characters or other things. I've definitely found myself near tears or actually crying at more than one point. One Piece has it all - amazing characters, the never-ending yet never TOO over-the-top humor, exciting battles, fun adventures, heartbreaking moments with quick to follow touching moments. And underneath everything, there's always the theme of friendship and teamwork, of working to reach your dreams and helping those closest to you achieve theirs, of growing and maturing as a person and discovering the power within yourself to overcome obstacles of any sort, of just BEING THERE for the rest of your crew when they need you - of being NAKAMA.In a word, One Piece is perfect. And perhaps I'm just biased, being an obviously OBSESSED fan at this point, haha, but what can I say? It's been running for 344 episodes so far and not ONCE have I wondered or hoped that it would start to reach an end. It is, simply put, amazing.


                
He made it sound like a 100% kid/tv friendly, it's def for adults too,they use the words "ass" "asshole" "bitch", there is Def blood in it not totally gory but there is a lot for a tvPG, Kami gets her "assets" checked out more than once from some horndog and they do not use water squirt guns there's def bullets and shooting. And the English dub doesn't ruin anything still a great show and easy to follow, I dunno what network or way rdatsun watched it but it obviously wasn't the right one to get the full effect and to be able speak intelligently reliably on One Piece. Don't get me wrong his positive parts of his review were good and all but his negative parts are misleading and false. Not saying it's a 100% perfect anime with no flaws but not big enough ones to advoid it or dislike it. And the character of Buggy the Clown is Joker based imo even sounds like Mark Hamill at points. Basically there's something for everybody, young/old violence lovers/haters newbies/anime pros. Sorry normally I would keep my mouth shut but I felt I had to correct a wrong, after all I'm going to be the Pirate King. Lol


                
One Piece:Propably the most underrated show in the history of Anime.And i am saying this,not because it is not well known,but because it doesn't get the recognition it deserves.What can i say,people keep comparing it with Death Note,Code Geass,Full Metal Alchemist and etc.This Anime can really get on par with the Amazing Dragon Ball series.You can even believe that it is its successor.So there is no comparison.And it isn't a matter of personal opinion (about favorite shows) because it's different comparing a show and acknowledging a show for its amazing writing.Eichiro Oda is truly Genius for creating a show that it has: Mystery:The title alone is enough. Drama:The Backstories,The Cruelty,The Goodbyes.(Only Naruto can go against it in that department) Comedy:Such smart comedy scenes.Every character is hilarious in his own way. Action:Very intense fights.(it really reminded me of Dragon Ball) and finally the adventures from island to island.The story revolves around a boy Monkey D. Luffy and his crew trying to find the greatest treasure and fulfill their dreams.Its hard for an Anime keeping his fans entertained but even after 600+ episodes i must say i am not bored quite yet.I would give this show a solid 9/10 (because nothing is perfect)and just say this:It has a slow start(just wait till Arlong Arc),it has no romance(except luffy's love for meat),but this journey will clearly change your life and the way you think.Don't be a fan-boy,be a viewer.You will understand eventually.


                
What can one person say about this show? Of all the TV series (anime or not) I have watched, I have never encountered a show that will make someone want to watch the next episode after the next episode (never ending chain). The reason why this show is so bloody good, is because the creator, Eiichiro Oda and his co-writers keep coming up with new ideas for new arcs. I would always wait for the English Dub of the show which FUNimation release on a monthly basis. If you are planning to watch the English Dub of the show, make sure you watch the FUNimation Dub instead of the 4Kids dub. I remember watching some clips of the 4Kids Dub of the show. And frankly... the show was a waste with 4Kids who kept editing it into a kids show and kept localizing it with American culture. And the theme song was rapped (why???). I am not blaming 4Kids for the terrible editing, they just needed to take their research very deeper and realize that the dub would not work for their viewers.This show is PG-13 for younger viewers, but the anime does have everything in it that will make you want to give everybody around you to go on some strange adventure with you.


                
