First of all, what the legend of korra did right: amazing art style, old timey feel of the introduction and narration of each episode and giving us hope of expanding the world of the original Avatar series and the stories of the characters we loved. Now the train wreck.The legend of korra promised several things from the very beginning, the world we loved but with 1920's-1930's based culture and technology, a better understanding of the spirit-world and a female main character (still unfortunately underdone in superhero archetypes with the result that a lot of people will over look a lot of the flaws in writing of the series), but it wasn't enough. If you will recall the first couple episodes of the first avatar, they were fairly poorly written, the characters were still one dimensional but after that the episode quality slowly improved. The legend of korra begins with a slightly better first episode but then the episodes get worse. The first half of seasons 1 and 3 were okay but the ending of each season were generally bad with the last half of season 2 and all of season 4 being laughably bad to the point that they had to rely on flashy gimmicks just to try and keep people's attention, such as demystifying the avatar (which I will get into later) and making korra start off straight and then become gay.The demystification of the avatar was the worst of it, the avatar is supposed to represent the most upright person in the entire world, one who stands for justice and freedom, and yet they start him off(you get to learn about the first avatar) as a thief who tricks his way into getting and keeping his powers of firebending and then befriends a spirit who fuses with his soul to allow him to get the rest of the elements. They then also take away korras ability to contact any of the past avatar lives and never restore it. Also, the fight scenes didn't resemble fighting so much as dancing while showing off their flashy moves. There was no apparent understanding of what a fight was or how to win it, you might as well watch the "The Funniest Ever Black Belt Masters Showing Skills" on youtube. Furthermore, it seemed like every villain in the series was developed over one hour of breakfast while the writers were watching cheesy cartoons, I guess the best thing about this series is that it might encourage the watchers to start reading as they lose hope in TV as an entertainment medium.
I watched the original Avatar series multiple times, in between dozens of other great anime series, it's ranked right up there with the best in my list. When I heard the sequel to TLA came out I was pumped, before I read much about it, I already imagined it would be in the future with a new avatar, maybe a more mature story-line still incorporating the comedy that made the original series great. I had conversations with my wife and other friends (which I recommended avatar and they got hooked) for hours, we all agreed that it would probably take the futuristic avatar route, we were right. As I watched the first episodes I noticed Joaquim Dos Santos seems to be the main director of the new series and the only one carried over from the original one. Many of the writers from the original series were dropped, that proved to have been a great mistake, Aaron Ehasz was the best writer for the original Avatar series in my opinion and Joaquim was the worst director. **Now here comes the spoilers** The first episodes had great promises, incorporating some aspects of the old series such as The order of the White Lotus, Katara being involved, bringing questions about what happened to the characters in the past such as if Zuko found his mother, but don't worry my friend, none of that is touched much at all, you don't even hear about the White Lotus again after the first few episodes (as of this writing I watched up to the end of second season), Katara has almost no role in any episode and forget about answering any questions of the past, they don't answer anything except the fact that Aang and Katara got married and had kids, and that Zuko and Toph had kids with whoever they married but they never say who, that's all you get, but it makes sense since main thing about this new season seems to be relationships. After about the second episode onward, on every single episode is focused on the high-school crush of Korra and Makko, you get the whole thing, including cheating, love triangles, love four- way, square thingy, whatever it's called when every guy has a crush on every girl and two girls have a crush on the same guy, it gets pretty intricate, even my teenage daughter who loves Twilight and Hunger games told me that it was taking away from the story, that says something! Another stupid thing that takes prime time away from every episode is the stupid Pro Bending sport, aside from Relationships is the second focus of the series. The creators tried to copy the personalities of the old characters such as Mako being the new Zuko, Bolin being the new Sokka, Kora being a mix of Katara and Toph, Naga being the new Appa, Pabu being the new Momo, the resemblances are very obvious, it makes the series very shallow and more of a half ass ripoff of the original rather than it's own thing. But one thing that they should tried to keep constant, they completely disregarded from the original series and totally messed up, and that is the spirit world. They might as well have just changed every rule of bending and all the aspects of everything else from the original series, because spirits on this series and what they are or represent is completely unrelated to the original series, if you never watched the original series this might not affect you, besides the fact that it might seem a bit confusing, but if you watched the original series it might make you puke.In my opinion this series should have less relationship, more serious characters with unique personalities and more action, and btw, drop the stupid Pro Bender thing, or at least make it less of a focus of the story-line. I wont ever watch another Korra episode, it will go on my ignore list like the live action The Last Airbender movie, and how the heck did this get 8+ stars? Who is giving this thing a 10? You need to watch better anime, they are out there...
I hated this series, so if you disagree with the score, stop reading now.The Legend of Korra does to the Last Airbender what far too much modern television has done to far too many older stories - it's made darker, edgier and more depressing. Everything is harder for Korra, everything is more scary, everything is more alien. Humour exists in the show, technically speaking, but for all the darkness, it comes off feeling like cracking jokes at a funeral. Our "heroine" gets not a single break and is given not a single real victory in pretty much anything, spending 12 episodes getting beaten up repeatedly, tied up repeatedly, kidnapped repeatedly and in constant fear of the almost slasher villain antagonist. For a story ostensibly named after Korra, she doesn't really have much of any say in anything that happens.Korra is about the worst she could have been - a faux action girl. She has so much informed ability, in the sense that she's the Avatar, she can wield all elements, she's incredibly powerful... So we're told, but it never amounts to anything. She gets one decent shining moment of awesome right at the start, and it's against thugs. From there on, we're told she's powerful and important and all that, but the story does all it can to drag that girl through the mud face first. She spends more time tied up than golden age Wonder Woman, gets knocked out so many times she should be suffering serious brain damage and ends up with an unconvincing victory that leads her to yet another loud crying fit. If you want to watch a teenage girl tortured and humiliated for 12 episodes, then more power to you. I didn't.And the villain, the one who could have made the show worth watching, is just a villain sue, to the point where even the characters start to admit it. "Every time we come up with a plan, he comes up with a better plan!" is a line straight out of a character's mouth. Everything he tries succeeds. Everything the protagonists try, he not only counters but is proved to have known about it ahead of time and planned for it. Every fight he's in, he wins and never so much as takes a hit. Every opponent he faces cowers in fear before him. And even when he's cornered, he pulls out what's essentially a cheat code power and still manages to hold the upper hand. This is a villain who goes beyond competent and comes off as being favoured by the screenwriter, because it's as if God himself twists the world around to always let this guy win flawlessly.The real tragedy of the Legend of Korra is that it looks good for the first few episodes, back when you're thinking there's going to be some kind of payoff for all the pain the protagonists are going through. They'll learn something, right? Rise to the occasion and have a moment of glory? Maybe band together and discover the power of friendship or true love? Nope. They get tortured for nothing, and the season ends on a really depressing suicide and a Deus Ex Machina "happy" ending to put Pain reviving all of Konoha to shame... And that's just depressing.If you want to depress yourself, watch this series through the end. If you're actually looking for something that's like Avatar: The Last Airbender - i.e. fun - then look elsewhere, because fun this isn't.
The show is so disappointing and got worse and worse with each season. By the end, they could only sell it by marketing it online to one specific under targeted audience, the lgbt anime community and supporters. That show was like ending the Simpsons and giving Lisa a spin off show. Up the preaching and whining and relationship drama by 90%, down the plot and character development and storyline and wonder and realism and humor by 99%. And Perfect.If you're a fan of Aang and zuko, do their eternal souls and yours a favor and just not watch this piece of shi* Literally, I felt emotional crises every time I thought the show was going to change and then it just did something totally ridiculous/unrealistic/or overly dramatic about nothing. I loved the first avatar so much. I hate Korra more. Not more than that pos movie, which bored me to literal death and woke me by making my dead body so g*****n angry it shook me back to life.I ignore this show. It stops after aang. This show was made by rotten young teenagers who got loose in the animation studio and made a show out of the leftover ink so it doe3snt count. Long live 1st avatar! I love you Iro. Sincerely, me.
This show is not a good show. Admittedly, I used to love this show. I binged all the episodes and scraped money together to buy season 4 on dvd, but eventually I realized that I was deluded. The only reason I liked this show was because I told myself I was supposed to like it, it was made by the same people, right? (no). And the only reason I told myself I was supposed to like it was because I wanted more of the characters, people, and world I loved from ATLA. And the only reason I wanted more of that is because I wanted more beautiful storytelling. The LOK does not provide that I now see. I wanted more, so I blindly forced myself to see what I was getting as just as good or better than what I originally got. I don't wan't to write the 20pg. review that I am very capable of writing, so I'll get to the point.
 There are several things fundementally wrong with this show. It has numerous issues with world/setting; character; and plot. It rarely executes anything essential to good storytelling (character, plot, conflict) well. Just read up a little bit on elements of storytelling, examine LOK with a slightly more critical eye, remove the bias or nastolgic lens you may be viewing through, and then ask yourself again. Is this a good show? Is it deserving of the acclaim it has won? 
 The LOK was not made by the people who made ATLA. Although Brike came up with the general original idea for ATLA, the writing team/staff, consisting of Aaron and Elizabeth Ehasz and others, are the people who really made the show the masterpiece that it is. Brike are the #1 creators behind the important storytelling aspects of LOK, and although they are great animators, they are not great writers or storytellers.


                
The sequel had so much potential, and I'm honestly disappointed by the writing. While the cast from The last airbender were more easy to connect to, Toph: The Strong one, Sokka: The funny one, Zuko: The edgy one, Katara: The understanding one, and Aang: The one who was struggling to live up to his expectations, and trying to not let everyone down. The Last air bender was light and calm and easy going for viewers, making it such a huge hit. Whereas Korra, the cast was made a little bit more darker. And I don't see much originality. Season 1 was just ripping off real situations. Amon resembled Hitler, non benders were the Germans, and benders were the Jewish folk. The anti-Jews hated the Jewish since they were often richer, having these skills in gold work and all. Then there was no build up in relationships. Relationships often seemed forced. The only exception was Bolin and Korra, you could see Bolin's slow interest in her. Where as Mako made no sort of hint that he was interested until he fought with Korra about being with his brother. Then Asami and Korra's relationship seemed forced since the show was such a flop compared to it's prequel. The writers probably just done it so that the LGBTQ would use it to promote themselves. I have nothing against them, but it seemed so forced, there was no build up, and there was these inter-relationships that got in the way. The korrasami relationship was just something to get more views and promotion and something for people to talk about, but it really sucked.


                
While watching "Avatar: The Last Airbender" left me with a warm feeling in my heart, "The Legend of Korra" took that and crushed it. Hard. I couldn't get past few episodes, so maybe I'm not doing it justice. However, these are just a few of the things that bothered me:-Korra is supposed to be a reincarnation of Aang (and all of the other avatars), yet she's so different from him. Like a completely new person. But not in a good way. While Aang was compassionate, fun and respectful, she's nothing but trouble. It's sad to see the person he has reincarnated into. I sincerely hoped to see the next avatar keep at least a few qualities of the last one. After all, they're the same person, even if reborn. Makes this whole reincarnation thing seem less of an eternal life and more like head swapping.-The new world is far too advanced for the fantasy genre. I get that in 70 years a lot can change, however, it still seems too modern. This wouldn't necessarily be the problem if the series would be a stand-alone, but since it took Aang's world and pretty much destroyed it, taking almost everything we knew away, just felt horrible.-Aang's and Kattara's son is so strict and dull, it's hard to believe he's related to him. Also, it's a bit confusing/depressing to know he's teaching air bending to his father reincarnated in a problematic teenager. -And most of all, I hate that the Avatar title is pretty much just that - a title. Before, it was something special, an honor, a responsibility. But now, it seems just like some political thing. Plus they had removed all the sense of wonder and mystery.In conclusion; I think that "The Legend of Korra" could maybe work as a stand-alone, but not as Avatar's sequel. It's just too depressing to watch.


                
I created this account solely to downvote this atrocity.


                
I loved growing up with Avatar the last Airbender but it had some problems of its own. That does not mean continue it! The reason we remember the classics is because they were made only to be made once and they were to be not only enjoyed but to help learn something from them. I just hated the Legend of Korra because it didn't have any or the life lessons or morals that Avatar the Last Airbender had. It was just a poorly sequel with people just in it for action with no real story and important characters that really do anything more than just go with the good and evil story line. Then go on to contradict themselves and behave in a completely unprofessional matter that used bad judgement and not real moral compass for they're actions like after damaging a window. The first season was alright at best on the story line and honestly it was very beautifully done but that does not make up for teaching our child bad habits and not learning that there are consequences for your actions.


                
The season 2 finished with the worst original ending and turned out to be a power rangers giant fight.Deceiving.
5/10. Watchable due to the crazy good animation and art but the writing is awful. It's decent in the first season but are terrible in the rest. Character development is almost non-existent. With the exception of Asami that becomes largely sidelined past season 1, the other 3 characters in Team Avatar are one dimensional pricks.The second main gripe I have with this is how there're too many deus ex machina moments or things just being conveniient. Falling off cliffs from heights and surviving multiple times, a sudden surge of power after being beaten, a guy that walks into lava and somehow being able to bend it without knowing that he could bend lava to begin with, the entire team of police force/chief who for some reason becomes oblivious to everything around mid-season etc.
There are a few of such moments in The Last Airbender (the season finale and bloodbending to name some) but there're countless in TLoK.


                
