The Legend Of Korra is a very worthy successor of the first series. It's a totally different environment, and the circumstances are also entirely different, but you can see that the makers of the series have put a lot of work and effort in the second series. The only downside I can think of is that, because the series will only concludes two seasons, is that, in my opinion, everything's a bit rushed. It's like they want to fit a lot of content into the 2 season time-frame. On the other hand, the series is brilliantly detailed, just like its predecessor, and has it's typical quirky humour. And the tension that they're building up throughout the show is an excellent way of keeping people tethered to their screens and to the series!


                
When I first watched the series, I thought to myself. The creators of this show must be mad. The amount of Nazi references and injecting political views and ideals into this Nickelodeon show is astounding. This has to be one of the most mature children shows out there. It teaches them to deal with decision making, dealing with loss, sacrifice and how to deal with another Hitler in case one pops up in the future.I also liked its not a 'Hey, we are the heroes, so lets get rid of what we perceive as wrong because we are always right.'like most kids shows. Legend of Korra gives strongly made backstory of the villains and heroes alike. They gave strong reasons to why the villains are rebelling and why the heroes are going against it. Its not those cliché 'I want to take over the world.' like the first series.For anyone who does not consider watching this because its a cartoon, its from nickelodeon and its main character is not a slender and well toned skinned hottie. Well let me tell you, this cartoon is like watching a Nickelodeon and Chinese version of the Games of Thrones. Its heart wrenching, blood boiling and a tear jerking show. I'm surprised this is for kids.


                
Just watched 2 episodes of Korra.... and I must say it's more than what i expected. Didn't expect the same fun from Korra as last air bender... But Korra turned out to be a lot fun... Though the sequel is set 70 years after the original series, though there's no Aang and the Team Avatar... New Avatar is as much fun, you'll just fall in love with this character.. Last Airbender is been a favorite animation of mine, since i started watching it, back in 2008... I even have this thing, of watching it at least once a year... So i'm just glad that Korra started out to be a perfect sequel for the original series... Animation is better than The Last Airbender and action is brilliantly done... Music just gave goosebumps... So if you are a Last Airbender fan then let's just say that you'll have a big smile on your face while watching Korra... If you are not a fan then still you would have that smile... Korra rocks!!!!
The Legend of Korra seriously takes some steps into the right direction by throwing in some more or less "new" concepts (new as new for Avatar) such as love stories and relationships from the get go and a more "modern" world. If you watched the original Avatar (if you didn't go right to it) you may appreciate that, although Korra really has some of Avatar's good old content such as fast-paced element-bender battles, it also feels new and fresh and in no way "forced" to be a sequel on it's own. If it really will be as entertaining and as good as the prequel only time can tell but for now (seen 6 episodes so far) the story is more promising than I ever could have imagined it to be. Last but not least I really want to point out the storytelling: If you pay attention you'll notice that the script for this series is much more than just a foolish attempt to catch the fame of "Avatar": Many old characters can be "found" here, revived as new roles. Great humor and action awaits.


                
Avatar: Legend of Korra was outstanding. I praise it's in depth and complex story, and it's intriguing plot. Every episode had an element of human emotion that really tied each episode together and kept it interesting. From love and romance, to anger, fear, and moral values being put to the test. Unlike it's predecessor Last Airbender,Legend of Korra was faster progressing, and had less moments of comedy and goofiness that were a bit irrelevant to the story arch. It moved towards the climax of the series faster, making it an unfortunately short, but more satisfying show. This series also had a darker, more mature atmosphere. Scenes of death were more blatant, and happened more often, and the concept of peril and failure were more apparent. It was more realistic to how real life conflict and danger is, the main protagonist actually lost quite a few times. The antagonists were also much more sinister and were more ruthless. The character development was a bit more complex and in depth than Last Airbender. As far as comedy, Legend of Korra relied more on subtle pun and wit based humor, and less slapstick and silliness than in last a Airbender. Legend of Korra focused more on other characters emotional development and relationship with each other and the main protagonist as well, making it identify to an older audience who want more complexity in character development. Legend of Korra focused less on the lead character learning how to be an avatar, mostly because of the lead having more experience in the art of bending, and knowing about being the avatar longer. So the series focused much more on keeping the viewers focus on what the outcome of the story will be, basically making you think ahead and less in the moment of the scenes and the lead character. All in all, i enjoyed Legend of Korra so much, and it had me so drawn in, that i didn't want to watch the final episode because i didn't want it to be over. The emotional context and subject matter was capable of making me tear up and break down, far more than in last Airbender as well, so for people who enjoy lots of complex emotional subject matter, this is a treat for you. I say you watch this series now if you haven't, because you will not regret it.


                
This is a dazzling spectacle. the character development is sharp, there are barely any few-dimensional characters, all characters are very believable. This cartoon has sharp writing, Incredible battle scenes, amazing soundtracks and it has added a vast sense of scope to the universe of the original. And the visuals are amazing. I could never imagine something like this coming out of Nick in its poor state right now.This is what I consider my all-time favourite cartoon.  - Delta10/10


                
Well, the first thing is Avatar, the last air bender was a show for kids, growing up and identify themselves with a kid of their same age. And it was wonderful, no doubt about that. After a gap of 4 years (there was something in between, but we shouldn't talk about that failure) the creators brought "The Legend of Korra" on the screens. Settled in the same universe, but 70 years later. My impression at this point is, the creators grew up with series, parallel to the young kids, who watched AtlA with such a enthusiasm. Why the hell would the keep the old concept while the young watchers from AtlA grew up. That made no sense. So the new series from the avatar franchise was/is a development. And i had the feeling, there was still this wonderful magic in it. Not the same like in the old series, but similar to it. It was a great development. Aang was a 12 years old boy and now we have a 17 years old girl (during the beginning of LoK) and at the end she is 21 years old. A grown woman that faced many difficulties for being the avatar. Of course it were grown problems, you can't just use the old one's again. And the topics theocracy, fanaticism, anarchy and fascism. At the beginning of the second half of the second season Korra faced a form of nasty PTSD. All this serious topics. An excellent presentation. The end of LoK was interesting, different but in fact a courageous move. The last days i smiled a lot when i was reading reviews to the show. A lot of people enjoyed it but when the last scene was shown they started hating it. That's so poor. But there are many many other people who understood the message. Thank you to the creators Mr. DiMartino and Mr. Konietzko and all the people who worked on LoK for this great show. What bothered me is the fact that the show was finished 2014 and i discovered it, thanks to our daughter, at the end of 2016. But there's hope. There was an attempt for a movie (what a disaster) but now....maybe...even our society has been grown. A movie about Korra and her friends, a tough heroine with a tough enemy (Come on Amon). Right executed the movie might have the potential to compete with leading blockbusters or even surpass them.
When I started watching The Legend of Korra, my first tought was: well this is not like the other series; and I felt dissapointed, I was through the first 3 episodes, and I felt sick, it took me one and a half years to get back to it, and when I finnaly did, I couldn't belive how stupid I was. There was this new chemestry between the characters and the new dynamic within the world of the avatar, it felt real, more realistic and facing a lot of the modern world problems: equality, vandalism, world leadership; but on the emotional side as well, seeing families torn apart, depession, lack of communication, unspoken upsets. 
All around is one of the best stories you can find, well written, well designed and a bit hard to watch .


                
If you were a fan of ATLA (Avatar: The Last Airbender), then this is a must see. This is because some of the characters from ATLA are still seen in parts of the show, plus you get to see their kids and grandchildren. Now, if you weren't a fan of ATLA or you never watched it, don't write LoK off, quite yet. I wasn't a huge fan of ATLA. There were some episodes that I loved, but for the most part, the show just moved too slow for my liking, and what I mean by that is that there wasn't enough action for me. And for those who didn't watch ATLA, you don't need to have seen it, to understand the show. It's better to have seen ATLA because there's references to it and it's just good to know more about how the world is in those shows, but it's not a big deal if you haven't seen it. Anyways, Lok is a great show. I absolutely love it. There's A LOT of action, there's humor, there's a bit of romance, the animation is fantastic, and the storyline is great. I definitely recommend this show. It's a great show for anyone 10+. I'm 19, and many of my friends (who are all 17-23) love the show as well. I know of some parents who enjoy the show as well.
The best thing that could be said about "The Legend of Korra" is that it shares all the virtues from the previous series, Avatar: The Last Airbender, being a high-quality production which is also incredibly enjoyable to watch.I really liked this series from its very beginning. Even if the first episodes feel somewhat "slow", it never fails to entertain. As the story advances, the rhythm of the series reaches a higher level of complexity, with many unpredictable plot twists.In this series, a new cast of very characters is introduced, having each one of them many virtues and flaws that gave them a complete feeling. The protagonist is particularly interesting, being someone who is psychically powerful, but very vulnerable and flawed in other aspects, having a great development of her personality through the 12 episodes of the first season.There is a good interaction between all the characters (Both the new and those from the previous series) resulting in an almost flawless combination of adventure, comedy, action, romance and drama, always with a highly satisfying result.Also, while "The Legend of Korra" keeps the essence of the classic conflict of "good against evil", it also maintains certain level of ambiguity which is more than enough to make this series something more complex and surprising that someone could think at first sight. The animation is excellent, having a nice character design, beautiful sceneries and an incredible level of detail in each scene, with fluid movements and a great use of colors and tones.The balance between the seriousness of the plot with the comedy and romantic elements is perfect, resulting in a complete series, which has a mature and well done story-line, but which it is at the same time incredibly funny and very easy to follow.My impression of the first season of "The Legend of Korra" is very positive. This series filled all my expectations about it (And in some aspects, it was even better than I thought that it will be) Watching this series was a very rewarding experience for me. "The Legend of Korra" is a worthy successor of "Avatar: The Last Airbender" being one of the best animations that I have seen in my whole life.
As a huge fan of ATLA I was excited as can be for this spin-off series. Unfortunately the creators didn't correspond to my, admittedly high, expectations.Compared with the first series it feels bland, less unique and isn't as engaging. The Korra cast does not deliver in terms of empathy, complexity and and development. Why? Pure and simple bad characterization.My only explanation for the sub-pair dialog is that it suffers from the lack of the writing team led by Aaron Ehasz who assisted on Avatar's writing.Also lots of "retcons" AKA upsetting/forced/nonsense changes made due to writing convenience in Korra that completely undermine skills/previous story points/meanings from the original or even common sense.The modernity TOTALLY takes away from the universe's very premise and all that made it unique, and although this series definitely means to explore themes as mature as the previous one, it't more clumsy, cliché and shallow in doing so.The cultural, ethical and spiritual themes that marked the original series so brilliantly were reduced to mostly nothing, and it's saddening.Anyway it's a decent series, with GORGEOUS art and animation. But nowhere near the deep, touching and epic masterpiece that was ATLA.


                
Wow I was never the fan of Avatar but this show from season 1 got me hooked, initially i thought making avatar a female character was asking the show to be just for the girls but was surprised to find the contrary. First two seasons were good but Man the third season is off the hook, they have infused the element of suspense, Hard core avatar action and awesomeness. Because of the third season turning out to be the best one I have seen I rated this 10. A must watch for animation series fan. Also you don't need to see any previous Avatar to understand this one as this starts off having its own story from the base. Also avatar game will be out very soon i have seen the game trailer and its pretty much similar to the show so yeah there you go
Everything they have done with those show is just amazing from the villains to the heroes and the story lines are always amazing. I just got done watching the first showing for book four and it was crazy good it leaves you hanging but in a good way. Even the way they incorporated new kind of bending was amazing I cant stress enough how good this show is and I hate to see is end. Usually shows that have spin offs don't do this well and have really bad story lines and do nothing but make fans mad. This show has done nothing but please fans from what I've seen and heard. Please keep this show going until you just cant anymore I can honestly say that I like this show more then the original and I don't say that often usually I appreciate originals a lot more. If anybody was a last air bender fan there is no way they aren't a Korra fan I would love to see a movie made the right way with the last air bender and Korra. I could go on but all I can say is if your not a fan become one its well worth it.
I was skeptical of these series being able to be as good as Avatar the last air bender, but it definitely was. The legend of Korra was phenomenal. I just cant wait for season 4!Will she ever get her connection from her past lives back? Will she ever recover from her injuries? What will happen with the air benders defending peace? What will happen with the earth nation? What will happen with the water tribes? (yes they decided that the North and South will be separated but how will that go?) What achievements will Jinora have as a young master of air bending? Will Zooko ever reconnect with his uncle again?There's soo many more questions.. i can't wait for more!
I would like to thank Bryan Konietzko and Michael Dante Di Martin for giving birth to this beautiful work! This series is able to deal with very mature issues such as PTSD or weapons of mass destruction or even worse fascism. As soon as I get the chance I'll buy the Blu-ray because it really deserves it :DVision highly recommended


                
I cannot believe some of you. This show is just fantastic. The animation is stunning, the characters are likable, and the show isn't afraid to get dark. Don't try to compare this to the original since the stories are wildly different. My only complaint is that it left me wanting more!


                
Hubby and I absolutely love The Legend of Korra. It is a beautiful sequel to Avatar: The Last Airbender that is able to tell a completely different story whilst still being true to the world that Avatar exists in. Meticulous detail has been put in to the story, the characters, and the animation. The animation and bending choreography is top notch, with beautiful vibrant colours, strong emotional colour palettes and a phenomenal musical score that has your heart racing and the tears and laughs flowing. 
Korra is an incredibly flawed but relatable protagonist. I like that she is vulnerable and constantly in a state of growth and change. Tenzin is wonderfully voiced by J.K Simmons, who brings a sense of wisdom and council as well as a number of very funny moments. We loved every minute of the story, but there were a few parts of the show that really stood out as some of the best animated TV we have ever seen. The two parter "Beginnings" is incredibly unique and answers a lot of questions that have been wondered since the Avatar world first came onto our TVs, and does so in a beautiful art style. The episode "Korra Alone" is one of the best interpretations of PTSD we have seen in ANY show, animated or otherwise. It feels very dark but again, very understandable. As a whole, the third season is definitely the best one, with every element coming together to produce an incredibly gripping story. Zaheer and the Red Lotus members were not only incredibly nuanced, as the audience we could relate to their points of views and they truly felt threatening. The death of Pi Li was especially powerful and brutal, and the final scene at the end of this series will leave tears running down your face. Overall, there is a bit of something for everyone, young and old alike in the show. The romantic elements end up creating some great comedy, and eventually get weaned out to focus on the bigger picture which we felt was a smart move, peppering bits and pieces here and there and showing just enough to work out how the romantic pairs were going to end. We would highly recommend this show, however, we feel that in order to truly appreciate the show and the world it is set in, it is worth visiting the Avatar: the last Airbender, as there are MANY references back to the first series, and many characters are revisted.
Avatar: The Last Airbender/The Legend of Korra is a TV Series that revolutionized the Animation medium, expanded the possibilities of what could be done on children's television and raised the bar to the highest degree possible.The writing, designs, music and animation by the creative team of Mike and Bryan, Joaquim, Tim Hendrick, Joshua Hamilton, Aaron Ehasz, The Track Team and Studio Mir just to name a few, is hands down some of the best individual work ever done for a Television Show. It's high caliber and extremely well done.Everything about this franchise is wonderful. My personal favourite 'Books/Seasons' are: Spirit, Air and Earth. My favourite character of all time is Zuko, everything that's said about this amazing show will not be repeated by me. Just go see it for yourself and experience the highest level of entertainment!


                
Initially... I hated this show. I was constantly comparing it to the memory of the Last Airbender and bashing it. I just found it SO WEAK and CHILDISH. I was wrong... So, so wrong. I rewatched the whole last airbender (amazing) and continued right after with the Legend of Korra... And wow... How wrong I was. I think it's one of the best continuation we could have... The world evolves nicely and coherently, I love how we see the effects of the last era on this new one... and I love how we see Korra evolve from S1 to S4. I personally found her so annoying S1 (which is probably why I initially disliked this show) but by S3 I learned to accept her and love her.. I understood her better. Lastly, now that I could compare the last airbender (fresh in memory) with Korra... I think Korra is much better in regards to action, story development and even character development... Ye sure it's a bit too fast paced on some occasions and sometimes the characters are too forgiven (from my experience with real people) but hey... This is still a cartoon by Nickelodeon and I enjoyed it as a young adult AND I think it is very presentable to my younger sisters. Has a lot of mature topics elegantly presented for a young and adult audience.


                
This entire series had me hooked from beginning to end. It's a load more intense, dark, and definitely made for a more mature audience


                
I absolutely love this show after the shocking end of book one with Amon and his posy I'm excited for book 2 spirits. Since we will get to learn more about the first Avatar and even meet the very first one. With the war that will be going on with the southern Water Tribe and the Evil Dark spirits and to see where the characters are after such a long wait. then there will be the Return of the Voice actress of Princess Azula from ATLA ....and ill finally get to seen Ang and Kataras children in Action. In the Trailers or clips you see korra going into the Avatar state a lot and Im worried that she might be relying on it too much. Im also wondering if Amon dint really die or if he might return in a later season plus all the new places the Gang will be traveling to and returning to like the Library with the Great Owl from the dessert in ATLA, If they plan on bringing any flask backs into the lives of other Avatars Like Kyoshi or Yangchen. I dint really see much of her in ATLA but the trailer for book 2 shows glimpses of Korra in the spiritual state talking to Roku and Kyoshi plus Ginora going into the spirit world,
I had watched avatar the last airbender, and loved it. The humor, the story, the dialogues... there was nothing not to love about it. so when i saw the trailer for legend of korra, saw mechanical machines doing some action and a modern touch to everything, i was bit sceptical that it might not be a thing for me, and watching it might decrease my love for the avatar.but ma'm, I was wrong, legend of korra is more than amazing. its a hearty tale, build around some great characters, awesome soundtrack and a touching story. it is modern day-ish, and yes a bit dark and more serious as compared to avatar the last airbender, but I couldn't have asked for a better sequel. Korra - is amazing, Asami - is lovely, Mako - is remarkable, and Bolin - is just adorable.Overall I guess Legend of Korra is a beautiful story wrapped around strong characters with whom one can immediately relate. And after completing Korra, i re-watched avatar last airbender series and enjoyed it all over again.Thanks Michael and Bryan for such a wonderful series. I would really love more of such amazing series.. sob :( !


                
I'm 29 years old. I don't like 2D animation, in general.I only knew about "Avatar, the last airbender" because I found it a nuisance every time I was looking something in the web about "Avatar", the blue aliens movie. I thought "Avatar, the last airbender" would be an American copy of "Naruto". I have watched some anime and read very few manga. And I was fed up of the typical storyline (Naruto, Bleach) about an annoying, rude boy who for some reason has an incredible power. But I'm not here to talk about "Avatar, the last airbender". Although I ended up watching it after getting my world rocked watching "The Legend of Korra". Which I only did because I had a long post-surgery recovery time with need of brain numbness for the pain and forget it enough for sleeping.But to sum it up, I would like this series to be compulsory subject at schools everywhere.It teaches amazing values. It gives you strength and hope while you are down. I started watching it from the first chapter of the last season (to see if the characters already developed were worth it). And, man, did that situation resonate within myself at the time few weeks ago. But after watching all chapters from every other season... it opened a whole new level of awesomeness. They don't treat ladies as objects (overdeveloped, like some Japanese anime), the uniforms are not reveling and they are as "damsels in distress" as any other male character. Everybody have got their backs. And sometimes the most unusual and unexpected character saves the day. It also has got me longing to learn some kind of tai-chi or similar technique. It shows healthy lifestyles and that nothing is got without patience, practice, constance and determination. And hell, that learning and overcoming trials are mostly pain and tears too, not only party.The show is all about balance and peace. And the whole time I was in pain in bed, no other series soothed me like this one. It had to be with the marvelous soundtrack too. It has fights, it has action, but everything is so elegant that doesn't rile you up. The nerves in my back appreciated it. I would like to thank the team, because it really helped me. It taught me things at an age I thought I had those basics learned. It even made me improve my relationship with my parents. Because, wow, the way they use "the elders" characters, not only the typical wise master, but the average fourtysomething mother... I could spend pages writing good things about this series. Like everybody else, I'd say the animation is a masterpiece, the drawings, landscapes, research preproduction work behind... And I also admit that, as everything, from my tastes and point of view it has its faults too. Or things that could have been done differently and I would have like them more. But they are so little and subjective that I don't find them worth the attention.


                
Well technically not really futuristic but more modern and similar to our world. Its evolved and we learn more about Spirit World through the show. This show doesn't follow one villain as the Last Airbender series did and instead focuses on a new one each season but the themes remain the same. The themes they pose in this show are very intriguing and a little political so I almost feel that this show is for people that grew up with Avatar rather than for a new audience.Twists to the knowledge of what we knew about the Avatar cycles are unraveled and made more compelling. I was afraid they were going to try to rehash the old characters or story lines but they honestly don't. Bolin and Sokka are opposites. Sokka was a genius but always failed with his humor, now Bolin is a funny guy but sucks as a man in action.Watch it with an open mind you might be pleased. The humor is true to the first show, the characters are full of color, the story lines are intriguing, and its fun.


                
Korra's struggle is hard to overcome.Because her struggle isn't just with villains,also her struggle is with her own mentality and sense.I think Aang's story is funnier.But Korra's story is more melancholic and deeper.Also Korra is one of us.The villains have a more purpose and reasons to being a bad .in The Legend of Korra, The ideologies of the villains are very meaningful and trueI liked so much, soundtracks, emotional moments and off course Korra.
It was just perfect except for a few plot holes


                
