...Or at least it shouldn't. I was shocked at the 8.6 rating this show has. Now before we get to the review let me say this: I WATCHED THE FIRST SEASON OF KORRA BEFORE I EVEN TOUCHED THE LAST AIRBENDER SERIES. I had no bias, no expectations. I was drawn to Korra by its beautiful animation, the dark plot, and the 1920s-inspired setting. I had heard of ATLA and had friends who were fans but I myself was never interested until I watched this show. At first, it was looking to be one of the best animated programs on television, perfect for kids and adults alike, but as the season wandered on, the quality plummeted.The main plot itself is great: several non-benders are joining a terrorist organization after being mistreated by the benders for decades and there is question as to whether or not the avatar is even relevant in the modern world. You'd think the writers would have had a field day with this concept. They do not. Instead they waste time with one of the worst love squares in fiction.I think the writers did this because of the fans' interest in the romance of the first series, arguing over whether Katara belonged with Aang or Zuko. I say let the fans' do all that romantic speculation and save the soap opera plots for their fan fiction. If they wanted romance, then they should have kept it all low key.The characters had so much potential to be great. Korra is the anti-Aang: more physical than spiritual, impulsive, and competitive. It would have been cool to see her grow as a character, but instead she gets everything handed to her on a silver platter by the season finale: she loses her most of her bending ability and we're tantalized with the idea that the next season will involve her getting in touch with her spiritual side, slowly regaining her power. Nope, instead she sheds one tear and all of a sudden ghost Aang shows up saying, "Congratulations, you've gotten in touch with your spirituality! Here's all your powers back and then some!" Stupid.Mako and Bolin are terribly handled as well. Mako is truly appalling, stringing one girl along and then abandoning her for the main character. He doesn't break a sweat when his brother (whom he is supposedly protective of) is kidnapped by terrorists, but when Korra is taken he flies into hysterics. And the creators want us to like him. Yeah right. Bolin starts out cool, but slowly devolves into a watered down version of Sokka who exists only to pine after Korra and make wisecracks while the other characters do the heavy lifting.And then there's poor Asami, the one decent character of the main four. She's lost her mother, become estranged from her father who disowns her once she refuses to accept his radical political views, and now has to deal with Mako, who tells her he loves her whilst he makes out with Korra while Asami's sleeping a few feet away. He never even takes responsibility for it. Poor girl... Luckily most of the minor characters are interesting, in particular the antagonist Amon and Toph's daughter Lin, a metalbending police chief.For those who say the writers were handicapped by having only twelve episodes to work with, let me give you an example of why this assumption is hogwash. There's an excellent anime called Princess Tutu (2002) and its first season is in many ways a self-contained narrative. With only thirteen episodes to work with, they packed in as much character development and plot as they could, and did it extremely well. Korra has no excuse. It should not have wasted its time with so much filler and teenage hormones if the writers were so concerned about having only twelve episodes.As of this writing, season two is set to come out next month. The only reason I gave this series a rating of six instead of four is because it's not over yet. I cross my fingers that the writers have learned from their mistakes and improved significantly.
The reason why Avatar: The Last Airbender was so great was because it took a fairly simple good vs evil conflict, and as the story progressed, it became more nuanced and morally gray by exploring the ambitions of the heroes and villains.The exact opposite holds true for The Legend Of Korra, where every season starts off with the potential for a complex and nuanced story, yet almost always turns into a contrived, black & white, good vs evil conflict, and every seemingly sympathetic villain turns out to be a generic Big Bad that just used the Philosophy of the Day to hide their true intentions, with Season 2 being clearest example of this.The characters are all bland, with the possible exclusion of Korra's teacher, Tenzin. Team Avatar itself feels extremely disconnected and its members treat eachother less like best friends and more like awkward coworkers. The humor is cringey, the romance is horrific and the writing feels like Fan Fiction at times, with some ridiculous new additions to the Avatar Universe (Pokémon Spirits, Giant Demon Kites, Laser Titans and Giant Robots FFS) Overall, The Legend Of Korra is superficially entertaining, and what it has in visual appeal, it lacks in depth and emotion. It focuses more on trying to be edgier and darker than Avatar that it completely loses focus on crafting a good story and compelling characters, thus the supposedly "mature themes" fail to leave any impact.


                
I didn't watch this series when it first aired as I wasn't really into Nickelodeon. Fast forward and I'm now a huge fan of the old series and continue to watch it whenever it's on. I just learned of this new series so I've been eager to watch and catch up on things. Thankfully a marathon aired today so I took the time to catch the episodes which took me to the end of the first book. Talk about frustrating! Having watched a few episodes I was already frustrated by what I saw. For one I hadn't watch back to back episodes so I was catching in between shows. Obviously everything has changed and for good reason. You can't stay with the same plot as before so I get that. How do you get to a completely new set of characters without some sort of transition? The beautiful thing about the old series was that the writers took the time to reflect on "history" which ultimately put things into perspective. Maybe they've become complacent as this series seems to skip thru a lot so you feel "rushed" into dealing with everything. The opening sequence: I just don't get it. What's the point! The avatar - Korra: Misplaced aggression. Falling in love with someone already dating someone seemed a little unethical per her position. The characters: Undeveloped, no sense of humor, and not "likable". Character history: Left me confused. Avatar characters: all seem weak, especially Tenzin. At this point they can master the avatar state so why do they keep getting captured by other benders. Makes their bending skills look weak. At this point I digress as I did enjoy the series. If the goal is to make the show more aggressive then you may as well move it to Cartoon Network as Nickelodeon is a kid-friendly family oriented network and if the ending is a preview of what's to come then the storyline has to get "darker".


                
DON'T READ IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN SEASON 1: SPOILERSWe all loved the first Avatar, because of it's characters, that grew and had depth. Zuko's story being one of the most intriguing and redeeming character development. The pacing was slow, but the characters had emotional depth and everything made the story very lovable.We were excited to finally see a new Avatar Series with Korra. Now, after having watched all episodes, we must conclude that the series main selling point: the character development and depth of the characters is almost completely missing.Sure, the visuals are great, gorgeous, and the first few episodes really shine. However, things get thrown off track very fast with the "romance" between Korra and the Pro Bender Guy (You see, I even don't know his name after watched the entire book 1... the guy has no depth at all, nothing is fleshed out, we don't know anything about this guy.... Except that he looks good?). This love interest doesn't have any character development worthy of mentioning and I feel it's not worthy of the avatar series. Aang would turn in his grave. ;)The premise about modern technology in the land of the benders and the equality movement are all very interesting story themes. Unfortunately everything moves at such a pace that there is hardly any time to reflect on stuff, or process things. BAM, this happens, BANG, this happened, BAM, everything is solved. NEXT episode. OK? I understand modern city life has a higher pace, but the stories are a lot weaker because of it, while that doesn't needs to be.One thing that stood out was the episode about Korra's fear. That was a nice episode with some emotional depth. We wanted more of that, but it didn't come. Also, where is the spiritual side of the Avatar? We really enjoyed the words of Aman, when he proclaimed that the spirits gave him the power. We expected at least one episode about the spirits, where Korra would visit the spirit world, or so. We loved that about the Avatar. But no.I really don't understand how someone could make a second Avatar series and rip all the good parts out of the first and present it as a successor. It's definitely not a true spiritual successor. Hopefully this new reincarnation of the series will grow and develop into a great new Avatar, but seeing that the writing is so different then the first series, I am afraid it won't. And that would be a shame.
Having watched the whole series (and seeing how many people did not watch past the first two seasons) I can break it down into 3 simple categories.
1. The Good: relatively fast paced, engaging character struggling with physical and psychological issues. More "hands on" Avatar and beautiful animation. Does a fair job of backstory and also tying stories and plots up.Good growth points and struggles, even climatic scenes are tied up nicely.
2.The Bad: Some new abilities defy even more logic then before (lava, really. Air, earth, even metal makes sense- but superheating earth?- but okay) Really, it is gender portrayal. Seemed very "21st century PC." Most men are either evil, or bumbling idiots with little backbone. Constantly needing to be saved, or saved from themselves, the men, with the exception of one seem almost hopeless. Until the end of course, but they experience little growth while the female characters dominate not just the series, but character development, depth, and overall aptitude.
3.The Bad: Honestly, this all could have been overlooked except for the final scene. Post almost apocalyptic war. A heroine's father being squashed like a bug- but everything is cool... Not buying it. But ending the series, one of emotion and actions, on such a "moment" seemed just so contrived and just unneeded.
It was like the writers took everyone on a journey just to "shock them" at the end. The ""moment" seemed forced, unneeded, and really detracted from an otherwise great series.
The Legend of Korra can be described by one simple word... disappointment. This series was one the biggest disappointments I've ever experienced for a TV Series. I was a huge fan of AtLA, waited every week for the next episode to come out. For me watching this series was a f#cking chore. I came back each season hoping it'd be good, BUT NOPE JUST F#CK ME UP THE A$$ WRITERS! Not only that, your main protagonist is one of the biggest arrogant-selfish-a$$holes in history. I thought that in the beginning that she would've changed after Ammon basically wrecked her $hit, BUT NOPE! F#CK CHARACTER DEVELOPMENT! She doesn't change, plus her relationships with Mako and Bolin are some of the biggest problems in the series. F#CKING ASAMI & KORRA! Asami and Korra are two of the biggest Mary Sues to exist in a TV Series. Okay I can understand making a change and doing something different, but if they actually developed it better it would've been good. The way their relationship developed over the series made them seem like the greatest friends, not bi-sexual lovers. This series seems to be more focused on breaking trends and stereotypes than telling a good god d@mn story.Again Disappointment is only one word for describing this series. On it's own without knowledge or actually watching the one and only original Avatar it's okay, but if you've watched it you'll be in for disappointment all around.In the word's of Bret Hart, "It didn't really do anything for me, so... 4/10 I'd say..." - Bret Hart on Triple H vs Undertaker WrestleMania 28.


                
Just to give a heads up, I logged in to my IMDb account after 2 years to save humanity from this 20 hour borefestBeing a huge fan of Aang,I admit my expectations were a bit high for Korra (yes, korra..I refuse to accept her as Avatar)Korra follows a tried and tested angsty teenage superhero formula. So here is how each season rolls. Korra is being protected from some dangerous stuff. She thinks she can handle it and messes things up. She then cribs and broods till the last episode. Something magical (read not logical) to the rescue in season finale.Its really a shame because Korra has some real strong themes. The first season deals with Equality, second with Balance, third-Natural Order and last with Sense of Duty. There is even a beautiful new-age love story to interpret. Many of these echo with some real life incidents.In terms of character, there are many support characters who bring the show to life. Bolin and Meelo provides some comic relief, antagonists are in shades of gray/grey. Most of the lead characters from Avataar Aang have the latter parts of their life displayed and it shows how stopping the firelord didn't necessarily bring peace to the world. Finally, watch the show at your own peril. If you are fan of Aang and want to watch it as a follow up, keep a back up of Aang ready to banish this abomination from you memory.Signing off Red
