Avatar: The Last Airbender is easily my favorite recent example of western animation, so not only were my expectations high for Korra fairly high. When I first heard that there was going to be a sequel, I couldn't be more excited. The hype and buildup for this show was incredible for a lot of people - a more modern Avatar world with an older, more headstrong female protagonist set in the cultural hub of the world is simply as good as it could possibly get, and for the first few episodes of the series, a lot of great ideas were established and the characters at the time were shown to have great potential for growth and lasting importance. We have a populous cultural capital in an industrial boom, an older, more articulate cast, a plot centralized around themes of equality between benders and non-benders, and some of the most gorgeous animation ever to be featured in a cartoon.Sadly, the writing couldn't hold up. Bryke just couldn't maintain so many of the elements that to us would seemingly write themselves. The pacing is all over the place, with some episodes taking place weeks after their predecessors, and others starting and finishing entire plot threads in a single episode. Interesting themes and ideas established early on degrade into predictable shlock, the most prominent offender being the romance between the protagonist and another character, which for me stands as one of the most poorly done I've ever seen in any animation. The finale could have been the one saving grace as Amon, the central antagonist, was one of the series' high points with interesting motivation and a background that could have had an amazing story to it. Unfortunately, he too falls prey to the lightning-paced exposition, and the writers fumbling eventually ends up defeating the entire purpose of his existence and his "equalist" movement in the span of five minutes. By the end of the finale, almost every single problem for the cast of characters is magically solved, but the final insult comes with how Korra's final problem is solved. It quite literally comes out of nowhere, and it leaves her character, as well as almost every other character, with now growth to speak of whatsoever.I understand that a second season was not green lit until most of the material for season one was set in stone, and thus this season was very self contained, but it really isn't an excuse for the incredibly lackluster writing. What makes all of this so frustrating is the fact that at face value, the show is still very entertaining. The action later in the show was visceral and exciting if you turned your brain off to the plot armor and obvious outcomes. There was some nice lighthearted stuff from time to time, and the voice actors, particularly Dee Bradley Baker and Steve Blum, steal the show with some impressive delivery.All in all, a massive disappointment, but still a good show that's enjoyable at face value. I'd recommend it to anybody not setting their expectations through the roof.
I have tried to like Korra but I am still very ambivalent towards her and the series in general. The fact I have at times begrudgingly watched it is disconcerting because without hesitation I will watch the original. I will admit that as The Legend of Korra dragged on toward its book one conclusion the narrative got much better (the ending was awesome). In fact I would say if not for the plot, I would not still be giving this series a chance.But plot is only one aspect of an entire narrative is it not?The characters are thinly-veiled attempts at being unique but this veil is easily lifted once you take a closer look into each character. I understand the necessity to create different characters but they still have to be compelling. What makes the original so amazing are the characters; their development, their backgrounds, and ultimately their connections with each other and the overall narrative. Even minor characters such as the Earth King, Jet's crew, Hama (the blood-bending 'Puppet Master') and even the Cabbage Man all were intricate characters that were compelling and led credence and depth to the narrative.I do not find myself interested or invested in any of the characters in the Legend of Korra. Obviously Korra is not Aang but creating a character who is the complete opposite of him is just not appealing. I am not alone in this assessment. When her character first appeared she was arrogant, brash, rude, hot-headed, stubborn, and just plain unlikable. She had no regard or respect for authority and quite frankly made it to the end of book one despite herself. I thought though might have been the point...that a person can grow despite constantly getting in her own way. But NO...she has not changed at all other than being able to go into the Avatar State. She still has this unfettered contempt for authority and is quick to blame everyone else for her shortcomings except herself. Maybe the writers are creating another twist but it was clear that her uncle is the antagonist of book two and Korra's blind willingness to believe everything he says is just another sign she has not grown as an individual at all.Her entourage is even less appealing than she is. "Team Avatar" was amazing. Each character was compelling and all the surrounding characters were equally compelling. Zuko's character was perhaps the most compelling character I have seen in an anime. But does anyone truly find anything intriguing about Korra's team? Mako and Bolin are boring. Their back story, while trying to be sad, is uninteresting. Bolin apparently is supposed to be the Sokka-esque comic relief character but he just wounds up looking like a bumbling idiot. Assami is intriguing to a point but I still do not find myself caring about her. The list goes on.I fully admit I am biased. I consider Avatar: The Last Airbender to be one of if not the greatest animated series of all time (and I have seen way too many to count) and maybe my expectations are unrealistic. I truly want to like Korra but the writers are making it really hard (what happened to Aaron Ehasz by the way?).Maybe my ambivalence toward Korra can be explained in the juxtaposition between characters and plot. There is no doubt that the characters drove the narrative in the original. We learned to love (or loathe) each one of them as the series progressed and the narrative needed each character to be successful. The Legend of Korra, HOWEVER, is plot driven. The characters seemingly exist only to implement the narrative. Korra is in every episode because she has to be as it is her show, but would we really miss her if she was not in an episode? I am not so sure. Actually one of my favorite aspects of the book two premiere was the subplot that seems to be developing with Tenzin's daughter (sorry I do not know her name).Ultimately what is my take on The Legend of Korra? Is it a good show? YES...it is a good animated series. Better than a majority of new series currently airing. The animation is drawn beautifully and in HD it is quite amazing. The story is compelling in spite of the characters within it. Is it a great show? NO...without characters that are compelling and to actually care about I am not interested in this show like those I would call 'great'.Is it worth watching? ABSOLUTELY...as stated above it is better than most new shows airing (I continually say new because if Nickelodeon aired reruns of the original at the same time I would watch those instead. Ooh...this would be quite interesting to see what would happen. Who would win in a head-to-head battle of airing? Ultimately I do not think Nickelodeon would take the chance to find this out but I would be very interested in learning the outcome of how many viewers would watch each show airing at the same time)I did give this show a 7/10 which is an increase from the initial 6/10 I gave the show last season. Perhaps I will increase it again...only time will tell.
This cartoon has been reviewed to death, so let me just be concise - Avatar: the Last Airbender is arguably the greatest children's cartoon ever, and Korra is its good follow-up.Just a few notes: For every step forward this show takes, it also takes a step back. For all the good that came out of the show, please know that the pacing, tone, and plot are all kind of stilted, the characters are way less deep than in Avatar, and there are some retcons and developments that may bother purist Avatar fans.But, for most Avatar fans, you will enjoy Legend of Korra. It is a return to that land that we love so much and the magical bending that so engrossed us.If you are interested in the show, I would recommend seeing Avatar first, then this show. Both are worth the watch, and seeing Avatar will improve this show all that much more.


                
When I first saw Season 1, I gave it a 10/10. It was beautifully animated and well-done. It had some issues, but it was better than anything else on air at the time.However, seasons 2,3, and 4 have some MAJOR issues. Instead of writing a huge review, I will just write several mini-reviews:Season 2: Season 2 was obviously rushed as far as the plot goes. The villain had no memorable features and his motivation was non- existent. While the season started with great animation, they went back to the old animators (who aren't bad) who aren't nearly as good as the first Korra animators. Season 2 added some great new characters, but it didn't utilize them fully. Overall, it was a bit of a disappointment because Korra's character became obnoxious and the plot was "weak".6.5Season 3: Definitely stronger than Season 2. This season has so good action set-pieces and has some much more interesting villains. Instead of having almost no motivation, these villains actually had motivation (along with sick powers). While the animation dropped down in quality, the plot and characters increased in depth which makes Season 3 a good season. It has its flaws, but it was still pretty good.8Season 4: This is where the show really gets bad. Not only does the animation drop incredibly low, but all of the characters start to become very mechanical and wooden. Most characters seem to have very cheap dialogue and all sense of energy leaves the show. Some of the more interesting characters become uninteresting and the action in this season is SLOW... like really slow. I'm not talking about the pace of the season, I'm talking about the actual action itself. Everyone seems to fight like they have bricks on their feet. The finale is also a real let-down because several important characters are completely thrown out. What happened to Kai (I hated him, but still)? What happened to Bolin and Opal? What happened to most of the cast that was in the battle? Season 4's villain had a good premise, but just bad execution. From episode 1, we knew she was the bad guy. Then once she is defeated we learn her motivation. That is a horrible way to write a villain. Make them evil then explain their motivation once they are defeated? That means she was uninteresting UNTIL she is out of the show. Why not start her off as a reasonable person and THEN make her a bad guy.5All in all, The Legend of Korra has had its ups and downs. It started strong, but has gradually spiraled into nothing particularly good (The Pacific Rim boss was funny). People will most likely praise it for its "ingenious" ending that hints that Korra was bisexual all along... but that doesn't make up for a really bad season. Throwing in a progressive reference at the end of the show isn't the same as making a good show.
As an avid fan of Avatar: The Last Airbender, I was beyond excited that Legend of Korra was coming. My expectations for DiMartino and Konietzko have, sadly, been disappointed.Legend of Korra is technically excellent. The creators have done a workmanlike job of creating a believable world and populating it with mildly interesting characters. Of course, no explanation is provided of how the world became so automated in only seventy years, bringing us from one established city and a globe otherwise filled with fishing or farming peoples to concentrated cityscapes with overhead electric railways, organized crime lords, and police conducting surveillance from blimps.Unfortunately, most of what made The Last Airbender so very appealing is missing from Korra. There is little, if any anthropological or ethical aspects: whereas Last Airbender was festooned with spellbinding ancient civilizations--Eskimos, Samurai, Incas, or the like--Korra has none of this. Airbender also possessed a wonderful, gentle humor, which we constantly saw in Toph's relationships with Sokka and Katara, Sokka and Katara's relationship with one another, and, of course, Sokka's interminable wisecracking. The element of gentle humor that kept Airbender bouncing along merrily is utterly absent from Korra.But, oh, they do fight in Korra. Every few minutes, someone is firebending. If I wanted to see that, I would just replay the Airbender episode "The Boiling Rock" until I lost consciousness.Bottom line: for fighting and bright colors, watch Korra. But, IMHO, it lacks any of the magic that made Aang and his friends so endlessly fascinating and their adventures so very absorbing.


                
Just like the review that precedes this one, i do like legend of Korra, the graphics are well made, the effects look much better than legend of Aang, the fighting scenes ( which are many of them) look very good, but legend of Korra lacks besides humor another very important thing: characters like Prince Zuko and Uncle Iroh...you have Korra and her friends ( good) and Amon ( bad), and that's it, the characters are a bit shallow. in legend of Aang, you have Aang and his friends ( good), the fire lord and Azula ( bad). Zuko and Iroh were both bad and good, and were very complicated as characters. Zuko saved Aang from admiral Zhao and in the next episode he could chase Aang till the end of the world. Zuko sets Aang's bison free but a few episodes later he betrayed Aang. because Zuko didn't know what he wanted he was unpredictable. Iroh was some kind of philosopher, all the things he said, it has a link with mindfulness, i never forget the episode ( tales from ba sing se) where Iroh showed emotions towards the death of his son. Iroh could see Aang when he was in the spirit world, he tried to save the moon spirit, he's the only one who totally understands his complicated family. what separates legend of Aang between all the comics on nickelodeon and Disney, and why it's one of the best, is the story, the humor, the characters. legend of Korra, sadly, is just not that good enough,


                
This show has had so much hype that my expectations were unbelievably high. Sadly, I think "Korra" is trying too hard to balance its more mature vision with pleasing the target demographic, which is small children. One example I find is how the creators deal with the main antagonist. Viewed objectively, he has not done anything to make the audience despise him as "pure evil": he advocates a vision for an egalitarian society, and---most importantly-- -does not *murder* or even accidentally kill anyone. He is an ambiguous villain, one whose real motives are not entirely clear, but are not necessarily evil; some would argue that the antagonist is a righteous individual who is fighting a just cause for a more "equal" society. With that said---and having looked at the message boards for this cartoon---he is designed to look like a standard Saturday-morning villain: he is hooded, wears an intimidating mask (which children will automatically see as code for "bad guy") and a sinister voice. For the antagonist to be compelling for adults, it might have been better for the creators to have made him, well, less representative (to quote Waylon Smithers) of "cartoonish super-villainy". No kid will sympathize with an antagonist who wears a dark hood, has a scary mask or and evil-sounding voice; in other words, they won't appreciate the complexity of the villain's motives. Come to think of it, in the context of the story, why would the antagonist's followers choose to follow such as sinister-looking fellow? Wouldn't they be more persuaded by a guy who, well, looks normal? Even if the villain *was* scarred, as he claimed in the cartoon, he might be better off to ditch the intimidating cloak. From where I sit, it looks like, on the one hand, the cartoonists wanted to create an antagonist who was ambiguous in his morality, but decided that, since this was a kid's cartoon, they had to make him spooky and scary-looking, so that the kid audience would automatically root for the protagonist and boo the villain.The protagonist has grown on me as a sympathetic character. After watching the series premiere, I found her to be highly immature and defiant of her purported mentor. I realized that the protagonist is actually more complex than that: true, she is an immature, impulsive teenage girl who can be defiant and peevish towards those who want to help her; but her actions are also driven by a strong sense of righteousness, and she always strives to do what is right. I suppose one could argue that Korra, the protagonist, much more accurately reflects the real nature of a teenage girl than a character with a completely mature personality. This argument has validity, and may reflect the mature, complex vision the cartoonists had in mind. The protagonist's allies---her peers on the sports team---are fairly sympathetic, although their personalities are only gradually fleshed-out as the series progresses. Her mentor figure---the monk-looking fellow---provides a nice contrast to the heroine's feisty, aggressive demeanor: he is calm and stoic for the most part, yet brave and assertive enough to stand up for what he thinks is right (come to think of it, I see the mentor figure as more sympathetic than the main protagonist at this point). The characters who fit in to neither being outright allies or antagonists to the protagonist are harder to define: for example, the Al Capone-like gangsters prowling the streets are "bad guys", but they're not automatically hostile to the protagonist *or* her aims, which I perceive to be the protection of all mankind with her superhuman powers (those powers being the manipulation of *all* four of the Classical elements: earth, wind, fire, and water). In sum, I like this cartoon, but, based on the somewhat inelegant attempts to market the show to both the core demographic of small children *and* a lesser, yet devoted, cult of adult viewers---who were no doubt fans of "Korra's predecessor, "The Last Airbender"---I cannot yet call it *great*. There would need to be more character development, particularly that of the protagonist and her friends, for me to consider it a "great" cartoon. So far, "Korra" looks like a wonderful cartoon into which a lot of time, effort and love have gone into its creation, but I suppose the hype has elevated my expectations so high that anything short of a timeless masterpiece would not have sufficed to impress me. That is grossly unfair on my part; this cartoon is extraordinarily well-done. How well it will hold up remains to be seen. I'll wait fat least for the season finale before I declare a verdict. As of right now, it is a slightly-less- than-flawless cartoon that does its best to appeal to both children and adults. I highly recommend it.
It's almost impossible to review a sequel without comparing it to the original, so I won't even try it.
The events take place 70 years after Aang's story. The world has changed, from the medieval times, we immedietaly find ourselves in some steampunk version of the 1930s, and it's one of the things that does good to the series. The other huge upside of the series is Korra herself. She's very different from Aang. Headstrong, brash, knows no respect, and maybe an even greater natural talent. She's everything but perfect, which makes her a great subject of character development. A development, that unfortunatelly never happens. At least not in a way it should happen. Actually, as unique and loveable as she is in the beginning, she loses the things that made her special. She loses her cheerfulness, that cheeky attitude, and her general badassness also goes out the window. Especially in the last season, but I'll get back to that later.
Unfortunatelly the supporting cast is with very few exceptions underwhelming.
Tenzin, Aang's youngest son, Korra's master is one of the few better ones. He's a strong character, who constantly wears his mask of seriousness, but rather often we can see Aang's natural sillyness in him, just as his insecurities no matter how hard he tries to mask them.
Asami could've been a good character too, if she wouldn't have been handled as about the sixth or seventh most important character in the cast. She has an interesting backstory, and in general she's a true badass, unfortunatelly she's kept in the background for the whole time.
There is Mako, the mutual love interest for both Korra and Asami for two seasons. It would've been really hard to write a more boring, one dimensional character. He's the silent, handsome, serious guy. That's it. There's nothing that makes him complex, interesting, or anything. Pretty much like a dreamboy for a 14 year old girl, who knows nothing about life.
There's Bolin, who's probably meant to be the new Sokka. The difference? Sokka, as silly as he tended to act, wasn't actually stupid. He was a great leader material, bright, and rarely was fooled by anybody. Now, imagine him without his leadership skills and intelligence, change his constant dissatisfaction to constant cheefulness, and you get Bolin. He's painfully stupid, and unfortunatelly he (along with Varric) is the source of about 80% of the humor from the second season. Awful, childish, incredibly anyoing humor. And I would understand childish humor in a cartoon for children, but the theme of Korra is everything, but childfriendly material.
Jinora, Tenzin's oldest child has potential too. A bright girl with exceptional talent, who saves the day more times than one could count.
Varric is interesting too, but he's often times too much with this crazy genius behavior.
The biggest problem of The Legend of Korra is the story itself. Unlike with Aang's story, there wasn't a backbone for the series, which isn't problematic by itself, but it doesn't work as it should. There the main plotpoints were Aang's journey to master the other three bendings, and the war. Here the story changes with every single season, but in a way that it's the same for the first three seasons. For example, we watch for a whole year how Korra's trust grows toward Tenzin, just to watch how it's get rebooted to the level of the begining of the first season in the second season. Korra gets captured several times in each and every one of the first three seasons. Every season ends with Korra gets defeated, than BAMMM! deus ex machina, the writers drag a rabit out of a hat, while we didn't even know about the existence of the hat. They made Korra making the same stupid amateur mistake twice (risking to sacrafice the fate of the whole world for the much smaller bad) The events keep repeating themselves, and they got to a point with season 4, which can't be called anything, but ridiculous. The last battle was against a giant mecha... In a steampunk world, against Korra, who defeated the most powerful evil being of the material and spirit world. And Korra struggles against it. She can't defeat a giant bipedal machine...
What makes everything worse there is no feeling about a true ending. The ending of the fourth season was a simple season finale, it didn't feel like a true closure. And I haven't even mentioned that other than the deus ex machinas, the creators can't surprise the audience at all. When you see a character for the first time, you know exacly whether they'll be good or bad, you see all the twists long before the characters realize them. And it's not just the repeated mistakes, and cliché plot twists, it's the darkness of the story too. In Aang's story there were only a few truely dark episodes, and they served their purpose. Here, there are two full seasons (seasons 2 and 4) that are completely dark. The worst offender is season 4, as the majority of it is about Korra's PTSD and depression. Yup, PTSD and depression as themes in a child series. And don't get me started with "theses seasons have their fun moments too" as ALL those fun moments are tied to side characters and side stories. The biggest problem with Korra's depression, is it's out of place. It don't belong here, and even the cause of it is ridiculously made up. And what makes everything even worse, is the creators somehow couldn't find any balance between the dark and the funny moments. There is some serious, depressing, dark thing in one scene, then cut to Bolin, who does something annoyingly stupid, that's most certainly meant to be a comic relief, but in that moment, a comic relief was the last thing one needed. There are such huge contrasts even within one episode, it almost feels amateur work.
And that's where we got to Korra's awful character development. When we first see her in the series, she's already the master of three elements. By the start of season 2, she's master of all four, plus can control her avatar state, and as it obviously made her overpowered to write real challanges against her, the creators started to write ridiculous things to cut her power back. From the start of season 2, Korra literally losts more fights than she wins. Instead of writing a proper development curve for her, she's the most powerful at the begining of season 2, and the least powerful at the end of season 3, and even at the end of season 4, she isn't any more powerful than a simple bender. And her personality also changes for the worse. Sure, it was clear she can't stay the same headstrong girl for the whole time, but in the end, she's just a hollow frame of what she was in the begining. Zest, love for life, confidence all gone, she not simply matured, she became a pessimistic adult.
And that's where we get to a point I can't not talk about. The infamous Korrasami romance. I started to watch the series long after its finale, so I knew about the two of them would become a couple, and... and it seemed less and less likely as the series went by. It's not just they've never shown affection toward each other, they were merely acquaintenances until the finale of season 3. And even during season 4... They exchanged few letters, which doesn't mean anything as Korra during her time away wanted to talk to another woman in her age, and when they first met and Asami says some polite compliment to her, she blushes. And those are all the signs about their affection toward each other. Their whole "love" seemed more like some bait toward the lgbt community, and nothing else, as they put no effort in evolving and representing it. At the end, BAMM it was there without any real foundation. Sure, we can explain it by, they fell in love thru letters, but it should've been shown then. Did they seriously expect us to root for a love for the main protagonist that was formed completely off-screen?
Honestly, I really wanted to love this series. I wanted to, but I couldn't. I enjoyed season 1, and about two thirds of season 3, the story of the first avatar, and I loved how Korra was originally, that's why I gave the 7 points. The other parts of the series (with the awful, depressing season 4 on the top of all of it) don't worth more than 3/10. Because of Korra herself it had much promise, but the creators couldn't live up to it. I only started to watch Aang's story, because I was curious about Korra, and I am really thankful I started with the original series, as after The Legend of Korra, there's no force that would've been able to make me watch that one.
"The Legend of Korra" had an unenviable place as the sequel to one of the greatest animated programs. Comprised of 4 seasons, each dealing with a different crisis, there was a definite attempt to distinguish this series from its predecessor, at least in terms of structure. Unfortunately, each successive installment showed a decline in quality that led to a whimper of an ending. Though certainly not without merit, "The Legend of Korra" is a perfect example of a project with great promise, only to be hampered by poor decision making.Air (Book 1): The strongest of the seasons, this one not only set the stage for the rest of the series, but also is the most confident in its own style. Very little inspiration is drawn from the original series, making the overall product feel fresh and new. The setting and villain are different, granting us an idea of how much the world of "Avatar" had changed, and I liked how there is an initially calm impression of Republic City, with the eventual revelation of an undercurrent of crime and social division. It gives the impression of a city of secrets, which goes along with the themes of social class, safety and security, and terrorism. The new central trio only got a decent introduction, but the supporting cast consistently shined, while the animation boasted the highest quality from the network up to that point. The final few minutes felt forced, but forgivable in light of everything else.Spirits (Book 2): Somewhat weaker than the first season due to a clumsily handled parallel story structure and VERY little follow up to preceding events. However, the visuals are a drastic departure, providing some stylistically strong sequences, such as the atmospheric first encounter with a dark spirit and the final conflict. The character work is a bit weaker, mostly due to an uninspired villain and unnecessary continuation of the whole love triangle matter, but the humor remained exceptional, particularly from Bolin and Bumi. Most notably, this season succeeded in expanding the mythos of the original show, by possibly the strongest episode in the whole series, two-part or otherwise. My biggest reservation is more of a subjective matter: how could you have a season called "Spirits" and not bring back Koh, the Face Stealer? Change (Book 3): This is where things began to slip. While the season did an excellent job of portraying the Red Lotus as capable threats and the actions sequences became even more exhilarating, many other aspects of the production were diminished. Character progression was scarce, except in the cases of Lin and Tenzin, and an overall sense of intrigue was rendered trite by too deliberate of a pace. Furthermore, exploration of the change brought to this world as a result of the decisions from the previous season is limited, with the return of the Air Nation relegated to a rather hollow subplot. It seems that the writers felt pressured to incorporate the style of the original series, which naturally conflicts with the structure of a mini-series; recall that each of these seasons is only about 13 episodes long. The final conflict was quite good, though, and the finale was promising.Balance (Book 4): And this is where everything fell apart. First, the technical quality was noticeably lessened. Very few of the action sequences had the same kineticism that had steadily increased up to this point. With the exception of the second episode, the backdrops were a lot less impressive and lacked the atmosphere of the Earth Kingdom from "Avatar". Anyone who doubts the vitality of visuals in this genre need look no further than this season. Second, character work, remarkably, remained half-hearted, with the sole exceptions being Korra, Bolin and Varrick.The new villain was a watered down version of Sozin, and failed to achieve the same blend of menace and sympathy that previous antagonists had. Any attempts at updating older characters were misguided. Finally, the story once again suffered from a number of subplots that suffocated the main storyline when they should have been complementary. The only truly positive thing I can say in this area is that some real effort was made to follow-up on the events of the previous season. But, top everything off with an irresponsible (and uncalled for) final revelation, and you get the lamentable low-point of the "Avatar" franchise.
I'm gonna go ahead and say, this show, while has some amazing action and plot elements, is... okay. It's just not as good as Avatar: The Last Airbender. Something about the previous show brought so much excitement, epic, and amazing storytelling and action. Not to mention some of the most memorable characters. Personal favorites are Prince Zuko and Toph.But as for The Legend of Korra - the story and characters, in general, are good. Not great, but just good. Some of the words they say and the things they do (more specifically Korra) seem questionable. Don't get me wrong, I don't hate Korra; I just find her some of her actions and decision making in the show, again, seem questionable. Like some of her decisions, in hind sight (and in my opinion), raise an eyebrow for me. Like there were moments in the show I thought to myself, "Really?". Again, I don't hate Korra. I just think her character could have been written better.WIthout giving too much away, if I had to name one of the few things that annoyed me was the back-and-forth relationship of Korra/Mako; Mako/Assami/; Korra/Mako again. I felt like I was watching a soap opera. While Avatar: TLA had an occasional romance episode, it didn't stretch too far enough to where the focus was on all on the relationship rather than the journey.As for the last season of Korra (again without giving away spoilers), the climax was good and the action was well-oriented. Everything else was... okay. Again, not as good as Avatar: The Last Airbender.
Legend of Korra : Avatar ; The Legend of Korra is a sequel to the very popular Avatar ; The Legend of Aang series. It is seventy years since Aang and his friends stopped the war. But now the days of Avatar Aang are passed and the Avatar has returned again, a new Avatar who must keep the balance in the world. This time it is a girl named Korra and she is from the Water tribe. She is very hot-headed and rebellious and very reckless at the start of the series. The world has changed very much in seventy years and as Korra can bend now 3 of the 4 elements she is to learn the element what is left; Air. That brings her to Republic City and very soon she discovers that being the Avatar is a lot different than she always expected. Very soon she is faced with the dangers of the world today.Back in 2005 I wasn't very much aware of Avatar yet , but I knew that at school it was pretty popular and so I decided to watch it. And as the years passed I fell in love with. I felt really connected to the Avatar world, the characters and the story was brilliant. That only became stronger when the years passed. I was really, really sad when it ended in 2008 but somehow I could easily accept it. I admit that I was a little cynical towards the Legend of Korra when it was announced and it took my a few years before watching it. And I didn't immediately had this connection to Legend of Korra compared to what I had with Legend of Aang because I really missed Aang and Zuko and Iroh just everybody.So Legend of Korra has this quality of the old days are over, which makes it quite sad to watch it. The story is really great- like in the old series there such strong dialog's between the characters, the development of the friendships between the heroes are written beautifully. As an audience you see how strong of a bond team Avatar has. The great thing was also, it was more mature. Korra is older than Aang was in those days and so they have to deal with the problems of love more. There are also more political theme's and this all makes the story different than Legend of Aang. Which is good because it never gets boring. They always bring new things in and you can never expect certain things to happen. And if they keep able to do that, then why should you stop making story's in the Avatar world ? Every Avatar has his own story, his own background and his own problem in life, for an audience this can never get bored. So I hope in a couple of years the makers of this fantastic world will go on with it.Of course as a fan you can never be satisfied enough. And personally as the big Fire Nation fan I am I was mainly disappointed with seeing not enough of the fire nation. Though on the other hand I liked it that they don't want to interfere with the battles Korra had to face. The explanation of Fire Lady Izumi is fantastic! And I see so much opportunity's to develop the story of Izumi and her son. Another thing is that I think Korra is not a very good Avatar. If you look at it , honestly, she loses so much battles. I don't say She is the worst Avatar because there is none. Every Avatar did great things.The music is fantastic and the casting is again amazing, if you get names as J.K.Simmons your doing a great job. So looking at these points it is fair to give the following rating to : The Legend of Korra, which is a 7 out of 10. Thanks so much Michael Dimartino and Bryan Konietzko, and hopefully you'll decided to go on within the Avatar Universe. Because the fandom will never lose hope- we will always hope and believe that the Avatar will return.
The Legend Of Korra is a good follow-up to Avatar: The Last Airbender despite its far more numerous flaws. Gladly great animation, interesting expansion of the world and a clear sense of identity keep it from sliding into mediocrity.The most notable thing about Korra is its nearly feature film-level animation. This show rivals the best anime series out there in terms of animation, and no expense has been spared. The martial-arts styled bending is even more energetic and dynamic and sometimes you can just wonder at the choreography and smoothness of the animation.Another point in Korra's favor is that it dares to separate itself clearly from its predecessor. The feeling and atmosphere resemble more that of a 1920's urban story than the high-fantasy affectations of The Last Airbender. Much darker and more complex themes like civil unrest, segregation, revolution and betrayal are introduced and reinforce the show's more grown up feel. The series also never feels like a rehash or retread of TLA, but rather develops its own stories without cheap gimmicks or tricksThe characters are mostly good, with some sour apples thrown in the middle. In the second season the writing can seem downright poor at times in making some baffling characterization decisions. Gladly those are mostly balanced out by some greatly entertaining additions like Varrick, who has cemented himself as a clear fan favorite. Korra herself strengthens the show's sense of being its own thing while also being a hair-pullingly irritating character at times. Unlike Aang, who was calm, contemplative and pacifist, Korra is hot-headed, eager and active, and this doesn't always work in her favor. By far the biggest issues in the series are the writing and pacing. With so many different writers it can sometimes feel as if the show is trying to go into two opposite directions at once, with some episodes being great and some being downright terrible. Characterization hasn't so far been entirely consistent with some characters doing some absolutely idiotic decisions during the second season. The pacing ranges from airtight to completely meandering, which makes the show feel inconsistent. The result is a show which when works, works excellently, but when it doesn't, you can clearly see why.Korra feels like a show that has yet to find its greatest strengths. It has a very solid foundation and moments of absolute brilliance, but has yet to grasp them in full. With the third season, "Change", waiting yet to be released, I'm curious to see where this show is going next.Recommendation: If you're an Avatar fan and on the fence about watching this, do it. The ride is still very thrilling, despite the occasional bumps.


                
It has taken four years after Avatar: The Last Airbender (2005–2008) before Michael Dante DiMartino and Bryan Konietzko have launched a new installment, The Legend of Korra. Avatar: The Last Airbender is without a doubt the best animated TV show ever and the only TV show that I have given a rating of 10. Many other people like Avatar: The Last Airbender as well. So right off the bat The Legend of Korra has a very difficult job to do. The series starts seventy years after the original series without delving much into what the previous avatar, Aang, had to go through to fully flegded avatar. Korra, the new avatar, has already gotten much of the basics under control. So in Book One: Air (the first part of the first season) Korra travels to the metropolis of Republic City to learn airbending and there she faces the "Equalists", an anti-bender revolutionary group. Sounds promising but The Legend of Korra never manages to match the Avatar: The Last Airbender in any regard.The first problem is Korra herself. A female avatar? The TV show is rooted in Dharmic religions (Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism, etc). Hindu god Vishnu is a good example of how avatars work. He has 10 avatars (1 of Them has still to come) and all of them are male. Gautama Buddha was a man. Abrahamic religions (Judaism, Christianity, etc) don't differ much in regard to gender roles. Jesus is a man. All the prophets of Judaism and Christianity were men, not a single woman among them. Religion has always been male dominated. Both Dharmic and Abrahamic religions define clear gender roles. Men are supposed to work outside the house, be soldiers, leaders (which is what being an avatar is all about), etc. Women are supposed be housewives and take care of children. All these major religions identify promiscuity as a major problem among women. Nobody really had a problem with that until feminists came along. Why depart from that? To please feminists? Aang was a perfect avatar. He was a monk and very spiritual. Korra is just a girl. She is not a monk, she is not spiritual and there is nothing special about her. In fact, the show basically starts off with Korra (surprise, surprise) getting into men - exactly what the inspiration of the show (Dharmic religions) warns against. Compare the romance of the first show was with Aang (very slow, careful, thoughtful, moral, etc) with the second show. It's very denigrating (and totally not empowering to women), as if the only thing women care about is to whore themselves out, even when a woman is the avatar. Even though Aang was 12 in the first show and Korra is 17 in this show, Aang is by far more intelligent and has by far more leadership skills. Aang defined what an avatar is in the universe of the show. Korra doesn't. She is too ordinary. Too many times I felt like watching a typical soap. The "romance" (as if watching an intelligent version of Snooki go loose in the 1920s) made me give up on this show. I did like the new villain, Amon, the leader of the Equalists, but I couldn't stand Korra.That brings me to the second problem of the show. After a few months of not watching the show, I had decided to give it another try. So I began to watch the show where I left off. Fortunately, it got better from there on because the focus turned more on the conflict between the Equalists and Korra. Nothing else about Book One: Air is really interesting. It's at times almost like reading Korra's diary, if she had one. There is no adventure like in the first show. There is nothing interesting going on, except the Equalists.The third problem is the lack of interesting characters. The first show had superb characters: Katara, Sokka, Toph, Iroh, etc. This show? I found Amon to be the most interesting character. Everyone else is barely interesting. Even Korra's "boyfriends" are not interesting at all. Fortunately, I found Korra more likable the more I watched the show but never as much as any of the major characters of the first show.The best part of the show is one of things what made the first show so awesome and that's realism, as strange as that may sound. In the first show, the Fire Nation was a quite accurate representation of an oppressive regime. In this show much of that can be seen as well (hence the reason why I still gave this show a good rating). Even the bad things are quite accurately portrayed, most of the time it's realistic whether we like it or not.On IMDb, The Legend of Korra has a good rating, probably because these days there isn't really anything good on TV anymore (who watches TV these days anyways?). The Legend of Korra is of course way better than most of the shows on TV these days.All in all, The Legend of Korra is not a bad TV show but not extremely good either. It's definitely not as good as Avatar: The Last Airbender. Let's hope that Book Two: Spirits, the final half of the second season, will be better. Three more seasons are on the way. So there is still hope for improvement.


                
Avatar the Last Air Bender is one of my favorite series/story's, so i was very excited about The Legend Of Korra. We are at the 4th season and its sure is conflicting.Its really unbalanced cause there are things which work and real good, but than there are things which throw of the hole thing. Over all i think the characters and story is entertaining enough to deserve 7 stars, but the things i don't really like.I understand and appreciate that the series did not just recreate its predecessor, but tried to create its only feel and direction. But I most say they went a tiny bit to far. I feel Republic City advanced to rapidly and while i got use to the different world, think the plot should have build up the city better like explain how it was created, and mention why its so ahead of the other places.the series often suffer from "Bigger, faster" problems. Yes we had some very special benders in the Last Air Bender too but they where very rare and unique, and Legend of Korra feels like there's just to much of new and new and "wow" what this guy can do elements.Its good to see your hero's/favorites return, but seeing them as old people is not really something on the wish-list. I was happy for the new avatar being a female. I was less happy that this automatically forced the unneeded, overused and hated romance 3 angle (And Legend of Korra has much more of romance than the last air bender, well the characters are older, but i don't think we really needed this.)And Actually at the middle of season 4 I'm not happy that the avatar is Korra. (Jinora would make a way way way better avatar)Korra feels like a dumb hot head, who's terrible at diplomacy (its kinda like her diplomacy is "please don't. I wont give you reasons why not, or why its wrong what your doing, or reason whit you in any way"... "okay than lets fight) Her stronger side supposedly fighting but she not doing a good job in even there. She keeps losing, and being saved, and creating bigger and bigger messes, while managing to learn nothing from it. Season 1 was the Best of her jet, even though she got captured, beaten, i think twice, got striped away from her bending, and technically she was not the one who stopped Amon, it seamed she learned from the experience.Than came season 2 to prove she did not. She got caught, lost her memory, lost her avatar spirit, lost her past life. And basically without Jinora pointing it out to her "duh there's Raava your dumb- ass" there would be 1000 years of darkness. Season 2 was pretty bad overall, with its overused 1000 years of darkness plot, the Pokémon like spirits, and the Avatar Pacific Rim... than along came season 3 and surprise leaving the spirit portals open was not totally a good idea. How would of thought. Its like Korra: I'm good at cutting chess, now I gonna preform a brain surgery! and everybody like: Good idea, go for it >.< Well yes beside the hole red lotus thing, and the spirit vines, the air benders did return which is good, but it was more of a accident than a planned result. Not to mention Korra getting beaten, captured, tortured again. (and saved at the end by Jinora again)And season 4...the Kuvira plot is actually pretty interesting and have many potential. But of course Korra again zero diplomatic use, zero fighting use... and saved by who?... (seriously can we just shoot Korra in the head and kill the other two guys and give the avatar status to Jinora? :} ) Actually the last episode push me over the edge to starting to dislike Korra. But than i thought about what happened so far, and I see 2 possibility's.1) the creators don't see how terrible Korra is at being the avatar, and we will have a typical season/series ending, which has a 90% chance to be disappointing (like most ending so far in Legend of Korra)2) the creators actually aware of it, and Korra meant to be a screw up. to show how being reckless can double your troubles. And also to create a worthy challenge for the next avatar. I could picture Kuvira and the Earth Kingdom becoming the next fire nation. and it would be a pretty good plot for a better Avatar trying to fix the mess Korra unwillingly created. Also would give a special thumbs up for Kuvira actually killing Korra. But beside my complaining the story, and the supporting characters still strong enough to keep the show running. And because the Last Air Bender i still have faith in the creators. But a lot depending on the last episodes.
This is a clever show that is actually directed towards adults. I knew I had to give the legend of Korra a go after thoroughly enjoying the original Avatar series. Even though I am not that fussed with anime I was incredibly surprised with how engaging and intelligent the storyline was.Real world themes are used to create the fanciful world and they don't shy away from uncomfortable topics. The creators let the situations play out as they should and very rarely intervene to leave the viewer with a positive upbeat feeling. The show is dark and depressive (with light comedic relief thrown in that actually works) but it is incredibly enjoyable to watch.Whether you enjoy anime or not this series will surprise you. It has the ability to captivate, entertain and challenge you. Definitely a must-see.


                
I liked so much "Avatar: the Last Airbender", that I am afraid my review of "The Legend of Korra" will be full of comparisons with its predecessor! Please forgive me for that, and keep in mind that I have watched only the first season of Korra.Right from the beginning of "The Legend of Korra", it is obvious that we are dealing with a different beast than "Avatar: The Last Airbender". The main characters are older and more buff: they look like a cartoon version of Hollywood actors; forget about the physically weak Avatar of the first series. The overall atmosphere is darker, sometimes almost dystopian, and the narration is based more on fast-paced events rather than on character development, as it was instead in Avatar. However, the quality of the animation in Korra is the same as, if not superior to, its predecessor.Contrary to "The Last Airbender", the authors of "The Legend of Korra" blatantly wink at a teenage public. All the stereotypical elements of teenage drama are in here: a rebellious and undisciplined kid as the main character; cheesy teenage romance between ALL of the main characters; plenty of red cheeks, petty jealousy and kisses. Moreover, the first season is monopolized by "pro-bending", a sport which has the same relevance to the plot as Quidditch has to Harry Potter (NONE).The main storyline, however, is interesting and more elaborate than in Avatar. It involves a once-just society now ravaged by a struggle for power between those who can control the elements, the so-called benders, are the normal people, led by a mysterious masked man called Amon. The latter group has now achieved such a technological expertise to be able to challenge the benders, who detain the power. Our hero is Korra, a undisciplined teenager who is destined to be the Avatar, that is, the only bender that can master all four elements and use them to restore the balance to the world.Cool, uh? Too bad that, in my opinion, the authors did not manage to make this grand scheme credible. I had the feeling that the credibility of the plot got lost somewhere in the middle of the first season, between the excessive romance, the fricking pro-bending tournament, and the too many hard-to-believe turns of the story. I felt like the authors were forced to oversimplify the story halfway, as if they realized that the plot was too complex, or unappealing, for the intended audience.As an adult, the most disappointing aspect of "The Legend of Korra" was that, despite its older characters and more elaborate plot, it is in fact more childish than "The Last Airbender". What made "The Last Airbender" great was, in my opinion, the depth of its characters, together with a great story and a sense of humor which was often self-ironic. In Korra, we do have an interesting overall story, but we lack most of the other aspects.Don't get me wrong: I do understand that Korra is intended for a teenage audience. My disappointment comes from the fact that I was spoiled by Avatar's quality and expected the same from Korra. Anyway, I would still recommend watching "The Legend of Korra", because it is masterfully animated and has some great action scenes. Just don't expect it to be as good as Avatar.
Since the end of " The Legend of Aang " I have often wished you could see how it would become the world of avatar.One of the biggest surprises of "the legend of Korra" is that the world, that during "the story of aang" seemed stuck in hundreds of years ago, now it is very similar to the last century (cars, radio, sports stadiums ... ).The themes treated ranging from the comparison with this modernity (revolutions) to ancient legends, the spirits of light and darkness.The new Avatar Korra is quite a character, I really liked the other, perhaps more different from last series.However, I must say that I find "the legend of Korra " one step below "the legend of Aang." Overall I think it deserves to be seen, 7/10


                
Well the story is good, the characters are good and the plot is original and keeps elements from the past which is also a good thing. But still there is a lot missing. First I think is the common mistake of all new films or remakes: all action no time to breath. It's interesting and captivating but at the end of the season you don't really care and it's out of your mind in minutes. The first Avatar was made for children but adults also loved it. I was actually sad when it ended, I wanted to see more of those outstanding characters who fought so much not in order to win but to evolve. With the second they are trying to much to keep it old and new at the same time and it lacks spirit. And yes, what everyone is saying, there is no time for characters to grow, slowly, step by step, to make you enjoy even the smallest of their success. There is also less nature and way more technology which makes it more of a SF than a fantasy. It made me think that if a third avatar would appear the plot would be on another planet. So it's good for a show, but not so much for the avatar I was accustomed with.


                
