The Legend of Korra starts pretty high paced and the new avatar is found fast, in contradiction to the previous series (where they take more time with the intro). This means that the adventure also start fast. Also, note that you should have seen the "Avatar, the Last Airbender" before you watch this one.They have put some new concepts (for this series), like: after 70 years there is new some new technology, more love story, and a lot in the city (where Aang travels a lot over the entire world). I like this, but I have the feeling that there is a little too much, like too much new technology and too much love. I would have found it better that some technology is still being developed or missing (which other technology could be made clumsy in use). But there are also some new cool elements, such as the way of telling what has happened "previously on avatar", and a new sports game. The humor is still good (I had a very good laugh somewhere in episode 10), and it's nice to see some of the previous (aged) characters back. I rate this 8/10 because of I really like the concept of newer technology in a fantasy world. But not higher because some elements are a little too much (to my opinion). Anyway, I couldn't stop watching and saw this entire season straight.


                
As someone who has watched the Avatar: The Last Airbender series more than a dozen time through, u was really intrigued when I first heard of this sequel/spin-off show. I'm fairly late to the Legend of Korra party but I just finished the series and I have a few points and reviews I want to make. 1. The show is definitely WAY different than ATLA. It's set 70 years after and the new world is more modern with technology, cars and gadgets and such. 
2. The characters aren't as appealing as in the ATLA. yes, the characters are very likeable for most viewers but if you're a hard critic like me then it takes a lot to get you interested enough in the characters. 
3. The enemy changes in every season/ episode and it's basiclly the entire Republic City that is the enemy. It makes Avatar Aang look bad for creating the Republic city in the first place. 
4. Avatar Korra is a bit older than the characters in ATLA. I would say she's about 18-22. It never specificly gives her age. But she is a fun character. She's refreshing because she's not as wise and calm as Avatar Aang and it lets the viewers relate to her more for her sudden outbursts or wrong choices. She grows a lot with the show and it's fun watching her grow. 
5. The show is in a faster pace than ATLA. Instead of everything occurring in just a few months the show spans out over a two year time frame ( I think ) . But it's nice to speed things up sometimes. 
6. The possibly worst thing in the show is the love triangle they shove down your throat. As soon as you watch the show you will immediately ship Mako and Korra just because they are the type of people we think should be together ( like Aang and katara). But Mako has a girlfriend in the series and it's a headache seeing him go back and forth. Don't even get me started on port bolín. 
7. There are reucurring characters from ATLA. Kind of. 
One of the main characters in Tenzin who is Aang and Kataras son and he has an airbending family with kids who are hilarious ( milo). Also toghs daughter Lin is a main character and she's fun. Also zukos grandson Iroh. And some others. 
8. It still has the same amazing feeling that ATLA had. The elements are the same and they're just as impressing to watch especially with the battles in the show. 
Overall the show writers have done well on this show. Most Spin-offs are a flop but I must say this was pretty well written. So props to the writers. The show portrays the avatar in a different light in a less frantic environment than the first. But don't feel bad if you wish the ATLA characters would appear more in the new show. I noticed myself calling the characters Aang or sokka, lol. It's worth the watch if you can. At least watch the first season. It gives a lot of reassurance to the cliff hangers that were left in ATLA.
This is a great series. it had a BOSS for a villain, An unbelievable storyline with a great back-story, the animation was eye-candy, and the style of it was just amazing. I could go on and on about how great this series is. But, the series overall feels "rushed" to me. If they had a few more episodes, and maybe if they drug the storyline out a little longer, then it would've been better. The way they dealt with relationships left me confused, and they could have left it out. My one problem with this series is how they dealt with the fight between Korra and Amon. It was rather short and somewhat anti-climactic (but the ending did make up for part of it). Overall, it was a great series, but could have been better.
I've always loved Legend of Aang. While the show was kind of childish in a way, it fits right in with the young characters, and all of them are developed well, even though the last season kind of hasten things up near the end.Korra, the sequel, does not disappoint in animation quality. Superb design, animation, expression, directions. These elements could par LoA easily, if not better.The only thing I feel lacking was actually the story part. Perhaps due to the avatar being a young woman instead of a kid, the story is now presented more rationally. Things are taken rather serious, unlike Aang's optimistic perspective of things.Before, we have this 'Fire Nation' as the main enemy, but now the enemy seems to be coming from the republic itself.So while Korra has its humorous elements (which I'm very glad it's still there) and imaginative bender fights, don't expect the same ride in LoA. This is a more mature story, and it will take a little time to see how the plot reveals itself.There's plenty of intriguing flashbacks mysteries for fans of LoA, and I think the real 'meat' of Korra will be revealed in much later episodes. Perhaps a philosophical debate instead of just bending elements every two episodes.
An animated series set in the same narrative world of the excellent Avatar: The Last Airbender (and a sequel to it, although knowledge of the previous story is recommended but not imperative), The Legend of Korra is an action/fantasy/adventure influenced by both Wuxia and steampunk.At its best, Korra feels like a cocktail between Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Princess Mononoke and the X-Men. It's a neat series with several flaws: moments of juvenile humor which feel jarring next to the mature themes the show tries to juggle (terrorism, fascism, anarchy); a few tired narrative choices, like the awful "fight between good giant being and evil giant being" climax of the second season (by far the weakest); the unwillingness to go for unapologetic darkness when the narrative called for it.(Spoiler-y example: at the end of the first season, heroine Korra suffers a major power loss, an interesting twist for a likable but brash protagonist who revels in her abilities. However, after five minutes, her powers are restored and boosted. That's not an effective way to structure the hero's journey; blame it on the troubled production history).Still, lore is rich, world-building detailed. The appealing visuals recall the works of the great Hayao Miyazaki; in its finer moments, as the protagonists roam the streets of Republic City - a sort of Asian New York set in a steampunk version of the roaring Twenties - Korra almost feels like Hugo Pratt taking a shot at the superhero genre.7,5/10
All the reviews posted on here are pretty much spot on. I'd just like to add a couple of sentences of what I think the show gave us, and what it truly is all about. Overall, as a whole, the series was decently, and thoroughly well created. With there only being 22 minutes each per episode, the producers/directors/writes, etc, all managed to display the episodes quite descriptively, yet still to the point. The characters will really stick to you, as there are many funny scenes, happy scenes, sad scenes, disastrous scenes, frustrating scenes, and to be honest, confusing scenes as well. At times, the dialogue for a couple of episodes, not all, were kind of off. It seemed very rushed, and not properly thought of. It kind of made me hesitant to continue with the series. But thank goodness I kept on watching, because the finale was pretty cool. It wasn't something epic, but it wasn't something. . .not epic, too. All in all, this series is a very heart-warming, yet action packed show that is filled with many great hidden, and open messages! So my rating for this show would be about: 8.44/10. :) (It might change throughout the years, but for now, I'm feeling an 8.44) But just because I gave it that rating, doesn't mean that it's not good. It's still an amazing show. You might like it better than me. It's all about personal preference. Hopefully this review was helpful!


                
As a sequel this series is an abomination. It doesn't live up to the standards set by The Legend of Aang, it's simply not in the same league.
However, looking at this series as a completely separate one it is quite entertaining. Somewhat dull with underdeveloped stories and characters at times, but overall ejoyable. Worth a watch but absolutely not comparable to Avatar: The Legend of Aang.


                
This new series has been quite a let down to be honest. There are so many things that separate this new series from the original. One of the reasons I loved the original was because of its Eastern cultural identity, its progression of characters, its hilarity (which has been almost lost in this recent series) and most importantly the plot. However, I have found that the plot in this new series is convincing and made me want to watch, but the more I watched, the more I grew less interested. This movie is too mature and dark for me. There is no Sokka (the comedic ingredient from the original), there is no Zuko (the ingredient who chased the protagonist and kept the episodes thrilling), and no Uncle Iroh (the wise AND comedic ingredient that really set the show down a whole new path in the second 'book'). Although this recent series has come up with new characters with similar traits, in my opinion they don't keep the show stirring. Hopefully the writers will set the show down a new path soon, because it's a bit soon to identify the main antagonist in the first few episodes. Personally, I don't think that this series comes close to the original. This idea of a bustling city with cars and radios...what ever happened to the adventure that we saw in the original series. Instead we are restricted to a city and it's far less interesting. All in all, I really hope this show improves. I believe the main issue are the characters. I am no television series writer, but I believe that as long as the characters have much more appeal, the show would have more appeal.


                
Legend of Korra is in a very difficult spot. It is the successor of one of the best cartoons ever (cartoon series, not movie length cartoons, but it is among the best even there) Avatar, the last airbender had a near perfect mix of jokes, sincerity, morality. all that with very likable characters, great character progression, subtlety and story.Legend of Korra struggles a little bit in the character progression. Especially Korra as the main protagonist seems a bit too thick to learn sometimes and the blending of blissful easiness and serious business is not as well done as in the predecessor.All in all the characters seem to lack some of the depths of the old crew and do not seem to surprise me as much.the storytelling is a bit weaker - but seems to catch on.the artwork and style is great. it is steampunky and not everyones taste but in my opinion a very good decision that fits well into the world that has progressed so much. character design is great, too - i love how korra herself is designed and most of the adults. i do not quite agree with the Bolin character (i think that was his name) - he looks a bit too stereotypical for the role he inhabits, but thats just nitpicks.so for now, that is a solid 8/10 with a tendency of becoming better - and although it is not as good as avatar the last airbender, it is a must-see for sure.


                
This is a spin-off of A:TLA, and the new protagonist is a waterbender named Korra. Korra has led a sheltered life while mastering water, fire, and earth. She, in contrast to Aang, is hot- headed and impulsive, making it somewhat easy to predict what will happen in the show. The premise of the show is that Korra needs an airbending teacher, and the only one available is Tenzin, one of Aang and Katara's sons. This means that Korra must go to Republic City, where she uncovers an underground movement called the "Equalists", led by a masked man named Amon, whose parents were killed by a Firebender and his face disfigured. Now, it appears he has a vendetta against all benders.Amon, it is revealed, has the power to take away a person's bending permanently. What exactly makes him the villain of the series? The fact that the protagonist is the avatar, a being whose existence is defined by bending. Oh, and because this is a Nickelodeon show, Amon hides his face with a mask, wears a hood, and has a sinister voice. Nothing besides his appearance would warrant him being the "bad guy". He isn't "pure evil", hasn't killed anybody, and has mostly used his power to take away the bending of thugs and criminals. By contrast, the Fire Nation was perpetuating a genocide against the other two nations. Along the way, Korra picks up two brothers as sidekicks, Mako, the brooding Edward Cullen- ish firebender, and Bolin, the comic-relief earthbender. Adding to the teenage angst, both of them have a thing for Korra. There really isn't much character development with these two. There are implied bonding moments in scenes of fighting and pro-bending.The real problem with character development is Korra. Seven episodes in, she has not really accomplished anything, and has still not had any of the spiritual moments present in the original series. She hasn't really grown or learned anything, although she has developed healthy fear of the Equalists after being easily defeated several times by them (I know, if she always won there wouldn't be any tension in the series). Episodes are currently full of the protagonists getting out of sticky situations that were foreseeable or obvious cause and effects.This series has only just begun and there's still room for growth, but it lacks the humor and complex characters that propelled The Last Airbender.


                
The Legend of Korra is the sequel to the highly successful and critically acclaimed series, Avatar: The Last Airbender.Although the original creators of the series are returning once again as writers, this one seems too much different with the original. And that being said is not exactly a bad thing.This takes place 70 years after the events of TLA but seemed to have drastically changed technologically. With that, people also have depended on technology because they feel oppressed by the "benders". This is where Korra sets in. She must bring balance to Republic City once again as the Avatar.The first episodes were kind of dragging with a lot of cheesy romantic teenage crap but it gets better from there. With high octane action, comedy, and a dark and brooding plot, this series is sure to keep viewers wanting more.


                
First season is good
Second season is subpar
Third and fourth season are as good as ATLA for the most partThis sequel to the beloved original animated series is all about the new team Avatar and is set 70 years following ATLA. The first season is an introductory season, it's alright. Had some really good parts and some not. The second season I personally didn't enjoy much. The two episodes in the middle depicting the original Avatar 'Wan' were fantastic and are must sees. Season two does have some very large "consequences that are really awesome" in season 3, (no spoilers) but the villains are scary and so dope. Season 3 really hooked me in and got this show up to the original series' quality. Season 4 was a little slow and tense my first time, I really appreciate it more now. It's all tension building to war and it finally breaks at the end. They wrap up the whole story well and introduce new concepts and expand on some old ones. Metal bending is a both cool and op in this show. Lava bending and the additional air bending powers (won't spoil it) are really cool too. Korra has great chemistry with Mako, Bolin, and Asami (especially Asami). Tenzin is a great father figure for Korra and there's a few times Aang's children and grandchildren really remind you of why he was so great.
A lot of people don't like this show because the "sequel always has to be worse". It's not always as good as ATLA but it's great in its own way and it's worth the watch


                
A fast paced terribly written sequel to a great show. 
The dialog is weak and the storyline weaker yet. Plot holes and incomprehensible decisions by the writers are the foundation of this show. Do not watch this if you enjoyed the original series.


                
The Legend of Korra (TLK) could have been better. In The Last Airbender (TLA), as a viewer I could feel as if I were inside the show itself. Things such as Aang's anger when Appa was kidnapped, the terror and calmness when he faced he faced Koh. Zuko's realisation of his own path and how he strived to gain everyone's acknowledgment, Katara's devastation when Aang almost got killed and so on. Everything was just so realistic and it connects with many things which I deeply believed in.TLK however, did not let me feel as if I was sucked into that world. Perhaps its the more mature-like theme that was adopted for this series instead of the more child-like one in TLA. The storyline could have been more well-defined IMO. There were many unknown things such as how technology advanced so much in Republic City for just a few short span of years in Aang's life. Also, seeing as how Korra is supposed to have mastered the elements in a much earlier stage than Aang did, I would have expected her to have been able to handle Amon instead of letting her bending get taken away or even used her bending abilities more seriously. Unlike the feeling that I get from Aang, it just seems that Korra is toying with her enemies instead of going properly against them. All of these unexplained things could have been fitted into small talks or maybe broken up into puzzles for the viewers to piece together. But they were just not there.What I find enjoyable was the element of surprise that was consistently given throughout the show. Characters are not stone-faced with just a single emotion throughout (which really isn't representative of a human). There were laughter, sadness, anger, anxiousness and the list goes on. Although, it did not make me feel sucked into the show, it was still really enjoyable and one can really tell how much effort the production crew really placed into it. Korra's introuction was such a blast and impactful for the first episode, we have the joker of the group (Bolin) once again, the interesting everyday life of the Avatar, how the series progressed from small issues for character introduction to major problems that gradually showed up. I personally enjoy all of the wisdom that was always voiced out by various characters. Personally, the scenes that I loved most thus far were Korra's discovery that she could finally air-bend and the introduction of Avatar Wan's life. I could also see how Korra matured from a hot-blooded young Avatar to a wiser and much more mature one which would explain for how her personality finally allowed her to air-bend. Also, the Avatar series has been a show that connected with people and tells us how foolish or wise we could be.It is overall, a really meaningful and enjoyable show. I didn't think that I was wasting my time at all. There were many lessons to learn from it and it was delivered in a fun way. I would really expect, or rather hope, that in Book 4 they'll start to explain the multiple small gaps that were present in Book 2,3 but not waste too much time on them. Hopefully, there will be more focus on Korra once again after the hype about the rebuilding of the air nation is over. I've watched many movies, series, TV shows and so on and the Avatar series is just so amazing, it is arguably one of the best series of shows that I've ever seen in my life. Personally, I hope that this series will go on for a very long time. It has made me very interested and excited to write stories for future Avatar stories :P
The story of Avatar Korra gave an interesting turn on the prequel "Avatar: The Last Airbender". The new time, places and technical changes give this series an extra touch.Season 1 has an great concept with the non-bending movement with Amon. Very Original, unexpected, shocking, ... just great. 8,5 / 10Season 2 was in my eyes the least of the three so far. "Spirits" just couldn't keep me attracted and I kept watching just te be able to follow the rest of the following books. But I have to add that story about avatar Whan shed a new light on the history of the Avatar. Bravo for that. 6/10Season 3 was to me the best season so far. Most of the characters become really powerful in this point, we meet some very great new characters and is more shocking than ever before. The producers really took it to the edge here, and then there is the awesome finale... 9,3/10
When you hear that there's a sequel series to one of the best animated shows in the past twenty years or so, expectations are raised but also with the notion that it wouldn't quite be up to the same level. The Last Airbender: The Legend of Korra is not as good as its predecessor, and there are things that could do with improvement. The show can have a tendency to feel rushed- the ending of the season 1 finale had a somewhat rushed incompleteness to it- and the love triangle plotting veers towards melodramatic at times. Two characters don't quite come off so well, Bohlin has his moments but too much he does seem like a poor man's Sokka, while Mako's bratty over-seriousness can get tiresome. Korra however is an identifiable heroine, one with conflicts but also a strong personality and endearing forcefulness. Asami is the most sympathetic character and written and portrayed very touchingly, while Amon is an antagonist that is both menacing and tragic. When well-written, the characters come across as much more than archetypes, there is real depth going on and that is to be commended. The animation is great too in The Last Airbender: The Legend of Korra, fluid, colourful, atmospheric and detailed with the same amount of finesse and attention to detail that Avatar: The Last Airbender did and even more so at times. The music, as well as having authentic flavour appropriate to the show's setting and story, is both stirring- more upbeat than the music of its predecessor in a way- and understated in the darker, in depth moments. There is some intelligent writing too, mostly clear and thoughtful- though when the show continues the writing can do with slowing down and developing and dramatising a little less the love triangle angle if continued. And the bits of humour injected do amuse at least, not as appealingly quirky or tonally gentle as Avatar: The Last Airbender but never does it fall into the lazy immaturity pit in the way atrocities like Fanboy and Chum Chum do. On the most part too the story lines are emotional and gripping, at the show's best the stories made for among the most compelling of any animated show airing at the moment. The show has such great energy, and the action not only looks wonderful in animation and choreography, but also thrilling in emotion and with the ability to move things forward. The voice acting is just terrific, especially from Dee Bradley Baker and Steve Blum. Overall, a promising start though it's got some way to go before reaching close to the heights of its predecessor. 7.5/10 Bethany Cox


                
