To those uncertain about The Legend of Korra: watch it. It is every bit as good as the original Avatar series was. Set in a more modern world, the new avatar is faced with struggles of a different kind, struggles that relate more to our modern world. Technology is booming, crime is rising, and a revolution is awakening. This is much more real than the last series was.The characters are built incredibly realistic, too. Korra is a revolutionary heroine: she is realistic, imperfect, hasty, rebellious... all the things that a teenager girl really would be. Faced with difficult decisions, she doesn't always choose the right ones, yet she always learns from them. The other characters also show these strenghts and weaknesses along with equal depth to the characters of The Last Airbender.While different, troubled, and darker than the original, everyone should give The Legend of Korra a chance. It has many wonders to be seen as of yet and her story is only just beginning.


                
I enjoyed the previous series, "The Last Airbender," and I had been checking every month or so to see if the new "Legend of Korra" had been released yet. Yesterday I realized that five or six episodes had been released so I watched them all while typing up some notes for school. I have to say, the first couple of episodes I was pretty worried. Many of the characters seemed very harsh and unlikable. Yet, as I got to know them better, I really started to like them and enjoy the show. "Legend of Korra" is lacking the hilarity which made "Airbender" so fun to watch, yet it is replaced with more menace, intrigue, and (I want to use the adjective "page-turning") excitement. The bits of humor that are present are perfect and I think they have captured a good balance. I'm really hooked. 9/10. The one missing star is in case the show takes a turn for the worse.


                
Legend of Korra appeals to be way more mature than its prequel: The Last Airbender. Whilst that gives an edge to Korra, it also removes that childish and innocent humor enveloped in rather serious conflict. Still, do not be fooled - Legend of Korra is an impressive animation work; it goes flawlessly in graphic and motion design, it doesn't lack a humor nor a good, intriguing story. Korra is basically everything Aang wasn't: She's stubborn, hasty, inpatient and not as shy as Aang. I think they made quite a good move here since we already have three season with over twenty episodes to watch a mindful, calm and shy Aang. The gathering, or gang if you wish, are also kind a different. There's that innocent, teen "Love squared" as I like to call it which is more amusing than serious, though. Then there's again one "wisdomous" guy with only patience and non-conflict solution on his mind. There are also many others; lots and lots of different characters that you will surely enjoy in. It's actually still early to judge the show because it unravels itself episode by episode. As the more episodes are aired, the more you realize about the story of Republic City and all its mysteries. To short the long talk, Legend of Korra is most likely more mature than the Last Airbender (which actually brings another question: if Tenzin is the Aang's only child (or so I understood), then there's only four (upcoming fifth) remaining Airbenders - We'll see), with not so much a childish humor (which is still there, don't worry) and a story which untangles really slowly and forces you to watch the show from episode to episode. If you loved the prequel, you'll love its sequel.


                
For the most part I only started watching this because I wanted to see what the final outcome would be of the original series. But after watching the first season I was completely hooked and wanted more. The animation was absolutely stunning and the voices fit their characters extremely well. My only complaint is that the entire season felt rushed. Though it is understandable as it was originally only supposed to be a mini-series of twelve episodes. My only other complaint is that throughout the entire season they don't properly show how powerful Kora really is. While in the original series they showed is with Ang using the avatar state which I always enjoyed as I thought it was quite cool.Overall definitely worth watching but it doesn't quite match up to the original series.


                
Let me just say, I was a fan of Avatar: The Last Airbender (mostly Earth and Fire) but Korra tops it without a doubt. The writers and creators have really grown and learned their art, and it shines through in this series. It's darker than it's predecessor, and the story is much more intriguing. The main antagonist is Amon, a patient, cunning, and ruthless (supposed) non-bender that is leading a rebellion against the capital Republic City. His plot starts out as no more than an intriguing idea, but in the scenes where it shows him committing his deeds, they seem horrible, unspeakable and more than devilish. It pulls at the watcher more than many death scenes that have been produced. Part of that is because of the empathy the viewer will quickly grow for the extremely well- written characters. Each character is starkly different, and each one has a past that comes into play in the story, some much more than others. The main sell point for me on the series is the magnitude of the events. I've watched many T.V. shows and read many stories that had to try those great "OH SH-T" moments, but LoK has me actually shouting it so loud I wake my family, even when I can predict what has happened. A great series that I recommend to everyone.


                
While it's predecessor dealt with personal growth, The Legend Of Korra is about equality, spirituality, freedom, fascism and even PTSD to name the mayor themes. 
Every season introduces a new villain who represents a new ideology and in the end the answer isn't to completely destroy the foreign idea but to consider it and see through your enemies eyes to recognize the flaws in the society. This actually reminiscent of the Hegelian Dialectic which is a concept in philosophy describing that answers can be found by swinging back and forth between two extremes until you reach a synthesis of the both.
That's a extremely mature way of thinking for a show whose target audience are mostly kids or teenagers. The villains aren't inherently evil, they aren't the unredeemable creatures we get to see in so many stories but actual people, actually interesting characters. All of them have visions of a better world but they take their ideologies too far. And in the end each of them can claim a victory despite being defeated. By the time the series concludes the benders and non-benders are equal, the world of the spirits and the human world peacefully coexist and monarchy gets replaced by democracy. 
This is incredibly refreshing in a time full of stories about the Saurons and Voldemorts and evil Firelords of the world. 
It may not always be executed in the best way possible (especially in season 2 in my opinion) but you can really feel the thought and philosophical effort that went into this story. Of course the storytelling is flawed which can get quite annoying especially in the first two seasons. There are pointless love triangles and storylines about moviestars that lead to nowhere. But in the latter part of the series the creators really figure out a healthy balance between moving along the overarching plot and nice little subplots. The Legend Of Korra may not have the epic overarching story of its predecessor nor the entire comedic genius of it but in my opinion it is every bit as great. 
It highlights themes of global significance. It's about testing your believes against opposites and finding common ground. It makes us wonder about the unlikely places great ideas can come from and what happens if we don't open ourselves up to change.
I Really Loved the Original Avatar Aang Series ( I mean, who didn't?) and sincerely thought any reboot wouldn't match it's Class - Period. And Seeing The Reviews On this Korra Series, I felt It Just justified what I thought. Nothing could be as great as awesome as ATLA, even with this same directors. So For This Long, I Skipped Watching Korra because of this ratings ( Compared With Aangs 9.5, Korra currently has 8.6). That was very stupid. Never Believe Ratings.Maybe the high expectations or the loyalty to the original series made people consider this series not as great, though The 1st few episodes suggested it justified. it was completely different, and not lovely & was quite complicated. But as the Story goes on, maybe Season 3 & 4, Are doubtably the best ever Seasons in History of Cartoons. I'm not kidding. Last Episode of The 3rd Season, Wow! Remember the Very Last epiosde of ATLA? Sosen's comet part4? Well, You're missing the chance to see a better Finale, I'd Dare Say, Than that if you miss korra's season 3 last epi. Low Ratings MUST be from People Who Just watched 1st Season or the 2nd to the max... No Way Season 3 & 4 Deserved Ratings leeser than 9! So Do Yourself a favour And watch the whole 4 Seasons of Korra... You will see A worthy Successor for ATLA. P.S. Pardon my grammar. 
Love From Sri Lanka To The Whole Avatar Universe! Most Favourite Cartoon Series Ever! From Aang to Korra... And To All The AVATARs to Follow!


                
SpoilersWhile not reaching the heights of it's predecessor, TLOK is an amazing series in its own right. It's a successful follow up to what is regarded as one of the greatest TV shows of all time that continues to build and develop this amazing world Bryke has created and give us likable and well developed characters, whether they be good or bad, and create intricate and complex story lines that has the audience questioning and thinking about the issues the show is addressing. Themes such as fascism, equality, PTSD, and much more are prevalent throughout a series supposedly meant for children. It's a darker and more mature show when compared to A:TLA, which is saying a lot considering some of the events that occur in that show, and while darker does not always mean better, TLOK does a fantastic job of addressing and conveying these issues, especially through its villains. Characters like Zaheer and Amon act as far better and more interesting villains than any from the original series (yes, even Azula). However, that being said, it's not a show that has you feeling this way on the first go around. Part of that may be because you're blinded by your love of the original series. Spending three seasons with Aang and then dealing with Korra, who is practically the exact opposite of Aang in almost every single way, it may leave you with a huge dislike for the main character because you grew so attached to Aang and found his character more likable and relatable. As a result, some become ignorant of her immense character growth and the struggles she goes through in her time as the Avatar. Even I wasn't that big on Korra, both as a character and as a show, the first time around (especially when Season 2 hit, which is the weakest season and with how Korra acts in the beginning of it). I thought it was good, but not much else. Rewatching it, I see a lot more of the complexities of Korra's character, and her actions and decisions seem much more justifiable (most of them, her behavior in Season 2 is still a bit irritating, but again, understandable). Korra's journey is different from Aang's, and that's the point that a lot of people miss with this show, but both end up becoming successful and highly accomplished Avatars in their own right.Is the show flawed, yeah, but so was Avatar, despite how good that show was. I'm not saying Korra is better than Avatar, but that doesn't stop me from loving TLOK in its own right. I'd give TLOK an 8.5 out of 10, but since I can't give that rating, I'll round it up to 9/10.
I enjoyed Avatar: The Last Airbender and was so excited when this one was coming out. I don't have cable but I managed to watch the episodes online and was pleasantly surprised. New heroes and villains, plus 1920s-styled cities and themes with science and magic coexisting. And Avatar Korra is one of the best female protagonists since Disney's Mulan.As far as cartoons go, this is my second-favorite of all of them. I have online friends who also enjoy it and one says it is her favorite of the two bender shows. As for me, they both reach outstanding in their own ways; both Aang and Korra's respective adventures. And maybe Disney could try their own ambitious adventure serial. That'd make things a little more interesting.


                
Avatar: The Last Airbender is a memorable story, breaking paradigms of traditional animation, and remembering us that, the fusion of American and Japanese style, if its done with passion, can become legendary (I'm talking about Scobby-Doo, Transformers, Thundercats). The journey of Aang, Katara, Sokka and Toph (well, and Zuko too) was so fresh and exhilarating. The series ends when it was needed to end, as a whole story of saving the world, the world was saved. There was graphic novels with subsequent adventures... those i haven 't read, and can say how they are, so right now, the story ends with Fire Lords defeat.Then Nick decides its time for a sequel. Instead of paving the way to a another Aang story, producers make a jump in time, remembering that the Avaatr is not but different lives of a single entity. so "lets jump to tell the story of another Avatar, but instead of only telling them in one episode (like Kyoshi or Rooku) lets do a complete telling"...thus the Legened of Korra was born.Korra is not Aang: it's the Avatar. If you understand this, you can stop judging this animation for being a sequel and start seeing as a vehicle for new stories in the same universe. We have the typical characters of every animation (the comic relief guy, the too-serious master, the evil villain corporation, and the kids..oh the kids! the low point of the series...Meelo can be so annoying), fortunately, the story focus in relations, not on personalities. While characters doesn't develop that much (except for, maybe, Asami, Jinora...), their relations change so much with every episode... a rhythm i expect to see producers to keep without destroying the characters in next seasons...INstead of only one big story to save the world, we have "little epic stories to save the day" ... and until now, the villains have been totally memorable: Amon and the lieutenant (Book one) make a stand as deep as a villain can be in a "child cartoon", and send a deep message about discrimination and "the power of few"... and Unalaq and Baatu (seaosn 2) provide a deep, spiritual context, asking us to rethink our conceptions of good and evil, light and dark. So much deep in the cartoon is almost too much, but the pace is as good as in the first series, so there are no much time to bore you with ideology, its just a glimpse, it's up to you to go deeper.The Avatar team works not as good as in TLA, that is because this series is more focused on Korra than the team per se. but even that, Bolin, Mako and Asami are strong characters with a lot to do and say... such a shame that the love story is so convoluted that appears you are watching Grey's Anatomy... so good they don't focus a lot in that... relief (sigh). Secondary characters, as in TLA, provide fresh ideas every episode (honorable mention to Eska and Desna... those two are impossible to read, their reactions are as comic as dark), and in later episodes we received cameos from TLA that are so memorable to enjoy them while they last.After finishing Season 2 I can say that The Legend of Korra stands as one of the greatest animations of this decade, and, like its predecessor, will pave the way to new and modern styles of storytelling in cartoons.
Well, the first season turned out to be political commentary on Communist China, except (spoiler) Communism doesn't succeed.I mean, c'mon. "Equalists?" Who wants balance for everyone? Except Amon is actually a bender himself so he's corrupt like all the Communist leaders? Amon was born a peasant boy and watched capitalism, er, benders hurt him? Mao Ze Dong, anyone? And then the industrialization led by Sato Industries? All leading up to a great revolution? Definitely Communism, not the Nazis like one reviewer said.Anyhow, it's pretty great how they handled it all. Maybe a little too much teen drama that no one asked for, but there is definitely
At first I was a bit unsure during the first couple of episodes I watched after being such a fan of "The Last Air Bender". It didn't seem to have the same spark as TLAB had, but as I carried on watching more episodes it ended up making its own spark. It doesn't have as much of the comical aspect as TLAB but is darker and a bit more aggressive. Don't worry though there are still the characters that will make you chuckle. As with all good anime series there is a character which people can relate too and see them develop and grow through out the series. This is a great series for anime fans of all ages. I know I enjoyed it hope you will to.


                
Well, I found "BOOK ONE : AIR" pretty boring, but with due respect to "AVATAR : THE LAST AIRBENDER" I saw it to the end. And at first, I thought as to why was I wasting my time seeing this crap.Well, the first half of the "BOOK TWO : SPIRITS" was also quite boring, but believe me from the second half of the "BOOK TWO : SPIRITS", I fell in love with "THE LEGEND OF KORRA".The "BOOK THREE : CHANGE" and "BOOK FOUR : BALANCE" were also worth watching....and finally, I'd like to say that it was out of the world, simply marvellous....Words are simply not enough to explain it...Try it guys, you'll love it.One more thing, have patience...


                
The show isn't really for kids, and that's probably why it received unsuccessful ratings on Nickelodeon. The number of moral and political undercurrents is astonishing, and without heavy violence or profane language still manages to be very enjoyable. The idea is incredibly unique, the world, the concept of the elements, it all fits perfectly. Korra is in many ways the perfect 21st century female protagonist. Strong, independent, and leading the way for equality (reference to the 1st season). Yes, The Last Airbender was probably universally preferred, yet it was also more suited to its demographic. Korra is a show that creates almost a superhero-esque reality that has very dimensional characters and story lines that creates a truly brilliant series. It is a true shame the show wasn't picked up by Netflix or another network, because the Avatar Universe still has so much more potential. To anyone who hasn't watched the show, I thoroughly recommend giving it a watch. Perhaps one of the lost gems of television, and if the show itself isn't perfect enough I must remind you of its groundbreaking ending.


                
'The Legend of Korra' is the sequel to the show 'Avatar: The Last Airbender'. While the first and second season were kind of "meh", the creators of the show really stepped up their game for the last two seasons and created something that was really on par with its predecessor. This show really gets better from season to season and while it isn't quiet as good as 'the Last Airbender', there is a lot to appreciate about the show.The best thing about 'The Legend of Korra' is its titular character, 'Korra'. She is the total opposite of Aang, the main character of 'The Last Airbender'. For the first three seasons, she is angry, sarcastic, self confident and even a bit arrogant. She loves to fight and threatens to kill people multiple times during the show. She is a blast to watch and I also love the way she pouts. What is really interesting is her character development. In the final of the third season, a bunch of bad guys inject some poison into her. It wrecks her both physically and mentally, she has to sit in a wheelchair and gets depressed. The best Episode of the series 'Korra Alone' also shows that she has some kind of PTSD and that she gets haunted by a past version of herself.The series also is the most dark and violent Nickelodeon cartoon ever made. Now, it is still not even as graphic as a Simpsons Halloween episode, however it is remarkable with what Nickelodeon let the creators of the show get away with. As opposed to 'The Last Airbender', a few people actually die in this one. In one scene, a character gets the air sucked out of her lungs and you see a close-up of her throbbing face. The most brutal scene is the one where they poison the main character. She is chained up and stripped of most of her clothes and they forcefully administer the metallic poison through her skin and she screams and convulses and sweats and it's just horribly violent. Really great!The general themes of the show are also pretty grim. It's a show about Fascism, Concentration Camps, Terrorism, Anarchism, Depression, PTSD and Weapons of Mass Destruction to only name a few. There are tons of political references and parallels and it's just amazing. Another thing that is great is that this show isn't a lame rip-off of 'The Last Airbender' , but instead they actually innovated and stayed fresh. The atmosphere is completely different to 'The Last Airbender', but really nicely done. It has more of a steampunk, 1920's vibe to it. I really like that the retelling of the plot before each episode is done in the style of an 1920's movie. Even the villains make sense in this atmosphere, as the 1920's were the time when the communist and fascist movements really started to grow. The animation is absolutely stunning, especially the episode 'Beginnings' which is almost entirely done in the style of Japanese woodblock paintings and looks gorgeous! The show is amazingly tense at parts, in particular the latter half of the third season. The fight scenes are great as well.The ending to the series also deserves special mention as it is pretty perfect. Korra and another main female character enter a same- sex relationship with each other, and it is probably the first time this has been done in a series "for children" that comes out of the USA. However, the ending is also great on its own, the soundtrack is the best in the entire series and finally, Korra isn't crying or ruined but instead is happy for the first time. A remarkable scene that made me cry.Now the bad parts of the series.The biggest problem that it has parts were the humour is just absolutely unholy. The three kids are absolutely terrible, especially the little one. There are multiple scenes in the first season were he farts on people, and that is supposed to be the joke! The humour in 'The Last Airbender' was so much better, and while most of the stuff in 'The Legend of Korra' is still funny, everything that has kids in it is just horrendous. They also are the only characters in the series who have atrocious voice actors. I don't get why they are in the series at all. The creators themselves said that this was supposed to be a more mature version of 'The Last Airbender' and they are right for the most part, so why are the children even there? Did Nickelodeon force theme? Another thing is that some of the characters don't feel that well written compared tp 'The Last Airbender'. While some of theme are good, like Varrick or Zaheer, other just feel bland, like the villain of the second season. That is mainly because instead of telling one story for four seasons, each season tells a different story and they are only loosely connected. And while this allows the creators of the show to tell more stories, the show fells a lot less tight. In 'The Last Airbender', every character felt great because they had three or two seasons to develop. I realize that I am criticizing on a very high level. This show is still light years better than everything else Nickelodeon has ever made, and if you liked 'The Last Airbender', you should definitely watch this one. It was really sad, heartwarming, intelligent, tense, political, action packed, violent, spectacular, witty and funny(except the kids). There aren't a lot of shows which made me feel so much and made me so sad when it ended. I am still suffering from post-series depression. Great Television without a doubt! Just prepare to be a little annoyed and underwhelmed at certain parts.
We have found our new Avatar!!! 70 years after Aang died came a new new Avatar named Korra. Korra is no average teenager, she's the next Avatar. But, there is one more skill she needs learn. That skill is airbending. Korra already knows Earth, Fire, and Water. All she needs to train is her Airbending. Her trainer is Aang's son, Tenzin. Tenzin gets very serious while training Korra. But, airbending isn't the only thing that is on Korra's mind. There is a villain in Republic City, Amon. No one knows who Amon really is. No one knows who's behind that mask. But the only thing that Korra, Tenzin, Bolin, and Mako know about Amon, is that he wants to take away bending.... For good...Can they stop Amon in time to save the future of bending? Tune in to find out!!!In my opinion, I feel that this show is the only show on Nickelodeon that actually has a story to it.
I honestly LOVE this show and (almost) everything about it! I really love the animation; of course, I expect nothing less than the anime-like animation. I also love the characters. Korra is a very determined and bold person, and quite likable in my opinion. Bolin is like the Sokka in 'The Legend of Korra', meaning that he is humorous and quite likable. We also have Mako, Bolin's brother, who seems to be distant at first but is later shown to be a caring and loyal person. There's more characters, but I'll let you meet them on your own. Now for our villain, Amon. This guy is SO awesome and has that intimidating aura to him, but there's just one, BIG flaw about him (which is mentioned in the next paragraph). Now onto the flaws of this great show. Okay, wait a second. I'd also like to add that this show has romance, and that I'm a sucker for that fluffiness. Now here's the flaw: the romance is imperfect and rushed. Now, if you're wondering which characters I'm talking about, it's Korra and Mako. Why is it flawed? Well, when Korra became jealous of the relationship between Mako and ______, I went "Whoa! Where did this come from?!" Of course, being me, I went along with the ride, hoping that it'd flesh out. But, alas, it didn't. Soon enough, they end up kissing, and I was (semi)disappointed. (I like the couple, that's why.) Another thing I kind of disliked was how Mako became a bit of a jerk to ______ (the other girl Korra is jealous of). Thankfully they forgive each other in the end. Now here's the flaw with the villain: the ending. In the end (I hope you saw the spoiler alert!) Amon dies in an un-badass way. I was kind of hoping for a big showdown between Korra and Amon like in the season finale in Avatar: The Last Airbender between Aang and the Fire Lord.Now, I know that 'The Legend of Korra' was supposed to be a mini-series, but I expected more from the creators of The Last Airbender. All-in-all, I really enjoyed this show and I look forward to season 2, 3, 4, and whatever Nickelodeon has in store for us.
The Legend of Korra was surprisingly much better than I thought it would be. I have watched The Last Airbender series maybe 2 or 3 times, and it is still the best. And because I loved TLA so much, I was a little disappointed with the beginning of TLOK. The first few episodes were slow and uninteresting, in my opinion. But then, I got hooked. I actually thoroughly enjoyed the rest of the series! I got almost the same feeling I did while watching TLA. I do think that, in a way, TLOK is more childish and yet not so much so in different ways...I don't know. I think this was a great spin-off, and I enjoyed watching it, especially when Aang and his friends and children were in it! I definitely recommend watching this, especially if you enjoyed TLA series! But if you're choosing between TLA and TLOK, choose TLA, it is by far the best. I don't agree with Nickelodeon's decision to make 3 more seasons of TLOK (at least that is what I heard they are doing). I don't think a spin-off should get more seasons than the original series. But whatever, maybe it will be good! But still, I cannot stress this enough, watch The Last Airbender BEFORE TLOK, it is sort of important to the story in a way, and it is the better show.
Legend of Korra is a worthy successor to one of the best animated shows to ever air on television. The animation is wonderful. The story is very interesting. If you are older, 25+, DON'T BE Embarrassed FOR ENJOYING CARTOONS! You are not alone.My only gripe with the show is how rushed it felt. The love triangle felt forced. Not as much humor. I do not fault the creators for this because Nick only slated Legend of Korra for 12 episodes. I wasn't as attached to the characters as much as the original. I am quite sure that will be fixed in the next two seasons.Even with those shortfalls, it is a fantastic show.
I always seem to have a problem with the way superpowers are used in movies and series. The Legend of Korra is no different, unfortunately. It is just that I can think of so many smarter ways to do things, considering the abilities the characters possess, and it gets annoying when the character does nothing like it, and further complicates the situation he or her is in. Korra is still a young apprentice, but considering that she has lived with these powers her entire life, she should know what she is capable of. This goes for most movies and TV series that involves powers. The Legend of Korra is not as bad as many others, but it is still something that needs work.Having said that, The Legend of Korra is a great series. I'm not a big fan of anime, I find it repetitive and constant, where I prefer that there is actual progress in each episode. In The Legend of Korra, the main objective is always clear, and it is not repeated in similar ways throughout the series (this goes for many series other than anime).Everything is done perfectly, with the exception of abilities not taken full advantage of, in my opinion. 9/10


                
This would have been lower if the second, third and fourth seasons happened.Let me explain, loads of spoilers below.I am a true, loyal Avatar Last Airbender fan. I was so angry to hear the old gang was older or dead... They stole Sokka from me. Anyhow, I tried the first season and hated the fact the story was rushed, annoying connections by making the characters just like the original Team Avatar and the losing the original setting by evolving the world into the 50's like lore...Then, I went to season 2. I am so glad that my brother urged me to return to Korra and give this a true, loyal fan shot. The return to the frozen tundra of the Southern tribe, seeing Korra's parents and the evolving of the spirits' lore even adding the Avatar origin story.... I was so happy and had too many sleepless nights trying to see what happened next. I was too overjoyed to be annoyed about the evolving world, the similar characters, and the surprises.Let me explain the similar characters: Bolin is our new Sokka. At first, the first season made him a whiney and strong (muscles) Earth Bender. I was upset for that the creators did not have enough time to make him a better character. But then season two happened... Bolin not only became a Sokka-like character, but this season helped develop him. I was happy to see "Moving Pictures" and the help of new leading ladies in his life to help him move on from Korra. Mako: He is sort of Zuko... He seemed like a cool, action type of guy but his part diminishes as the series continued. I truly hated him for cheating on Asami then on Korra then back to Asami then... He is an idiot. I do love the quote around the second season that Lin said, "you should have seen what happened to Air temple island when I broke up with Tenzin." Lin (Toph's daughter) is the best thing that kept my interest. She is the coolest character and I wish there was a time to find out her sister's father is... But I do like the fan speculation that it could be Sokka. Oh....I would love that. I support that fandom. Asami...again, she was barely a character and a pretty annoyance in season one. but...she quickly changes in season 2 through 4. I adore the changes and her growing hair. Season three...I was hooked all over again. I was staring deeply into the themes, questioning with the villains' goals and even liked the villains. The arrival of air bending too... I will not lie: I thought this was a joke. I watched the first three episodes and thought this was going away... Super happy that air bending stuck. The new characters, stories and the reuniting of air bending....best stories, humor and loved every second. The villain of this season...he gave me the creeps and the best season too, 4, came next.Post-traumatic syndrome... I never thought I would see this in a kid series. I loved the development the creators did for Korra. They truly took time and showed the hardships that PTS does to people. I too have seen and felt the hardship...so seeing this in a character and her strength to not only face a friend in battle but better yet... Korra was a hot head, contrast to the level-headed Aang, but this season truly pushed her again. I watched all the commentaries but I loved the depth of the fourth season's commentaries. the creators admitted having Korra face PTS made people see and believe in their inner strength and spoke out. I love that about TV series. Great series make every conversation, even the hardship of PTS, easier to say.In the end, I am very glad to collect and see the entire series. I am so glad the creators continued. I know if the series ended on season one, I would be annoyed and rewatch Aang all over again. Now, I watch both sets and enjoy the beauty and differences that both series have. Yet, the connections and dedications to the beauty of Earth, Air, Fire and Water.
I very briefly tell you only one thing.. Michael Dante DiMartino and Bryan Konietzko you missed one important thing - love. Since you and show all the "light" of quality, which is in every man, regardless of his manners, actions and parties, you should know that love is eternal and undying, and once the Mako and Korra confessed to each other in love and parted, then for the past two seasons, they would have to think about each other, it would be difficult to be around, talk, see... And in the finale, you should discard everything extraneous, surroundings and concentrate on the right, because I'm more than confident that you've made the final such, because just like variety and surprises, but I think this isn't right and not just because it's a cartoon, watched by children, adolescents, and you show them that "such" relationship - it is permissible, but also because in fact there was nothing between Asami and Korra. In the final episode, when Mako, the cost of his life, trying to destroy the vines, it could be interpreted primarily as love .. to Korra, he tried to help her with their lives, tried for her, but he was afraid of only one thought, that he could lose her... And in the finale, they would be united again, but this time for good, taking all the lies and betrayal, all quarrels and caused pain and left everything in the past and it would be truly wonderful.I didn't want to offend anyone or to condemn, I just expressed my opinion .. Thank U.
I really loved 'The Legend of Aang' series, it was a real breakthrough in terms of being an educational and entertaining animation for all ages. Those who didn't enjoy it probably never watched it. This series started off a bit nervy and felt out of place with a new avatar who is so boisterous and aggressive. However after watching the first book, it had me gripped like the first series. The character development is very important in Korra's case as she is the complete opposite of Aang having mastered the physical but not spiritual side of the avatar. I never thought i'd get used to the new set of characters, but i think as the story of the avatar develops over book 2:spirits its impossible to stay attached to the past. There are multiple plot twists and the suspense leaves you hungry for more. This series isn't limited by one quest like the first series, the writers can keep re-inventing Korra's character as they please. With time i think this could succeed Aang's series, very enjoyable so far and i can't wait to see what happens next. When i have kids of my own i will sit down and re-live these moments all over again and i can't wait! The stories are inspiring and, in my opinion, give a respect to the world as we know it you just don't see in other cartoons.
Legend of Korra is a very good animated series. I have so far seen all of season one and I have to say it has a great story line/plot. In season one already it is filled with metal benders, chi blockers, Aang's son and his family of air benders, bending tournaments, Toph's daughter, Republic city, a dog/polar bear pet, a person who can take people's bending away, Equilists(a secret society trying to get rid of benders), Katara, blood bending, warships, fighter planes and more. Also it is a more modernised version of the old Avatar (Avatar: The Last Airbender) just different characters, a different plot, different places and different events. Even so it has many surprising things as you watch the series from beginning to end.
Legend of Korra Series (Book 4) FinaleSo here we are at last. The series finale. *sigh*At this moment, I am experiencing a strange mixture of emotions. I am saddened by the fact that the show has reached its end, but there were many things the final episode(s) did that made this series one that I will remember for a long time.Beware of SPOILERS ahead.StoryIf you don't know, Book 4 revolved around Korra recovering from her battle with Zaheer, as well as stopping the dictatorial menace: Kuvira. Within the first few episodes, I was afraid that the show was going to have a hard time pacing itself while still resolving all the established plot lines.I am happy to report that Book 4 of The Legend of Korra was a fantastic conclusion to the series, and left just enough open to interpretation for it to be interesting. Note: I will be focusing on the events of the last two episodes during this summary.I guess we'll start with the literal giant robot in the room. When I first saw Kuvira's colossal mechanical robot death machine, I was not a fan. In my experience, battles in the Avatar universe against giant foes just don't appeal to me as much as the normal one-on-one fights (Like the Giant Korra vs. Giant Vaatu/Ungalaq fight. Ugh). Still, the death machine grew on me in these last two episodes, as it proved not only to be a respectable opponent for Team Avatar, but also a unique setting for some great fights. Once our heroes were able to enter the machine, things got really interesting. I especially loved the fight between Korra and Kuvira in the command room. It was a nice contrast to the normal wide open space fights that we are used to.Mako and Bolin's appearances were great as well. Their team up in the engine room was almost like watching them back in the Pro-Bending Ring. Anyway, at the end of the episode(s), Kuvira is defeated, Varrick and Zhu Li get married, and Korra and Asami fall in love. Well, not exactly. Yes, Asami and Korra were portrayed in a way that would suggest that they could perhaps pursue a romantic relationship. While I think this may have been done mostly as a fan- service, I applaud the creators (and Nickelodeon) for releasing such progressive episode, especially in a show directed towards younger audiences.I'm sure there will be a wide range of responses after this reveal. Honestly, I think the decision to put the relationship in the show was a good one. I think it's good step in the right direction, especially after the whole censorship issue that just occurred with The Interview. Plus, It leaves room for expansion to the world.Anyway, if I had to have one complaint about this season (which I do), it would be that the last episodes leave some relationships half- baked, Like Opal and Bolin. Then again, I don't really care. Art StyleLoK had a rough time even having four seasons. With the show being taken off television and put on the web, I'm sure the studio was desperate for funding. Maybe this is why I excuse the show for looking as terrible as it is. Some of the scenes look terrible, but I think the studio did the best with what they had. The most important scenes look great, and that's all that matters.ActionBook 4 offers the most and the best fight scenes of the entire series, if not the franchise. While none of them quite live up to the fight with Zaheer, I appreciate the creators for going all out on the final season.Award Time!Best Character: Kuvira (Still)Best Fight: Taking down the Colossus (Specifically the part where they earthbend the building)Best Episode: Beyond the Wilds (just because of Zaheer)Best Relationship: Korrasami!!ConclusionSo hey, this was a great show. While the series finale wasn't everything I'd hoped it would be (because Appa's spirit didn't fly out of the spirit world and kill Kuvira), I thought it was a fitting end to the series. I give Book 4 of LoK and the entire series itself a 9/10. We may never see anything else from the Avatar universe for a long time, if ever. We were lucky enough that Korra was made as it is! Still, I hope this isn't the last we see of Team Avatar.Friends, you will be missed.And remember, let go your earthly tether. Enter the void, empty, and become wind.
