I'd never seen To Kill A Mocking Bird, or read the book. I purchased it thinking I would see one of the great movies of all time. A classic. After watching the first ten minutes I literally had to double check the DVD case to make sure I was watching the correct movie. . .this is a classic? Trying to enjoying it, I kept telling myself, "It was made in the early sixties. Movie standards were different back then. Scripts weren't as tight. Viewers didn't demand details that made the movies realistic. Etc.etc." Well, that didn't help. In a word, the movie was just plain hokey.I swear, the reason this movie got such acclaim at the time is because the main character stood up for a black man in court who was accused of raping a white women. It's because it championed a black man, and showed how evil some southern white folks could be. If it would have been a white man who'd been wrongly accused of raping white woman I'm sure the media and viewers would have not given it a second thought. This is not a great movie by any means, in any era.


                
My taste in movies has changed in the 50+ years since To Kill a Mockingbird was released. I loved it then (I loved the book too) and have remembered it fondly ever since. But now it seems stilted and phony, even the stuff with the kids. Everybody declaims; nobody talks the way real people talk; and Gregory Peck is overbearing and pompous, stiff and smug and cold as an icepick.It's a self-important and pretentious movie, overloaded with phony down-homeness and condescending socio-political moralizing - not entertaining or enlightening at all. I'm glad I borrowed it from the library instead of paying anything for it, even the few pennies an online rental costs.


                
I read the book and saw the movie, thinking that it would clear things up. The book sucked, no other word for it. But let's talk about the movie, the plot line was terrible, as well as the book. I like the message of racial issues, but I think we know all about that. The acting was good, but for me what makes a movie for me is the plot line, plus good acting. If you disagree with me, please e-mail me at monk1300@aol.com. No one could convince me that this movie should belong in the top 250 movies of all time, or even better to convince me this movie is a masterpiece. Bottomline the movie was bad, can't cover up the plot with saying that the book was a great piece of literature.


                
Obviously anyone who thinks this movie is great has not read the book. The book was wonderful and I heard great things about the movie and expected it to be the same.  I was extremely disappointed in the movie.  There were many key things from the book that it lacked.  Aunt Alexandria was one of the main characters in the book and was not even mentioned in the movie.  And the set up of Maycomb was too cluttered.  As many people may think this is just the opinion of one person, I was just expressing my concern in saying that this movie is not worthy of being in the top 50 of all time.


                
i'm sorry that i can't give you a..waddyacallit...unspoiled(dunno if that's right, you get the picture), perhaps i would have cried because the movie is so wonderful, if i hadn't read the (incredibly wonderful) book shortly before. this way, i cried because it was such a wicked attempt at unravelling the wonderful book. the book gives you an innocent view on a small southern city, from a childish perspective(scout's). the movie shows a small southern town, it shows scout, and all the stuff, but it somehow fails to deliver all the rest. the feelings i got reading the book(twice in 3 weeks, dammit!) didn't connect. watch something else. (perhaps, if i was a girl it could have saved me the experience, i watched it with some girls-they had read the book, too- and they loved it because they were infatuated by gregory peck)


                
Abacus Finch (Gregory Peck) is a widow with two children, Jim and Scout. His wife is dead. Mr. Finch is a lawyer whose hired to defend a black man named Tom (Lou Brock), who was falsely accused of killing a mockingbird which are an endangered species. In those days (1962), whites were prejudiced against blacks whom were a different race than themselves in the South. The Finch's also have a mysteryious neighbor named Boo Radley (Clea Duvall). Boo is a albino who only comes out at night. One night when Jim and Scout are walking home from trick or treating they are attacked by a pedaphile. Boo Radley was out at night and rescued them. Boo hides behind Jim's bedroom door. Abacus was so grateful that he invited Bo to live with them.also recommended : "The Paradine Case", "Anatomy of a Murder", " 12 Angry Men", "In the Heat of the Night", "To Kill a Clown", "A Time to Kill", "A View to a Kill", "Branded to Kill", "Hard to Kill", "License to Kill", "Shoot to Kill", Dressed to Kill", "Stripped to Kill", "The Birds", "The Omen" (1976 & 2006), "The Boys From Brazil", "The Boys in the Band", "And the Band Played On", "Quackser Fortune Has a Cousin in the Bronx", "Joey (aka Making Contact)", and "The Beyond".
To start off let me say that i LOVED the book. Has to be one of THE best books ever written. While i was reading this book i was imagining that the movie was going to be fantastic. I figured it was going to just as amazing as the book. Right after i finished reading the book i decided to watch the movie since I've heard what Justice it did to the book. I went in with high hopes. Boyyyyy was i wrong. The acting was pretttty bad from the kids, tom was pretty good, atticus was great, and everything else sucked. The movie left out really touching parts from the book. It also it did not emphasize the importance of certain characters. The court scene was terrible. It was not as powerful as it was in the book. The acting was DREADFUL. I ended up turning the movie off before it ended because i could not handle such a beautiful book be chopped and messed around with as badly as it was. The movie was such a disappointment i cannot wait for it to be remade by someone who actually loved the book and can truly capture its beauty and can be played by people that can *hopefully act and portray the characters in a much better way. Conclusion: Read the book, itll paint a better picture and you wont have to see such an amazing book be destroyed
