To Kill A Mockingbird is probably one of the most over evaluated movies of all time.The first hour is absolutely boring to death, endless and in the end pointless. The scenes follow one another very disjointly, with no binder, and it goes nowhere. There is no soul and one is close to a flat electroencephalogram watching these children play, because this is almost exclusively what it is about.Then comes the second part dealing mostly with the trial. This is what kind of saves the movie, and still, even if you get more or less carried away by the testimonies and demonstrations with the underlying themes of racism and segregation, it remains rather weak qualitatively.But what is the most disconcerting is the lack of coherence of the feature with the association of two parts that almost have nothing in common. One is under the impression of watching two completely different movies: chronicle of a childhood or anti-racist pamphlet, a choice should have been made...


                
I've never read the book, but having just seen the movie, I think I will. Not because I was so inspired by it. No, this movie had all the poignancy of a rock.I want to read the book because it has to be at least ten times more interesting than this movie.The story presented is not new. It wasn't new when the book was written. I say this because I think people get swept away by the story rather than by its treatment in this particular case.When I watched this movie I felt lost and detached, not knowing what was going on and why.The music was obtrusive, although it was typical of the era, so I'll give it that. The sets and the costumes were well done, I'll give it that, too. But the only good performance was from Gregory Peck. Everyone else was stilted and forced.The only way this movie can be justified as good is by comparing it to other films made at that time. It seems real actors hadn't yet realized it was respectable to perform their craft on the silver screen, and directors hadn't yet become artists. Even this doesn't totally fly. I have seen great films made then and before (Cape Fear, High Noon), so I know it could have been done well.I fault the screenwriter and the director, and whoever it was who told them they were doing a good job.


                
why would you want to see this movie when you can read the horrible boring book instead? this movie is slow, and dull. the only "action" in the whole book is implied in the movie. everything just crawls and it was a waste of time, I only liked it because the acting was good. I know everyone says it is one of the "gems" of American filmaking, but i disagree. If you want to see high quality movies, go watch Wee Sing movies.


                
I don 't really understand why people prefers Harper Lee's To Kill a Mockingbird to William Faulkner's Intruder in the Dust. A white lawyer tries to free a black man falsely accused of a capital crime. OK. But watch Clarence Brown adaptation of Faulkner's play (1949!), and you'll see a challenging and thrilling drama, with young actors at their best. The white paternalism of Atticus in "to kill a Mockingbird" is no longer acceptable. To fight racism is better to defend Lucas Beauchamp than Tom Robinson. Mockingbird seems to be censored in 1962. We have here a simply and easy morality, things are not like that, but it's better for the soul.


                
This stink-bomb directed by Robert Mulligan starred the cool, but boring Gregory Peck. He spoke like a droning English asshole. The dorky Atticus had a simple minded daughter named Scout and a dopey son named Jem. Atticus had to defend a misunderstood black man who was a accused of raping a psycho white woman. Peck won a Golden Globe award for Best Actor of 1962, my ass. He should've won a Golden Raspberry Award for worst actor of that year and for that trashy movie. Robert Duvall mad his debut as the mute Boo Radley. I was disappointed. Robert Duvall is kind of interesting, even though he had to play in the stupid Godfather movie. Don't buy this crap.


                
