The show follows the newly elected Prime minister of Denmark Birgitte Nyborg and her Spin- doctor Kasper Juhl. While the first season was criticized for being a far cry away from any realistic depiction of politics, the second season have climbed to be a great story about the life of politicians in Denmark. While the drama is sometimes is exaggerated compared to that of real-life (which is to be expected) the stories are however quite believable as many of the themes are inspired by true stories and problems Denmark's politicians have faced during the last 20 years. While the characters went from stereo-types in season 1, many of them have grown into dynamic believable characters in the second installment. If one can survive the pretentious opening titles and the dumb-wise Machiavellian quotes, the sopping drama from time to time, especially in the first run, second season we offer a rich and engaging story which must be applaud for its eminent storytelling and drama which is both entertaining and relevant for anyone interested in politics. Also one should not forget that this is a drama, not a depiction of real politics in the traditional sense, but is much more focused on the human cost and complications of being a politician. Cliché? perhaps but it's still being well executed. A fine 7/10 is rightly awarded here.


                
I just finished watching third season of this extraordinary series. At least that was the premise based on what I saw in first two seasons and that is where my great expectations were lying while I was waiting for third season to get aired. To my great regret, last of this very promising work, promising in sense of iconic status that could have get, faded away in most of aspects that harvested deserved praises with first two installments.It was believable despite I am not such an expert in high politics to back my opinion up. Borgen was driven in very attractive way that I almost couldn't stop watching. Since I can call myself very demanding watcher who rarely get satisfaction in this age of half-baked TV and cinema products the one could expect I'd find fault in first two seasons. Maybe there were some, but I didn't notice or I was just too amused and amazed by such a piece of good work. But last season was in many ways contrasted to that impression. Feeling of recycled is very present. From private relations to relations in political arena. And I don't mean about what is part of that life by default. I meant about almost copied events and outcomes. One of characteristics that adorns those not so well written shows is writer's indecisiveness where to put characters, where to lead them and how to end it with very visible point where they took u-turn and so suddenly changed pitch of whole relationship. Characters that are there and then they are not, without giving any plausible explanation.To cut this story short, what bought me before was absent now. Where I couldn't have found holes now I found too many. Scent of Rocky 3, 4 and 5 in sense of childish fairytale euphoria or 'Dark Knight rises' in sense of predictability and kiddish execution I get from these ten episodes doesn't help either.That is said by someone who was very prone to recommend this series. Now, well, I won't stop people from having a look but I, for sure, won't recommend or push as I did, before I watched third season.
I liked Borgen, respected it, enjoyed it. But I didn't LOVE it, as opposed seemingly everyone in the universe (OK I found one Luke-warm review out of about 20 by major outlet writers - the rest were flat out raves). My wife loved it. My friends. So maybe I need to see it again? But 30 hours is a big investment in something that didn't blow me out of my chair. It's about Danish politics, and the almost accidental rise of one woman - Brigitte Nyborg - a member of one of Denmark's 8 parties to the role of Prime Minister – after her less- pragmatic, better known male rivals self-destruct. It followers her, and those around her -- her team, the press, her political rivals -- as they try to stay balanced in the always choppy and morally confusing world of politics.There's no question the show is extremely well acted. And the characters cover a wide range of jobs, temperaments, levels of honesty and ethics, while almost all remaining human beings (I do wish the leader of the far right party wasn't quite such a cartoon). The human problems the lead character faces as the pressure of high office takes its tolls on both her family and her ethics are believable and moving. And I loved that all the major characters are allowed to be flawed and make bad decisions while still being treated as decent people at heart. Yet, for me there was something a bit too neat, a bit too old-school in the show's 'crisis of the week' approach, where almost every episode sometimes wildly complex political issues and situations manage to get resolved. While the personal issues are allowed to work in a more serialized way, evolving slowly over time, I don't love how the show pushes to close the book on a brand new political crisis almost every episode. It leads the show to need sudden convenient twists that can feel melodramatic at times, and sometimes makes our heroine just a little too perfect, a little too much smarter than everyone in the room for me to buy it. Warning: mild, general spoilers for the 3rd season aheadIn the series' 3rd (and last) season, there was, for me, some compromise of what had seemed the show's own moral core. While I applaud the idea -- so lost in the US -- that effective politics is largely about pragmatism and compromise, in the show's 3rd season it starts to feel like Brigitte has become ALL about pragmatism and compromise to get what she wants , and that the show itself isn't seriously challenging her shift. Without some ideological, moral core I found it harder to care who won out. There is a clever last second reprieve that solves the problem to a certain extent. But I spent a lot of the last season feeling increasingly uncomfortable that the series itself DIDN'T seem to be uncomfortable, as it's heroine increasingly seemed a woman whose talents were exploiting the political machinery as an end in itself -- without deeply, critically questioning her character, or making us face the intriguing but uncomfortable possibility that perhaps she isn't the truly good hearted, nobly intended politician we all wished for, and that she had always seemed to be. None-the-less, a LOT is good in the show, and given it's near universal enthusiastic embrace (and the fact I certainly quite liked it, even if I didn't love it) I may just be forced to hang onto my blu-ray set, and one day give it another go.
Some cheap plotting, saved by superb casting, acting, videography, editing, music. Overall, the best recent TV series, but that isn't saying much, is it? Third season, weakest. African episode, way over the top; also, Jeremy and Brigit in Hong Kong (silly).


                
I watched this week the Borgen complete three seasons . At the end of season 2, I was like Bourke-Simon waiting for season 3 to unfold. Season 2 closes with Birgitt and Philipp reappraisal of their familial situation. Philipp ended his relation with Cecilia. Birgitt comments: "You know where to reach me." Is it hope? Then comes season 3 with the same political in-fighting among the parties. Birgitt comes back from Dubai or Bumbai with Jeremy . I agree with Bourke-Simon that there is no chemistry between the two. But he is convenient in that he doesn't take too much time. Kasper and Kathryn are almost hidden Under the rug. Frist is given a fair account however. The last scene where Philipp comes to pick up Magnus at 22h00 and is given a tap on the shoulder by Birgitt. This is a slap in the face. An intelligent woman makes the wrong choice . This is a superb series in the first two seasons, and degrades in the third... in spite of very good material.


                
