I'm a big fan of the series, but it probably helps that I'm the only British politician (I was an MP for 13 years) who grew up in Denmark. To complement rather than repeat the other reviews, a few words on how realistic it is.The multi-party negotiations are entirely plausible - that's how Danish politics works, and there are parties that switch allies from time to time. The balance between idealism and scheming is also really well done - most British and American movies and TV series portray all politicians as ruthless power-mongers, but generally politicians like to think they're doing the right thing, just like anyone else. The character are recognisable types - in particular, the far-right leader is clearly modelled on Mogens Glistrup, the entertaining, folksy and erratic founder of the current Progress Party.The series is maybe a bit weaker on the big political issues, since it has to tackle something complex in an hour, and an issue like Afghanistan can't really be analysed in any depth in that time. The episode on a thinly-veiled Sudan with the smooth, corrupt Northern leader and the plausible Southern leader with some uncomfortable views is gripping but stereotyped. But it works brilliantly with smaller issues, especially those that interweave with the private lives of the protagonists. Above all, it creates sympathetic yet flawed political figures with a non-political private life, so much more like real politicians than the one-dimensional figures that the media try to make us.


                
I have just finished watching the first series on Canadian television, TVO, and even though it took me a while to get hooked I am now. I do hope we get the second and third series as well.Such a bunch of interesting characters and situations. I used to work in a newsroom of a newspaper so the media scenes are utterly captivating. The episode that jumped out at me was when it focused on Denmark's relationship with Greenland. It reminded me a little of Canada's dealings with the natives who live in northern Canada.The writers need to be commended for their great work, as do the cast. Wonderful show and I REALLY hope the Americans do not remake it as they did with The Killing.
I love this show. The people seem human in all ways and the story is very realistic. The only problem is not with the show itself, but with the subtitles.Unless you speak Danish, you're going to need to rely on the subtitles to know what's happening. The problem is that what is shown in the subtitles is a condensed version of what the actors are saying. It may be that someone decided that it would be too hard to read the subtitles fast enough to keep up with the visuals, but it is very annoying when a character talks for several seconds and the subtitle is just a few words. Since they also subtitle when English is spoken, the editing is obvious.I would have rated this a 9, but the subtitle issue costs it one star.


                
In many countries, this century has seen dozens of political dramas where "dry" politics does not prevail, it is rather a background/motive/reason to picture human relations and their changes proceeding from changes in circumstances. Borgen is a fine Danish example of respective matters, without the simplified approach "bad politicians - good journalists", and that even famous people at high places are humans and personalities, with their ups and downs, feelings and sexual life. Of course, Denmark is more "open" here than many other countries and only a few positions are separated from "ordinary" people by security guards, but still... Apart from sharp and logical script, there are diversified performances, beginning with Sidse Babett Knudsen as the protagonist Birgitte Nyborg Christensen up to less frequent appearances by not less famous actors such as Lars Brygmann, Jens Albinus, Lars Mikkelsen - to name a few...True, there are some trivial elements available almost in all Scandinavian crime series (e.g. child molestation) and there are several similarities with Adam Price's previous creation Anna Pihl, but nevertheless, Borgen is a series that could be mandatory for both viewers and politicians, particularly ahead of any elections. Because not is all as it seems when power and fame come into question.


                
A couple of decades ago the expressions Danish political thriller and Swedish action movie were used to conceal adult entertainment. Borgen defies these old jokes by being an exquisite political drama.If you've seen The Killing (Forbrydelsen) and felt that there should be more politics than crime, then you're in the right place. I understand that the same authors have been involved, but without further analysis, i'd say that the atmosphere is the same. Besides, you'll encounter some actors you've seen before.Borgen follows the lives of ordinary people involved in politics and media and other visible and not-so-visible individuals that shape our society. We see how they change and how their careers influence those around them.Given that Borgen comes from Danemark, which is among the best regulated countries countries in the world, it is interesting to see that there are some things that are universal. Namely, the politicians almost exclusively care about their career and the media are merely looking for a new story for their next edition.


                
