The first time I saw this movie I had difficulty in understanding a lot of the dialogue not just because of the weird accent, but because the actors spoke so damn fast.  But despite this I became literally addicted to it. To begin with my wife got pretty annoyed because any other movie we rented would be ejected after about 20 minutes of viewing and in would go LS&2SB. Now she is hooked as well.I have lost count of the number of times I have seen LS&2SB and still cannot put my finger on why I find this movie so good to watch.  I suppose the most obvious feature of this movie is that it is beautifully balanced between being serious and humorous at the same time.  The characters are two-dimensional.  The villains are menacing, and yet they are made to look like idiots, and the good guys think they are so smart yet keep getting the rug pulled from under them.  They are all projected as 'cool' yet the situation is always out of their control.  Maybe it could be called a satire on true life.The style of this movie is unique, full stop.  I cannot think of any movie that can be compared to LS&2SB.  Quite a few people say that the style is a mix of 'Pulp Fiction', 'Goodfellas', 'Trainspotting' and 'Reservoir Dogs', but I think that you would make that kind of description only if you are really desperate to match LS&2SB to something.The best description I can think of is 'MTV does a crime comedy', and I honestly don't think there is anything wrong with that.  Like music videos, it is all non-stop movement and sound.  Something is always happening but unlike music videos, not without reason.The humor is incredibly sharp yet 'as a matter of fact'.  No one is really trying to be extraordinarily funny, but again it is the balance between being menacingly serious and funny that the humor really flies at you. I think that it is for this reason that a few people are really disappointed with LS&2SB.  If you are expecting a 'belly laugh Leslie Nielson, Jim Carrey, Steve Martin, typecasted' type all out comedy, or a serious 'Al Pacino, Andy Garcia, DeNiro typecasted crime thriller, you will find this movie a big let down.My favorite characters are Rory Breaker (Vas Blackwood) and Big Chris (Vinnie Jones) mainly because their two dimensional over-the-top characters are the most obvious.  Big Chris takes his son with him debt collecting, and while he beats up someone who owes chastises him for swearing in front of his son and Rory Breaker is the most idiotic drug-lord you could come up with.I haven't even mentioned the excellent and unique camerawork, speaker blowing soundtrack, beautifully threaded plot, perfect ending and the grittiest visuals I've seen.  You wont see any reflective glass laden sky scrapers here, or 'over head city shots', or incredible special effects. This movie has actors I have never heard of, dialogues that you have to rewind and replay to understand, buildings that look as though they have been condemned for demolition, cars that wouldn't even be seen in our scrap yards, has probably been made with a budget that most movies in Hollywood use for make-up alone, has no love scenes, or romance or complex relationships, no Oscar-worthy performances, and yet is perfect entertainment.Where our movies normally rely on budgets, this movie works on human talent alone.If any movie deserves a 10 out of 10, then this is it.'And there's one more thing...............it's been emotional'


                
I was a total and complete sucker for this film.If I were to write and direct a movie about gangsters or crime, this would be it.  I wouldn't change one damn thing.  Not a thing.  Everything in this film was, to my eye, perfect - casting, the camerawork, the excellent dialogue ("It's been emotional.")Now I don't have much to compare this to, and I've heard some criticism that it basically draws quite heavily from older British crime dramas.  I've got a bunch of these on my queue to rent, but I doubt you could make a crime film better than this.This film oozes with style, class, dark humor, plot twists and turns, and doesn't drag one bit.  The casting and characterization is perfect, and Ritchie isn't afraid to move the cameras around; no pretense is really made here at "realism" - Ritchie doesn't mask the fact that it's a film and he runs with it.I really don't think of myself as easily impressed, and I have seen a hell of a lot of films in my time, but this one instantly made my Top 10 after only a single viewing.  Yes, I'm raving about it, and while it may not be "spiritually enriching" or contain any deep sociological content (which I actually do look for in films), somehow it still scores as one hell of a film; memorable and entertaining, and stands up well to multiple viewings.I am a bit dismayed to see some of the marketing of this film comparing it to other things like Quentin Tarantino films or Trainspotting.  It really does it a disservice because this film really is its own phenomenon and stands on its own two feet; if anything it is similar to  Trainspotting and Tarantino films only because it actually has its own bold style.Can't recommend it enough.


                
Best comedy in years, friend turned me on to this hilarious comedy of errors and glad she did. The film is damn near flawless, forces you to pay attention to the twists and turns through it's witty dialogue. Wonderfully photographed with brilliant camerawork but not overdone. Worth several sittings and we could learn alot in Hollywood from this one....


                
'Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels' is one of those films that I can watch x number of times and still enjoy it as much as I did in the first viewing. This is pretty much what an action gangster flick should be like. It has all the required ingredients. The action, humour, drama and suspense balance extremely well. Ritchie's writing and direction are excellent as not only does the film keep one at the edge of his/her seat but the characters (including minor ones) are rich. They're over-the-top but that only works for the film. While the bad guys think they're powerful and all, they're actually portrayed as dumb and the good guys think they're clever and have all the answers to their problems when they're actually not so bright. The characters are portrayed as cool yet they end up getting caught in a mess. The film too is somewhat satirical as it reflects a part of life e.g. the closeness between the four friends, the son following the father's (Big Chris's) footsteps. The humour is mostly dark with sharp, witty and funny dialogues and hilarious situations. It all seems a 'natural' part of the story. Shot in DV, the camera-work and use of music is very effective. The film has a raw and gritty look yet the execution of it makes it very stylish. Richie uses the same style in 'Snatch'. He should become an auteur and make more movies of this kind as it is clearly his fort (remember his disastrous attempt at romance with 'Swept Away'?). All the actors, whether it's Jason Flemyng, Dexter Fletcher, Nick Moran, Jason Statham or more recognized faces like Vinnie Jones and Sting, seem to naturally fit their parts. 'Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels' is one of the coolest 'gangster' flicks. A must watch to those who love action films that have both substance and entertainment.


                
I have watched this film countless times and it is always funny, entertaining and visually appealing. It combines a great story (actually about 8 stories), lush cinematography (a personal must have), and superb dialog. When I first saw it, I thought it was a good rip-off of pulp fiction (a common theme on the message boards), but later you come to realize that this simply is not the case. IMO, it is much more like "The Usual Suspects", another great film.The visual appeal puts it in my top three list for this (along with The Good, The Bad and The Ugly, and Das Boot).There is no weak character - everyone is perfect and fits into place and has their own role in the whole story. But my personal favorite is Rory Breaker. He manages menacing and humorous at the same time in perfect combination.Favorite lines (from Rory Breaker) "If you hold back anything, I'll kill ya. If you bend the truth or I think your bending the truth, I'll kill ya. If you forget anything I'll kill ya. In fact, you're gonna have to work very hard to stay alive, Nick. Now do you understand everything I've said? Because if you don't, I'll kill ya."


                
"Right! Let's sort the buyers from the spiers, the needy from the greedy and those who love me from the ones who don't<U+0085>" Bacon (Jason Statham) and Eddie (Nick Moran) work a street crowd with their hot merchandise. Cops. They flee. When the film suddenly crashes into super-slomo, and a hard, street-savvy narration kicks in (Alan Ford's voice) telling us of Bacon's and Eddie's street chicanery on its last legs, we hark back to the opening of *Pulp Fiction* (where Tim Roth and Amanda Plummer are dialoguing intriguingly and cooing like lovebirds over coffee in a diner one minute and in the next, suddenly viciously holding up the joint). Like *Pulp*, this Guy Ritchie-penned and <U+0096>directed trash whore promises to be a dialog-luscious film with a rabid style all its own.It is.With a frenetic energy that few films today possess, *Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels* is the work of a film-maker who remembers that movies are, first and foremost, Entertainment. Guy Ritchie is Danny Boyle (*Trainspotting, 28 Days Later*) on crank.Along with Statham and Moran, Dexter Fletcher (as Soap) and Jason Flemyng (as "Tubby" Tommy) round out the quartet of twenty-something East End street friends who pool their cash to enter Eddie, a card-shark natural, into a life-or-death stakes card game with local gangster and porn king, "Hatchet" Harry Lonsdale (P.H. Moriarty).Which Eddie, through Harry's cheating, promptly loses.So begins Eddie and the boys' crooked quest to deliver "half a million knickers" to Harry before Harry's bulldog, Barry "The Baptist" (Lenny McLean) starts claiming their digits as vig.That's the short version. In the final telling, Lock, Stock - filmed with a leached look that makes London look even stinkier and gloomier than it actually is - is a Mobius strip of black comedic robbery and nihilistic bloodletting, shot through a revolving-door of criss-crossing, cross-killing, kill-switching plots.Concurrent with our desperate hero foursome (calling them anti-heroes does not even suffice for their level of "anti," so let's drop the prefix and stop pretending we don't support bad guys), there are the dazed and confused marijuana farmers led by the willowy Winston (Steven Mackintosh), whom we first meet inanely arguing over locking the front gate; there are Eddie's neighbors, a gang of thieves as ruthless as they are inept, led by a chilling sadist, Dog (Frank Harper), whom we first meet as he swipes golf balls off the nose of a victim while machete-ing another hanging upside down; there is a black gang of giants led by a cockney midget with a fashion-challenged 'fro, Rory Breaker (Vas Blackwood), whose introduction to the story sees him setting a man on fire for insisting he change the pub television channel; then there are the two clueless, low-rent bandits (Jake Abraham and Victor McGuire) who burgle the smoking barrels of the title with plot-twisting consequences; there's Big Chris (Vinnie Jones), a merciless hit-man who is yet intent on raising his son with manners, and a hardened bar owner, JD, who shuns the maelstrom, not for want of street-cred, but because he is miles beyond mustered (played by Sting, as hard as the day he formed The Police).With a source-music soundtrack that swivels effortlessly between savage, scarring guitars to ska figures and traditional Jewish plucking, and slang so rich your ears will gain ten pounds ("not with Liberia's deficit in ya skyrocket," "orders an Aristotle of the most ping pong tiddly in the nuclear sub"), Lock, Stock wends its complex way to a furiously satisfying climax, twists aplenty and a final shot that will renew your faith in creative storytelling like a date with a drunk Hans Christian Andersen.This movie is a modern classic.No matter the Serious Critics denigrating style over substance, this movie - stylistic to a fault <U+0096> defiantly does not lack for substance. It is no secret that the nature of the medium is *reliant* on style, so it is as silly to say that a movie should lack "style" as a rock band should lack "image" <U+0096> these are the selling points of the products. Style is an integral aspect of a modern director's toolbox and Ritchie has consciously chosen to present his product this stylishly - and his cup overfloweth with substance too.Yet Ritchie's stylistic verve earns him his share of detractors, some rationally decrying the new breed of crash-cutting, shotgun storytellers, some just too slow-witted to keep up with the swagger of the Ritchies, Tarantinos and Boyles <U+0096> subsequently, there are only two ways to take this movie: either not at all, or lock, stock and two smoking barrels<U+0085>(Movie Maniacs, visit: www.poffysmoviemania.com)
A bunch of British lads combine their money and enter a high stakes, illegal card game with a vicious criminal. They lose and must pay all the money within a week...or they lose their fingers--one for every day missed.That's just the beginning of an invigorating, fast-moving thriller. Double and triple-crosses abound. The thick British accents are hard to understand at first but you get used to it. This movie is full of TONS of extreme bloody violence (how this got an R I'll never know); loud, abrasive music that actually fit the scenes perfectly; virtual non-stop swearing and a fantastic script--full of hysterical lines and situations and always moving. Also director Guy Ritchie never stops--his camera and is always moving and he shots every scene in inventive ways. Basically it's a movie that you can't take yours eyes off--the direction and the script are so great you're always entertained. All the actors fit their roles perfectly too.This isn't for everybody--many people will probably find this too violent and profane for them. But, if you're game, you're gonna have fun! A 10 all the way. It's easy to see why it's among IMDb's top 250 films.Only debit--you're EXHAUSTED by the time the movie is over!


                
After being in love with "Snatch", my cousin and I began to look out for this film and finally we saw it on a bootleg of the imported DVD. That was about 3 or 4 years ago and the last year I saw for the very first time the Region 4 DVD so I get my own copy of the film and enjoyed for the second time. Last week I saw "The Transporter" and I decide to enjoy once again this magnificent work so I'm here writing, after a third view, my thoughts about Guy Ritchie's first feature film.The story introduce you this four friends: Eddie (Nick Moran), Tom (Jason Flemyng), Bacon (Jason Statham) and Soap (Dexter Fletcher). They have different ways to get money but finally they decide to enter in a big game. They put together £100,000 to play a card game, taking advantage of the great abilities of Eddie. But they are playing against "Hatchet" Harry (P.H. Moriarty) who is a porn king and now they owns him £500,000 and Harry is the kind of man that if you own him you better pay him. I really love how the story makes that you care and, at the same time, feel sorry for the four friends because they put in that card game all of their savings and now they need a real miracle to get the money in only one week. At the same time were are watching this, we also watch some other characters that, if you think first, doesn't have anything related with the four friends but you will see how little is the world. There are many secondary characters but basically there are just group of friends and partners: the drug growers, the criminal neighbors of Eddie, the two guys from the North and Big Chris (Vinnie Jones) with his son, Little Chris. And all know Harry and Rory (Vas Blackwood) that are the "big bosses". There are two more characters that are the ones that connect everything, specially the second one: Barry the Baptist (Lenny McLean) and Nick the Greek (Stephen Marcus). This story might look a little complicated with a lot of connected subplots but the way that is shown is just perfect, enjoyable and easy to follow. The style of Guy Ritchie is just so cool, for example the first sequence is just brilliant, and there are many funny situations just as many ironies in the entire story, being the one in the very end the biggest of all.Cast: Just brilliant. Eddie could be the main character and Nick Moran is just great. Jason Statham is great but he has a support role as part of the four friends so he doesn't stand out of the four because the four are a team and are great. As I watched first "Snatch" I found here many familiar faces like Vinnie Jones and Alan Ford. The last one has a very small role as the bartender but he is also the narrator with his unique voice. Also Sting appears as Eddie's father making a really good performance and "the hardest man in Britain", Lenny McLean, is terrific as Barry.Conclusion: Well for me this is nothing but a brilliant film. Great story, great characters, funny situations with a lot of irony. I mention in this comment many times the film "Snatch" and the only reason is because is a similar film, brilliant too so I highly recommend both. In this case "Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels" deserves a perfect and beautiful 10.
This movie takes some time to really appreciate fully. First time you see it you like it, although you don't get the full plot and all the jokes. Second time watching you discover new things and start really enjoying it and consider it excellent. Third time you discover even more tweaks and turns and start loving it, from that moment you can see it over and over again and love it every time. I consider it one of the best movies ever made<U+0085>A great story with a unique plot, hilarious characters and the typical British humor in every line<U+0085> Very similar to the other great movie, Snatch, where Brad Pitt is starring, although this movie is better. Vinnie Jones, not only a great tackler at the soccer field, excellent collector man in this movie. The other characters are also played very well, thrills laughs and unexpected situations, you do not have a dull moment during the entire movie.


                
Frankly, I don't understand all the complaints about the accents in this film.  As an American, I had to really listen close to catch certain segments of the dialogue, but that was part of the charm of the characters. It may help to view the Cockney Rhyming Glossary on the DVD beforehand to get the gist of the slang ahead of time.This film has a bit of Tarantino in it but it isn't nearly as serious as Reservoir Dogs.  Although bloody, it isn't particularly gory.  It maintains a whimsical perspective throughout its length as the various parallel subplots throughout the film suddenly clash together in a satisfying climax.The characters are all quite entertaining as they seem to maintain a perfect balance of realism and cartoon-like qualities.Overall, an entertaining film, funny script, and a well-conceived story.


                
Guy Ritchie is a genius. He turned a seemingly generic card-themed flick into something magnificent I don't even know where to start. Okay, so basically four guys, Nick, Tom, Bacon and Soap shell out their life savings so they can join a high-stakes card game with local mob boss Hatchet Harry. It turns out the game was rigged and the four of them ended up owing Harry half a million pounds and they have a week to come up with the money. Their "genius" plan to come up with the money draws the ire of some notable figures of London's underbelly like marijuana-dealer Rory Breaker, old school London thug Dog and debt collector Big Chris. The events that will follow is either a) funny, b) hilariously funny, c) wickedly entertaining or d) just pure black comedy genius.This film is just too darn good. Its a healthy mix of black comedy, style, flair, wickedness, dark humor and awesome, magnificent turn of events. The casting and characterization is perfect, and Ritchie isn't afraid to move the cameras around; no pretense is really made here at "realism" - Ritchie doesn't mask the fact that it's a film and he runs with it.The dialogs were perfect that is if you understand what the hell they're saying. At first if you don't understand the dialogs, just be patient because you'll get used to it.The last 30 minutes or so is probably the highest point of the film. All these colorful characters collide each with their own agendas and you will be laughing until the end. The closing frame of the film will either shock you or leave you in a cliff, hanging. The ending of the film is probably one of the greatest movie endings of all time with the accompaniment of that catchy song, this film is overall one heck of a treat. I had a blast watching it and I'm pretty sure it will stay with me forever."Its been emotional" - Classic. A must-see. 10
Gads what a great flick! This is a twisty, turny, shoot-em-up and laugh at the outcome type of flick. Brilliant in its pacing, plot, scripting and delivery. THIS is how comedies should be made.It has a plot that's so complex it's hard to explain, but they pull it off brilliantly. All comedies have a screwball plot, but not all of them can pull it off. Sometimes you're so fixated on the fact that "this film makes no sense" that you can't revel in the humor. With "Lock, Stock" that is NOT a problem at all. You can go with the flow, and can be amazed as all these diversely bizarre threads come together at the end.The movie also dives into that great comic well -- known as Lower Class Britain -- and delivers everything it can possible promise. Copious profanity. Indecipherable (for us Americans) Cockney slang. Seedy locales. Multicultularism that blends in famously. And stuff that only is funny out of a Brit's mouth (if an American delivered these lines it would be horrible).The timing and pacing of this movie are spot-on. Only very rarely are there bits that "hang", most of it is just one spot after another, bang bang bang bang. These folks really have comic timing down to an art form.Love the over-the-top hints of violence, too. In true Brit fashion they don't throw violence on the screen like Tarantino might. It's all there, though, and in great form. The ludicrousness of it is suggested, both in off-screen sounds and in the hilariously gruesome aftermath. Utterly brilliant in delivery! The filmmakers clearly had a plan and executed it to perfection. 10 out of 10, one of the funnest films I've seen in a while. Sure it's almost 8 years old, but it's worth renting it even now.Barky


                
I love this movie as it has no class. Gangsters in most movies are annoying idiots dressed up in pinstriped suits with flash cars or are Italian and eat and talk way too much. In lock stock you get four working class friends who need to acquire 500 grand in a week to avoid having their fingers chopped off and worse. Their next door neighbours rob drug dealers. What ensues is a barrage of double crossing cockney slang madness and most of the time takes the black comedy route. The original soundtrack is execellent composed by john murphy and the acting is funny and incredibly good. This film is a blast and is much better than it should have been considering it was made on the same budget that it would cost to create a few cgi explosions in a film like the matrix. Watch it


                
I have watched this movie at least 2 dozen times, and every time I see it, it just keeps getting better!!! All the characters have depth, and you cant help but find Brit humor funny in this one! Jason Statham & Jason Flemying are top notch, hard to believe these two were just getting started in the industry! I recommend this to everyone that can appreciate a good laugh at Brit humor. From the poker game, to the robbery, to the shoot out that follows, everything was great. The best part is when girl appears our of practically thin air with the Brain gun in hand... you'll have to see it to know what I'm talking about. Second to that, the part about the traffic warden is another good running gag.
Guy Ritchie made his mark on the world with the madcap "Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels", about organized crime in London's underbelly. I remember that when it came out was right after Columbine, so some people got irked by the violence, but I suggest that you ignore that and luxuriate in the pure hilarity. As great as the plot - maybe better - is the soundtrack. The song "18 with a Bullet" may have also reminded people of Columbine. But anyway, this is a movie that you're sure to like. Ritchie followed it up with the equally great "Snatch.", but unfortunately followed that up with the dreadful "Swept Away" remake. But this one is a hoot.


                
From start to finish this film keeps you gripped.  The acting is natural and the cast bonds from the off, every one involved deserves recognition, from the lead characters down to the extras.  Twist after twist keep you wandering what could go wrong next.  Violent, but mainly assumed, funny,neh hilarious, even Vinny had me in stitches and I don't mean the surgical type he is known for!


                
It truly has been emotional. Favorite movie ever. It should also be taken in consideration that it was the first full length film Guy Ritchie made, the first movie Jason Statham and Vinnie Jones starred in, and still, I think it's the best movies for any of these guys.Snatch sort of keeps the same ambient, the same world, and though a very good movie as well, I don't think it matches this gem of cinematography. Guy Ritchie is the main reason why I'm trying to write movies myself and wish, some day, to come with a script even 10% as good as Lock Stock and Two Smoking Barrels. It truly has been emotional. Favorite movie ever. It should also be taken in consideration that it was the first full length film Guy Ritchie made, the first movie Jason Statham and Vinnie Jones starred in, and still, I think it's the best movies for any of these guys.Snatch sort of keeps the same ambient, the same world, and though a very good movie as well, I don't think it matches this gem of cinematography. Guy Ritchie is the main reason why I'm trying to write movies myself and wish, some day, to come with a script even 10% as good as Lock Stock and Two Smoking Barrels.


                
Film: Lock Stock and Two Smoking Barrels (1998) Genre:Comedy/Crime/Thriller Written and Directed by: Guy Ritchie Budget:£960,000 Box Office Sales: US: $3,897,569 International: $21,400,000 Total: $25,297,569My Critique: Lock Stock and Two Smoking Barrels is one of my favorite movies. Not only is it a great film, but it gives me inspiration as an aspiring film maker. The storyline is set in England, about four guys who lose a fixed card game and owe £500,000 to a mob boss. The four of them are forced to come up with schemes to raise the money. It ties in a lot of interesting characters in an excellent storyline. Any gangster movie lover needs to own this movie. I also love how the movie was low budget and yet had such high production value. The lighting was simplistic but captivating, and the actors weren't famous, but they fit the parts perfectly. In the bonus materials you learn how they made parts of the movie. They described some of the editing techniques involved like messing with frame rate, a first experience with a stunt man, and shooting with high speed cameras. This movie was Guy Ritchie's second film and so they were pretty new to this and it gives me inspiration because I felt like I could relate to the guys in the bonus features. It showed me that I know how they made it, and I have the ability to make something just as good. You don't need an outrageous Hollywood budget to make cinematic gold. If you really like this movie, I think it compares to and rates as high as the sequel Snatch, Reservoir Dogs, and Pulp Fiction.


                
I watched this movie without having a clue what to expect. And I ended up watching it two times in a row. The acting is laid back but great. And the dialogues are excellent. But most of all it is simply hilarious. There are many characters that all have enough depth. And equally many sub-plots. As it isn't until the end that the many plots all come together, like with Pulp Fiction it is a movie you can watch numerous times and it only gets funnier. The English Pulp Fiction wouldn't do it justice though as it provokes much more than a smile on your face. Expect some serious bursts of laughter. And if you are a fan of celebrities playing some great side roles: Vinnie Jones and Sting are the one to watch out for.


                
Kudos to Guy Ritchie for almost single handedly resurrecting the Brit crime flick. Without him there would be no Sexy Beast and no Layer Cake, there would most likely be no Vinnie Jones or Jason Statham either. The intertwining of multiple plot lines has been been before, and most likely he has used Pulp Fiction here as a model. Only his plot is much more involved, his dialogue more believable and his characters more real than any one figure in Tarantino's vehicle. The result is a smart, sassy and savvy film, that takes us into a seedy underworld, where the characters convey more menace with a single look, word or gesture than Pulp Fiction can sustain throughout. As a result l found myself far more engaged and wondering how the story was going to be resolved than in any other crime film l can recall in of the last couple of decades. Bloody excellent stuff.


                
Guy Ritchie has a skill: the skill to take multi-layered gangster plots, weave them together, and come out with a fabric of the finest quality. I first watched "Snatch", which came after this film. Loved it. Watch this film, which had a similar set-up (the interwoven gangster theme). Loved it. As far as I'm concerned, if Ritchie can maintain this level of creativity, he can keep on making these films until the end of time. His characters are so well scripted and the actors so well chosen, there is a three-dimensional quality to this film, as if you can almost taste the sulfur in the shotgun blasts.To describe the plot is difficult, unless we choose one character as the hero and the rest as the anti-heroes... but that's hard to do. While certain people seem to be on our side, they're all equally involved in the plot. Kids playing poker, a porn king who cheats at cards, Big Chris the hired thug, the stereotyped black ganja dealer, Barry the Baptist... all great characters.Another aspect of Ritchie's films is that instead of good vs. evil, he offers us bad versus evil. All the characters do bad things: steal, drink, smoke dope and kill if necessary. But some are simply "bad" (people who would be morally upright in a different setting) and others are "evil" (no moral code at all, black all the way to the core of their heart). This almost non-dichotomy is probably not unique to Ritchie, but is something he excels in. Highest possible recommendation, you nonce!


                
I recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys smart, witty heist movies/comedies. In order to enjoy this movie, you do have to follow the plot and be able to understand English accents. Not a movie for people that watch a movie just to watch a movie. Great Film, great story, hilarious cast! If you enjoy this movie you will also enjoy Snatch, also by Guy Ritchie. Snatch is also a great movie but I enjoyed Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels more. Both movies were truly terrific and I recommend these two films to who enjoys crime or comedy type movies, both films are the best of both worlds. GREAT FILM! -Hayden


                
I thought this was an excellent movie! The directing was wonderful - I thought the slow-motion special effects and the narration really made this movie. The cast was entirely believeable, and well placed in their roles.  This was like a British Sopranos meets the Three Amigos or something. (That was probably insulting and not meant to be.) This is definitely a movie that you have to watch more than once to catch some of the dialogue and to catch what you've missed. 10/10


                
I saw this movie for the first time in the cinema. It made me laugh like nothing ever did before. It's a great movie in a style I never saw before, that's why it was so funny. Snatch, the next movie from Guy Ritchie in the same style is also good, but it doesn't even come close to lock,stock & 2 smoking barrels. I must have seen it 6 or 7 times now, it's the only movie I've ever bought so far, that says it all doesn't it ?


                
Before Jason Statham was a big name action hero With little acting ability ( see Cranked, Transporter 1 & 2) , he had tremendous ability which was best displayed in this tricky little film buy Guy Ritchie. Throw in some all-time likable tough guys like Vinnie Jones Lenny McClean and you have the mix of a good crime drama. The thing is, this wasn't a crime drama. Lock Stock was much more than this, it made me laugh, sweat, act squeamish, and still made me attached to some of it's characters. In my opinion this movie was better then Snatch although Snatch had the big American actor to back it, Brad Pitt. This simple but ingeniously scrapped together story about a mean porn king and a group of underachievers in London taps all the emotions of the viewer. It's a shame Lenny Mclean passed after acting in this film because he was easily one of the true tough SOB's both on and off the set and would have been a great actor for some time. If you like comedies, dramas, action, or movies in general, this is a must see!!! - Don't be a Tit


                
