Hollywood has no monopoly on crass, vulgar, tasteless, blood spewing depravity.This ghastly piece of British trash is as good (bad?) as anything the schlockmeisters of US cinema have ever done. The film runs 110 minutes. The F word is used 125 times. !!! There is not one character with one redeeming quality. Indeed, if I was a British criminal I would be offended. The story line is complicated enough --- you can't tell the bad guys from the good guys because there are no good guys --- but the thick east end London accents make the dialogue incomprehensible for the most part. There are two or three attempts at comedy. But none of them is funny. Cinema can be so downlifting!


                
This film fits very well into a newly emerged, and stereo-typical, genre: the pop-inde-film. While originality is not the only criteria of importance, it certainly is one. To me this film seems a hybrid ripoff of Quentin Tarantino and Trainspotting. Ooh, junkies and violence (only without the aesthetics and purpose of the aforementioned). There are few redeeming values to this film at all. I really enjoyed (note the sarcasm) the slow motion and "trippy" camera work that were used at certain points. They were not the least bit necessary, as they did not reveal anything about the character or the scene. I suppose they were added to look "cool" and divert people's attention away from the nothing otherwise happening. Also, was there a single character who was developed in the least? I did not care what happened to any of them at all. 2/10 stars.


                
Affected and boring - pretty much says it all. The characters and plot didn't seem plausible, and didn't grab me in any way - no empathy or interest in any of the characters, no humor, etc. Just people talking - no action.My teenage son liked it though.


                
To say the least: I watched this film because of the high rating it got in the imdb. What did I get? A dull script, bad teenage-actors and stupid dialogues. And the violence they show isn´t as cool as they think. This is not the Pulp Fiction quality level! If you are over 16 years old: avoid it! It tells you nothing about cinema.


                
One hour into the movie and I still didn't know what was going on. Nice try to be hip, but doesn't quite deliver. Word of advice to Brit directors: Don't watch so much MTV! Not mentioning, copying it.


                
