I can understand why this movie was a hit in Britain.  They can actually make out the words that come out of these ultra-cockney-accented Brits' mouths.  As for us Americans, we're screwed.  Why this movie didn't come with subtitles is beyond my comprehension.  Despite that, this movie still became a hit worldwide.  However, I wasn't stimulated by its unique but often dry sense of style.  One thing I do have to note is the soundtrack, which is great, containing some head-bobbing hits by soul artists like James Brown.  To add to the incomprehensible dialogue, we're faced with an uninteresting and convoluted plot, full of twists and turns are supposedly worthy of an "Ahhh" out of us.  This is one of those movies that piles up so many plots and subplots to the point where I don't even care which direction the characters are headed.  I just can't wait for the movie to end!I think one reason why this movie has such a dull atmosphere is because it's driven by sit-down scenes.  Now, I read in a screenwriting book that "sit-down" scenes are like a kiss of death in writing a movie, and unless it's pulled off with pure genius like in "My Dinner with Andre" it will make the audience fall asleep in no time.  We have all these scenes where people are sitting in darkly lit pubs, when you know there's supposed some ACTION going on!  This is one of the few dialogue-driven action flicks I've seen. Of course, "Pulp Fiction" had a lot of dialogue scenes, but you know what the difference is?  "PF's" dialogue was interesting and funny!  This movie has certain echoes of "Pulp Fiction" but lacks the sly humor and intelligence.  I only laughed a couple of times--if this was, in fact, supposed to be a comedy.  And I watched it TWICE.  So for all of you out there who think I just need to give the movie another look--been there, done that.  "Lock Stock" is just not up to my taste.  I don't understand why it made the Top 250, but that's just me.  Message to Guy Ritchie:  Next time you make a movie like this...USE SOME FREAKIN' SUBTITLES!!!!My score:  3 (out of 10)


                
Guy Ritchie has gone beyond mere Tarantino imitation and found his own unique voice in crime pictures, but unfortunately it's an irritating, witless, virulent voice. Sure, this movie is colorful and snazzy, but I think everyone gets snookered by the British accents and machine-gun delivery of the lines to realize that nobody says anything remotely intelligent. A lot of British humor is very good, but there's also a tendency to just have everyone be mean and nasty to each other and pretend that that's somehow the pinnacle of wit. Don't mistake flash for substance.


                
After watching "Lock Stock" my first reaction was, mmmmm, not bad.  The more I thought about it however, the more I realised that it really IS bad.  It tried to be so many things at once - violent, funny, ultra-cool, unpredictable, cutting edge, etc. In my opinion, it generally missed the target.Yes, it did have moments of humour, but these were generally when glorifying violence, or through characters acting "hard".  It was certainly violent in places, had a few neat twists towards the end, but ultimately left you thinking that the director Guy Ritchie was just trying to be Britain's answer to Quentin Tarantino - well sorry Guy, you lack the characterisation and humour.  Remember Pulp Fiction?  We all laughed when John Travolta shot that guy in the face - to laugh in the face of shocking violence takes the work of a genius - Guy Ritchie has two goons being shot by an unseen airgun marksmen with the ultra-violent "boss" shouting "will everyone stop getting shot".  Yeah, hilarious.The acting was TERRIBLE.  Everyone sounded retarded - I've been to London, nobody speaks like that!  And that amber hue to the picture just did my head in. 3/10


                
How anyone over 14 and interested in movies can like this is beyond me. The cinematography is so sepia slick and nauseating, it makes the whole film look like a dizzy Nike ad. The script is so full of "hey, we are such hardasses and so goddamn cool" Tarantino wannabe ripoffs, one would think the film was a Tarantino spoof. As for the performances, a bigger bunch of planks will be hard to find in any other movie, with Sting scoring lowest in my book. Madonna is world famous for tagging on to whatever is flavour of the month (Dennis Rodman anyone?), so when she set her eyes on Guy Richie...


                
Think Guy Ritchie used all his good ideas at once in this film, and it still stinks. The whole movie is like a series of visual set pieces and bad dialogue linked together with an adequate but boring plot. I think the success of this film was that it's visual style appealed to wealthy teenagers from Surrey and Kent who like to think they are sharp dressed "cockney geezers" despite the fact they wouldn't dare go to East London for fear of being robbed.For me Michael Caine is one of the worst actors Britain has ever produced, so to be expected to sit through Nick Moran's terrible Caine impression is an insult to actors everywhere. The constant stream of poor retro cockney gangster films (Snatch, Rancid Aluminium etc...), and cheeky northern comedies about unemployment (Billy Elliot, Brassed Off, Full Monty) are taking British films to new lows.


                
This is a truly dreadful film. Every tired and overused cockney cliché is slotted firmly into place; the acting is terrible, the script is staggeringly lame and the plot is tedious; the cinematography is embarrassingly naff and the direction is wannabe ham-fisted fumbling; the characters are all two-dimensional cardboard cut-outs (Nick the Greek, fer Chrissakes - a five-year-old could be more original) and it was very hard to give a damn about any of them.It's been a long time since I've seen anything as this bad. I honestly can think of anything good to say about it. This is a truly dreadful film.


                
I went to see this after everyone raved about it and came out very disappointed.  It's not a bad movie, just not a very good one. Another Pulp Fiction wannabe, only this one has cockney accents (and flat acting).  I've seen this movie in one hundred incarnations before and there's nothing new here.


                
The rating here on IMDb was the reason I bought this DVD. What a mistake. I read the rave reviews, and didn't bother with the bottom end. They were the ones that got it right. Even three stars is probably at least one too many. First off: it seemed to take forever to get going. I kept thinking, when is the story going to start? Second: I couldn't separate the various gangs --- they all looked more or less the same, and spoke in the same incomprehensible patter, dull, witless and obscene. Three: the whole thing felt like a continuous rip-off of earlier films. Not homage, simple-minded rip-off. The ending was so strongly reminiscent of The Italian Job, I could hardly credit it. After reading the one-star reviews I now recognise the lifts from countless other gangster movies, all better than this one. One constant cliché in English crime movies is the lovable criminal Cockney, nearly always incompetent. Personally, I find Cockneys, real as well as cinematic, uniformly unlovable. The Long Good Friday I thought was a very bad film, and this reminded me of it. LSTSM also reminded me, sadly, of True Romance, which is a great, great film.I was glad to see that many of the negative reviews come from British reviewers: they are not fooled. The good reviews seem mostly to come from across the pond: I suppose they are thinking that this is so weird, confused and corny it must be good. It isn't. Don't bother. I really don't know why I've given it three *** out of ten.23 April 2011: Totally disgusted to see it's now rated at 8.2 stars. Nauseating.2 June 2012: Please remove the two stars too many. Technicolour yawn.
I watched this movie again recently after many years. It was entertaining enough as an evening's viewing, but afterwards I was left scratching my head, genuinely not understanding the hype - on any level. The best thing is probably the soundtrack.The acting is abysmal. It makes Vinnie Jones' acting look good. It doesn't help the actors the script is abysmal. (Michael Caine can get away with being a bad actor because at least he has some charisma). The casting was bad because in addition to crap actors, in a plot with way too many characters, none of them developed, you need them to stand out visually from each other. With the exception of the Scousers and Hatchett Harry, they don't. I was grateful one actor, at least, had a high pitched voice and pony tail, because I found myself lost not knowing who the hell everyone was much of the time.I note the script was written by Guy Ritchie - any other script writer and the film wouldn't have got made or would have had considerably more development first - exactly what it needed - for plot , character and dialogue. That and a bit more rehearsal time for the actors so they didn't sound like they were delivering lines at a read through. I'm a Londoner so didn't have any problems UNDERSTANDING the dialogue, but all the characters sounded the same - none speak in a unique voice. Same flat characters (with absolutely no development or back story) in dull monotone voices delivering what is supposed to be witty dialogue full of one liners.... when EVERYBODY sounds like that it sounds like a pretentious script writer trying to be cool, clever and failing miserably. Far better imo to have one character doing the witty one liners for impact.The Scousers can be funny at times - I don't care about stereotypes) but they could have been even funnier by toning it down a bit. The British are known for subtlely, and I think that's what this movie needed to make it into the cracker of a film it could have been.The plot is confusing with way too many characters we can't follow running around, many things happening for the sake of happening. I think there was one woman in the whole film. Not sure they even employed female extras. Much of the plot is thin and cookie cooker, ripped off from other movies. The violence is not funny and it's not shocking either. It's pointless. It fails miserably on all front. As for style, Pulp Fiction or Reservoir Dog, Train Spotting etc s it is not. It failed on the styling front for me too - costume wise and cinematically.Perhaps it did so well at the time due to hype and the lack of cool British gangster films at the time. Watch it for something to watch by all means, but not for a piece of great British cinema, because that's most definitely what it is not.


                
