Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels is a film that is often at times fairly entertaining, and funny, but it seems to stop just there as a film that favors style over substance. This film is fairly basic fare as far as the plot goes for crime movies: four guys lose a bunch of money and have one week to get it back, and they decide to turn to thievery to obtain it.First off I will mention what I really liked about this film. First and foremost the cinematography steals the show, proving just how beautiful a film shot on 16 mm can look; as well the directing by Guy Ritchie is really well done, and he definitely gives the film a visual flare that is very reminiscent of a young Martin Scorsese; then the music is really great throughout, the whole soundtrack consisting of great British rock; on top of all that the acting is really well done through out. All of the stuff mentioned above really helps lend this film to a style that is both pleasing to the senses and often entertaining, and you might wonder where I found a problem with the film, and it is the story. The story seemed like a good, entertaining concept, but it never fully met its potential. The story just got bogged down by way too many characters and plot twists, there were just way too many. Now the screenplay had some truly terrific dialogue and some funny scenes written in, but majority of the comedy had nothing to do with the overall story. Then to cap all of that off, the film ran on for at least a good 15-20 minutes longer than it probably should have.Overall it is a film that is only worth watching for its well done style, but for no other real reason. Now if you love cinematography it is at least a definite rental, but if you don't, you should definitely skip it because you will most likely find the story too overstuffed to enjoy. It just seemed like it was trying too hard to be Pulp Fiction, but it failed.I give Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels a 4 out of 10!


                
Gangster films have never had the same pedigree in Britain that they have long enjoyed in America. Part of the reason is that the formative years of Hollywood in the twenties and early thirties coincided with the growth of organised crime fuelled by Prohibition, a period when the doings of Al Capone and his contemporaries provided a rich source of inspiration for film-makers. Another part of the reason is that during this period the British Board of Film Censors tended to discourage home- made gangster movies. This form of censorship owed little to moral concerns about violence- the BBFC were quite happy to allow cinemas to show American crime flicks- and a good deal to political considerations. British governments, of all political complexions, liked to play down any suggestion that the country had a serious organised crime problem. (And, by American standards, it didn't).There have been a few isolated British gangster films which have achieved classic status- "Brighton Rock", "Get Carter", "The Long Good Friday"- but nothing on the scale of, say, the "Godfather" trilogy or "Road to Perdition". There have also been a few great British films noirs, but they often (as in, say, "It Always Rains on Sunday" or "The Third Man") featured criminals who operated as lone wolves rather than as part of a mob. "Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels" is another, more recent, British gangster film for which some have claimed classic status. The title is a play on the phrase "lock, stock and barrel", literally referring to three parts of a gun but having the colloquial meaning in British of "everything" or "the whole lot". There is also a reference to the use by criminals of double-barrelled shotguns as weapons, and to a plot by one of the characters in the film to acquire a pair of valuable antique guns.The plot is a complicated one, involving several interconnected sub- plots and several gangs of criminals. The main story involves Eddy, a young member of one of these gangs who loses £500,000 in a rigged poker game. Needing money urgently pay off his debts, he and his friends decide to rob another gang, who operate from the flat next door. This other gang, in turn, are planning to rob a gang of drug dealers. "Hatchet" Harry, the gangster to whom Eddy owes the money, is also the one with his eye on the antique guns, and engages Gary and Dean, a pair of Liverpudlian criminals, to steal them. (The two prove hopelessly incompetent; the film was obviously made from a London viewpoint and Guy Ritchie was using them to make a few digs at Northerners in general, and the people of Liverpool in particular. Gary and Dean habitually call all Southerners "southern fairies", even though those they insult in this way are generally far more ruthlessly efficient than they are). I have found it difficult to take Ritchie seriously as a director ever since I saw his "Swept Away", an appropriately titled vanity project which had the unintended consequence of sweeping away his then wife Madonna's acting career. (She has not dared to make another film since). "Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels" is certainly not as bad as that steaming pile of trash- very few films in cinematic history ever have been- but on the other hand I find myself unable to acclaim it as the classic which some people regard it as.There are several problems with the film. The first is that the storyline is over-complicated and difficult to follow- it is hard to keep track of who is in which gang, who is planning to rob whom, and how, when and why. The second is that the film never really decides what it wants to be. At times, particularly during the scenes involving Gary and Dean or the effeminate if murderous drug dealer Rory Breaker, it is so far over the top that it seems more like a black comedy than a serious crime drama. At other times, particularly during those scenes that end with a pile of corpses littering the floor, it seems very serious indeed. The third main problem is that there are no characters with whom the viewer can identify. Apart from a young child and a traffic warden who appears briefly, just about every character we see is either a criminal or an associate of criminals. And that's not "criminal" as in "loveable rogue". That's "criminal" as in "homicidal thug". We are invited to identify with Eddy and his friends, largely because they (unlike most of the other characters) never actually kill anybody, but as their activities include drug-dealing and robbery I found such identification difficult to accomplish.The film was rather better on the acting side; there is a very assured performance from Vinnie Jones, as Harry's debt collector Big Chris. The film marked the start of a new career as an actor for Jones, a former Wales international footballer, who has gone on to act in a number of movies and television programmes since. (It also saw the film debut of another international sportsman turned actor, the one-time diver Jason Statham). I also liked P. H. Moriarty as Harry and the late Lenny McLean as his enforcer Barry the Baptist, whose nickname refers not to his religious affiliation but to his habit of drowning people. Nevertheless, I found this a film which is just too blasé and insouciant about needless criminal violence. It leaves a nasty taste in the mouth. 4/10
After all the praise it had been given, I expected "Lock Stock and Two Smoking Barrels" to be at the very least, entertaining. I'm not too pleased to say that it failed miserably at achieving even that.    First off, the film is so overstyled I'm surprised that the cinematographer put his name on the credits. The acting is atrocious, particularly by Nick Moran and Val Blackwood. (Blackwood's over-acting is the only thing that made me laugh.) Vinnie Jones is decently cast, but is given the idiotic role of a hitman who carries around his 12 year old son to "teach him the ropes."     The script is a mixture of robbery cliches, and Guy Ritchie displays minimal talent as a writer/director. Jason Flemying has the only watchable performance in the film as Tom. The soundtrack is good, but here's a tip Guy, a good soundtrack doesn't make a good movie.  The film tries to overload itself with attitude but falls horribly flat. Was this supposed to be a comedy or a comedy of cinematic errors?


                
I knew a bank robber once who stole a Purdey shotgun worth £35,000 and sawed off the barrels to do a job that netted him £15,000.To add insult to injury he got nicked for it.Compared to the pond-life in LS&2SB he was Charlie Big Potatoes.Wannabe geezer cockneys running around swearing a lot,getting into needless bother.....it's going to attract the attention of the dimmest plod.The really successful crims are the low profile ones,a thousand miles from the Pubs,clubs billiard hall and kebab shop milieu depicted in a depressing number of "realistic" Britcrim movies. Mr Vinnie Jones,a former professional footballer,is pressed into service as a hit man I'd have been more frightened of him if he'd kept his boots on. This is the sort of movie that groups of drunken blokes watch on a Saturday night whilst slopping Chicken Tikka Biryani on the carpet and breaking wind.Because they recognise it is a movie about blokes just like them.
