You all may know the story at how Tom Cruise saw this movie at a screening in London, and afterwards said, "This movie rocks."  Whatever you may think of Mr. Cruise, I happen to agree after watching this film.  Although I had trouble following the story at times, it was a lot of fun, and Ritchie managed to juggle all the characters around and keep me interested and compelled to watch.  I also didn't have any trouble understanding what the characters were saying, and I think those who blind themselves to films like this by saying, "Oh, I can't understand them" lack patience.  I also liked all the actors, particularly, of course Lenny McLean and Vinnie Jones(one of my few complaints is I would have liked to see more of them in the film). And for a film which feels violent, there's surprisingly little actual violence, which is refreshing.  Overall, not a particularly deep film, but a lot of fun.


                
I've avoided this movie for sometime now.  Firstly because friends told me that it was 'Pulp Fiction'-ish (and boy do I hate that movie). Secondly, because its British and although I'm from South East London myself and love British television comedies, I have rarely found British humour well translated onto the big screen.  Normally it is toned down to plain slap-stick goofy uncomplicated Inspector Cleuseau type humour tailored for American audiences.But to find not just British, but straight-faced East London cockney-slang and swear filled humour in a really stylish movie was a revelation.I have always believed that British humor, especially East London humor is much more sophisicated than American humour.  Maybe the reason why American audiences have been more forthcoming with LS&2SB is that despite the accent, they finally 'get it' without having to have it remade into an American version, ala Faulty Towers and Threes company and other British comedies. Yet, I believe Tom Cruise is remaking the movie with an American cast.  I suppose for those who just cannot understand English unless its spoken in an American accent.  That is really a shame as there are so many diverse accents all around the world and LS&2SB could not have been done in any accent other than cockney.Still, there are bits only the British will get, like the scene with the three guys pouncing on the traffic warden in the back of the van.  That scene had me clutching my sides.  Only someone living in London can feel true loathing for a traffic warden, the most hated person in Britain.Cinemtography was superb.  I wont go into who's already done the slow-mo's and stop action argument.  It is near impossible to do anything in a movie today that has not already been done.  You can either do nothing - or do whatever you can as long as it suits the mood and the flow of the movie, and Guy Ritchie just cannot be faulted.  He projects the seedy, thin laned, miserable weathered London, yet with such style that you want to see more. The camera work could not have been better.  Just see the projection of Eddy's unsteady, light-headed wooziness as he gets up from the gambling table having lost everything and owing even more.  Brilliant.The Soundtrack was as diverse and yet brilliant as I have ever heard in a movie.  I dont want to look like waving the Union Jack here, but this movie shows that the British have a more diverse taste in music.  From Reggae, to Ska, to Rock, to Mikis Theodorakis every track played just added to the scene showed.In short, LS&2SB is a movie that just does not stop for a second, is full of refreshing humour, filmed with style, has a lively soundtrack, some violence thrown in for good measure, and a story with more twists and turns than a bowlfull of spaghetti.Dont let this movie slip you by.  You'll either love it, or hate it.If this movie was not British, I'd give it an 8/10, but since it is, it gets 9/10 from me.Favourite dialogue: Rory Breaker: If you hold back anything, I'll kill ya. If you bend the truth or I think your bending the truth, I'll kill ya. If you forget anything I'll kill ya. In fact, you're gonna have to work very hard to stay alive, Nick. Now do you understand everything I've said? Because if you don't, I'll kill ya.


                
Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels is set in London where four close friends Eddie (Nick Moran), Bacon (Jason Statham), Tom (Jason Flemying) & Soap (Dezter Fletcher) all chip in £25,000 to make up the £100,000 entrance fee to a big high stakes poker game held by hard as nails villain & crime boss 'Hatchet' Harry Lonsdale (P.H. Moriarty). Eddie is an expert poker player & figures he can make each of them a clear £100,00 profit, if they play their cards right (ha!). Unfortunately 'Hatchet' Harry doesn't like losing & cheats, Eddie not only loses the £100,000 but actually ends up owing 'Hatchet' Harry £500,000 after borrowing it from him to continue in the game. 'Hatchet' Harry is not the sort of person you owe money to, Eddie & his friends must find a way to raise a half a million pounds in the next four days or start losing their fingers...This English production was written & directed by Guy Ritchie & has already deservedly reached pretty much classic status, in fact it still resides in the IMDb's top 250 films list over ten years since it was originally released & for me it throughly deserves to be there. It's just a wonderfully entertaining, witty, funny, clever British crime caper with bags of personality & at the time it was made originality although in the ten years since it was released many a British film has ripped it off trying to recreate it's success. There are a few things which make Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels so brilliant. First it's just so funny, I have seen Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels several times now & I laugh my head off every time, the really funny dialogue, the spot on performances, the hilarious one liners, the use of funny cockney rhyming slang & the things which happen along with the often bizarre situations the character's find themselves in means there isn't a scene that goes by where something funny doesn't happen or there isn't some instantly quotable insult or one liner. Secondly the character's are great, they have real depth & the good guy's are very likable so you root for them while the bad guy's are real nasty pieces of work so as a consequence you don't root for them, just the way it should be. Then there's the plot which at the time was fresh, new, original, clever, witty, full of great twists & turns & there's certainly plenty going on which rather improbably all come together at the end in a somewhat far fetched way but when a film is as entertaining, clever & downright funny as Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels you just tend to go with it. A brilliantly funny British comedy crime caper, one of my favourite films ever & it's as simple & straight forward as that.Director Ritchie really injects some style, pace & energy into the film with various tricks which never become gimmicky or intrusive & only help tell a brilliantly story with style, originality & panache. Not only did Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels revolutionise the British crime caper genre with it's story telling but it has also influenced plenty of films since with it's slick editing & visual techniques. There's a fantastic soundtrack too, I really can't think of one bad thing to say about Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels which is pretty high praise in itself as I am not easily pleased. There's a fair amount of violence but nothing overly graphic & a lot of it is played for laughs as is the bad language & profanity of which there is a lot. In fact I don't there is a single scene which doesn't involve the use of strong language at some point.According to the IMDb Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels had a budget of about £960,000 which is simply amazing, a film this good & this stylish for less than a million? Shot on location in & around London Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels were the film debuts of both ex footballer Vinnie Jones & Jason Statham who have both done very well off the back of it. During the final credits the film is dedicated to ex bare knuckle fighter Lenny McClean who played Barry the Baptist & who died of cancer shortly before the film premiered. The acting is great from all involved, there's boyish charm to downright menacing criminal unpleasantness.Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels is a brilliantly funny, witty, clever & entertaining British crime caper that is a true genre great & one of my own personal favourite films ever. Ritchie followed Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels up with the equally brilliant British crime caper Snatch (2000) a couple of years later.
I didn't know what to expect when I popped this movie in my VCR.  On one hand, I had heard this movie is hilarious, fun, and three steps from Pulp Fiction.  On the other hand, it's British and it may not transfer into my American head very well.  I had heard also that the movie is a rip-off of Pulp.  Well, let me tell you what I think.When the movie was over I found myself on the floor laughing like a giddy schoolchild.  I was laughing for two reasons: 1) This movie is as funny as they say it is and 2) THE MOVIE IS SO GOOD!  I haven't been this giddy after a movie since, well, Pulp Fiction, which is why people compare the two I guess.  But don't let anyone convince you that Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels is a British remake of Pulp fiction, because anyone who says that is a fool.  The two are completely different.  Okay, maybe not completely different, but they're different enough.For one thing, Lock is no where near as serious as Pulp.  Don't get me wrong, Pulp had its funny moments, but Lock is 100% comedy.  The movie's laughs come from two places.  The first place is the funny dialog.  Once you get past their accents, which are a little on the thick side, you will find that these guys are just plain funny.  The second place is where most of the laughs come from: the plot.  The plot is so damn funny; I can't even begin to talk about it.  Watching these fine British lads get caught up in this mass confusion is good ol' fashion entertainment my friend.The only problem I have with this movie is that the director, Guy Richie, can get a little on the music-video-direction side.  With all the twisted camera angles and the pumped up music one could almost mistake this for a music video on TRL.  This really didn't bother me that much.  Just like in Pulp Fiction, these guys spent some time compiling the soundtrack.  Great soundtrack people!If you liked Pulp Fiction, you'll love Lock, Stock, etc. so pick this movie up.9/10


                
The movie is brilliant and has me hooked to Guy Ritchie whom I knew nothing about apart from the fact that he was married to Madonna once. Guy is a entertainer in his own right in my eyes know (Madonna or no Madonna).I could not understand some of the dialogues not only the first time but till the fourth time. Though I did understand 85% of the dialogues but only could comprehend the 15% left after turning on the subtitles. This does not mean the dialogues are not good. They are excellent. The accent - great! I'm going to try and get it in fact. Some of the dialogues are delivered so fast that they cannot be comprehended. The dialogues contain gems and exposed me to English slang like no other piece of art. Sample this "Eddie: They're armed. Soap: What was that? Armed? What do you mean armed? Armed with whatEddie: Err, bad breath,colorful language, feather duster... what do youthink they're gonna be armed with? Guns, you tit! "The camera work is brilliant. Some of the techniques were fairly new at that time which have been hailed as path breakers for example the camera work when one of the protagonist looses a card game. The actors, some of whom I have never heard of till date, fit their roles like hand in glove.The music is just about perfect yet diverse. A soundtrack worth buying.Some viewers would categorize it as comedy or black comedy but I would beg to disagree. The film has a genre of it's own which has comedy, action, emotion and stylish.I would recommend the movie a rating of 9/10.


                
I want to know how Vera Day, the sexy blond of British films in the 1950's, who had not made a film since 1964, came to do such a wonderful cameo in this film. The moment she came on the screen, she was the epitome of the attractive, aging, hardboiled sports/pub owner, the kind where they stage boxing matches, and the kind of woman who knows how to keep her mouth shut.There was a pub on Eel Pie Island, in the east Thames - London's dockland, which was run by a woman who staged boxing matches in the pub. Tanya reminded me of her and brought back many, many memories.I loved the film, but Vera Day, as Tanya, is the character I remember most.


                
After losing out big time in a rigged card game, and ending up owing half a million pound to a mobster. Eddie and his three friends have seven days to find the money to pay off the debt, or face the consequences.It seems a little crass to state the bleeding obvious, but Lock Stock And Two Smoking Barrels is the British blood brother to Tarantino's Reservoir Dogs. It's also that particular films equal and the best, and most successful, of the post Dogs imitations. Guy Ritchie's first full length picture has a knowing vitality about it, oddly seeming fresh even tho it harks back to crime movies back in yore. The plot plays out as an amalgamation of crooks and wide boy Londoners whizz around robbing and beating each other with care free abandon, all of course armed with cockney swagger to go with their respective weapons. On the surface it looks quite complex in structure, but Ritchie ties it all together with brio and a sheer belief that these characters are capable of winning over the audience. And they do. The violence in the piece is tough and at times wince inducing, but another laugh, or a beggars belief scene is just around the corner, and on it goes. Till the collage unfolds and the ending is nigh, and here Ritchie gives us the final nudge in the ribs to close the sale of the century. 9/10


                
"Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels" is a classic comedy noir about misunderstandings, coincidences and overconfidence. Four young men, three of whom are relatively harmless black marketers, try to win a lot of money by playing poker with the local gangster, Harry. This backfires horribly, and they owe £ 500,000.The rest of the film is about their search for the money. It involves their far more dangerous neighbours, naïve university dropouts who sell marijuana, a drug dealer described as "a madman with an afro" and, of course, the Harry and his men, most memorably Big Chris, the debt collector. Whether the characters are two-dimensional or just trying to live up to certain underground stereotypes I do not know, but it doesn't matter. They are parodies, but good ones.Guy Ritchie's experience as a music video director is obvious; there is a certain MTV-feel about it. Added to that, this film is so London-oriented that most of us will feel as if we're missing half the jokes, and there are times when subtitles will come in handy, even for a native speaker (e.g. "He then proceeds to order an Aristotle of the most ping-pong tiddly in the Nuclear sub"). In short, this film is a lot of fun, slightly absurd, always fast-paced, well directed and really, really British. Well worth your time.


                
It still amazes me!!! How could such an intricately interwoven plot be... 1) Written ... 2) Shown on screen with such brilliant aptitude. This movie is an ode to writer - director Guy Ritchie. HE IS CLEVER, REALLY CLEVER!!! The inter-threading of different scenes in a movie was something never seen before Lock Stock... The scene in the first half where a burning man comes out of the Samoan Bar and Tom, Soap & Bacon just look at him and go in as if nothing new has happened is damn hilarious!!! However, its only in the second half, when you come to realize how that man was burnt (..by Rory..), and that is the inter-threading I'm talking about....THAT IS BRILLIANT!!! This is also one of those rare movies where you tend to fall in love with almost every character, no matter how big or small his role is. But if I had to pick my favourite characters from the movie, they would be Barry the Baptist, Big Chris, Soap and Rory. And its also filled with these humorous dialogues spoken in that endearing cockney accent!!! All in all, it's a humorous, intelligent entertainer, this one!!!


                
Written and directed by Guy Ritchie, he successfully defines his brilliant style in this excellent crime thriller with a difference.The casting is perfect as is the characterisation and very slick dialogue. A combination of action packed, very violent and character building scenes, cleverly blend together to tell the story of crime and deception between multiple gangs all oblivious to one another.Ritchie keeps the complex plot, easy to follow without being too linear in his approach. Masterful direction on this movie just leaves you wanting more of the same.Should be fun most movie lovers 9/10


                
Among movies in the crime genre, this is one of the best. It exudes an air of coolness through the whole movie and it is what makes it so cool. Besides, of course, the snappy dialogue, the wonderful characters, and the dark humor that are all in this film.It's about four guys who all pool their money to play a game of poker, only to end up losing and owing a lot of money to a crime bigwig. This plot remains fast-paced and fresh throughout the film, wasting no time in bringing out the next scene. The ultra-fast method they deliver their lines also plays into the movie's strong points. It becomes almost incomprehensible at times, but it's all okay because it is such a cool way of going through the movie. It also contains a kind of humor in it, the kind that persuades you to laugh at all of their hopeless situations and blunderings. These poor guys are really up a creek and it's funny.This is just great entertainment from Guy Ritchie. I don't really see anything that I hate. It's just a good movie.


                
Can't get enough of Guy Ritchie's masterpiece. So spot on. The accent, the dialogues, the performances... Absolutely love this film.If you like gangster films and comedies this is a film for you. In the vein of Reservoir Dogs, Pulp Fiction and other Tarantino films.Watch watch watch


                
Friends Eddy, Tom, Soap, and Bacon are four small time crooks who have cobbled together £100,000 to enter a high stakes card game which they think will be easy; they don't realise it is rigged so afterwards they are left owing 'Hatchet' Harry Lonsdale half a million pounds<U+0085> and they only have a week to get it. By coincidence they live next door to some far more serious gangsters and over hear their plan to take money and cannabis off a bunch of ex-public school dope growers<U+0085> the boys decide to take the proceeds from these thieves. To do that the need guns so buy a couple of antique shotguns from a contact who got them from a couple of Scousers who'd committed a burglary for Hatchet Harry not knowing the guns were the real target of their job. When the jobs start happening things get bloody fast and the body count rapidly climbs.This, director Guy Richie's film debut, impressively intertwines several plot strands with a large cast of varied underworld types without getting confusing. There are plenty of exciting moments, a lot of violence and a good number of laughs. Sometimes all happening at once such as when a group of hardened criminals armed with shotguns and a Bren gun are pinned down by three posh boys armed with an air rifle! The film looks good with its slight sepia tint and the way it never needs to visit 'tourist London'. The dialogue is sharp and witty, although some may be confused by the slang at times! The characters are solid; all the main characters may be criminals but many of them are still likable, especially the four protagonists. Jason Statham, Dexter Fletcher, Nick Moran and Jason Flemyng impress as Bacon, Soap, Eddy and Tom and the rest of the cast are solid too; the most notable of these is probably ex-footballer Vinnie Jones who proves that he can act rather than just being an example of novelty casting. Overall I'd certainly recommend this to anybody wanting a mixture of violence and wit.
This film is a legendary classic, and the directorial debut (as well a writing credit) for Guy Ritchie. It's also one of the top UK films ever made. Let's not forget it's also that film that introduced us to superstar Jason Satham. Everything about this film was done to perfection and aside from being a UK film, it's one of my favorite gangster-crime drama/comedy films of all time. This is a must see film for anyone that enjoys a good action film with substance. It was a film ahead of its time and one you need to watch if you haven't already done so. It's a 9/10 from me!


                
Lock Stock is a superbly put together film. In just under an hour and 45 minutes it will throw you into a corner of London, dominated by thugs, drugs, violence and Cockney slang that you'll never want to leave. From the tight knit main characters to the outsiders in it for a few bob, the films mastery of over-arcing story lines left me laughing out loud and gritting my teeth in suspense. Guy Ritchie's writing is brilliant throughout; as an Englishman from the north, it felt like the dialogue was in a language I could almost understand, but gave me the warming sense like had I have been a character in the film, I most surely have been out of my depth. I loved the adventure of it, it's an incredibly immersive film that only my top scoring IMDb rated films are partial to receive. The film has unsurprisingly gone on to be an unmissable classic and should be welcome in almost anyone's film collection. It's a film that i would be happy to watch again and again, and that I likely will, for years to come.


                
Fantastic Brit mob movie about 4 childhood friends (Jason Flemyng, Dexter Fletcher, Nick Moran and Jason Statham in his break out role) who try to make it big time by playing cards but end up getting played by a loan shark called 'Hatchet' Harry Lonsdale (P.H. Moriarty) instead. 500,000 in the hole with their limbs, lives and a family bar on the line they resort to pulling off a theft from the thugs next door. The web gets even more tangled when they unknowingly try to sell mass amounts of Cannabis back to the very person it is stolen from and in the process get their hands on a couple of antique shot guns that Hatchet Harry wants. All in all it is a great film with twist and fantastic acting. Leave it to Guy Ritchie to bring out the seedy side of London and make you long for more. Keep your eye out for Sting who makes an appearance and Vinnie Jones in his first role.
this movie's main goal is to entertain.its not there to make you think, its not there to make you cry, its there only for you to enjoy it.i don't think there are to many movies like LSaTSB out there, a movie that is so light and yet so good is really rare and this movie is very good!it tells us the story of 4 childhood friends that are tired from living by the penny, and so each one of them collects a certain amount of money that together will be enough for one of them to participate in a high risk card game in which he could win at least times 4 the money invested but of course there is also a chance of losing... and so he does, not only does he lose the money he and he's friends collected but also 500 grand he loaned from the cities biggest and most dangerous mobster.the rest of the film shows us the events of the next week in which those 4 friends have to get the mobsters money back or they're gonna be in serious trouble.a movie that is so many's favorite...its really unnecessary to mention how important it is not too miss it.


                
in my opinion this is some of the best work guy Ritchie did. this is a very well made movie for the limited budget that he was given to work on. i was made to understand that a lot of the actors in this movie were actual criminals that they got to work on this movie, which accounts for a lot of the realistic attitude demonstrated throughout the movie. this movie has a lot of drug references,a lot of language and some minor female nudity,definitely not a show for the kiddies.this was not what i would classify as a mean spirited movie,just a well done typical Saturday night good time,i have seen a lot of movies that seem to want to always send a message to us and they just seem mean spirited.now,one more thing, can anyone tell me whether sigourney weaver may have done a cameo in this movie,i am talking about the brunette that was the last person they sold the item to before they got stopped by the bobbies. it sure looked like her and the wry smile she had as she was taking the bag from him sure looked a lot like her. tks, bob
Now I've seen just about everything. After watching Snatch last week I thought movies couldn't get any funnier than that. Well, I was most certainly wrong. They can, and Lock Stock Two Smoking Barrels has. The array of its dynamic scene proportion is just amazing. At first you can barely follow the storyline since there are so many characters present and so many plots, that keep getting more and more complex. But as the time passes, it all comes to logical disentanglement. Camera moves strictly according to the momentary state of the character in momentum.Though actors were unfamiliar to me, they did their part one hundred percent flawlessly. Their lines are absolutely hilarious, yet clinging to the edge of tasteless swearing. However ending seems rather confusing, since audience doesn't get to see whether its happy or.... well a bit less happy. My judgement tells me this is a solid nine and I hope to see more movies in such genre in future.


                
The first time I watched this, I was neutral in how I felt about it.  The events that occurred in the movie just boggled my mind, but after more viewings, this film definitely grows on you.First off, the heavy accents are great and you have a plethora of charcters from Eddie and the fellas, Harry and Barry, the "horticulturists", Rory, and the next door neighbors.  I really felt bad for the guys' situation and it's funny to see how they resolve it.  All the twists, ups and downs produce dark, but very funny moments.  Any scene with the two thieves are priceless. I definitely  recommend watching this for lots of laughs.This gets a high score for Junior Marvin's "Police and Thieves".  Funny how it really fits that scene!


                
Considering that this film was written and directed by Guy Ritchie, it's certainly not very surprising that it is strongly reminiscent of "Snatch"--another one of Ritchie's film. Obviously, he did well with "Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels" and decided to repeat the formula for his next film. Both have very dark and dry senses of humor, a lot of bad guys (nothing but bad guys), bad language and crude material all wrapped up in an incredibly stylish package. You like one film, you'll like the other. You hate one, you'll hate the other.This film is about several groups of idiot criminals who all converge. There are the incredibly stupid and burn-out drug dealers, the tough guys who plan to rob them AND a third group that plans to rob the second group once they've committed the robbery. In addition, you have some super-scary baddies--super-scary indeed. Who will survive with all these guns, knives and swords being wielded? And, speaking of guns, two of the shotguns used in the robbery MIGHT just be worth more than all the stuff they steal--but the dummies don't even realize it.This film is, above all else, very stylish and weird. The criminals DEFINITELY have odd and quirky personalities but more importantly, the camera-work and edits are very well done--very innovative and they get your attention. It's all very well worth seeing but it's also NOT a film for everyone. Of course, you shouldn't let your kids, your mother or Father Jenkins watch it. But to enjoy it yourself you need a very high threshold for this sort of thing. It certainly AIN'T rated G! However, despite the very harsh language and very adult subject matter, Richie actually doesn't show that much of the violence. It happens--but mostly off-camera.By the way, of the two similar films, I slightly prefer "Snatch" simply because it tried harder to be overtly funny--though the nihilistic ending in "Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels" was priceless. Also, as I watched the film and heard a bazillion bullets being discharged, it's interesting that no police EVER responded to any of the locations!


                
Lock stock and two smoking barrels the first mainstream movie by guy ritchie follows all different stories that interlude together this is a well written delight funny and clever and you will be talking about it for a long time after the credits role


                
Well-crafted ad entertaining!!! Getting used to the English slang
and accents is do-able. This Movie gets a spot on my favorite list,
will watch it again soon.


                
Guy Ritchie's direction used to be spot on fun. In this film, a gambler runs up a debt with ty he worst sort and he & his crew need to find a way to repay it. Their machinations and the antics of the other men in this film touch on slapstick, underlaid with some killer, quick diogue. This is vintage Ritchie. It's only a 9 because some of the British accents make it important for the untrained ear to pay very close attention. And I say vintage Ritchie snice his last King Arthur legend film was such a disappointment.However, this film, Snatch, and Rock n Rolla are a truly fun trilogy and so worth the time spent watching. Binge all three.


                
Comparisons with Tarrantino are inevitable but this movie owes more to the British genre of gangster movies such as The Long Good Friday, Mona Lisa and The Italian Job.  A great movie? I don't know.  An entertaining one, certainly. Non Brits will probably have problems relating to the characters and this film will win as many brickbats as praises.  Slick, well written and funny.  Well worth a look so run along to your local movie theatre now, Chop Chop.


                
