Not all of Wilder's projects are as well designed as this. But among the best designed of films before 1960 are his.This is classic because its about sex as so, so many movies are. But it uses Monroe in ways that greatly exceed her ability to use herself. I believe that the Monroe legend is because of Wilder's placing of her in a context that amplified her appeal. Wilder had worked with her before. He selected and co-wrote the screenplay around her, adapting as he went.The situation is set up to provide a context of shifting sexual identity so that she can anchor the thing with us concluding that yes, this is sex. This is what it means to be a desirable woman.And its not just the obvious things, the drag identities. Its in the girl jazz band. The machine gunner jumping out of a cake instead of a stripper, the business of a funeral really being a party, the henpecked manager: pronounced "beanstalk." Even in boozing out of a hot water bottle.Its so deft in structure, so accommodating to her strengths and weaknesses, that it makes me cry, knowing that Wilder only was tuned properly for two films. And this one was essentially a waste, except for getting her past the tipping point of being a legend, a presidential plaything and Warhol icon.The problem of this movie is that after its all engineered and polished, after all the targeting and focus, it just isn't that funny. What was funny sixty years ago <U+0097> men in drag is screwball situations <U+0097> just doesn't catch today. You have to do a context reset and you might like who you pretend to be.Its a great structure, a masterpiece of understanding and designing cinema for a specific purpose. And a sad waste.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3: Has some interesting elements.


                
Some Like It Hot is often hailed as the greatest comedy film of all time. That's probably a stretch. It may not be the greatest ever but it's still very good and thoroughly enjoyable. Driven by the outstanding performances of three top-notch stars in Jack Lemmon, Tony Curtis and the one and only Marilyn Monroe, Some Like It Hot will make you smile, make you laugh and maybe even make you cry but only because you're laughing so hard at times. If you go in expecting the greatest movie ever, you may end up being a touch disappointed. If you go in with more reasonable expectations you can't help but enjoy this delightful screwball comedy.The setup of this film's plot almost guarantees comic gold and sure enough it pays off. Curtis and Lemmon play Joe and Jerry, two musicians in Prohibition-era Chicago who witness a mob hit and have to get the heck out of town before they end up dead. They end up donning dresses, posing as women and joining an all-girl orchestra headed for Florida. Reborn, so to speak, as Josephine and Daphne the pair plan to ditch the band and resume their normal, non-dress wearing, lives as soon as they hit Florida. But on their new orchestra's train ride to the Sunshine State there is a complication. That complication comes in the shape (and oh what a shape!) of singer/ukulele player Sugar Kane Kowalczyk, played by the incomparable Monroe. Needless to say our two men find themselves very much attracted to the bubbly, beautiful Sugar. Of course the fact that they are "women" very much complicates things. Hilarity ensues.Once the orchestra hits Florida this film really takes off. Joe, or Josephine if you prefer, decides he and Jerry/Daphne should stick around for a while. Taking a break from being disguised as a woman, and now posing as a Shell Oil millionaire, Joe tries to woo Sugar. Meanwhile an actual millionaire falls for "Daphne" which obviously causes all kinds of complications for Jerry. Much of what ensues is simply priceless. There are a few jokes and gags which fall flat but there is so much here that works you forgive the film for the moments which don't quite measure up. And given the rather juvenile nature of so many modern comedies the more subtle nature of the comedy here is a blessed relief. This movie presents a truly ridiculous situation but it's never over the top. Director Billy Wilder found just the right tone to make the film work and the truly remarkable cast brings the story to life. There are some terrific supporting performances but it is the big three of Monroe, Curtis and Lemmon who really make this film work. What can you say about Marilyn Monroe that hasn't already been said? She simply owns the screen. Watch her perform the song "I Wanna Be Loved by You" and I dare you not to fall in love. If this film has a straight man, Curtis is it. He's suave, reserved, and altogether perfect no matter which disguise he happens to be in at any given moment. But in this film it may be Lemmon who shines most of all. He pours his heart and soul into being "Daphne" and it is an absolute treat to watch. Curtis and Monroe are both terrific and certainly have their share of moments and witty one-liners but the best moments and best lines seem to be reserved for Lemmon. It's obvious Lemmon had a lot of fun making this film. You'll have a lot of fun watching it. So what if it's not the "best comedy ever"? It's a wonderfully written, brilliantly performed, incredibly enjoyable film. That's more than enough to make it well worth your while.


                
No need to recap the plot nor echo consensus points.The movie is perfectly cast. The chemistry between Lemmon and Curtis is perfect. Add a wide-eyed Monroe and it's an outstanding comedy trifecta. Still, seeing the film again after first release, I wonder how much hilarity audiences of today find in the movie's sexual innuendo. After all, the premise was cutting-edge in 1959 when the word 'panties' in Anatomy of a Murder raised a ruckus with enforcers of the film code.In that same year, just watching from a theatre seat during the cross-dressing, plus the many innuendo scenes was like being a daring part of taboo-breaking. The bawdy subtext was a totally new experience in the commercial movies. Thus the amusement factor was heightened by novel comedic material, previously forbidden. But I wonder about today's younger audiences for whom the innuendo may even seem a little tame, given today's almost non-existent standards.In my little book, it's still a funny movie, thanks mainly to an expert cast, but hardly an all- time topper as it is in some ratings lists. Besides, it's the only comedy I can think of to work its way around not just one, but two, on-screen massacres!


                
There are certain films that are just so 'classic' that when one mentions it, they are usually met with a knowing smile. 'Some Like it Hot', directed by the great Billy Wilder is one of those films. 'Some Like it Hot' is Wilder's gender-bending comedy wherein two small time musicians, Gerald (Jack Lemmon) and Joe (Tony Curtis) find themselves witnesses to the St. Valentine's Day massacre in Chicago, 1929. They escape, only to find that the only way they can afford to leave town is by dressing up as women and joining an all-woman band traveling to Florida. When Sugar (Marilyn Monroe), a singer and band member enters the picture, the two men fight over her and come up with ways to romance her, while trying to keep their identities (and genders) secret. This works out better for Joe, who finds himself falling for her, while Lemmon ends up with a romantic interest of his own. All the while, the two are threatened with discovery by the band leader, and eventually, by the gangsters who have been holding a nationwide search for them.I actually watched 'Some Like it Hot' during a Film Club meeting and realized that I had seen this film about a dozen and a half times. Instead of being bored, however, I was afforded the luxury of 'discovering' certain things that I either hadn't noticed before, or had at least glossed over. One thing is that the script is really quite good. Not only does 'Some Like it Hot' have arguably the greatest last line of any film ever, but some of the rapid fire dialogue is hilarious; made even better by the great delivery by the actors. Lemmon and Curtis are always good, but Monroe, while not a great actress is good in this film, and has seriously never looked more beautiful. One other element is some of the chances the film took. There were some risqué scenes and lines that I still am stunned made it through the censors at the time. ('It's not how long it takes; it's who's taking you.')Many good things have been said about 'Some Like it Hot', and most of it is true. It is truly a classic film, and Wilder is a brilliant filmmaker whose diversity is almost unparalleled. Check it out if you haven't seen it.--Shelly


                
Set in Prohibition era Chicago, "Some Like It Hot" stars Jack Lemmon and Tony Curtis as a pair of jazz musicians who dress like women in an attempt to evade mob bosses. Their adventure takes them to Florida, where they join an all-female band and drool over luscious band singer Sugar Kane Kowalczyk (played by a pouty Marilyn Monroe).Influential, gorgeously lit, lovably acted, and wittily written, "Some Like It Hot" is regarded as one of director Billy Wilder's many masterpieces. Whilst constant imitation has lessened some of its gags, and whilst not as substantial as a number of the director's other works ("Sunset Boulevard", "The Apartment", "Ace in the Hole", "Double Indemnity" etc), the film nevertheless finds Wilder elevating what would otherwise be tawdry material.8.5/10 – Bring back the forums, IMDb.
In some ways the forerunners of fish out of water comedies and gender bending comedies more frequent in later eras. Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon play poor musicians accidentally witnessing a mob mass execution during Chicago prohibition. They manage to hide out in Florida an all girl band where Tony is courted by Marilyn Monroe temporarily dressed in Florida entirely in black and white photography as a man and Jack in drag posing as a woman to avoid being executed by the mob is courted by Joe E. Brown. The comedy mounts as Tony has to convince Marilyn he is not an idle rich millionaire and Jack has to convince Joe he doesn't date males. One could expect the mob will show up in Florida to take revenge on escapees of the Valentine's day massacre and then continues to pursue Tony and Jack once they discover how they escaped dressed as women. Brilliant and enticing for its day Tony, Marily and Joe shine as they always do. Jack, who does more of the high jinx physical comedy than the other players in most of his comic films will please those who like his style but not those who think his mugging is too grand in focus for the screen. Holds up well today as a fun two hours yet not a true Golden Hollywood Classic.
It's a classic comedy starring Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon as two musicians who witness a mob hit and, to protect their identities, disguise themselves as female musicians and flee the state with a female band disguised, only to find themselves being chased by men and the mob.Curtis and Lemmon are like a mismatched couple, bickering and becoming frustrated with one another as they go through their misadventures on the road. It serves up some chuckles and humor and helps with the film's steady-moving plot. Marilyn Monroe as female lead Sugar Kane is surely the highlight of the movie and did what I think is one of her most iconic roles, bubbly, innocent-acting and vulnerable in her acting and singing two show-stopping songs. Her spellbinding beauty is sure to charm anyone and she had some good chemistry with Curtis. However, the film does suffer a little from Curtis and Lemmon's at times overzealous acting and the lack of suspense from the pursing-mob subplot. Overall, though, it's not a bad film and is good for some laughs.Grade B-


                
"Some Like It Hot" is a comedy movie in which we watch two men who disguised as women in order get away from mafia because they were witnesses of a hit of this mafia. In their way they join an all female band and there things are getting strange and many complications come in front.I liked this movie because it's an enjoyable movie to watch and in many moments really funny. The direction of this movie was simply good but the cast was really outstanding. I have to mention a great interpretation made by Tony Curtis who played as Joe - Josephine. Another great interpretation made by the beautiful Marilyn Monroe who played as Sugar Kane Kowalczyk. In addition to this it has to be mentioned the interpretation of Jack Lemmon who played as Jerry - Daphne and in plenty of moments was simply hilarious.Finally I have to say that "Some Like It Hot" is a movie with which you can spend your time very nice and have a great time while watching it. Also this movie shows some interesting this for that times about mafia and how they controlled and handle the problems or issues that they had, and this comes in reverse with love and romance that is obvious in this movie.


                
The highly regarded Billy Wilder comedy Some Like It Hot relies on an original, really offbeat and audacious plot for the time (1959), where savoury and incredibly well written dialogues fly for two hours. The adventures of these two travesties are very enjoyable to follow, and the Curtis-Lemmon did a perfect job, a notch above Marylin Monroe even though she is coherent with her character.Overall, the comical potential has been well exploited, even if, due to the changes in mores, what seemed improbable and funny back then doesn't shock anymore. Moreover, the script sometimes goes through slow passages with endless scenes as the one on the boat, and one could question the purpose of the musical interludes as they appear more like promotional parts for Monroe. But, despite these few flaws, Some Like It Hot remains a sure bet in the comical genre.


                
I was about to rate 8 for Jack Lemmon and Tony Curtis who are showing a great deal of their talent for the comedie. I changed to 7 as I honestly don´t like Marilyn Monroe here. I am not finding that she is playing this well, only fairly, like other actresses of this time could have done. 
Apart from this, it is a pleasant comedie that can be watched in family. Maybe the Young viewers Will be less interested in the scenery but it is interesting to watch as it is the exact reflect of what was popular at the time.


                
(Flash Review)Posing as women in order to become part of an all-female music group in order to elude Chicago gangsters is quite the foundation for this late 50's comedic romp. Wrong place, wrong time for two blokes who witness gangsters<U+0085>.er<U+0085>.um<U+0085>.doing business and run away after they are spotted is how the movie starts out. While it starts off rather serious it quickly switches to a screwball comedy with a gluttony of gags around the two guys trying to keep their female cover within the band as long as they can while not getting aroused (double entendre) as they befriend Marilyn's character. How long will they be able to keep their cover and their lips off Marilyn? Will those Chicago gangsters ever catch wind of their whereabouts? Overall the plot was fine, nothing great. Light and corny jokes, telegraphed awkward scenes and many scenes that accentuate Marilyn's spectrum of skills. A showpiece for Marilyn's fame.
The first time I saw "Some Like it Hot" as a teenager I didn't really like it very much. It was one of my father's favorite films but after he watched it again with me even he claimed he found it to be quite disappointing, and that he had "remembered it being funnier." I know the whole genre-swapping thing was risqué in 1959 and I appreciate the layers of the film - all the sexual references (such as Tony Curtis' pointed foot during his scene with Marilyn Monroe as a pretty obvious sight gag) and other stuff that goes on. However I couldn't help but find my overall reaction somewhat mixed. Viewing it again a few years later I found it to be a bit more enjoyable, but I still would not call it the greatest comedy of all-time.In my opinion Wilder's other collaboration with Jack Lemmon, a similarly ahead-of-its time and racy film called "The Apartment" (released a year later), is superior to "Some Like It Hot." But this one seems to receive even more critical attention than Wilder and Lemmon's other film and I believe it was voted by the AFI as the second funniest film of all time (with "Tootsie" at number one).The performances cannot be faulted. Jack Lemmon and Tony Curtis are both very good and Curtis' classic Cary Grant impersonation has become something of a film legend. Monroe isn't the best actress in the world (and it's certainly not as good a performance as she gave in "The Misfits" a couple years later) but she's basically there to look pretty and be bubbly, and that works well.Overall I'd say this comedy works rather well for the first forty minutes, but like many body-swapping comedies of today, once the ideas run out it kind of gets old fast. The Cary Grant impersonation and Lemmon's hilarious (and rather disturbing) romance with a rich man whilst dressed up as a woman both add a bit of flair to the plot, but in the end I'd say I find it to be more fondly remembered than it perhaps deserves to be - but that's just me.


                
"Some Like it Hot" is the first of its kind. By that I mean that countless movies followed with the same plot: men can't do something being men so they dress up as women only to fall for a drop-dead gorgeous woman who just so happens to be really close with them. This movie however is the first to do this and does it in the best way possible.What's good about "Some Like it Hot" is that it stays away from clichés and doesn't center around friendship and heartbreak, but moreso on the humor aspect of the movie. Almost every scene in the movie keeps you watching and throws you in a hysterical fit. It's a movie that shouldn't be over-analyzed, and should be watched solely for entertainment.Jack Lemon is brilliant in his Oscar-nominated performance as the witty and eccentric Dephne, and plays his character with such convincing mannerism that we tend to forget it's actually a man. In one hilarious and unforgettable scene, 'Daphne' convinces himself he's a woman by telling Joe 'Josephine' (Tony Curtis) that he's never been happier because a millionaire proposed to him. It is both comical and original, showing that you can only pretend to be someone for so long.Marilyn Manroe co-stars as Sugar, a sexy and beautiful alcoholic musician who falls for Joe's third identity, Junior. This creates an even more comic-genius plot, having countless identities running around trying to stay in character. It definitely defines comedy brilliance.The whole concept of the story of "Some Like it Hot" is complete comic material. This movie allowed the three main actors to really reach out and play around with their roles and to have fun while doing it. It's not often that a movie features a lot of improvisation in order for the character to feel both real and staged.Influencing countless movies, comedies and romantic dramas alike, "Some Like it Hot" still stands as one of the best comedies of all time. And for a good reason.


                
Well nobody's perfect. Well, this Billy Wilder's remake of the French 1935's Fanfare d'Amour and the German 1951's Fanfaren der Lieb isn't that perfect. Full of rampant sexual innuendo, and silly gender-bender cross-dressing gags makes this movie ridiculous, but that will always be part of it's charm. I don't know how these men pass as women. A great example of a three act structure that straddles different genres with violence and comedy. The movie was all innocent fun, though it's always on the brink of disastrous double-entendre. In the midst of notorious gangland murders in 1929, Chicago. Two musicians, Joe (Tony Curtis) & Jerry (Jack Lemmon), witness the St. Valentine's Day Massacre type murder. The desperate musicians have no choice, but to disguise themselves as women and join a all-girl band to escape the gang life, and hide out from pursing gangsters. Now in Miami, Joe falls for the lead singer of the band, the troubled Sugar Kane (Marilyn Monroe). He pursued her, by disguising himself as a millionaire to win her over, while Jerry is being courted by a real millionaire, Osgood Fielding III (Joe E. Brown), mid while the gangsters out there still looking for them. The cast was great in their roles. Tony Curtis is brilliant, and his Cary Grant voice was amazing. Jack Lemmon is demoniacally funny and more likely to taken for a woman than Tony Curtis. Marilyn Monroe is just Marilyn Monroe. I really doubt it's acting,e ven the opening scene with the boys has her drinking whiskey no less and her playing a dull blonde trying to get marry a millionaire. Not really role model material. Marilyn was hostile, and was marked by refusals to participate in filming and occasional outbursts of profanity. Visibly Monroe was obviously trashed out during the film. It really does show if you look closer and think about it. It's a surprise to find out that Marilyn Monroe was pregnant when filming this movie. You can tell in some scenes, it was a body double. Still, she's as beautiful as any film she does, but that's doesn't make it a great actress. Not many actors enjoyed filming with her, it was too high maintenance with very little acting to make up for it. Tony Curtis wasn't really into kissing her saying it was like 'Kissing Hitler'. Her singing was mediocre as well. Brown was great, and funny and his final line in the film is a master stroke. Wilder wrote many of the most wittiest one-liners on film in one line. That final line sum up the film so well. It's not the best movie, but nobody's perfect, so it's works for what it is. A fun, good, movie.
Just briefly I agree this is overrated, Jack Lemon really comes through as far as comedies go.(As Always). Marilyn Monroe just because she's a bombshell Ireally don't rate her a classic actress as say a Kathrine Hepburn quality. Tony Curtis does well for his part, I never cared any for his movies. Overall 6.8/10


                
Classic American screwball comedy. A must see if you are the type to clock up viewing of the 'greats' otherwise the humor can seem quite dated and corny unless you watch it whilst keeping in mind how risqué and fresh it was for it's day. However, the mad screenplay and the chemistry between Curtis, Lemmon and Monroe still stacks up 100% by anyones standards. Much of it is just too silly for words but it works beautifully and is totally enjoyable. There is a camp element about the Curtis and Lemmon behavior that is hard to reconcile where it is coming from (especially Lemmon's character). Seemingly way sophisticated for the day it strikes me that I'm missing something in interpretation about this angle. Maybe it's because I was not even born let alone a young adult in 1959 and don't have the cultural references of the day to 'get it'. Either way, very much a fun movie to watch in 2005.


                
An all girl jazz band,marlyn monroe, and two cross dressers? This could only be "Some like it hot." Marlyn Monroe does an excellent job at being a stero-typical blonde. She cannot resist tenor sax players and never stops and always gets hurt.Her character is not one of the best,her weakness' are men, and alcohol. She is very naive, but plays the part well of a sexy jazz singer of the times. Her voice and good looks are a natural attraction to Joe. (Who happens to befriend her while being dressed like a girl)He learns of the heartbrakes that she has had during her life and vows not to hurt her. But when he can no longer resist her he devises a plan to win her heart and not hurt her at the same time. But when he has to leave suddenly,he blows his cover and she cannot resist him and his tenor sax.This movie however, is very funny. The fact that they must dress up as women, and the billionaire who does not care that Daphne is really Jerry is hillarious. The extreme to which Joe tries to win Sugar over is amazing, to plunging in a bath tub with all their clothes on, and dressing up as a yacht owner to a yacht he doesn't even own. This is then topped by Jerry and Joe running from the mob dressed in girls clothing and heels. A funny movie for all to watch. Overall I would give this movie a 7 out of 10 for humour.


                
My wife loves this movie, mostly on the strength of Jack Lemmon's wild performance, but I have to admit that I've remained resistant to its charms. I don't DISLIKE it, but I always have trouble understanding how it pops up again and again on various lists as one of the funniest comedies ever produced.Of course, much of my lack of appreciation probably has to do with the fact that cross dressing comedies have become a dime a dozen now, but were virtually unheard of at the time this film was released. And even more notable, Jack Lemmon's character actually kind of LIKES pretending to be a woman, so this film manages to work in some fairly ahead of its time gender politics into its mostly escapist comedy trappings. But the film is hampered by too much Marilyn Monroe, who was just a terrible actress, like it or not. The woman could not act, and no amount of sex appeal (though I think she had very little of that as well) could change that fact.Still, my reservations aside, the strengths in this film mostly outweigh the weaknesses. Billy Wilder delivers a sharp script even if his direction seems to be at cross purposes with the movie's comedic elements, and Tony Curtis gives a hilarious and dead-on impersonation of Cary Grant that rivals Lemmon's manic antics in its pricelessness.Grade: B+


                
I think the top 250 at IMDb is a little bit too high of a ranking for this movie, but I agree that it's a really good one. The story is really clever, and a lot of quite funny stuff happens. Just imagine two guys dressing up as women and joining a female band to hide themselves from the mob. That gives quite a potential for funny and exciting situations, and this movie utilizes this potential in a very good way. This is one of the old movies who are still as funny today, despite it's age. The last part of the movie is especially good, when the mob starts to get involved again. This opens up for a bunch of hilarious incidents. See for yourself.Conclusion: 7 out of 10.


                
A recent poll in saw this come out as the best comedy of all time.Beating the likes of Odd Couple and Airplane!, Some Like It Hot is revered by so many, and while I can see the charm of it and concede that the performances are really excellent, the film *really* isn't that funny.It stars Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon as 2 witnesses to a mob shooting. They're a saxophonist and a bass player respectively who're part of a band, but the mob are after them after escaping from the hit, and the only way they can hide is to dress up as women and join a female band. Enter the amazing Marilyn Munroe as a band member (Sugar Cane) they befriend - it just so happens they're both crazy about her yet cannot give up the facade of their disguises. This provides much fuel for the contrivance of some very funny moments as Curtis' 'Josephine' sets about wooing her (By putting on an impression of a millionaire) while Lemmon's 'Daphne' gets the short end of the deal every time.To say the least, the performances are truly top drawer, *particularly* Munroe's Cane, who even in the 21st century utterly exudes sex appeal. This was surely her finest role.The boys do a great turn too and the chemistry is spot on from one adventure to the next.The problem is the situations are in places funny, but it's never *truly* the funniest thing you'll ever see. The script in the Odd Couple (For me the greatest comedy ever) is head and shoulders above this, and that's what sets it apart. Sure, there are some very witty and intelligent lines here too, but somehow they're greater in number in the Odd Couple. I single the Odd Couple out as it was also focused on a cracking comedic partnership and also starred Lemmon. It also benefitted from greater comic timing.This is certainly a classy comedy which is well acted and thoroughly enjoyable, but it suffers from a little bit of overhyping.


                
Some Like It Hot? How about some like it perverted! This is surprisingly a very sexual driven movie, especially for the era. The movie is very sneaky with the dirty jokes. Some Like It Hot is about two men ( Joe and Jerry) on the run from the mob. They end up in disguise in none other than women's clothes to escape from the mob. Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon did great playing females! A little too well. They were a great comedic duo and made the film funny. Who didn't need to be in the film is Marilyn Monroe who played Sugar the girl that Joe and Jerry of course fall for. The Sugar character is funny, but the casting director could have most likely found someone better than Marilyn Monroe. The only reason they should have Marilyn in the film is because of the music. She did do well singing the cute yet sultry songs that were in the movie.  It's hard to believe Marilyn Monroe was such an icon in that decade and still is today. Yes, she is pretty, but her acting skills were not great in this movie. It seemed like she was forcing the lines and facial expressions out. The plot is predictable now, but most likely in the 50's it wasn't predictable since it was very risky. It is not the funniest film ever but funny enough to at least see once. Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon's comedic talents were the highlight of the movie, but unfortunately Marilyn's bad acting skills somewhat ruined the film. This movie is a 7/10.


                
Fairly good comedy which bogged down a bit midway, however it still works after all these years. As always, Lemmon is dead on and gives a hilarious portrayal of Daphne, but is he ever an ugly woman. An untalented Monroe plays her typical slut character. I loved the party scene on the train with all the half clad honeys crowding together in the one tiny berth. Worth seeing.


                
Recommended by someone and based on the fact that it had Marilyn Monroe in it; I had a definite urge to watch it. It definitely encapsulates a descent comedy but I can never really digest films showing girls so dumb that they cannot identify girl and boy with the same face. Other than this major flaw which has always intrigued me , I liked the decency involved. I suppose for watching films like these you ought to keep your brains out for a while. The different sequences involving the humorous element were good and definitely proves to be a good film based on the time it was made."Recommended for all those who like decent and good comedy."


                
At first, i was surprised to see that the movie is in black and white but it's true that it fits well with the period (prohibition) and it helps the subject (transvestism). Contrary of recent movies, the movie is slow paced and takes time in locations (Snowy Chicago, the train, Coronado hotel), which dynamizes the story. If the idea of men playing women is usual today, I think this one is the grandfather of all of them. Its originality is the multiple transvestites and their distinct personalities. Lemon is wonderful as he loses his identity and Curtis is funny as a stiffer lady (and he has something to add belong his TV work in "The Persuaders").At last, I see now a complete movie with Marilyn: i think indeed that as she gets older, she wins in appeal. But it's rather her fragile sensibility that opens her the gate of movies pantheon. In all cases, she was really an all-around performer and an excellent singer as well!I don't really think it's the number one comedy of all time because I don't laugh continuously (as in "Pee Wee") but it's a timeless classic. A century after, the sincere enthusiasm of the cast is still contagious.A funny thing i discovered with the bonus DVD is that all the promotional pics are fake: it's only Marilyn's head on a double body's but it's expected as she is indeed the "late" Marilyn Monroe.


                
Okay, I admit it. I'm weird. I am not as taken with this film as the rest of the world. To me it's just one very long double entendre. And, it has one cast member (who unfortunately got top billing) who simply can't act -- Marilyn Monroe. She jiggles in all the right places, but that's about all I can say for her in any movie in which she ever appeared. I may be a man, but I enjoyed watching Joe E. Brown much more than Marilyn. Oh, and exactly where are those high ocean-side cliffs in Florida? But, I admit, in terms of the movie, this was pretty daring in 1958 (when it was filmed). Director Billy Wilder was often ahead of his time...as with "Kiss Me, Stupid" (with Dean Martin and Kim Novak), but his greatest talent seemed to be telling an off-color story.I do give Wilder credit for using some historic movie gangsters and cops -- George Raft and Pat O'Brien -- in those roles in this film. And, those classic actors get the movie gets off to a good start. But, for me, once the guys (Jack Lemmon and Tony Curtis) become girls, it kind of goes down hill and becomes rather repetitive. That's not to say Lemmon and Curtis aren't good here. They're excellent! Perfect casting! But to me, the joke is good for about 20 minutes...not over 2 hours. However, Wilder ended the movie perfectly when Joe E. Lewis says (when learning that his fiancé -- Lemmon -- is a man), "Well, nobody's perfect."
