There are four scenes that I will treasure forever:1) The ferry ride, and the subtle ways you can tell they're both heartbroken, lonely, frustrated and angry. The way she discusses the "little details" that compose a person, and what she missed most in him. "Like I remember the way your beard has a bit of red it in, and how the sun was making it glow that...that morning right before you left."2) The scene in the van, where they finally unburden themselves. One of the most emotionally raw and honest interplays I've seen on celluloid. The way she reaches out to touch him, but holds back at the last second. Much different in tone from the way Hawke reached out to brush her hair aside in the first film.3) Celine's song. So simple yet so endearing. The way her voice fades to a whisper as she sings, "My heart will be yours until I die."4) The ending, which is in all ways **PERFECT**. The slow fade, the utter charm of her Nina Simone impression, the ambiguity, and the wonderful look in his eyes as his youth, hope and happiness come rushing back to him while watching Celine dancing and singing (foreshadowed in the opening scene). This is, perhaps, one of the ten best endings in the cinema.Hawke and Delpy are sublime, of course. This film requires incredibly subtle acting, and these are Oscar worthy performances that will not be recognized because they are not showy. Much of this film, like life, is acted with the eyes. Witness how Hawke stares at Delpy as she discusses her failed relationships on the ferry, or the sadness and longing in Delpy's eyes as she sings her love song. As in the first film, the chemistry between them is indelible. My candidate for best on-screen couple ever.This film is better than the first, because it provides a more unique perspective. In Sunset, we see the sobering effects of age and disappointment etched in their faces and clouding their lives. There is more at stake here, for they are nine years older, have made their share of mistakes, feel imprisoned by responsibilities, and must confront their shortcomings and problems. It's comforting to believe that hope and love will prevail in their case.
...is that it ends. This is a fantastic film. It joins the handful of movies where I think I liked the sequel even more than the original, although I liked 'Before Sunrise' as well. Where Sunrise captured the immediacy and urgency of perfect youthful love, Sunset reflects beautifully on the aftermath of that perfection. I remember a line that says "nothing that is complete breathes", and I think that is what we see in this film. A perfect connection with another human is a blessing and a curse; having experienced perfection a part of us stops breathing, unable or unwilling to mar the perfection of that memory.The dialogue is amazing, the acting is spot-on; this is a great film. In some ways it felt more like reading a great novel than watching a movie, in that I really felt like I knew the characters and was sad the movie had to end. Kind of like saying goodbye to an old friend. If you are an action movie kind of person, skip this flick because it will bore you to tears. If, on the other hand, you like good dialogue, well formed characters, and aren't quite jaded enough to have given up completely on the idea of true love, don't miss this film.


                
I'd been longing to see this one as I'd always thought 'Before Sunrise' was one of the most honest, most real films I'd ever seen, but at the same time I held off seeing the sequel from fear of disappointment. For all of you in the same position, fear not ; Linklater, Hawke and Delphy (for it has surely been a joint effort and labour of love for all three) have done us and themselves proud. I've just seen the film and despite being male and 38 I feel like Roberta Flack must have felt when she penned 'Killing me Softly' after hearing Don McLean sing 'Vincent' in concert; this is - once again - just so close to what it's all about. You want technicalities? The acting, superb; Hawke and Delphy slip right back into their characters, their mannerisms, their sometimes gauche repartee, the way they seem to fence around each other, seeming to go in for the kill then feigning, drawing back<U+0085>Exquisite. And then the details, the echoes of the first film in the settings but now with a world-weariness, an autumnal note and yet with still that fundamental freshness and optimism that revives the memories of Sunrise's youthfulness and reminds us, as our heroes discuss, that though time changes people, there remains an unchanging core. Just see it; this is about as good as it gets, folks.


                
Before Sunset is one of those movies, you either love, or you hate.Personally, I loved it.Now, I recommend watching "Before Sunrise" first, however it isn't necessary. Before Sunset does a good job of reviewing what had happened, therefore if you decide to watch it Before watching "Sunrise" you have nothing to worry about.Some scenes are extremely well done. The characters are picture perfect, and the movie itself, is breathtaking. The aura of the movie is so spectacular, that it will inspire young directors out there, to pick up their video cameras are start filming.An 80 minute movie, about two lovable characters and what they have to say, may sound boring. But the way it's done in Before Sunset, will sweep this impression right off your feet. Julie and Ethan play two of the most honest and true characters I have ever seen, they are known as Jesse and Celine. And while much of the credit must go to the characters themselves, you musn't forget the actor and actress who played them.Julie is perfect as Celine. The young french actress is so natural in front of the camera. Definitely, has potential. Ethan is also very very honest, he seems so comfortable character that that you forget your watching a movie, and not a home-made video.Both play with such honest expression, and such trueness, that they are so natural, Before Sunset becomes no longer a movie. It feels as if you are eavesdropping on two extremely developed people. It's such an intimate environment, that you never want to leave.Before Sunset... 9.901/10*****


                
I had not seen the prequel to this although my date had and she filled me in on many details. While the experience of this film would be enriched by having seen the preceding film first, it certainly stands satisfactorily alone.In many ways, this reminded me very much of one of my most favorite movies of all time, "My Dinner with André," in which just 2 characters talking comprised the whole movie. In that movie, the friends had been close, drifted apart, and then had a brief reunion at a dinner at which they caught up with what the other had been doing. The two principals, André Gregory and Wallace Shawn, played themselves and each represented one side of a dialectic, say the side of romanticism vs. a conventional reality. "Before Sunset" is parallel in many ways.At one level we have a romantic story -- two people who'd briefly been lovers nine years before and lost touch meet again. They spend an afternoon together. Will they try to fulfill what they'd started? At another level, we have the charm of conversation and exploration, of reminiscing, of gradually feeling out and discovery of how much do I have in common with this person now? -- where has this person been? -- what are they capable of now? -- how much freedom of choice do I have, does this other person have -- to make decisions? Etc.While Celine and Jesse have a capacity for relating and talking, they also have somewhat opposite ways of viewing the world and relationships -- Celine is more cynical and reserved; Jesse is more open to settling for the "not-perfect-but-good-enough."There are possibly a few people who have not had the personal experiences that at least somewhat relate to the premise in this film -- a relationship in which one wonders, "what would have happened if I'd pursued that relation?" but probably most people have. And the other dilemma, of meeting again that someone but by now being involved in relationships of responsibility -- my family, my children, my present life. What would it do to them if I were to pursue my own happiness at the expense of them? Can I do that? Can I value the chance of my own happiness above theirs? Etc.The film, fortunately, gives us no answers to these essential questions but it does pose them in a way that makes us consider them.Delpy and Hawke are given screenwriter credits and I feel sure that they must've contributed a great deal to the feeling of seamless, natural dialogue.GREAT movie. No movie satisfies everyone, of course, but at the time I wrote this, slightly over 50% of the voters gave it a 10/10. For those of us in that group, it's a great film.


                
I will be the first to announce that I was not a huge fan of the original film. While I thought that it was interesting to see as well as an untapped concept in Hollywood, I felt that the characters were too forced coupled with a very amateurish and repetitive moments. It was an average film that seemed to be lacking bits of the human element. It needed something more. At the time I couldn't put my finger on it, but after seeing Before Sunset, I could see what it was. Maturity. This may sound strange, but I felt that Jesse and Celine were too perfect in the first film. They lacked connectiveness to the average person. I couldn't see myself in this situation. Perhaps if I would have seen the original film in 1995 instead of a couple of years ago, it would have been closer, but I just couldn't capture the moment. In Before Sunset, I feel head over feet for both Jesse and Celine.They seemed to have grown and experienced a life that was all their own. They seemed more passionate, more powerful, and especially more human. From their first meeting in the bookstore until the finale in Celine's apartment, I was fully immersed in their conversation. I wanted to know everything I could about both of them, and I did. I loved hearing about Celine's passion for the environment, and Jesse's distraught marriage. It brought these two characters out of the screen and into our lives. Whether it was a scripted story or if Hawke and Delpy were playing off each other, it worked. I witnessed in this film two people who were made for each other. It was more obvious in this film than in the prior outing. What made this film work on such a higher level than the first were the actors. They have grown and emerged as two important commodities in the Hollywood community. This is probably Hawke's greatest performance in years. His relaxed actions made us feel relaxed around him, yet quietly pushing for him to be closer to Celine. His pushy sexual advances seemed less forced and instead more like honest love. He looked and felt like a man that has been dreaming of this encounter all his life, and it finally happened. You could see the excitement in his eyes to see Delpy again. It was more than just acting, he put so much heart into this performance that it was clearly displayed for all to see. The same goes for Delpy. At the beginning of this film, I didn't like her character. She seemed rough and rigid around the edges, constantly giving off that feeling that she was harboring a secret that she didn't want Hawke to know. As her character grew in this film, I understood why. She had a different life after the encounter than Hawke did. While he still longed for Celine in his heart, he did move on. She longed for Jesse in her heart, and to this day could not find anyone to replace his purity. I loved Celine much more in the sequel because she kept us guessing. Did she remember their night together? Did she really loose her grandmother, or did she just not show up that day in Vienna? Was the song just for Jesse? So many questions left me wanting more and more and more. Finally, I would like to say that Linklater is growing with his films, and this was a crowning achievement for him. He powerfully and delicately built a sequel that was for superior than the original. He continued with a similar format as the first, but gave us stronger characters and another beautiful city. The language in this film is intense. Listen to the words that come from Ethan and Julie, they embody so much of our culture and our lives. There were moments when I felt they were speaking thoughts directly from my mind. Everything in this film was connected and worked to the fullest extent of cinematic possibility. Overall, this was a brilliant film. Linklater captured the essence of these two heart-struck people and proved that it could be filmed. This is one of the ultimate love stories that will remain on your minds far after the film is over. The intimate final lines will continually reverberate as the best ever in a movie. This was a huge step up from the original, and is one of the best films of the year. If you were not a fan of the Before Sunset, I suggest that you check this out. It is a mature film that explores the power of love in a way that no other Hollywood film could. I would not be surprised if we saw the title of this film in the Oscar celebration this year. Check out this film to hear social commentary of our lives, fall in love, and especially to see the beauty of Paris. Grade: ***** out of *****


                
Nine years on Celine and Jessie meet in Paris not entirely by destiny or sheer force of circumstance... Nine years ago I loved Before Sunrise so much! And identified with it even though I was far from home not out of choice - and a war of the kind that bothered Celine in Bosnia was going on in my own country... But I was young. I was 24, actually, very romantic and innocent. Now I Know how things work a little better. The world, relationships. But I'm still plunging into causes for their own sake. And I'm still a reasonably normal person. Just like the characters in this film. Paris has never looked simpler in its casual elegance. Dialogue has never seemed more natural. A script never touched real life like this one so effortlessly. I'm in love with these characters - and with the ending... This is how European Cinema used to be - and Hollywood, too for that matter. Naturally real and magical in the details.


                
This is simply one of the best movies I've seen, with very few qualifications. Maybe I should say that this is one of the best "simple" movies I've seen. Perhaps it is a bit like cooking, use fresh and quality ingredients and you can make something great without a lot of unnecessary stuff. Unfortunately, Hollywood just doesn't seem to have the ambition to make these type of movies anymore.In any event, this is one of the few sequels that matches the intensity and integrity of the original. First, it has many simple, yet stylish and honest shots. Perhaps the Scorcese shot is used too much (i.e. following the actors on a long walk without cutting a la Goodfellas kitchen scene), but I don't think so because it makes sense in the context of the movie. Second, many of the shots have interesting emotive effect. For instance, towards the end of the movie, after these "lovers" are fighting the clock (because Ethan Hawke's character needs to catch a flight) and are cruising down the river, they are so engrossed in their conversation and the fact that they are trying to get so much out of the last few minutes they don't notice their ride is coming to an end. However, we the viewer can see what the characters either don't see or don't want to see, that the boat is crossing over the river to its destination and the departure no one wants to deal with. The viewer is given a wonderful sense of dread as the bank approaches in the background, because we know what is going to happen when the ride ends, and like the characters, we don't want it to end either. Even if the film borrows heavily from other great movies (e.g. My Dinner with Andre) it is independent of those influences.Julie Delpy and Ethan Hawke were great per usual. Making the dialogue ring true is difficult, but they pull it off. As before, they completely capture the nature of the intimate and friendly conversational style of friends or lovers that is normally edited out of most movies. When people talk, things are not always sequential or rationale, and unlike most movies this movie doesn't try and correct that. Not for a moment does the audience find themselves thinking that this is some sort of charade and no one would ever talk like that. The dialogue is intelligent and insightful, but that is because the characters are intelligent and have a knack for being brutally honest with their thoughts and feelings.This is movie excellence, and I'm glad some film makers are still trying to make art. Despite the romantic themes this isn't a date flick, so be prepare to deal with the difficult and often unresolved issues of love and relationships that arise.


                
A sequel to the 1995 film "Before Sunrise". Jesse (Ethan Hawke) and  Celine (Julie Delpy) meet 9 years after their initial meeting. They've  changed--originally they were in their 20s and full of idealism. Now  they're in their 30s--and their lives have changed in ways they didn't  predict. Like the first movie they walk around Paris this time and talk about love, life, reality, what  might have been--and it's all fascinating. Like the first film this is  basically a character study and (like the first) just incredible. It's  like catching up with old friends after 9 years apart! They've aged a  lot--Hawke looks TERRIBLE but Delpy looks OK--and life has thrown both  a few hard knocks but hearing how they survived and what they went  through is just incredible.   This is NOT for everybody (four people walked out when I went to see  it) but, for people who can deal with nonstop talk for 80 minutes it is  just great. Every single line rings true and is delivered full force by  Hawke and Delpy. The acting varies--Hawke is good (but he smiles WAY  too much)--Delpy is just superb all the way through.  This is easily one of the best films of 2004. Highly recommended.


                
I saw this movie with my husband. He is usually a die-hard fan of action thrillers, special effects and horror movies but he allows me to coax him into seeing a really thoughtful movie every once in a while. So this was my choice for the evening. Neither one of us had seen the first movie, "Before Sunrise", although I knew of it by reputation. Well, my husband absolutely loved the movie! He sat up and became totally engrossed in the story, frequently patting my hand at intervals as he identified with the the characters in the story. He forgot about the dreadful uncomfortable movie seat. He let up a big sigh of disappointment when the credits came up... Personally, I grew up in Paris, France, I came to the US for graduate studies and I had an environmental protection career for 20 years. So I could strongly identify with Celine, a young woman of French origin with a patina of US graduate schooling and a career in environmental protection work. Her vulnerability shines through her modern chatterbox exterior. The acting is absolutely superb, with the intimate extended conversations drawing us into the characters' lives. Certainly, this movie can stand on its own. For Jesse and Celine, the opportunity to pick up once more their romantic relationship is here! A smart couple would not let the moment pass. I doubt that they would just have a quick passionate affair... I think that the characters already know how lonely their souls can be without true love and commitment and they are emotionally ready to grasp this chance of a lifetime. They have been around long enough to know how rare their type of romantic feeling and connection can be. They will cherish their unique relationship and nurture it forever. My husband and I agreed that the movie could only be watched by couples of "a certain age", rather than young couples still searching for life's meaning. Only people who have lived through the throes of searching for a lifelong mate, then living through the disappointments and joys of struggling relationships, can recognize and appreciate what true love is and how important it is to go with one's heart and seize the moment. I am 48 years old and have a wonderful romantic relationship with my husband. We are each other's first and only love. Even so, we have worked very hard to keep our marriage alive and mutually passionate. Over the past 25-30 years, both of us have noticed that satisfying relationships are very difficult once people hit their thirties and forties. We have noticed that many older couples never work out their differences and end up bitter and disappointed with life. Many acquaintances of our generation are divorced or still single, never having experienced the sweetness and stability of a true romantic and committed relationship. Romance can be found all the time, from fleeting moments to short-term relationships. One sees it all over the place nowadays, in TV shows and movies, as well as in most modern relationships. However, I would like to emphasize the lasting contentment that a loving commitment brings to one's soul. This is a rare and unique blessing that is missing from too many relationships nowadays, and I find this immeasurably sad. This is a classic movie (excellent story line and top of the line acting) which goes into my list of top romantic movies of all times.


                
When I saw Before Sunrise I really enjoyed it. It was the essence of every romantic travel fantasy and, lets face it, Ethan Hawke was the stuff that fantasies are made of. Having enjoyed the first movie so much I was really looking forward to the sequel but was also feeling some trepidation. What if they made a mess of it? Fortunately when I finally got to see the film any concern was put to rest. Before Sunset is everything I wanted in a sequel. The characters had matured in a way that made sense. You could see how the young Jessie and Celine had come to be these thirty-something people. There was no sickly sweet romantic perfection. These characters were clearly the product of real life, effected by their decisions good or bad, making compromises, sometimes insecure, a little scarred, but still holding on to memories and dreams of perfect moments. They are still on a journey but no longer sure that their destination is the right one. Unsure whether they can change direction, or even if they should, but afraid of what will happen if they don't.While an obvious link to the first movie the title adds to that grown up feeling of fear that time might be running out. "Before Sunset" emphasises that feeling of something needing to be done before it its too late. Most people have a "What if"? somewhere in their past. You might not think about them/it often but on some level you have a question. This movie lets the characters of Jessie and Celine explore their "What if" nine years later, something most of us will never get to do. That that exploration is so satisfying for me as a movie goer taking a second look into their lives is a tribute to the Director and the two stars. It was obviously a great collaboration.I think the fact that Ethan Hawke and Julie Delphy wrote with the Director makes this a wonderfully organic script. Both of the actors seem comfortable in the skins of their characters. They carry their baggage around Paris with them and the audience isn't insulted with the fantasy that their lives stopped when they parted. There were moments of casual lightness in the dialogue and also moments that left you raw with their honesty.Sometimes the ending of a movie is a foregone conclusion. You can mentally hear the romantic music rise before the opening credits have even finished. This movie was different. In the beginning I didn't know how the movie would end or how I wanted it to end. The romantic and the realist in me couldn't quite reconcile. When the end came it surprised me with its suddenness then stunned me with its perfection. I cannot remember seeing a movie whose ending so perfectly fit its story and its characters. The moment when "Jessie" laughed and acknowledged, (as much to himself as to Celine), that he wouldn't be catching that plane, was the perfect place to leave, not finish, their story. A moment more would have been too much, a step towards schmaltz, a compromise to the conventional. A moment less would have left us wandering forever in the "What If". I am so grateful that having found the perfect moment they had the vision to stay with it.
This is a review of "Before Sunrise", "Before Sunset" and "Before Midnight", three films by Richard Linklater.Released in 1995, "Before Sunrise" finds Ethan Hawke playing Jesse, a young American who's travelling across Europe. On his way to Vienna he meets Celine (Julie Delpy), a young woman on her way to Paris. From the moment out duo lock eyes, they're drawn to each other. They share a meal, savouring the conversation more than the food, and when they arrive in Vienna, Jesse persuades Celine to keep him company wandering the streets. Thus begins an unforgettable screen romance.Like most of Linklater's films, "Sunrise" is both dialogue heavy and boils down to a series of discussions or ruminations on life. Our duo talk incessantly, touching upon subjects which range from language and reincarnation to sexuality and religion. Some of it is cringe-worthy, but for the most part Linklater's dialogue rings true. His banter is casual, natural, lacking in artifice, and we at times feel like voyeurs, eavesdropping on the sort of "unimportant" dialogue that most films shy away from. But the film is sexy as well. Celine and Jesse crackle with electricity, and Linklater pays great attention to subtle shifts in body language. There's one scene where Jesse restrains himself from brushing away a stray lock of Celine's hair, and another wonderful moment in a music listening booth where our duo nervously avoid eye contact. Elsewhere the film indulges in numerous long takes, Linklater's gliding camera making the most of some gorgeous European locales, as he dips in and out of romantic alcoves and cosy spaces. Linklater's long steadicam takes lend "Sunrise" an "energy" and intimacy that many of his other films lack.Released in 2004, Linklater's "Before Sunset" is a sequel to 1995's "Sunrise". Equally good, the film joins Celine and Jesse almost a decade later. Speaking to both the mind and the heart, it finds our duo still obsessed with the night they first met, fell in love, and then somehow forgot to exchange contact details. This time around Jesse is in Paris to promote his new novel (he's now a writer), and it is Celine who tracks him down. Our couple then embark on an 80 minute chat, the fact that Jesse must leave on an afternoon flight tightening like a hang-man's noose around their conversations. The film then ends with a sequence which packs an emotional wallop.Hawke and Delpy so easily re-inhabit these characters, you have to wonder how much they're based on themselves. Simultaneously dopey and intelligent, their conversations cycle through hilarity, pain and misery. On the downside, both characters are obviously the product of an artist; Celine and Jesse are a couple of unashamed hipsters.Once again Linklater utilises long, uninterrupted takes, his gliding camera capturing vast chunks of banter and beautiful Parisian architecture. A few gentle flashbacks give glimpses of the original film, but we don't really need them. This story stands on its own as a second chance to change fate. And as is typical of Linklater, cinema's chief slacker-philosopher (at least since the death of Hal Ashby), Linklater has his film abstract several profound human truths, placing them all in a series of dialogue driven vignettes. In a way, Jesse and Celine become everyone and everything, and at times represent more than themselves.Released in 2013, "Before Mightnight" finds Jesse and Celine as a committed couple. It's been eight years since we last saw them, and they now live in Europe with twin girls of their own. Unsurprisingly, the puppy-love of the first two films has given way to middle-aged weariness, parental responsibility, regret and pragmatism. The film is somber, even pessimistic, and Linklater cleverly introduces several other characters who represent life and love at different stages, most notably an elderly writer and a young couple who conjure up images of Jesse and Celine's own romance almost two decades ago. If "Sunset" and "Sunrise" evoked Eric Rohmer, or Bresson's "Four Nights of a Dreamer", "Midnight" recalls Abbas Kiarostami and Rossellini's "Journey to Italy". Again dialogue heavy, and again reliant on long takes, the film is colder, harder and more caustic than its predecessors. Our couple now view everything with scepticism, and seem to exude a mood of grim acceptance and resignation. Most of the film's conversation revolve around death, career disappointment, transience, the world ending or technology's negative influences; the rants of a dying generation. At one point Celine even paints a dour image of the future, in which society devolves into "masturbation and death". In another, Jesse insists that man is "99 percent automated" and even goes so far as to denounce the concept of self-hood. Other conversations mock the way men measure accomplishments, and of course male obsessions with the phallus. Elsewhere an elderly man explains that couples are "never one person, always two". Unlike its predecessors, "Midnight's" sceptical of romance and even soul-mates. After a wholly contrived argument in a hotel room, a forced segment designed to set up another sequel, our duo then seem to patch up their problems, though you nevertheless suspect that this relationship has reached its end. Expect a possible fourth film to be about loneliness or separation.Early in "Midnight", Jesse reveals to us characters in his new book. One character lives in an unending, wondrous present (the very behaviour that brought Jesse and Celine together so many years ago), whilst another views all experiences as being "second hand". Jesse later talks about being "lost in perception" and introduces us to the "patron saint of eyesight", moments which exemplify Celie and Jesse's own anxieties. Both fantasise about different, better futures, and both are unsure of their partner's role in this desired world.9/10 – Whilst as good as its predecessor, "Sunset" may rub people the wrong way. The idea of successful, self-reflexive, middle class hipsters incessantly yapping, will prove irksome to many.
Very few films can match up to the original first movies. 'Before Sunset' is one such. This time Linklater has co-written the screenplay with Hawke and Delpy. Jesse and Celine reunite after nine years. Things haven't turned out the way they had expected but here's a chance. 'Before Sunset' follows pretty much the same style as 'Before Sunrise'. This one too is very much a conversational piece. Here the score is used to a minimal. During the end we hear some songs including Julie Delpy's beautiful 'My Waltz'. The cinematography consists of more long shots than in the first movie. The film has a very mature feel to it. Of course Jesse and Celine are a lot more mature today and less idealistic than they were nine years ago. Linklater beautifully captures the love between these two characters as he walks us through the streets of Paris. Here too the dialogues are just as magical as in the first movie except that this time there's a melancholy about the things that could have been, the years that they could have been together. Both Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy are terrific as ever and they deserve additional praise for the writing and Ms. Delpy for her singing. Overall, 'Before Sunset' has everything that made 'Before Sunrise' a phenomenal movie experience.


                
This follow-up to the cult hit 'Before Sunrise' takes place nine years after the original masterpiece. The wisdom of making a sequel nine years later to a film that doesn't really need a sequel is questionable. Or at least it would be, if this film was anything less than brilliant. While the first film depicted an energetic and youthful romance between two young people; this sequel is a more mature tale, all about reflection. Before Sunset plays out almost as a tribute to the one night that the characters spent together in the first film, and analyses what happened to them after those events. The film takes in themes of missed opportunity and the effect that time has on character. Just like the first film, time is of the essence again and we follow Jesse, now the writer of an international best seller who meets up with Celine again, this time in Paris. The two take to the streets and begin discussing their relationship with each other, with their respective partners and how life has been treating them in the last nine years.The tone of this film is very different to 'Before Sunrise' as the characters are now older and wiser and have lost some of that reckless stupidity that made the first film such a delight to observe. The anecdotes that the characters profess to one another takes a worldlier stance, and this allows the characters to revel in their newfound maturity and also develop even further than they did in the original film. In my opinion, this sequel is not as great as the first film. It comes down to personal preference in the end, but I preferred the higher energy exchanges of Before Sunrise to the more mature reflections in this film. That's not to say that Celine and Jesse have completely matured into well-rounded adults, on the contrary in fact; the immature irresponsibility that the characters once revelled in still remains, and this comes to a head at the film's conclusion.Amazingly enough, in spite of the fact that it's nine years since their first outing as Celine and Jesse; both Ethan Hawke and Julie Deply have managed to step back into their characters, and have once again achieved a glove-like fit. Julie Deply in particular is incredible this time round. There's a scene in the back of a car when she explodes into a mass of insecurity that is one of the most heartfelt showings of releasing pent-up emotions that I've ever seen on screen. Paris provides a new setting for the characters to walk around, and it makes for one that is even better than Vienna was in Before Sunrise. The city is beautiful, that's elementary, but it's the way that Linklater captures the life going on around our characters that really makes it special. While the two talk, people chat away on mobile phones, walk their dogs and drive their cars and the life around the two characters creates a wonderful atmosphere.You really need to see Before Sunrise before seeing this follow up in order to appreciate the tones and the beauty of this picture. Of course, you need to see both films anyway as they're essential viewing; so what are you waiting for?


                
saw this movie without knowing that there was a first one called" before sunrise". I love it and fell in love with it. It was an awesome movie...of course its up to ur imagination if they stay together or not ( like he said at the beginning bout the book). I was so surprised at the way it ended, since I did not see the first one. Now i am trying to find the first one to watch. This is the best movie I have seen in a long long time. It deeply tocuhed my heart' I know that this is kinda of a slow movie, but it is one in a lifetime movie. BEST MOVIE. BEST MOVI EVER. I am so in love with the character and the personality of all of them. Also the imagines of the town was very good.I would recommend this movie to everyone to see. With a loved one or by yourself.I watch it @ home all by myself and it was great.
Before Sunset provides us not so much a sequel as a continuing development in the lives of these characters, who are starting to embody the neuroses and deeply-held desires that neither want to admit to until it's at the most crucial and tragic of times. Jessie (Ethan Hawke) and Celine (Julie Delpy), who first met on a train in Vienna in 1994, meet again nine years later as Jessie has published a book which is based on that night they had together. He's in Paris, they meet again, and before he has his plane back to the states they talk, and talk, and talk, and unlike in the first film there are no asides. It's just two people who at first talk about concerns that came up for them the first time, if a bit more pragmatic: what it is to have concern over the environment, to live in the USA, to be involved enough in a relationship. There's even a moment of deja-vu where they talk about reincarnation and a respect for faith if not an embracing of it. But then we also get to see something much deeper in each side that Jessie's book and mere re-appearance for Celine brings out a memory that has become hyper-realized, and vice-versa.Like Bergman's films, in particular Scenes From a Marriage (if not as wholly successful because of its short running time here), Linklater provides us with characters who have no problem saying what's on their mind, in the immediate sense anyway. Jessie is even more digging-in with his cynicism and wit, and Celine with her opinions on the world at large, family and on past relationships. But when it comes to getting at their connection, it's very fragile and even unattainable because of each side's own flaws. If the two of them were happy, to be certain, there would be no movie, but it's the characters' connection to that one night in Vienna, and the second meeting that was supposed to take place six months later and never happened, and how it cripples their own romantic lives that becomes very interesting yet shallow at the same time. Perhaps this is the best way to show how smart, functional people become dysfunctional in their respective social stratospheres- Jessie is married and with a kid, but not very happy in it, and Celine is in bad relationship after bad relationship- but the singular, glossy night of years past has become a bitter shrine of sorts amid their respective neuroses.Linklater shares that incredible Bergman quality of cutting past the already sharp intellect to the emotional matter of the parties, even if it doesn't feel totally complete; I want to see how their story might end, however obvious it should and probably would be. One knows this could never work in real life, aside from the practical-side of it all, yet it's this that makes it all the more watchable. This, plus the incredibly natural repore of the actors, as Hawke and Delpy, as to be expected, seem like they aren't even on a script but are being filmed by Linklater on the fly as his camera captures the given-luscious scapes of Paris in afternoon, and the dialog is still as fresh and inviting as ever. If it lacks anything from the first it's an greater sense of the possibility for romance, since this time the sense of romance is entangled in loss and questions that Celine and Jessie want answered, however conscious they want them answered or not. But as with the first one, I still loved being around these two, who can expound a mouthful on a subject that we all might talk about, almost shockingly similar (one bit I liked a lot was Celine's story of going to Poland), and then in a slight cloud of romanticism.It ends ambiguous, maybe too ambiguous, as I found myself saying 'huh, what', but it ties into what Jessie tells the reporters at the press conference early in the film: one may take away something from this tale, or someone else another, but there it is, clear as day. Before Sunset is a straightforward romance, and proud of it, being both straightforward in romantic connection and as sharp as anything you'd never find in your local cineplex. One of Linklater's best.


                
I saw both movies, Before Sunrise and Before Sunset, at home as DVD's and was amazed at the effect these movies had on me. I was mesmerized and entranced by the utter simplicity and beauty of the love story. The Sunrise movie takes us through a magical night in Vienna where two young (23 year old) adults fall in love. The sequel Sunset movie re-unites them nine years later in Paris. During the nine year interval, much of the idealism they had as young adults has been been overtaken by the realism that comes with life disappointments experienced in the intervening years. The dialog in both movies is so compellingly real and so natural it borders on surreal. Its like being a fly on the wall. It doesn't seem like they're acting at all. The script was written by Director Linklater, and actors Delpy and Hawke. Any guy will fall in love with Celine. Thank you, Linklater, Delpy, and Hawke for creating these two small movie masterpieces. Its a must see for all romantic souls. Best movie I've seen in years. 10 out of 10.


                
There are almost no words to describe this film.Almost.I saw Before Sunrise last spring, and I remember being taken with the characters and the way the movie was filmed--almost entirely in real time, line after line of amazing and honest dialogue. I really liked it, and made a resolution to see Before Sunset as soon as I could. It came on TV one day a few weeks later, and soon after became one of my favorite movies.To start, these are two of the best, most human characters ever portrayed in a film. However, it doesn't hurt that they have all the dialogue they do to develop. For anyone wishing to see a movie that breaks outside Hollywood stereotypes (as well as crosses international borders), this is the best film for you to see. Every sentence Celine and Jesse speak makes you laugh or think. Also, the lack of music is very interesting. The only musical tidbits in the movie are Celine singing Jesse her song and the two of them listening to Nina Simone in Celine's apartment at the end.Ah, the end. Just one more reason to love this movie. Richard Linklater, Julie Delpy and Ethan Hawke (who collaboratively wrote the screenplay) left on an ambiguous note (just like the end of Jesse's book), a true test of whether the audience is a cynic, romantic or just not sure. After revealing their characters' naked beliefs, hopes and fears, they turn to the audience in the end for a beautiful twist.Unfortunately there are so many people who will think this film is boring, but all I ask is that you open your mind and just listen to the two of them speak. I don't think you'll be disappointed.


                
i will keep this brief because i do not want to ruin it for anyone who hasn't seen it.i will say this : about halfway through this very brief film i thought it was a decent followup to a very good movie.by the end it was probably one of my three or four favorite movies of all time.If you had ANY interest in Before Sunrise, even if you only kind of liked it, see BEFORE SUNSET IMMEDIATELY.Plus, this is a movie that rewards multiple viewings. There are so many little hints, implicit and explicit, about what's going to happen to these two after the movie is over that it's really fascinating. PLus the whole film transforms the original in ways I have never seen a sequel do before.Hawke and Delpy truly deserve Oscar nominations for their heroic performances in this film.that's it. -sean


                
Thanks goodness I'm watching this on DVD (though missing out on the chance of experiencing this on the big screen) and can almost watch it immediately after watching the original. Well I could have, but I'd like to let Before Sunrise sink it a bit, before finding out how my favourite lovebirds continue with their next encounter in this sequel, filmed some nine years later, which is a very, very long time to wait for a sequel to be made.I guess the length of time in between the making of the movies helped to bring about certain gravitas to the characters played by Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy, in that they truly age physically, no two ways about that, and along with the physical age, come the emotional baggage and history they have built over the years. You can see it in their eyes, no longer the optimistic young adults, full of enthusiasm and hope, and all those replaced by a weary sense of worldliness, with chiseled looks and skinnier frames. I think Celine was more beautiful nine years ago, and am ruing the loss of baby fat, haha!Anyway I digress. For those who are left at the cliffhanger from Before Sunrise, you'll be pleased that what happened after, and what specifically happened that night, will be revealed in this movie, though the story teases you in not having it revealed in its entirety, toying with you with coy and playfulness, just as how the characters interact then and now. In Before Sunset, we are nine years from the last meeting of Jesse Wallace (Ethan Hawke, with a last name to his character) and Celine (Julie Delpy), and he's now a published writer making his whirlwind book promotion in Europe. They meet in a bookstore in Paris, which takes over Vienna, and now have to spend, in almost real time, a very limited late afternoon evening together reminiscing and catching up, before Jesse's scheduled flight home to the USofA.The narrative style has also matured together with the ease with which the actors play their respective characters. You''ll notice the increase in the number of long, uninterrupted takes and dialogues, and sometimes wonder, it'll be a pain to flub your lines. Perhaps it's also because having Hawke and Delpy co-write the screenplay, they were able to inject material drawn from personal experiences to breathe life into their roles. Therefore their lines come across so naturally, you can't help but to start casting this voyeuristic look upon Jesse and Celine as you eagerly await their sharing of their lives from that moment in time, until now - their careers, their families, and the perennial what ifs, and there are many.I don't have a particular moment which I loved, unlike the previous movie, but there are certain dialogue discussed, especially during the limo ride, which struck a chord in me. Perhaps even made me understand my past relationships a little more, though regretting certain things I sure have. It made me wonder, if that was exactly how another felt, and if so, how stupid I was to have not understood, Then again, if I had, then things would be different now, wouldn't it?I'd say it again, that the movie was made enjoyable by the two main leads portrayal of lovers who can be exactly you or me, and of the fantastic conversational pieces that they have, be it flirting with each other, or discussion of serious issues. Wonderful, wonderful chemistry between them, and for fans of Delpy, you'll be glad to know that she composed and contributed 3 songs to the movie, one of which is worked into the plot, and performed on screen. I like.I liked the way it started, as if what happened in Before Sunrise was something from memory, from imagination, from the past retold in a novel. And depending on your mood, I'd like the way it ended - in a manner which could swing either way, depending on your personality, and the degree of romanticism which you have at that point. In the end, I too was made to reminisce about the one who got away, and regretting it big time. And it does make me wonder, what will happen if I chance upon her some years down the road too (I think it has now been 5?), how exactly we would react, and how we would have a conversation, if ever, during that chance meeting.To truly appreciate this movie, watch Before Sunrise first. Better yet, watch both movies back to back, it'll clock in about 181 minutes, which should breeze by given the compelling dialogue and excellent chemistry. I know I will, sometime soon!There's a slight improvement in the WB Code 3 DVD in that it contains a making-of feature called On The Set of Before Sunset. There are interviews with Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy, as well as director Richard Linklater. You can see how many crew were needed to film the seemingly simplest of scenes, and listen to how they collaborated across continents before finally getting together to shoot the movie. One gripe though, is that this segment lasts only 9 minutes and 40 secs long, and ends so abruptly, you'll not believe that it had finished.As usual, the audio and visual transfers are great, and you have a choice of languages in English Dolby Surround 5.1, or Portugese Dolby Surround Stereo. Another extra is the theatrical trailer, and a host of subtitles available in many languages.


                
(Just mild spoiler at the end) At first I thought "Before Sunrise" is best to never have a sequel and left the ending open to audience's imagination. However, the director, his cast, and his team prove that they can do it. "Before Sunset" is simply the perfect sequel to one of the most beautiful film I've ever seen. The characters that I love so much are still themselves. They've grown, gone through good and bad times in life, but they are still the same two people we saw in Before Sunrise. The acting and the dialog is so real. It even makes you think of your own life, think of the love that has come and gone, the opportunities you've blown. However, love is still there. This film shows very well that no matter how you've blown your chances, the love in your heart doesn't go anywhere. It's just there.I like the heartbreak moment in this film. It makes you feel sadder than watching the first one, when the two were just young, honest, and romantic people that fell in love. I think Before Sunset makes it more real to life that the two people become more bitter by age and life experience.The ending is a bit too abrupt, but I like it anyway. I like the way it doesn't give you a conclusion. You can think for yourself about how this two will turn out.Now I will go and buy the DVD. This is definitely something to treasure.


                
Those months of craving, just to have a glimpse of Before Sunset is over. I finally managed to watch the movie. Though I wont discuss any technical details about the video or audio quality of the video I got. What I will be discussing is a about how did they manage to fuse Before Sunrise and Before Sunset. Those nine long years of stillness. An open ending that we just wished that someone knew how it ended. That's what kept me clinging on to Before Sunrise. It ended not with a happy nor sad ending. But it made some of us empty in some way making us want to know more about them. So what we did was to watch it all over for so many times over and over and over. And with every end of the movie we learned more about them. A hundred and five minutes of pure conversation with one another. Their glances and stares. The empty streets they've walked. The topics they discussed. Even though we watch the film for so many times we can never end this movie. They never exchanged phone numbers, never gave their address to one another. What they only have was just a promise to meet again after six months at the train station. If ever one of them gave away their phone number. We could just probably generate a happy ending, because either one of them can call the other to meet sometime. And just because of those digits, we can be rest assured that they'll see each other again.Finally after nine years of waiting we finally have a sequel. Though I hate the idea of having a sequel because it might spoil those special moments in the movie. But I just can't blame them to make one, because there are times that we should know about it. Because the movie moved us so much in a way that Jesse and Celine were more than just characters in a simple movie, but it slowly seeps into our minds often that they've became a part of ours. Before Sunset was seamlessly appended that those questions we used to ask ourselves were answered, like 'did they ever meet again?' or 'what happened after six months?' Just don't be surprised that a measly eighty minutes is short for a sequel. The film runs in real-time where Jesse has to board a plane to New York. Jesse or Jesse Wallace(they finally figured out a surname) attended a book signing of his first published book in Paris. And there she met Celine. Then the story continues where they just both walked on the streets of Paris on their way to the café. By just watching them together again made a feeling of joy and contentment within me that kept me glued to their dialogues. Again, the best thing about this movie is the simplicity. Before Sunset was just showcasing ordinary lives of two strangers who have met nine years ago on a train. I would definitely recommend it to everyone, even though you haven't seen Before Sunrise. And if you liked Before Sunset, without delay try to watch Before Sunrise to complete the picture. A+


                
Before Sunrise was a beautiful movie that catered to a romantic ideal: Jesse and Celine share a single day together, conversation flows like wine, and it all ends far to abruptly to ever know if the love was real, or merely a figment of their own hopes. Jesse is the heart-broken cynic, Celine the romantic in search of a pair. It is one of the best examples of young love ever put on screen. At the end of the first movie, you are left on your own to decide their fates.This is precisely why I never wanted there to be a sequel. It was a perfectly ambiguous movie, and the way you interpreted their future was just a reflection of your own cynicism or romantic nature. Yet Linklater decided to answer the question for us in perhaps the most beautiful way possible. For anyone who saw Sunrise when it first came out, nine years of their own lives have now passed, along with the actors. How has the passage of time affected not only the viewers' interpretations, but also the actors?This time around, Hawke plays the romantic. For nine years he has hoped and dreamed of meeting up with Celine. Conversely, for Delpy her romanticism was snuffed out the day she should have met up in Vienna. What Linklater has done is essentially recreate the entire first story all over again, only this time it's from the perspective of a 30-something. The details that got in the way of their first affair: distance, fear, uncertainty -- have been replaced with the more practical (but more serious) details of marriage, children, responsibility.If they could just go back to that point in time knowing what they know now, it would be so simple -- of course they'd get together. But life isn't that easy. Linklater has again given them a chance at true, perfect love, this time with the complications of mature adults. They both recognize how special their relationship is, but the sacrifices they would have to make to be together now have far more serious consequences. Is it worth the risk? The ending is again ambiguous -- perhaps Linklater will fill us in on the details in another 9 years.Note: while Before Sunset does reference Before Sunrise in occasional flashback blips, you really should see the original first. If you have the time, you might try waiting a few years before watching the sequel to truly appreciate it -- though this isn't completely necessary.


                
Before Sunset is movie so genuine and true to the heart, where two people fall deeply in love without even expressing the words "I love you" or even sharing a mere kiss on screen.I have never seen two people interact like those two in "real life" or in any other movie. The connection they shared was equally possible as it was unrealistic, but it was in simplest terms a miracle.Even though I haven't witnessed such a miracle, I believe in it, as rare as it is.But, in this life, there are no happy endings, and it's only the path we take to our miserable end which has potential for "happiness." Without any reference to statistics and with no intention to hurt the feelings of anyone who might be "in love", 99% of the world does not experience this kind of love. Unfortunately for many, the love in this movie is "true love", which in effect means if you are not experiencing this kind of love, you are not experiencing true love.The characters do, suggestively, end in a miserable end. But the moments they share is when they experience the greatest happiness known to man.Do yourself and the world a favour and watch and fall in love with this movie. Because I can guarantee that even if I don't find true love with a woman, I can be sure I felt it by witnessing the pure magic in the gem.The only movie ever to bring me to tears! It had a profound affect on me when I watched it and still does. The original is almost as good, but this one had something extra in it to bring me to tears.If you don't understand even one part of what I'm talking about after you watched this miracle, then unfortunately you have zero chance of experiencing true love.This may me my favourite movie of all time!


                
What chances would you give to an 80 minute film to hold your attention which has nothing but an American man Jessie (Ethan Hawke) and a Parisian woman Celine (Julie Delphy) talking? Not much I would imagine. Well, this film not only grabs and holds your attention but makes you fall in love with the characters like the prequel "Before Sunrise". Our young protagonists in their early 20s were in Vienna for the day. In "Before Sunset", they are in Paris, 9 years from their tryst in Vienna, having lost complete contact of each other during the time.We follow these characters as they have grown from their previous romantic meeting, become more matured, responsible, more cynical and probably more regretful for their predicament to be apart. It is intriguing to listen to their delightful conversations to listen to as they walk through Paris and one of the reasons for that is, Julie and Ethan have written their own dialogs. Which makes the performances look so completely non-rehearsed and natural. It brings to life their characters which is all we remember of the film and it is most that as an actor and writer you can achieve.Linklater has always been a master of conversations, although he has set a very high yardstick in terms of the quality of it. It has to be engaging, quirky, real, meaningful. He is a master director and the diversity of his filmography speaks for itself. There is always a sense of languid ease to his film, maybe reflective of his persona.A great love story. One that will stand the test of time and will definitely touch your heart.


                
