You people have to be joking? This move has a vote of 8.6??? The Godfather 2 has 8.9!!!! This is really only 0.3 away from The godfather part 2?????This was trash from the beginning. Ethan Hawke's inane chatter bugged me from the start. the only reason I voted it a 4/10 was because it was set in Paris ~ personal fantasy of mine - get over it. The script was not funny, the story was not emotive, the acting was average at best.what do people see in this film???come on. reply. NOW!


                
The idea is good and so is the acting. What makes this film a supreme bore though, is the script. It is not that it is far-fetched and unrealistic, on the contrary, it is very realistic and many a viewer will immediately recognise the way the two protagonists, who may have lost sight of, but had not forgotten, one another, interact. From the tentative exploration of the emotional landscape in the Parisian café at the beginning of the film, to the more intimate open closing scene with its mixture of sexual tension and regret over missed opportunities and choices wrongly made, the script, filmed in apparent real time, stays very close to life. However, like some nineteenth-century realistic novels of which this film reminded me a little (e.g. George Gissing's New Grub Street), realism does not necessarily make for compelling viewing. Unfortunately, there is nothing in the film, not even in the acting, that lifts the everyday story to a higher plane so as to invest it with more meaning. It would seem that just like its protagonists, the director failed to make good use of an opportunity.


                
I am slowly working my way through Empire Magazine's Top 500 films. Sometimes little gems turn up - Cinema Paradiso, The Thin Man, Clerks - and occasionally I'm left cold.I'm afraid this film was in the second variety. Before I watched it I read only good reviews - how does IMDb classify them? So I thought it would be worth dropping a few slightly more alternative thoughts on a film I so wanted to enjoy. 1. The main characters are soooo boring, honestly I cannot imagine spending any more than 10 minutes with them in real life. Gauche and self obsessed; not my cup of tea and definitely not people to care about. 2. The script is weak as water. It honestly sounds like they were making it up as they went along - badly. It was like watching Big Brother - boring people saying boring things. 3. There's no atmosphere to the film, no colour, no spark. I mean nothing - no characters, no character. It's great to see Hollywood drag itself out of its natural home - the west coast, and even better to attempt a film like this, but it never really works. Setting a film in Paris and employing a French actress doesn't make it worth watching, I would suggest trying one of the other 499.


                
In the beginning this movie seemed to have had some promise, but all is lost within the first 45 minutes or so of the film. The basic premise is two past lovers chance to encounter each other again years later, but their lives, of course, are different now.The movie is all dialog, save one musical performance. While this itself is not a turn-off for me it may be for some. I've enjoyed other movies of the format, but this wasn't one of them. The dialog is mainly between the two main characters. And the conversations, while many of us have experienced these dialogs with friends and lovers, past and present, and have probably enjoyed them and have fond memories of them, it's a completely different issue when one is not the participant and instead an involuntary voyeur. There's none of the same satisfaction or heightened emotion and instead I mostly wished I was somewhere else. After a while I'd pretty much heard all I want to hear and I'm thinking, "Why don't they just sleep with each other already and be done with it?" But instead the viewer is forced to witness, not though action but through talk, 80 minutes of the past and present lives of two individuals who still haven't given us reason to afford them any empathy.The writing does nothing to save it. It's not particularly humorous, witty, or interesting and so basically comes of as if the camera picked a random couple in Paris and decided to follow them for a day, giving us the full unedited account. I understand that this is a sequel and I did not see the first in the series, so understand that my lack of empathy might be thrown off because of it. I can only hope the first one is not as painful to watch.But if you play the movie with the sound muted you get a nice videography of Paris. Maybe then you could make up your own interesting dialog.


                
I appreciate Before Sunset for what it is -- a sequel made nine years after the original, set nine years after the original, starring the same two actors and following up on the events of the original -- but that does not mean I liked it. The conversations in this film were not as interesting as the first movie, and I did not want the two romantic leads to get together anymore. Yes, it feels very realistic, but who wants to listen to people complain about their life and their marriage for over an hour?


                
Before Sunset is an oddity, a sequel to the one-night-in-Vienna romance of 1994's Before Sunrise. This time the pair reunites 10 yrs later in Paris and 98% of the movie's length is one unbroken conversation between the two. Sadly Julie Delpy ain't quite as beautiful while it seems Ethan Hawke has caught a nasty case of the Hivees. She's an environmental activist and still single he's married and is oh merely a best-selling novelist on a publicity tour promoting his book based on the one night these two spent together in the first flick. So it all gets very self-reflexive real quick, and annoying and not hot. She says that she's romantically numb and he describes his married life as running a nursery with a woman he used to date and has had sex < 10 times in 4 years. They don't kiss or make any promise to meet again and it's all ambiguous and noncommittal and forgettable. The screenplay was co-written by the two stars and a lot of the dialogue is humorless and chilly. I'm pretty annoyed by the whole thing and I think I've loved every other movie directed by my man Linklater, from School of Rock to Dazed & Confused to Waking Life to Slacker. This one I can live without. Mitigating factor: Delpy's awesome apartment, revealed in the last 10 minutes.


                
This was actually a very interesting movie. The whole thing takes place in real time during a stroll, cup of coffee, short boat ride and short car ride through Paris. The couple does not stop talking once. Basically they are describing things that another director with a larger budget might have chosen to dramatize. Not that I don't like witty repertoire, but this was ridiculous. I mean it's clever enough, it is exactly the kind of conversation you might have if catching up with a one-night stand after 9 years. Though of course the "man" (Hawke) keeps somehow maneuvering the conversation back to jokes about getting the "woman" (Delpy) into the sack, which I found to be so juvenile. They skirt around touchy subjects like politics and religion and just when you think the conversation is going to turn into a debate they laugh and all is well (oh aren't they so cute). But I guess in real life that is what you would do with an acquaintance. The whole time we were watching we wondered what was going to happen. Something was going to happen. Nothing really does that isn't obvious. That's why I call this review a spoiler -- there is really nothing to spoil because nothing happens (and I don't mean nothing like Seinfeld's nothing which is really something, I mean NOTHING, just pleasant conversation). Don't get me wrong: the dialogue is very good. Ethan Hawke tends to pick very poetic touching movies. And any other night this would have made a good coffeehouse flick, but we were hoping for something with a little more meat. It was this or "Defending Your Life" and I really regret the decision we made! :) Best part of the movie: when Delpy sings the pretty waltz toward the end. Just lovely.
I'd like to reject what another commentator wrote about "Before Sunset". This movie was slow, to be generous, and ended rather abruptly--without redemption. Eighty minutes of rather boring dialog with a plot line as repugnant. The characters, Jesse (Ethan Hawke) and Celine (Julie Delpy), lacked chemistry and charisma. Ethan's forced diatribe left an uneasy feeling inside. The end was as bland as the beginning, a completely trite, over-used attempt at a cliffhanger. It is my understanding that in a romantic film, connection must be felt between the 'lovers'--obviously lacking in this flick. I have to say, any young lass would adore the bland commentary and lack of plot line, however. Even with the setback of being a sequel, this film doesn't come close to success. Nonetheless, Delpy and her cute French persona left the male viewer somewhat pleased--not enough to sit through with a date though. Linklater, Hawke, Krizan, and Delpy should give another shot at writing, just not a screenplay. Try a romance novel next time my friends. Not the best romantic film I've ever seen!


                
It seems like this movie was trying too hard to be another "My Dinner with Andre", but that aspect failed. The dialog between the two characters was just so superficial and uninteresting, not thought provoking at all. What made that worse is that I think it was intended to be "deep". I found myself thinking, especially about the Celine character, "When is she going to shut up?" Because she was talking so much about so many uninteresting and superficial things, it also took away from the romantic aspect between the two characters. I really didn't feel any chemistry between them.I should add that the high point for me in this film were the songs that Julie Duply wrote and performed. She has a lovely singing voice.


                
This one is not quite the same level as Before sunrise. That was the first part of the whole story. Where Part 1 was very real and realistic about emotions. Part 2 was very predictable and a little bit silly. I'ts a lot more difficult to feel one with either one of the characters. The love seems like gone after all those years. But they still love each other but they don't want to admit it. Then the end is really bad, I think. For me it was like worse it couldn't be. The movie itself turned me down yet. But the end drowned me in an ocean of predictability. I even cannot understand that no one of the actors felt that this story wasn't worth it to play. Or that they didn't realize after seeing it that it would be turning off a lot of fans of the first part.


                
But not by very much. This is one of those movies that unless you can directly relate to the main characters you'll find it quite slow and tedious. There are a few moments of occasional humor or little bits of relationship wisdom thrown in here or there but that's about it. The best part in the entire movie is the end but not just because it's over, the last few minutes of the movie were actually fairly good. Too bad the rest of it was just a bunch of filler. I rated the first movie "before sunrise" a two because it was so painfully predictable and slow. This one was pretty much more of the same but with a better ending..


                
I actually don't write reviews often but sometime I did to films that grab my attention . And this film did its so awful and pathetic that blows my mind literally this is not the thing that you are looking for . If you think that its a good love story romantic film in that case you are barking up the wrong tree . The characters in this films talks and walks throughout the film that's it ! If you're looking for a good romantic movie and should try "The Notebook" its damn good and worth every penny but this shouldn't be your choice . when talking about the performances of the actors they are rather good than the story you can say this but still lacks entertainment .


                
