"Before Sunrise" was one of the most beautiful independent love stories of the 90's. Part of its appeal came from the open ending. We didn't know how the lives of these two young people would continue and what would become of them. The whole movie was like a snapshot that left the rest to our imagination. A sequel to such a story seemed to be unnecessary, but apparently director Richard Linklater himself couldn't stop thinking about these two intriguing characters and had to envision their lives after this one fateful day in Vienna.Here it is now, the most unlikely sequel I have ever seen, "Before Sunset" - made not for money but for pure artistic purpose only. Much of the magic of part one could have been destroyed, but somehow Linklater and his two main actors managed to pull it off. "Before Sunset" takes place nine years after Jesse and Celine first met and as soon as the movie starts you feel like you meet old friends you haven't seen in a long time. You know these people and immediately feel at home with them. I was afraid that "Before Sunset" might give answers to questions that shouldn't be answered in the first place. If "Before Sunrise" was a dream that two young people had, then this movie could only be the rude awakening, the confrontation with reality. And somehow it is just that. It's a bit disillusioning to hear that all did not turn out as well as one might have imagined. We learn that Jesse and Celine are not particularly happy in their lives and that they are not really the romantic persons they used to be nine years ago. The soothing thing to see, however, is that they are still here. They both have passed their 30th birthday, they have jobs and their future is more or less decided, but they're still longing for passion in their lives and as soon as they meet each other, it's there again. They might have given up a lot of their dreams and beliefs but one thing remains true: their feelings for each other. While they're talking it's like they turn back time and become the young, hopeful people they once were again. I'm getting a bit carried away, but that's the beauty of these two movies, "Sunrise" and "Sunset". The story sucks you in and you're not able to stop thinking about it for a long while.Another thing "Before Sunset" did, it made me reflect on my own life. How have I changed in the past nine years? What has become of my dreams? Obviously, I have gotten more cynical, because at times I was irritated by Celine's talk about environmental problems and her emotional outbursts. It took me way longer than last time to "bond" with her character this time around.Anyway, the performances by Hawke and Delpy are wonderful once again. Their acting is as natural as can be, and thinking of Hawke's recent divorce in real life you wonder how much of his character in the movie is based on his own personal experiences.Unfortunately, the movie is over way too soon. After about an hour you have already arrived at the final scene - a scene that is just amazing. It makes you hope that somehow everything will work out for Jesse and Celine and that maybe they will stay together this time. As part one, "Before Sunset" doesn't have a definite ending, though.It's sure nice to see that apparently Linklater cares about Jesse and Celine as much as I do and made such a good sequel. He could probably even make a third part. "Before Sunset" has convinced me that it could work.


                
Finally, Linklater does something with his talent. His strength in the past has been to shape the form of his films to match the subject. At least that's been true when the subject is the tentativeness of existence.He's done well enough in the past, but since his characters were aimless his projects inherited a meaninglessness. Where he tried to impart introspective layers with "Waking Life," those layers were trite threads of fake profundities. Well, never mind. Artists aren't required to be particularly smart <U+0097> even about who they are and what they do.What is required is the ability to discover and convey something that resonates. Usually in films the resonance is a sort of nervous recognition in the characters and situation. Sometimes, the manner of the film, the nature of the world presented is enough to engage. Such is the value of Kieslowski <U+0097> and how he managed Delpy.This film tries something different, something commonly attempted and almost never achieved: the direct drama of discovery between two people. This hosts the construction not in any story or setting or even situation, though they are all employed in the service of the goals. Instead, the whole thing revolves around the tentative motions toward intimacy between two people.Why this usually fails is because of the unwieldy mechanics. In order to seem real (most reviewers call this film "veristic") the dramatic projection has to be hyperreal, but not so much that it appears artificial. So how do you dramatically amplify lightly probing intimacies? Its all in the most subtle hesitations of the actors, in that range beyond what "really" might happen and them forthrightly telling us what's happening.The construction is perfect: all movies are about other movies. In this case, we literally have the last chapter of the romance as a movie with movie values and memories. More, those are romantically captured in a book that one character carries from the previous movie into this one. Thus, all their discussion, all their reluctances are about having the present film approach the previous one.I'm astonished at the perfection of the idea, as astonished as I am about how well the two, especially Delpy, support it. This is delicate stuff.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.


                
I'm a movie lover. That first thing said, i have to recognize that i'm really hard on movies, and i usually discard many of them for being under-prepared, for so many errors and things like that. But with "Before Sunset" i felt different. We all know movies are just fakes: what happens, what we see is not the real life. It's just a construction. It's just somebody imagination becoming a visual media. But when i was watching this movie, i didn't felt that. I was seeing real people, with real problems and having thoughts, and fears and hopes. It's the most real acting i ever saw. All about it is just perfect: the ambiance, the set, the city, even the apartment we can see at the near end. Every piece of the movie was connected, and you can tell a whole story about the characters just for hear them, or seeing the way they talk, the things they said, the music they chooses or the things they have. In that way of thinking, i found this movie inspirational, a well-made piece of life, and incredibly deep and wide film. I think this is a portrait of life as only a few can know, of all the shadows and lights we all share.So, i really recommend it, even if you didn't saw the first one.


                
"Before Sunset" is an open-ended and worthy sequel to the very popular romantic niche film "Before Sunrise". However, it will have little meaning or magic for those who have not seen the original 1995 film. Therefore....If you saw "Before Sunrise" and liked it, this film is a must see.If you saw "Before Sunrise" and didn't like it, pass on this film.If you didn't see "Before Sunrise", check it out on this website and see if you want to give it a try. If you don't enjoy it, pass on this film. If you enjoy it, you won't want to miss this film. The pair will make a great back-to-back watch. (B)


                
While the hypnotic mist that engulfed me after watching the first movie 'Before Sunrise', of the trilogy by Richard Linklater, was yet to settle down, I had a chance to watch its sequel, 'Before Sunset', soon after. Two strangers, Jesse and Celine, who had spent a loquacious and romantic day together, exploring the streets of Vienna, were supposed to meet after 9 long years and I was very pretty curious and anxious to know what had happened before and what would happen now that they would be meeting again. Eventually, the movie turned out to be an awesome manifestation of strong emotions trapped within for years - as if a kind of low intensity volcano that doesn't erupt catastrophically but, never-the- less, changes the landscape of the minds of the protagonists and how they react to it. The movie, for most part, rests heavily on its strong script and powerful acting of the two lead characters (it's hard to believe that the protagonists themselves – Ethan Hawke & Julie Delpy –had co-authored the script). So one needs to be all ears to fully immerse and enjoy their coming face to face with the reality and tackling it. This demanded a very judicious and effortless acting on the part of the lead pair and Ethan Hawke & Julie Delpy had done an excellent job of it. Their acting is so natural that most times they seem to be playing for themselves rather than performing their roles. Also their body chemistry is extremely enjoyable. It seems the body chemistry they developed before, while playing their roles in the first movie of the trilogy, had come handy and they have improved upon it further in this movie. The director, Richard Linklater, and his cinematographer, had a formidable task at their hands of holding the audiences together till the very end since the movie solely depended upon the script & acting with not much of the scenic locations, visuals or twists & turns in the plot. But in the end, they had done a brilliant job of it. Intensely dramatic scenes are handled delicately without glycerin filled tears or nerve breaking sobs. Then they made judicious use of light highlighting happy, sad or tense situations, For instance, the lead pair glows in the sunlight when they ferry across the river Seine in Paris in a joyous mood while darker shades of light are used to depict tense situations. This thoughtful use of light elevates the given situation beyond measure and, at times, even communicates in absence of any dialogue from the actors. This variable display of light seems not merely coincidental but a meticulously planned creation of the director and so are the unusually long takes between the shots. Maybe not realized by less discerning viewer, many small but deft & creative directorial touches go on throughout the movie that keep the audience glued to their seats till it reaches its pinnacle - the concluding song- 'A waltz for the night'. The song (also written & performed on screen by Julie Delpy) is the real gem – a cherry on the top! Its sweet rendition echoes in your ears as you leave the auditorium and its sure to remain further with you for a very long time. So go watch it! The movie is a juxtaposition of art, music and crafty film-making which eventually sings a different tune of a celebration that an elite film-lover can't afford to miss.
There are movies that help me understand life. But there have been only a few that have really helped me understand my own life. This is one of them.I can not tell you the end of this story. If you smiled in the beginning how silly the readers are to ask what happened then, you will have to realize in the end that you are not off the hook. You will have to find the answers for yourself.But I know my story and know how that ended. The only thing I did not understand before watching this movie was what went on before that I let it go that wrong. This is how: you meet someone, and know you never want to lose this. But when you do, you get up and carry on hoping there will be more. But you already start the rest on the wrong foot.In the end you marry a substitute who will win each and every argument because you let them, and will win due to one thing only: extremely low expectations. And from the moment you made these allowances you will never see them straight again. Will not see their shortcomings for what they are, but turn a blind eye, and let them go by.You can only judge someone you really love. You can be cruel to them, mar them, hurt them, because when they hurt you it really hurts. And that feels like you have the right to hurt them. The substitutes will have their excuses for ever because you are afraid to hurt them. Even when they have deserved it many times over.And this is the recipe for an unhappy life.How you script the ending of your own life is your question to answer. But this film will help you think.
Tagline: A genuine attempt at recapturing missed opportunities<U+0085> Review by Neo: Perhaps it is almost truism to say that it is human nature to desire what we cannot have. It is part life that people will have to endure through situations where it will leave them with the feeling of what if and what could have been. While, people may say that what has passed has already passed and there is no point pondering or going back to asking what could have been. That is why Before Sunset is such a good movie as it is able to depict all these underlying and deep emotions that we have all kept within ourselves and soul.Life is never easy, meeting the right people requires the right timing and the right place, it may well be the right timing for you, but for someone else, the timing may not be right. The person may be still letting go out their past or may be the couple could be separated by distance. I remember a girl asking me, why we didn't meet earlier, at that moment, I just said that if we did, we might never be together. Thinking back, at this very moment, it makes you realised that while the timing was perfect for me personally, having just graduated, about to start a new job, and being able to let go of the past completely for the first time, but love is always a two way thing. Perhaps for the girl, we probably met 3 years too late.9 years on after their fateful meeting in Before Sunrise, they meet again in a bookshop in Paris and what is so wonderful about this movie is definitely the realism and the underlying emotional core which coincides perfectly with the witty and thoughtful dialogue. Once again the Wong Kar Wai's theme is evident here, love is all about timing, and it is no good meeting a person too early or too late. For the case of this couple, it is more of a case of everything being right, except for fate playing a game on their love. All these lead to further feeling of regret and the ever lingering emotion along the lines of unfinished businesses.Like Before Sunrise, the unfulfilling sudden ending gives hope to the audience to engage in their own sort of thinking. Perhaps, they won't be together, but at least their second meeting allowed them to give it a shot and finally a way to possibly put the regrets behind them. Then again, one needs to look no further than the current cinema running of Two Days in Paris for an answer.Ethan Hawke is perfectly cast as the guy and Julie Dephy has this undeniable likable nature about her that makes her character so believable. Their chemistry together is just radiating off screen and on screen. There are moments in the car that allows Julie to expresses her acting chops and director Richard Linklater wisely engages some memorable flash back to evoke further emotions.All in all, Before Sunset is by all means a good little movie that goes only a little longer than 1 hour. Not unlike the situation within the movie, perhaps Julie was right, maybe their relationship is only good for short term meetings. It is a pity that they weren't together 9 years ago, but what made the movie better is the manner that Ethan realised that his love for her was not just single sided and knowing the fact that at the same time when he was lonely and thinking about that someone, the feelings are mutual. As we venture to the end of this review, it is now 2:17 pm, on the 25th of March 2008, a moment that will not come back again and with a brink of an eye it have already been exactly 3 months since that fateful meeting. We might meet again one day or perhaps not, but I guess no one really knows. Let's finish off with a beautiful quote from Julie: "memory is a wonderful thing, if we do not have to deal with the past<U+0085>" A quote that rings so true and real<U+0085> (Neo 2008) I rate it 8.5/10www.thehkneo.com


                
It is a real good filmmaker that can turn the ordinary into extraordinary. Before Sunset does just that in a very simple and effective manner. I have become fond of Richard Linklater's ability and wisdom of seeming magic in what could have been meaningless in other hands. The growth of the relationship within the boundaries of time is as realistic as it can ever be, but unlike reality TV, this film possess an artistry filled with beauty. Bravo! The acting was very natural. Choices were made by the demand of the previous moment rather than for the mere Eggo. Both actors were very much into what they were doing. The listened to each other and really heard one another. Cinematography could have been easily sacrificed if it were not for the wisdom to let the actors do their thing and you just there to record. Great job everyone.


                
A very sensitive but forward approach to take a lead on the prequel... but more than extending the story , its an extremely realistic treatment to the conflict of feelings and emotions which we may or might not deny to confront everyday.If somebody touches you truly and deeply , time and space would never change the effect that person has on you. This is more pronounced by the evidence that the external changes(the shape of your life ,your deeds and the people added/deleted ) wouldn't deviate the line of sight somebody has for your true self!!! High five to the makers again for bringing this out so subtly! Again , its commendable that the dialogues , making noise through the streets of Paris would so beautifully keep you digging to the screen. The curiosity element of the movie is alive all through and even after it. The freedom of imagination is an added feature which leaves it unbiased and non-judge-mental! The prequel is good but this is more appealing as it traces a journey we all live through but mess up with due to our own contortions!A must watch...but NOT BEFORE YOU WATCH THE SUNRISE! :)


                
Great movie, and more substantial than Before Sunrise. I thought Before Sunrise was okay, but overrated. It was pretty much another romantic drama. Better than most in that it has more depth of characters, has a fairly unique and beautiful setting, and direction and plot are more subtle and original than most. On the down side, it was very dialogue-intensive and some of the dialogue is just incredibly pretentious, navel-gazing stuff. Before Sunset is still very dialogue-intensive. This is still an irritation in that you want some respite from this, some period of reflection and calm. However, in this case it does propel the story forward, unlike Before Sunrise where the dialogue seemed to go in circles and not really go anywhere.That is where Before Sunset is so much better. By setting it nine years after the first movie, you get a a more complete story, more character development, more a sense of what they mean to each other, more genuine emotion.For these reasons, making this sequel is a stroke of genius on Richard Linklater's part. Instead of a snapshot of these two people's lives, we have a timeline, a sense of lives progressing and changing, of memories and regrets. Not ships passing in the night (as the first movie made them out to be), but soulmates.


                
This is a composite review of both "Before Sunrise" and "Before Sunset". I suppose there will be some "spoilers". The first movie introduces 2 characters Jesse and Celine who meet up in a train en-route to Vienna. They feel a connection and decide to take a tour of the city together. The movie chronicles their tour and ends with them going their separate ways. Throughout the movie, both Jesse and Celine talk & exchange viewpoints. As they see the world in very different ways, there are a lot of enlightening conversations about life, death, the state of the world at the time etc. The second movie picks up nine years after Jesse and Celine's original trip to Vienna. Jesse is now married with a son and has authored a book based on his experiences with Celine. During a book tour ending in Paris, he meets Celine once again and once again they roam around the city sparking up a variety of conversations. The director leaves the ending deliberately ambiguous as to whether or not Jesse gets back together with her.Overall, while they do tend to drag sometimes, these 2 movies are very original and worth watching at least once, especially if you're sick of the hundred odd rom coms beating around the bush but admittedly the second one is not as good as the first.I would rate the movies individually Before Sunrise-8/10 Before Sunse-7.5/10


                
When a move is a sequel it is hard for me to review the film without referring to the original, so here goes............This is a very, very good film; although sequels rarely are better than the originals, this is clearly an exception. It is better than Before Sunrise. Whereas Sunrise bordered on pretentious, Sunset is very real and on the mark. The main characters in Sunset were somewhat annoying and we had a hard time liking them (which is not necessary in most films, but I prefer sympathetic characters in a romance), while in this sequel they are much more real and the audience can feel their unhappiness with what is, and understand that they may yet have a chance at greater happiness. In the first film most of us can't wait till they separate, while in the second we hope they remain together.I think that this film is better directed, better paced and better acted. I recommend it to anyone who enjoys romantic films, especially when you are in the mood of remembering your first love and wondering what might have been.
You would think an entire film consisting of just dialogue could bore the heck out of you, and if you are a action-craving Hollywood blockbuster guy, you would probably be better off watching "Die Hard." But if you're up for a film with top quality acting and a solid script, you will probably remember this film as one of your favorite love stories. Richard Linklater pulls our attention throughout the entire film by allowing the audience to experience the emotional and psychological drama through each character's eyes while leaving enough distance to witness the events from a neutral perspective. With his accessible plot he creates much emotional and dramatic sequences within the small time-frame: former two lovers walking down the streets of Paris. By the time you realize this film purely consists of dialogue, you'd most probably want it to stay that way. The two major elements in this film are reminiscent emotions of a previous relationship and the little time in which two ex-lovers can share these emotions. Much of the talking seems to be a means of observation, while most of the communication seems to take place at a more subtle level. The physical expressions in can be observed with the fine acting of Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy, who seem to be playing real-life lovers, especially for those who have seen "Before Sunrise." I haven't seen such a satisfying love story in a long time; it was quite refreshing to watch a love story that didn't make me feel mellow nor optimistic: this film, was neither.
What can I say about Before Sunset? Haunting, Entrancing, every bit as wonderful as its already cult status (only one year old now) indicates. Ethan Hawke, gaunt, hunched and withered, and Julie Delpy, wiser and better, accidentally (or did fate set it up?) meet up a decade after their previous single day together to spend another day reliving it, and catching up with a decade that they eventually realize was all about that one day. What a love story this is! No love-making, but intelligent conversation that is orgasmic, covering the environment, Buddhism, the modern self, psychotherapy, relationships, America and Americans, sex and gender, God <U+0096> pretty much everything that young people care about in ones and share about in twos. This is an even better film than the first one, sharper and tighter, and benefiting from the ground laid down by it, so that we now care so much more deeply for this couple that were essentially strangers to us the first time around. America meets Europe again here, as the couple walk around talking over Parisian backdrops that are not at all hard to look at. This is a must see, but only after you've seen Before Sunrise. I loved these two films with only a day in between viewing them. What would it have been to have seen Before Sunrise when it first came out and to then see Before Sunset a decade later? The heart aches at the thought<U+0085><U+0085>.


                
Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy return as Jessie and Celine, only older and wiser. It is hard to believe that the time spent between the two films(a decade I think) has no impact on the actors as their chemistry is as good(if not better) than in Before Sunrise. Richard Linklater is an auteur and this is a great example of a great movie by a director given full reins.


                
Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy return as Jessie and Celine, only older and wiser. It is hard to believe that the time spent between the two films(a decade I think) has no impact on the actors as their chemistry is as good(if not better) than in Before Sunrise. Richard Linklater is an auteur and this is a great example of a great movie by a director given full reins.


                
Before Sunset is the sequel to the incredibly touching film Before Sunrise and this one is no lesser in either content or execution. Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy return as Jessie and Celine, only older and wiser. It is hard to believe that the time spent between the two films(a decade I think) has no impact on the actors as their chemistry is as good(if not better) than in Before Sunrise. Richard Linklater is an auteur and this is a great example of a great movie by a director given full reins.


                
...Another masterpiece from Richard Linklater.I recently learned that the first movie (before sunrise) was made by him because he wanted to find a girl that he had met and spent a night like that of the movie.He believed that if the girl would have seen the movie she could have tried to contact with him.In before sunset, he parallels his action of doing this film with the action of Jesse to write a book about the night with Celine, in order to find her...In this movie, indeed Jesse and Celine meet again each other, but this time they have continued their lives.Celine realizes that when we are young we believe that we will have the chance ,plenty of times, to connect with people, but in reality it only happens a few times.That in my opinion is the main message of this film.The biggest mistake that we can do, is to say that we will find another one in the future...NOOO, THIS IS THE TIME, THIS IS THE ONE!!! Another and last point that I would like to emphasize is when Celine says that many couples think that after a few years of living together, they would be in the same state of excitement,in the same passion and the consuming desire to be the same than in the beginning.And continues that this is impossible, because they would have ended up doing nothing at all with their lives, because of the constant heartbeat and desire for sex.Young couples must understand that this is natural and not lack of love.But, of course,in Jesse's situation there is also another important factor for his unhappiness, Celine!!And now fits perfectly the first observation that I made,THIS IS THE TIME, THIS IS THE ONE!!
I have never thought a movie can be so exciting only with endless dialogues.Listening to the characters I got the natural question--why they do not make anything to stay together.They are so pretty,young,they could make such a nice family,they could look cute together.The answer--they cannot let themselves be happy because only strong people can afford this.They are not strong.They are afraid.To live with a person you love means to fight against cold of everyday life.


                
Reviewed November 2011This is more like a romantic version of earlier Kevin Smith's comedies. Very well written and it's quite mandatory that it is as the entire movie is just one conversation. I would've rated it a bit higher had it not dragged a bit somewhere in the middle. Jesse (Ethen Hawke) has a one day encounter with a French girl Celine (Julie Delpy) during his college days and has a wonderful time. They decide to meet again on a set date in the future when Celine doesn't show up. After 9 years, Jessi writes a book on the incident and gets quite famous. On the Paris leg of his book tour he meets Celine again and strikes conversation which is the content for the rest of the movie. For a wafer thin story like this, it requires excellent screenplay and a tremendous chemistry between the leads. The talent behind this movie sure delivers the required goods and a special mention should go to Julie Delpy for her excellent presence and contribution to writing. Only problem is that, it feels a little long to reach what it wants to show. There is a little drag just before they both get on the cab which spoiled my mood though it picks up soon after and ends fantastically. It operates on a shoe string budget and never deviates from the core of what it wants to show. It is extremely enjoyable and a good opportunity to showcase the writer's prowess and they do it with great panache.


                
It's 9 years after the events of 'Before Sunrise'. American Jesse Wallace (Ethan Hawke) is in Paris on a book tour after writing about that night with Céline (Julie Delpy) in Vienna. He's coy to the reporters about that night. Céline shows up and they restart the conversation while he waits for his flight later that night. She reveals that she didn't make their planned meeting due to her grandmother's funeral. He reveals that he did return for the meeting. He's married with a son. She has a photojournalist boyfriend who is away. The conversation fluctuates between breezy and deeper material until personal truths start to be spilled.Richard Linklater has hit on something compelling by returning to the same characters years later. It's casual and improvisational-like. Hawke and Delpy still have the same chemistry but more adult. It's deeper. There is an addition to the material by being a sequel. It's more than repetition. It's a sweet return of old friends.


                
It's a film about two people that once spend some time together and it was maybe one of the best days in their lives. Now 9 years later they meet again and have another wonderful date together. I liked the first film Before Sunrise for it's romantic story and this film while also great and similar to that one it is not so outstanding.We can know what both of the main characters Jesse and Celine went through during this long 9 years and it's revealed that they didn't meet in Vienna 6 months later as they agreed. Most of the film Jesse and Celine talk with each other about many things and they walk by the streets of Paris. 9 years later they still like each other and there is a sparkle between them. The ending is open and unclear, but it has its charm. Overall it's a nice romantic melodrama in some way unique and everybody can recall his or her own first love and try to get in touch after all those years.
This is like the 3rd movie of Richard Linklater I've watched and I'm quickly falling in love with his director skills. I've stared with the heavy Waking Life and saw Everybody wants ome a few month ago and they're totally different. This one, has a mix of the thins I'm loving about Linklater, which are the philosophical and emotional ride but perfect pitched dialogues that can get you hooked to the screen. It describes these 2 characters in such a highway but you can catch the details on the way too. It's almost like a bipolar case, in which you see maniac states and the lows of the depression too. Overall, it's a romantic movie without trying too hard to be. Good performance, with innocence-independent female protagonist, good dialogues and is not long, but nearly perfect timed like a quicky climax.
As Before Midnight, Sunset, Sunrise are interrelated, it's best to put all 3 three together:Before Midnight (2013)The sequel to Before Sunset and Before Sunrise, the film is a continuation of the story of Jesse and Celine after a further nine years. They've decided to be together after their encounter in the Before Sunset and have kids.This time around, they're on the last few days of a family vacation with their kids in Greece. Jesse worries about his son's wellbeing from his previous failed marriage, which triggers a relationship assessment for the couple after all these years. Once again, the screenplay is written by both the actors themselves and it is astounding. Witty, intelligent, realistic, thought provoking and occasionally humorous, they talked about family issues, work, marriage, the obligations of parenthood, the complexity that lies in long-term commitments, insecurity, struggle of feminism. In the film, Celine's feminist ideas push her to behave in ways we've not seen her do before, many of the romanticism on her have faded away since the first film. Their lives have moved on since then, life is no longer hers alone and she has make some sacrifices for their relationship to work. Their heat argument near the end of the film reveals the hidden tensions in their relationship...the fears, resentments, insecurities, loneliness throughout the years and this reflects a lot of real-life married couple problems. A truly remarkable film that's fascinating to watch. Rating: 9/10Before Sunset (2004)The story of Jesse and Celine continues again after nine years (the film is also made nine years after the first one). They didn't managed to meet each other at the Vienna train station six months after the events of Before Sunrise. Jesse, couldn't forget their fateful encounter, decided to wrote a book about them. This allows Celine to find Jesse at a bookstore in France and their conversation continues again. The dialogue is superb, even more interesting and personal as his time around, they talked about their troubled love life, politics, environmental issues...Throughout the film, they started to show their imperfections, burdened by numerous responsibilities as they talk about the mistakes they made in life and the disappointments that comes with it. The effects of aging are noticeable from their faces. This film is definitely better than the first, because it provides a more unique, personal perspective. The characters have grown and matured throughout the years. From here, it's becoming apparent that these two characters are soul mates and they were meant for each other. Interestingly, the film's dialogue are both written by the actor and actress themselves. One can't help but to assume that the two leads may have actually shared some personal conversations during the making of the film.Rating: 8.5/10Before Sunrise (1995)The story is about a young guy, Jesse and a young girl, Celine randomly meet on a train in Europe and they're both decided to spend the whole night together, talking about life and love in Vienna. As they walk around Vienna the whole night and communicating with each other, sharing their personal life experiences, you can see a deep connection slowly formed between them. The two lead actors, Ethan and Julie, shared a perfect chemistry together on screen.The script for the film is magnificent as the dialogues managed to keep the audience engaged throughout the film.Their conversations about love provides a lot of insights about relationships.They share their views, thoughts, perspectives of anything...and as they speak, you feel that you started to know these characters as well. The film successfully captures the beauty of youthful love, two beautiful people meet in a romantic setting and attracted to each other.Rating: 8/10Overall: Linklater, together with Ethan and Julie, had crafted the one of the best romantic drama trilogy of all time.The films features an in- depth look into the characters, their life experiences and how it affects their love life...of being together.The films allow us to see one woman and one man changes over the course of time. Note: Keep in mind though, the films are dialogue driven and spend most of the time on the conversations between the leads, how they managed to find a connection between them, share their thoughts, views, perspectives, principles in life...If you find that two people communicating is not enjoyable, then it's not recommended to watch the trilogy.But it'll be incredibly rewarding if you do.


                
What an experiment. Nine literal years following the event(s) of Before Sunrise, inside and out of the fictional continuation, came the very well done follow-up, Before Sunset.I adore original sequels. Especially since there are so few of them. Now, I might lose some credibility for this one, but Before Sunset and Book of Shadows: Blair Witch 2 share something in common with me. Both had probably thee most original concepts for a second chapter.Now, granted, Blair Witch 2 wasn't an overall great film, and nowhere near it's predecessor, but the idea of a sequel based on the idea the first was a movie was truly original. (Sadly, it went nowhere near it could've gone with that initial premise.) Here, with Before Sunrise, we get to literally see where these characters AND actors changed in nine years.Basically, this movie does take place almost a decade after the events of the first movie explaining a ton of what happened following that fateful day for our two lovebirds: Jesse and Celine. They meet again after some time has passed and it's like no time had passed. Again, the camera follows these two soul mates through, now, Paris, and they talk and walk and learn about each other's new lives and loves.As if no time had passed (and it helps seeing these movies back to back,) these two feel just as comfortable with each other as they did when they first met. Only now<U+0085>there's tension because they did grow up, apart and with someone else.While, I liked the movie as a whole and absolutely loved the concept of the 9-year gap of both fiction and nonfiction, it wasn't as fresh after awhile as the original. That doesn't take from the fun I did have with this; it was still very nice to follow these two around and how much they understand each other.(Spoiler coming<U+0085>if you don't like those, just skip the next paragraph.)The absolute best part of this movie, when you get past the premise, was the 100% ambiguous finale. The first movie, did give direction where the future was headed, and, yet, you still could draw your own conclusion. This one abruptly ended, which, while I was a little puzzled at first, made me fall in love with the decision of the filmmakers.I did take a Sunday and watch the entire trilogy and I marveled on what it would've been like had I been a fan of this series and had to wait to see what happens next. I can't imagine what it was like for those who fell in love with these characters and had to wait yet another nine years to find out what the ending of this movie meant.I guess I cheated, but nonetheless, I enormously loved this climax.It's a bridge movie, but it's still definitely worth viewing.
