This film is one of my favorites from last year, along with "Sideways" and "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind". Is it just a coincidence that three best films of the year all deal with ability to connect with other people, with meeting one's true love and losing it, with memories that will not go away, and with possibilities of second chances?"Before Sunset" is one of the best sequels ever made but it stays on its own. It is so perfect, so simple, so sublime, so clever, so romantic, and so moving that it makes me happy to know that the films like that exist and there is hope that as characters get older we may witness their next meeting and conversations.Who would think that watching two people talking may be that fascinating? That's what the power of great dialog does. As much as I loved dialogs in "Before Sunrise", in this film they are even better - the characters are older, wiser, more interesting, I'd say. Ten years is a long period in a human life - our characters are still young and attractive but they've gone through losses and changes, disappointments and some sad realizations about life. It is privilege of the young age to hope that "there'll be many people with whom you'll connect with. Later in life, you realize it only happens a few times." If we only knew how to cherish and keep these unique and unforgettable connections. If we only knew that they were unique...Julie Delpy along with Ethan Hawke, contributed to the screenplay; and there is no doubt that their contributions made the characters interacting on the screen absolutely honest and believable.Julie Delpy gives one of the best performances of the year as Celine. She is amazing in showing mystery, charm, disappointments, dreams, and the dark sides of this woman. Her singing and Nina Simone's impersonation in the last scenes of "Before Sunset" are among the most charming and seductive ever - oh yes, baby you will miss that plane. 9.5/10
In Paris, the American writer Jesse Howard (Ethan Hawk) is in the end of an European tour, promoting his novel about the one night stand he had with a young French woman nine years ago. In the end of the debates in a bookstore, he finds Celine (Julie Delpy) in the audience, who works in an environmental organization, and they leave the place to drink coffee and talk to each other before Jesse goes to the airport. Along the moments together, they realize that they are still in love for each other."Before Sunset" is a delightful sequel of "Before Sunrise", which is in my opinion one of the most beautiful romances I have ever seen. The screenplay was written by Ethan Hawk, Julie Delpy and Richard Linklater and it is fantastic, with wonderful dialogs. It is also amazing the natural performances of Ethan Hawk and Julie Delpy, who intensively live the characters of Jesse and Celine. It is impossible not liking this movie! The simple song sang by Julie Delpy is a great complement to this lovely fairy tale. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil): "Antes do Pôr-do-Sol" ("Before Sunset")


                
Of course I saw Before Sunrise first. If I didn't see Sunrise and jumped to this one, Before Sunset, would I still love Sunset? Maybe not. So please, if you haven't seen Before Sunrise, do not watch Before Sunset.The atmosphere is so powerful, in the movie, and between the movie and me. Sometimes I felt like I knew Jesse and Celine in person, but more often I felt I was one of them. It's not about whether I am a guy or a gal or a European or an American or any identity. The characters somehow caught a part of me, a deep part. I could almost feel what they felt. This is the most successful component of this movie.They were young and less experienced. They, I mean all of them, on the screen, behind the screen. Now, after 9 years, they came back together and produced a much richer film. Before Sunrise was a bit like a traveling movie for me. They walked from place to place. It was like that the director wanted to introduce Vienna to viewers. Jesse and Celine talked about their values of life and love on the basis of their ideals. In Before Sunset, they talked about similar issues again but on the basis of their own personal histories. It was so touching! This time, they didn't walk as many places as 9 years ago. They were not tourists anymore. They were much more certain about their journey.The performances of both actors were excellent! I mean, it was like they were talking to me. They acted with their eyes and body. It was so attractive that I didn't care where they walked. I was really into their conversation and their reaction to each other. The story went along with the words they said. Because of their great acting, I did not feel any dryness of this movie."Everyone is independent. Nothing is forever."----This is what I got out of Before Sunrise. And I think it also is the ideal of the young Jesse and Celine.---- They went on their own life without each other and realized something could be forever and they were not as independent as they thought they were. People can live by themselves, feeding themselves and entertaining themselves. However, people cannot just live like that. People depend on others in terms of caring and love, even though the person who loves you is physically far away from you. Jesse and Celine were independent of each other during the past 9 years but also dependent on each other mentally. Apparently, memory is the most reliable thing you can hold on to and deeply dwell in. Beautiful, isn't it? I also love the endings of both movies. The story still goes on in my head. There is no "the end". I wish them happy as a way to wish myself happy.


                
I didn't see Before Sunrise. I think I should just come out and say that. I have been told that it adds an extra layer to the sequel and I have no doubts. It almost seems unfair for me to judge a movie this intimate without having seen its prequel. But on that note, it is impressive that the second half of this story could move me so. It's nothing more than one long conversation, probably a kin to ones that I have myself everyday. Yet there is something else here. There is something that is entirely relatable here yet still far enough out of our reach that we are sucked into the film because we want to know that magic that exists only in movies.The story starts with a book signing. Jesse (Ethan Hawke), the author of a novel about a women he met once upon a yesterday and never saw again, is at the final stop of his tour of Europe here in Paris. This is the only part of the movie where he is alone and he sets the stage for what is about to come. He delivers a monologue to the press about a story he wishes to write about a moment that turns into another moment and that morphs into yet another and so on. He is basically describing what is to take place for the next hour. He spys a woman in the corner. He spys Celine (Julie Delpy) in the corner. After he wraps it up, they begin to talk. And they don't stop. Occasionally they travel to a new location be it a café or a park. Topics flow into each other <U+0096> just as Jesse told us they would.How do you write a conversation specific to two people yet understandable to anyone? Even after seeing the film I honestly cannot tell you. There is something beyond chemistry between Hawke and Delpy. That has been transformed from life to the page by these two. The co-authored the film. In a time of adaptations from every medium possible, it is hard to pick out original screenplays that stand strong and defend their category. Before Sunset is one of those rare scripts that does. The writing is the strongest part here.This is essentially Delpy and Hawke's two man show. There is no one else of importance. They are rarely separate, even sharing the shot most of the time. They wrote the film, they star in it and for all anyone can tell, they were the only ones involved. The direction is so minimal that it is virtually non-existent. And there in lies the genius but it's funny how one simplicity can overshadow another.Before Sunset is emotional provocative in the most subtle way. Were the sun to actually set in the background, you would never notice the difference. The film is shot in real time and so the sunset would sneak up on you the way the film does. One minute there's a sun and then before you know it the sky is pink and you realize you care whether or not they end up together when it seems only minutes ago they were just two people talking about whether or not they had sex nine years ago. ****/*****


                
I am so in love with Celine. She is the perfect woman - caring concerned, intelligent - I could listen to her forever. And, take her and put Juile Delpy's voice into her and i am in heaven. Delpy (Hoax, Broken Flowers) turns in an enchanting performance with Ethan Hawke (Training Day), as two lovers who lost each other nine years ago and meet again in Paris.It is obvious from the start that Jesse (Hawke) has never went a day without regretting what happened. Celine appears to shrug it off but, no matter how hard she tries, it comes out that her life has also been affected. The entire film is a conversation between the two that says so much. I know the century is young, but this is definitely one of the best films so far.Director Richard Linklater (screenplay/story) , Julie Delpy(screenplay) , Ethan Hawke (screenplay) , and Kim Krizan (story) have written a wonderful film that will stand the test of time.


                
Damn it! I felt they cut short this film. Whenever we hear the word SEQUEL, it feels like a recipe for disaster...there are very few instances in this world where sequel was as good or better than the first movie.This movie is one of those few instances. Two words that describe this movie are- JUST GREAT. It was a pleasure to watch both the movies simultaneously one after the other.The Ending was truly fantastic, keeps the viewer guessing & gasping for more. I loved it & wanted to see more of the chemistry between Jesse and Celine. One more fact that is unbelievable is that there is no kissing scene.A romantic film without a single kiss & mostly based on the conversation between the actors makes you question how is it possible??...Well for the answer you have to see this movie. The scene in the van, where they finally unburden themselves. One of the most emotionally raw and honest interplays I've seen. The only possible flaw was they didn't show more places in Paris.9.3/10
After reading poor/mixed reviews in 2004, I put off watching this sequel. What a waste..It's a great movie for romantics, especially those who believe in the endurance of old feelings regardless of how the romance ended.Unlike other viewers I found no mystery to the ending -- they do get together.Jesse's inability to leave her when he finds her again, and his positive response to her last question in which he states helplessly that he will miss the plane is a clear indicator that despite the complexity of their current lives (breakup and divorce with their current mates), they are together this time. It's also implied by their mutual revelation of how unsatisfied each is in their current relationships. Jesse cannot love his wife as she expects it and Julie has suppressed her romantic feelings so much that she is satisfied with an intermittent long-distance relationship. Neither mate stands a chance to Julie dancing to Nina Simone as she seduces Jesse to stay.His acknowledgment that he will miss his plane is delivered with a smile that reminds me of certain scenes in two early Paul Newman and Joanne Woodward films (Paris Blues but especially The Long Hot Summer) in which Paul simply cannot stop grinning at his real love Joanne when they are flirting because he is so nuts about her.This movie was a treat...


                
Before Sunrise was a date movie- a boy and a girl meets and talks about love, life, their experiences and their interpretations. They talk and talk. Both wary of love, but still falling for each other. It had those smart great dialogues that make for an absorbing patient watch. In their conversations I found my own philosophy, my own search for soulmate and my own dilemmas. But there was something amiss there. A proper narratively structured story was missing, yes, but what the movie was really deficient was in its aloofness. It muses about ideas of love and life and they even lay bare their personal lives to each other, but what was missing was the translation of that anguish, of that hurt, of that disappointment in the wordings of their dialogues and mannerisms. It is like they are trying to reach a diagnosis in that clinical detached sort of way and this may be an appropriate treatment given the circumstances of the movie, but that was very off putting for me. Now coming to Before Sunset, it is everything that its predecessor was and much more. It takes place nine years after their first encounter with each other. He is the author of a best selling novel on a book tour in Paris. She stays in Paris and works for a cause. They meet in the morning and he has a flight to catch in the evening. So starts their second date. It starts initially with their cool detachment to the growing love between them, more so as they are left bitter by their love lives though their professional lives are in a much better state, but you could see in their mannerisms and dialogues their anguish and their pain and their longing for each other. A look here and there. A word here and there. You could feel that. And then in the second half where this facade of coolness bursts open and they for the first time really talk their heart out, you really get to know them and feel them and care for them. These are two vulnerable people charred with their bitter and disappointing experiences in the matters of heart trying to come in terms with loneliness and their elusive search for 'the one' and their anger and frustration to keep up their appointment. The screenplay credit is shared by Julie Delpy and Ethan Hawke along with Richard Linklater. And since both Delpy and Hawke were going through tumultuous relationships, you could read their notes of sufferings and pain in the dialogues they deliver. That added to the movie that sort of realism that was missing in the predecessor. SPOILERS AHEAD. There are two things that I am dying to mention here. First is the look that Julie Delpy gives now and then and more frequently in the second half to Ethan Hawke when he is not conscious of them. That look is the most painful and beautiful thing ever. That look says it all. And the second is the ending. The ending is just wow. WOW!! He is there sitting on the sofa looking at her and smiling. She is right there in front of him but not facing him and dancing slowly to a beautiful song. He knows there is a flight to catch. She reminds him of that playfully. But he is still smiling and she is still dancing. What an ending. Wow. SPOILERS OVER. Before Sunset is a movie that is for everybody who has fallen in love, is about to or has always wondered about it. It speaks to the heart, expresses the dilemma, but does not answer the question. It is funny and sad how the protagonists are trying to be real in their expectations, but are actually craving that idealism. Don't we all want that perfect soulmate that we hear it in all the fairy tale ending stories? So who am I to blame them?! Keep hoping, Jesse and Celine. And that was what the ending was about-an instillation of optimism in our hearts for that fairy tale ending.
I have never really been a fan of romance movies.In fact most the romance I have seen in movies feels forced or very cliché.This movie was ''the'' best romance I have ever seen in my live.Better than the romantic comedy love actually which I really enjoyed.This movie is brilliant.Not everyone will agree with me and I can understand why.The main problem with the movie is also perhaps its biggest advantage. The whole movie is based on these people just talking for a full 2 hours(I think) with no breaks.It doesn't go forward in time or backwards,apart from the very beginning.Its like watching something live.Thats the best way I can put it.The main advantages of this feature is that its very original.There are 3 other advantages that make the movie what it is 1.) It feels like true love:The chemistry between the two characters is just wonderful.Instead of having silence or just boring quotes about how much they're in love,you get two interesting people talking easily and freely to each other about anything.You think to yourself..god these people really where meant for each other. 2.)Acting is fantastic Ethan hawke and Julie delpy are brilliant. 3.)Its set in Paris.May I say anymore ;)
What I feel is making a sequel is quite a job because you have to work in constraint with previous work.Everything needs to be in accordance with original.That's why most of the sequels fail.But Before sunset is a movie which in most of the aspects better than its first part Before Sunrise.The story continues where its been left & the two teen lovers meet again but this time they have grown mature enough,faced the world more practically.They ambled on the streets of Paris sharing their past experiences & remembering their first meeting in the glimpse of a beautiful evening sunset.Julie Delphy looked extremely charming so was Ethan Hanke.Before Sunset is one of the precious gem in modern romance genre.
In Before Sunrise (1995) Jesse and Celine had a romance that was over the next day.Now nine years later they meet again in Paris, where Jesse is talking about his book he has written.They end up talking like they did the last time and they start falling in love with each other like they did the last time.Are they meant to spend their lives together? Before Sunset (2004) is the result of three intelligent minds working together.Those three people are the director Richard Linklater and the actors Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy.They all were also writing the movie.The dialogue between Jesse and Celine remains interesting all the time.They're at the same page with the interaction.That makes you believe these people belong together.The chemistry between the main actors hasn't faded at all.Not even the least bit.It's not impossible if the relationship of these two takes a further course and the movie series goes on in the future.Hawke has suggested such an idea.I wouldn't mind that if they succeed to keep it as interesting.These two movies certainly have worked.Both of them are kind of movies that make the world look a little less cynical.


                
This is one of the best films with only 2 characters,and nothing important happening except dialogs and the surprising thing is that you never get tired and stuff, you just want to follow dialogs carefully.Before sunset was the first film that I watched it twice without any interrupt between after it finished I started again because the dialogs worth thinking.The two actors really showed their power and the director indeed.In compare of before sunrise you can clearly understand how people change,The way of thinking,speaking,behavior to others and to life,their emotional attitude,They will be more mature but the whole life still remains simple.you can realize easily although people don't have what they wanted they are still hopeful and they try their best to find a way to change their life and to get what they haven't yet.


                
"Before Sunset" is so very simple. There are only two actors and only one simple story. But that story will crawl into your heart and stay there, sipping its camomile tea, listening to street musicians and wondering if true love really exists. Because the story knows it does, but it just wants to make you wonder too...Basically the movie is about two people who meet again, both thinking the other had forgotten about what they shared a long time ago. They just walk and talk, discovering a lot, sharing a lot and probably deciding a lot. Might sound cheesy, but it's worth every penny and every minute spent on it. Don't miss it for the world.Truly an unique movie experience.


                
The movie starts off rather boring and you are wondering how can it be a continuation of the first movie. But then, on the boat, he asks the question again; 'where were you, that night, in Vienna, 9 years ago.' Then the movie just takes off. From then on, the movie has you at the edge of your seat, hanging on every word, listening to them describe that night, nine years ago, and wondering what are they going to do about it.I think it ended just right. You go through the whole movie wondering whether he was going to go back home to his wife or stay with the love of his life. As the tag line says, "What if you had a second chance with the one that got away?" This way you are left wondering; does he stay or does he go. Letting you fill in the ending with what you would do if you had a second chance with the one that got away.No I do not think there will be a sequel. I think leaving the ending up to your imagination is just perfect.The two movies are an up-to-date, version of "An Affair to Remember." In "An Affair to Remember's" time, adults took cruises. In "Before Sunrise's" time, college students backpacked through Europe. The two movies are also similar as in both movies; two people meet, on a trip, they have romantic time, they promise to meet again, and the girl cannot make it. Thus altering the course of fate.
you all suck.but seriously.... try to get around the fact that some movies are very good. This is one of them.a lot of these comments don't get a chance to take off b/c everyone jumps all over everyone else. nothing gets done and the point becomes so lost in a sea of arguments, slurs and worthless put-downs(re: the first line). I personally enjoy destroying someone else's opinions and i thought it would be fun to have a place set aside for it. So saddle up and bring your A game, b/c I take a lot of pride in the films that I like.


                
I saw BEFORE SUNSET as soon as it was released but never had even heard of BEFORE SUNRISE. But SUNSET stands alone and works alone. Having now seen SUNRISE - SUNSET is sublime in its even greater simplicity and its profundity. Linklater's even greater restraint in part 2 shows his total confidence in his creation and his astonishing actors. The frisson of engagement where all is in the subtext is just thrilling in both films, and, no, not everyone will get it, but for those that do, these movies affirm life and the power and subtlety of human love.Someone in the postings said that the movie is unrealistic! Yep! It's a movie! Yep, the "real" characters (whoever they might be!) wouldn't say fascinating things every second together but this is a movie capturing the essence of the invisible electricity between two ordinary people. Listen to how we actually speak in "real" life.... We bumble and rarely stick to the point. To allow Linklater to edit their story (in the writing and in the cutting room) to the essence is called film-making and it does not represent a lack of truth but a heightening and intensifying of the experience of the two characters - akin to their own memory of what happened to them.Thank God films like this get made, and for those that don't like them - go see the latest blockbuster of which there is an endless stream. The choice is between a bistro and McDonalds; a family run pensione or the Marriott. The vast majority choose the latter out of laziness, a lack of imagination and avoidance of risk. (Just the predictable story elements that Hollywood sticks to, to get the right demographics to get mass bums on seats.) Good luck to them.


                
"Before Sunset" is one of the most unabashedly romantic films I have ever seen.Even in our age of full disclosure and no privacy there remain moments that this viewer, anyway, has never seen captured on film before."Before Sunset" captures some of those moments.Two adult characters converse. Watching them, you wonder -- and you know that these two characters are wondering the same thing -- where will this conversation go? Is it just an exchange of banal, prepackaged rants and scripts? But, the two characters keep talking, keep talking past rough moments, and awkward discomfort, and strange anecdotes.After a while of this, they come to say shockingly open and intimate things to each other.Before you realize that you've been swept off your feet, the conversation has become as intimate as the best sexual act could be.These two characters are using mere words to reveal hopes, and pains, and vulnerabilities, that we usually sweep from our consciousness, because the world has no room for them ... except during magical moments such as those dramatized in this film.There was one aspect of "Before Sunset" that didn't work for me. Ethan Hawke, especially, gives a poignantly visual performance. He says things with his eyes and face that he does not convey in words.Otherwise, though, this film is not visual enough to be fully satisfying as a film. Its charms and power are almost all verbal, all in the script. That being the case, "Before Sunset" would perhaps have been better as a radio play.The director cheats his audience; he doesn't care about using his camera to allow his audience to view Hawke, Delpy, their powerful and magic interaction, or Paris in a new and high impact way.But that's a minor complaint. "Before Sunset" swept this viewer off her feet. Days after viewing it, I'm still under its spell. It's appropriate that we understand spells as being cast, primarily, with words, with language. What language does here is truly magic.


                
I can't express how brave it is to make a movie with no action, no sex scene, not even a kiss, and trust that it can still be appealing and even a masterpiece. This entire movie is a one hour and twenty minute long conversation -- that's IT. And yet it's entrancing; I was never bored or impatient, I felt like I knew the characters myself by the end of the film. It's not perfect; nine years is a long, long time to maintain an attraction, however deep, that only had one night to develop. But, I'm willing to suspend my disbelief for the sake of watching these two characters reveal themselves with such subtlety and grace. The ending was absolutely perfect for the tone of the film -- if it had ended in the expected way, I would have liked the film far less. As it is, I can only once again emphasize how daring it was for the people involved in this film to make it exactly as it is in a time when movies increasingly rely on car chases, guns, bombs, and ever more explicit sex to attract their audiences.


                
Well once u have seen Before Sunrise there is an innate curiosity to find out what happened in Dec in Vienna and Before Sunset not only answers the curiosity but creates one of its own through carefully well written dialogs and great screenplay. The movie is about coming together of two people who met each other a long time ago and fell in love but circumstances did not allow them to, they talk about politics, environment, love, sex, relationships but the feelings that evolve after meeting one another is what I feel is the USP of Before Sunset. If u see Before Sunrise and u come to know that there is a sequel to it u will go for Before Sunrise before too long. Before Sunset goes well beyond weaving the emotional drama then its predecessor, and the question it asks of viewers towards the end is quite sentimental. Through an answer from Ethan at the start of Before Sunset the director seems to make his point of view of why keep the viewers in dilemma. The chemistry between the lead pair is superb and no wonder Julie and Ethan were actively involved in dialog writing for the movie. The ten yr gap between the two movies seem to be well thought out in the script as well as well as the makeup of the artists. The movie is not for those who cannot stand the marathon dialogs between same two characters for a continuous period of one and a half hours. After seeing the movie you seem to be looking for the next sequel and whether we will get another romantic fiesta from Ethan, Julie and company is a question that remains in mind for the viewers


                
This movie is about two people talking. When I saw the same premise with a Broadway director and a semi-employed actor, I was bored to tears. With these two, I was right there with them, fascinated and caught up with them and their lives. I'm not like them, and I wouldn't want to be their age again, but I enjoyed every second of watching and listening. I really remember very little about the first movie except that I also enjoyed it. I don't remember details about the characters or even their promise to meet again. That didn't matter. My companion didn't see the first movie at all, but that didn't lessen her enjoyment. Hawke and Delpy proved themselves to be good writers before this movie. They have created full, complex, interesting characters. My only complaint is this visit could have been about 15-20 minutes longer.


                
It is interesting that most of the critics like this one better than Before Sunrise because the characters are "more mature". My take on this is: most of the critics are closer and above this age range (early 30s) and it is simply more difficult for them to relate to the first movie. However, these two movies are even more worthwhile considered together especially from the point of view of the audience that were 20 when the first one came out and are almost 30 now. Back in 95 Before Sunrise resonated with me because it was very relevant to the way I and my friends looked at the world, we had similar dreams, concerns, it was the way we talked. And of course we imagined meeting this one soul-mate with whom you understand each other without having to finish sentences, and you have exactly the same doubts and look forward your life ahead and are reluctant to commit right then because who know what else may come your way. Today Before sunset has exactly the same effect, I am almost 30 and I have changed just like the characters and I have similar problems and again this the way I would talk and the themes I would discuss in a conversation. I am sure this is roughly true for this whole generation. I don't think the open ending is intended for us to guess what happened in either of the two movies, although Jesse says in the beginning of Sunset: well it depends, if you are an optimist they meet in 6 months and if not.... I think the open ending in both movies emphasizes the fact that it does not matter whether they end up together or not. The point is that they are both enriched by meeting and spending a few hours together and by having a good conversation. Sometimes we choose not to be with someone that we feel is our soul-mate, simply because it would cost too much (kids, other people getting hurt) and that is fine, we still have experienced this connection and we will treasure it for the rest of our lives. It is not about letting your true love slip away, we don't know for sure if this is true love, what we know is that we made a connection. I find the brief episode when Jesse tells the journalists the topic of his next book very descriptive of what the movie(s) is all about. This connection that makes our lives richer and better may happen in a night, or in a few hours or in a few moments.


                
Before Sunset picks up right where the first film, 1995's Before Sunrise left off. For those who have seen that film, one would not expect a sequel especially a decade later. But this sequel captures the magic the first film left us as well as the charm, romance, and the ideological dialog. All this film is two people walking the streets of Paris and talking to each other, but we feel connected to these characters for the eighty minutes this film is on screen. The screenplay is very sharp and not once can we tell if the dialog is forced. This film is an example of how an excellent conversation should be, especially between people who haven't seen each other in ages.Richard Linklater's sequel reintroduces us to the characters of Jesse and Celine. Jesse is now a bestseller author who has written a book based on the one night the two of them had nine years earlier. While promoting his book in a bookshop, Jesse runs into Celine. With Jesse returning to the states that evening, the two spend the afternoon together catching up and reminiscing on what could have been.Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy continue to show such natural chemistry between each other. If I didn't know any better, they could have been two ordinary people having such an engrossing conversation on love, politics, and more ideology of that nature. This film doesn't need a large cast and I feel that both Hawke and Delpy were perfect in their roles.Overall, Before Sunset is an excellent sequel to one of the best original romantic films I have ever seen. Both of these films succeed without being sappy or forced. I liked the natural feel of this film and it's a shame Hollywood doesn't produce more films like these. They are the perfect compliment to the special-effects era of movies. This is a sweet, romantic modern-era romance film and a fitting sequel to Before Sunrise. I rate this film 9/10.


                
Just when you think Before Sunrise couldn't get any better, here comes Before Sunset.Again, these two talked for the entire 80 minutes and you won't even notice the city of Paris before the film draws to an end. Just talk. Connection between two human beings. There aren't many people in the world who you can talk with for hours and hours without feeling bored. So when you are lucky enough to meet some, try your best to keep them in your life, no matter what form the relationship takes and no matter what the relationship takes. The best thing often happens when nobody wants anything particular from the other peron. In the end, nothing is supposed to be that difficult. "Life is what happens when you are busy planning other things."


                
I liked this film's predecessor, "Before Sunrise" (1995), a lot because of its intriguing characters, the chemistry between Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy that never let up, and the dialogue that never felt written even though it was. The original movie could have easily done without the sequel, just as many films not based on comic book characters could. With that idea in mind, this film could have also brought the story of Jesse and Celine to a happy ending that felt like a cop out, which I expected it to do. However, director and writer Richard Linklater manages to bring these characters into full circle in "Before Sunset" without giving the romantic comedy fans what they want, which is why "Before Sunset" is just as good as its predecessor.Taking place nine years from where the original film left off, Jesse (Hawk) is no longer a slacker, but an established author who wrote a bestselling account of his one night with a French woman he barely knew. Since he did not exchange contact information with Celine (Delpy) when departing Vienna, writing this book was more or less the best way of contacting her, which he does successfully as he visits Paris and attends a book signing. She meets him there, and they discuss their lives since their previous encounter, as well as where their lives are headed. Perhaps the most pressing question, at least by eager audience members, is if they are actually going to stay together this time.Amazingly enough, its very easy to find this movie on DVD, and far more difficult to find "Before Sunrise". The latter film was released once on DVD in 1999 and, as of the date of this review, is out of print. It's surprising too, because I go to video stores and see the "Two DVDs for One" set of movies all the time. Sometimes the movies go together for obvious reasons, such as "Cocoon" (1985) and "Cocoon: The Return" (1988). Other times, I've seen "Kids" (1995) and "The Rules of Attraction" (2001) together in the same set for no apparent reason. "Before Sunrise" and "Before Sunset" deserve to be watched in the order they were made, because I doubt moviegoers who had seen the former would not care about the characters in the latter. However, considering this film received an Oscar nomination for Best Adapted Screenplay, and its predecessor received no nominations (other than an MTV Movie Award nomination for Best Kiss), I could be wrong.Again, though, this film is on par with the original in the excellent dialogue and the undeniable chemistry between Hawke and Delpy. In this movie, there are longer shots of them walking and talking together. In the first movie, the cameras cut back and forth to show each one of them talking to the other. Here, they're in the same frame, so it's even more amazing that they engage in their conversations and never even come close to missing a beat.Being a fan of the original film, part of me longed for Vienna over Paris. I know that's hard to believe, but the shots of the film in the original were so good, and the places Jesse and Celine visited were not touristy. In this film, they go around Paris, but they don't stop by the Eiffel Tower or the Louvre a.k.a the real touristy spots. They venture through the cobblestone streets and coffee shops, and eventually through gardens and aboard a ferry. All this great scenery, meanwhile, didn't distract from the characters' conversations.And again, Linklater, Hawke, and Delpy gave reason for why you wanted or needed to care about these characters. Especially in the case of Jesse having a troubled marriage and Celine having relationship problems, the dialogue reflected situations you could sympathize with if not relate to. And this script had an upper hand on the original in that the characters were far more mature now with problems that went beyond finding themselves. The ending also had you guessing, will Jesse leave his wife for Celine after all? Will he make his flight out in the end? These questions are not even hinted at before the end of the film.Last but not least, Julie Delpy's songs cemented this film's memorability for me, especially her song "A Waltz For A Night", which should have been nominated for an Oscar for Best Original Song that year. It was just one of the reasons I kept watching this film until the very end, not even stopping in between to use the restroom. It's all a testament to Linklater's ear for an intriguing film that does not necessarily tell a story. "Before Sunset" lives up to its hype, does not pander to unfamiliar audiences, and is just as good as the original.


                
This is a movie built almost entirely out of dialog, and it's real good! The acting, too, I caught myself halfway through the movie becoming seriously attracted to Julie Delpy's character<U+0097>I think I love her<U+0097>an example of the acutely tuned acting in the movie is the scene in which they approach the bench and then sit on it for a while, the gestures that express a desire to touch checked by hesitation, held back<U+0097>as he is physically holding back, she is doing so emotionally, contriving a casual attitude towards their night spent together 9 years earlier, towards the hopes and fears which have grown inside her since that night and which for her are connected with that night and with him. And their conversation is just full of compelling thoughts and ideas; it raises to the surface large and latent feelings<U+0097>I am not referring to their desires to solve world issues, but rather to the more personal thoughts that come out suddenly and wake some sleeping impression in me<U+0097>they spend long stretches in moderately stimulating discussion, and then, he or she will say something that they've been thinking about all along, this constitutes the ebb and flow of the film's energy, it's what makes it dynamic<U+0097>if the world was ending tomorrow and I knew it, "I probably wouldn't want to talk about the environment, or my book<U+0085>I'd still want to talk about magic in the universe<U+0085>only I'd want to do it in a bed in between intense love making sessions with you."


                
