Generally, should you ask anyone on the street what they think when you say "animation" the overall answer would be something along the lines of funny, cheerful, entertaining, even the synopsis suggests a sweet story about two pen pals. However, the choice of genre for this film was completely off the mark, live acting would have suited this script far better.This film is not only a bleak view into the lives of two very sad, very pathetic people, but also a disturbingly depressing story about how said two pathetic people never attain any tangible form of progression in their lives. What kind of message is there to this film, accept yourself for who you are, even if it means that part of that "acceptance" means being okay with your life when the power to change your circumstances is within your grasp? I don't see why this film has such a high rating (in the top 250 animated films on this site), there is nothing profound about the story line, you don't take any important lessons from it. Mary and Max is just another forgettable story which had a lot of potential, but was unfortunately lost along the way.
This movie was just bad to the point of being unwatchable.From the very first lines of the movie, I had a feeling that the movie would be extremely unfunny. My suspicions were confirmed. Nothing in this movie works. Not a single thing. It was as unfunny a film as I've seen, melancholy in every aspect, boring as watching paint dry, the characters were bad, and the story was just simply dumb. The only things this movie might have going for it is its musical score (which is alright), and that it is relatively short (so the torture ends quickly). However, even with its relatively short length, I was unable to watch the movie in one sitting. I have seen other reviews bring comparisons to Waltz with Bashir and Persepolis, but those movies had cool animation, political commentary, and interesting characters and story. This movie has none of that. Save yourself, don't make the mistake of watching it that I made. My hope is that writing this review will save at least 1 person from watching the movie. If it does that, then maybe watching this movie might have been worth the suffering I endured.


                
The fact that this movie has an 8.3 rating as a comedy is a testament to how the very fabric of our societies are unravelling into long and never-ending strands of boredom, depression and purposelessness.It is a rather depressing perspective on life about your most socially challenged friend - times ten, made into a movie to waste precious moments of your life you will never get a chance to relive. In the words of the great William 'ìt's a tale told by an idiot, full of sound and fury, signifying nothing'.Half an hour after this miserable experience in my life, I'm still trying to wrap my head around exactly how anyone can find an ounce of inspiration in this movie. It's a tale of misery and a sad existence, not told to educate the masses about the harsh realities of our world, rather to twist this harsh reality into some sort of perverse satirical window into the human experience for those who are comfortably numb.Your 90 minutes will be better spent to seek the closest homeless person and have a conversation with them. In that time, you will come across more misery, more harsh realities and even more comedy than a trilogy of Mary & Max would offer.
didn't know what to expect. claymation. then began watching. appalled. 40 year old mentally unstable man in a friendship with a child too young. drunk mother (who seemed to be the only one with the senses to not allow the 'friendship'. disgusting remarks throughout, continually, as tho it was necessary to be disgusting just to keep the audience awake. plodding. and just when towards the end, i thought it might redeem itself......it didn't! and why bill the movie as toni collette/philip Hoffman, when collette's voice doesn't even show up until more than 1/2 way thru. why? because no one would watch, that's why! waste of time and talents.


                
