Coming from Australia, Mary and Max is one of these few films you'll remember all your life. This amazing claymation touches upon an unlikely friendship between two pen pals: a young girl living in Australia and an aging Jew from New York. It's unbelievable what a precisely structured narrative this is. Director-writer Adam Elliot blends odd scatological, yet clever humour with poignant dramatizations to a splendid effect creating one of the best tragicomedies of the past few years. The fact that it's in the form of claymation only helps to enhance uniqueness of the whole experience. The movie was 5 years in the making and this is visible in its every frame. Elliot masterly captures the motion in an endlessly creative manner. Most importantly though, his lovably oddball characters are well developed and admirably complex with all their awkward traits and quirks. Due to its serious themes and dark tone, Mary and Max is an adult movie aiming much higher than its big studio counterparts. It happens to be more contemplative, and intelligent mimicking the real life with all its ups and downs. Calling Elliot's movie an extraordinary piece of art is certainly not an overstatement.


                
It's hard to describe just how excellent this film is. The story is great, both very funny and touching. The art-design and animation are a delight, thoughtful, very rich in details, and very consistent in style. The music is great. The storyline and direction... I can't find a bad word to say, except that the story drags a little half- way through, but then picks itself up again toward the end. Truly, a must-see. If you like adult animation, this is definitely for you. I agree with those comparing it to Aardman films, Waltz with Bashir and Persepolis, but this movie's animation is so professional, that only Aardman truly compares.


                
Just finished watching this, And Loved it. Previously Wall-e was the only animation that I rated 10/10. And this is the second one.If You have not seen this You have no idea about how good it is.Its very well written (A True Story) , well Directed, narrated and equally good Animation in all respects. You don't Find Much stuff like this.Its would get a rating of Pg-13 because of sex related material but I think every Children of 10+ should see this because the sex related material is kept very implicit.I hope It will get Nominated for best Animation for year 2011, Best screenplay and best picture as well.I have much more to say but since I have to review lot more movies I will just tell ya: I just Love It.9.5/10. (Better than all animations of 2009) Can't wait to see it in top 250.


                
I thought this movie was very well made. I can relate to Max's character, as i work with people who have Asperges Syndrome. The creator showed the audience what it is really like, in society, to have a mental disability of this kind. The use of gray colour with a splash of red when showing the scenes with Max, was very effective, and give the audience the sense of what Max was feeling. I saw this movie with work colleagues who also work with children with this disorder, and we were all curious to see how this disorder would be shown. We were all very pleased. This movie shows the audience what people with asperges syndrome go through in day to day life, and how they don't understand things that most people would. As well as how they do/do not cope with some issues.This movie is not for children. It is quite sad, but with some really funny parts. and for those who live in Melbourne, especially, you will understand some of the references.I give this movie 10/10.After 5 years in the making it is definitely worth watching


                
And It happened!!! I don't know how and why, but "Mary & Max" incredibly made me cry... I loved it, to the first frame until the last one! Well, this animated picture can not be a PIXAR production or even a American movie, but you can bet this is a stupendous Australian animated feature... I only hope that "Mary & Max" get some nominations around the world, like it happened with "Persepolis" or "Vals Im Bashir", its quite possible it reach the 2010 Oscars... And it would be such a pleasure! The story line is superb, noble and above all it has the ability to describe many rotten realities of our society, so if you didn't see it yet, please, make a favor to yourself and spend a very well done hour lurking this two suffering, sad and nevertheless comic lifes, of an Australian girl and an American middle age man! "Mary and Max" is not to be missed... 10 out of 10
Oscar winning (and proudly gay) animation artist Adam Elliot's acclaimed clay-mation feature film "Mary & Max" is astoundingly rewarding wonderful entertainment on the big screen. It's an intriguing tale, starting in the mid seventies, of the ongoing true friendship of two long distance pen-pals, younger Mary in rural Australia and older Max in the rat-race of New York City. A significant element of the story involves Max's experience of living with Asperger Syndrome, knowing painfully full well that he senses the world in a radically different way to most. I've never seen any other project deal so honestly and powerfully with that condition. It's a genuine celebration of the value of difference.There's lots to laugh and think about - and the attention to detail is staggering. Australia's living legend Barry Humphries excels as the narrator. I loved the soundtrack which strongly featured two of my favourite Penguin Cafe Orchestra compositions. I've ordered the soundtrack CD already.


                
"Mary and Max" is a difficult movie to review.A good place to begin is by pointing out that Adam Elliot painstakingly created a broken world here. The inhabitants of this world are, with few exceptions, wounded or maimed. It is a world not governed by a loving God, but by chance.By chance, Max Jerry Horovitz has asperger's syndrome.By chance, Mary Daisy Dinkle was born with a birth mark that looks like a poo stain, has an alcoholic mother, and stumbles upon a stray rooster.By chance, the two become pen pals.Mary and Max's lives and relationship with one another are at the heart of movie. Both have miserable/nonexistent family structures. Both are so alienated from society that two of their main sources of pleasure come from eating and watching a television show called "The Noblets." About halfway through the movie, I came to the realization that "Mary and Max" is really a portrait of contemporary, industrialized societies. War, poverty, alcoholism, bullying, obesity, mind-numbing careers, distrust, distorted body images, suicide, mental illness, loneliness, half-hearted self-help books - heck, even siphoning off charitable donations is covered in a quick 80 minutes.One of Elliot's most impressive accomplishments in the movie is the pace: we feel the sluggishness and lethargy of the two main characters.Yet, Elliot also treats us to many disarmingly hilarious scenes. One minute you'll be cringing, the next you'll be genuinely moved, and in a blink, you'll be grinning ear to ear. Sounds like a microcosm of life itself.The quotation that closes "Mary and Max" invokes God in a surprising way. I honestly don't know what to make of it.In my opinion, "Mary and Max" is a work of high art and one of the finest movies I have seen in a long time. It will stay with you. A must see.


                
In 2004, Adam Elliot took home Oscar gold with his animated short film Harvie Krumpet, a film about the life of a simple man named Harvie Krumpet who tries to learn as much as he can about life. He used stop motion animation, a form of animation that is most commonly linked with TV Christmas specials like Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer. The film is somewhat grim, funny, and heartfelt, something that this type of animation is rarely scene with.Five years later, Elliot comes back with his first feature film Mary and Max. As impressed as I was with Harvie Krumpet I was doubly impressed with this one. He uses the same style of animation only this time his skills are much more precise, detailed, and effective. He tells the story of Mary Daisy Dinkle, a young girl living in 1970s Australia who has no friends except for her pet rooster and favorite television show. One day she decides to reach out across the world to someone who might be her friend. She finds a New York City phone book picks out a random name: Max Jerry Horovitz.Max lives alone in his apartment with his one eyed cat and pet fish (who he needs to constantly replace). He is an overweight, middle aged man with Asperger syndrome, a form of autism. He too has no friends and is in need of some companionship, although he is somewhat afraid of the outside world and strangers. He finally decides to write her back, and the two begin their friendship across the sea.The film is comprised of narration, by Barry Humphries, and voice over from Mary and Max reading their letters, voiced by Bethany Whitmore as younger Mary, Toni Collette as older Mary, and Phillip Seymour Hoffman as Max. Their letters and the in between narration is hysterical and incredibly clever. I like the little tidbits we are given like the way Mary's mother drinks her sherry and how Max eats chocolate hot dogs, his own recipe. They make the characters more interesting.Elliot creates a vivid world filled with right and wrong. He uses colors to define the two different continents, giving Australia brown and earthy tones while New York is black, white, and everything in between, with the exception of a red pompom that Mary sends Max. Much like their separate worlds, they both blend in as if no one else would notice them. These characters are simple, average people who go the distance to make their lives a little more comfortable. It's sublime to see these characters grow up through the years and age and learn. We become so attached.There is so much to love about this movie. The quirky little one liners to the incredibly detailed and well done stop motion animation. Each character has clearly defined features, unique movement, and like so many stop motion pieces, there is nothing jumpy or out of place about the animation. It is smooth, coherent, and compelling to watch. As impressive as it is the writing is just as good. You really get a feeling for these characters through the narration and their writing. If there was some way you could help them out you would. They are just so lovable.This is one of the best films I have seen this year. It's a wonderful film aimed at a more mature audience. I don't know if it can compete with Disney and Pixar's Up, but I wouldn't be surprised to see this at least get a nomination from the Academy, as it has already been honored at this year's Berlin International Film Festival. It's a great achievement when a film can make you feel so happy the entire way through.


                
Simple and blunt, the 2009 animated flick, Mary and Max, is a fantastic film and cinematic accomplishment. A beautiful, funny and touching story that delivers on all fronts of meaningful film-making.In comparable style to Wallace and Gromit, the film uses it's charming and silly style to great effect by relating two unique characters. A middle-aged man with social disabilites named Max Jerry Horovitz receives a letter one day from an inquisitive little Australian girl named Mary Daisy Dinkle. The two via letters relate to one another instantly, and an amazing bond of friendship begins.About 2 hours ago I finished watching this flick and I'm still beaming. It's really a special, special film that just screams perfection. I feel bad for the people who'll look at the cover and dismiss it due to being animated, as this will most undoubtedly happen. But lucky for me and you, huh?


                
Clamation has become popular with the duo of Wallace and Gromit. Until "Mary and Max", Nick Park's creations were tops. Now this film has claimed the acme. It does it by a masterful combination of uncannily perfect story telling, imaginative self-deprecating characters, well-managed timing in plot development, a fair amount of humor balanced with endearing bittersweetness, and wonderful animation that serves the story's needs perfectly.The story is one of contesseration by a young girl in Australia of a randomly chosen older man in the USA. It is based on real events, though the script writer almost certainly added embellishments and the kinds of twists and turns that make for a compelling story. Watching "Mary and Max" is like reading a book you cannot let go. The story is so unusual, so original, so endearing, so fascinating, that it grabs you right from the start and keeps you in its grip to the end. The events are so well timed, the surprises so well placed, that we never loose our curiosity for the characters, for the evolving plot, for the possible endings. It's constant fascination.There is a good deal of humor. Some outright riots. Yet there are many bittersweet moments. It even succeeds in being a deeply felt tearjerker. It will make you laugh and cry at the same time. A rare and precious combination.In short, "Mary and Max" is a masterpiece. Don't miss it!


                
Its been 24 hours since I've seen Mary and Max and find I've been deeply affected by the film. Its the story of a little girl who needs to know somethings so she writes a letter to a random person in America only to connect with an sweet man with some decided peculiar ways. What happens after that is a series of ups and downs that happen over the course of 20 years. A unique film its possibly the best animated film from 2009, and its one of the best films of the year. Rarely has a film left me so emotionally moved, certainly there are even fewer that have made me feel this way many hours after the fact. I feel as though I'm carrying the characters and emotions around inside me. And in a way I'm at a loss for words. A beautifully animated film with dialog that is witty and wise and wonderful, this is a marvelously made film. However its the characters where it shines. All of the characters, even if they are somewhat cliché, are painfully real. We know someone like everyone of them. Your heart goes out to them and is carried by them because they are so real. Its the characters we remember and we return to and who carry the film even as the second half gets messy. A masterpiece.
I had no idea what the film was about, when I started watching the DVD my friend gave me as a birthday present the other day suggesting that 'I will absolutely love it'. And I did. I think it's the best animation film I have ever watched, until today. It's been 6 months since I first watched it, but I can still recall the strong emotions and feelings it caused me. This film has wonderful meanings about accepting differentiation in society and showing all those people the love every human being needs to receive. I think the movie didn't receive the publicity it deserved, unlike other animation films produced by bigger companies (and advertising budgets).I was extremely touched and so I suggest that everyone should watch it and reflect on the matters it refers to.


                
This was the first time I'm writing a review for a movie .... even after watching loads of films , i didn't get this feeling of contributing a review ,today i've watched this movie and it has automatically compelled me to do so .... coming to speak about the movie ... its gonna be one of the best animation films ever made ...speaking in a few words :- its a typical friendship shown in the best ever possible way .... and this movie probably bag gs the privilege of making most of the people cry who watches it ... the way the story is told , the characters of both Mary and max ... it really touches heart to the core ..... surely, this movie deserves an Oscar ....!


                
One of my favourites of 2009, Mary and Max is a truly unforgettable film in all respects. The clay animation is just gorgeous with all the characters well modelled and the colours done in atmospheric shades, and gives a nostalgic and unique feel to it, and the music is beautiful and heart-breaking. The characters add a lot to the film as well, the title characters are sweet, emphatic and engaging, with Mary very cute and Max endearing in his own way, and the audience sympathises with them and their predicaments, while the writing is both funny and poignant and the haunting, affecting and personal story packs a real emotional punch on its own and is thematically quite deep. The voice work is top notch, Barry Humphries provides a both amusing and gentle narrative and Toni Collette(Bethany Whitmore as the younger Mary) and Phillip Seymour Hoffmann are brilliant as Mary and Max. What made Mary and Max other than the superb direction and gentle pacing was the adept mix of hilarious humour and poignant drama, there is evidence of both and both are done wonderfully. Overall, a beautiful, unforgettable film with a 10/10. Bethany Cox


                
I thoroughly enjoyed this little gem. It's such a simple story but has a big impact on the lives of the characters. The stop animation has that new-generation of clean and smooth action similar to Coraline and it it very well executed here.So the story in a nutshell is about a dumpy little girl in Australia whose life is made miserable by a Sherry-saturated mother and garage-dwelling taxidermy hobbyist father who by their lack of interest, leave poor Mary to her own imagination and devices. Meanwhile, in New York, we have an obese apostate named Max living a hermetic shut-in life of chocolate hot dogs, Overeaters Anonymous, and Aspergerian perplexity about the world around him. Mary, seeking answers to the questions of life, happens to write to Max after having ripped his address information from a US phone book during one of Mary's mother's "borrowing" episodes. And so begins their comedic pen-pal friendship through the course of nearly 20 years.We see Mary grow and we see Max getting more and more obese. There are many moments, often funny, where Max and Mary are helping each other through their writing. I know it's just a story but how does Max NOT become diabetic? Sometimes the absurdity reminds me of Nick Park's Wallace and Gromit characters but a little more hip. While the story is not intended to be a comedy, there are some very original and funny comic elements, especially those of poor Henry the goldfish.Anyhow, we later see Mary's futile attempt to understand Max's Asperger's through the lens of wanting to "fix the world", as many a young adult wants to do and we see a rift come between the two as Max, content to accept his life but resentful for Mary wanting to "fix" him, recedes into himself.There is a resolution to their rift and the ending is rather touching. The story was very well delivered and is not made to be unbelievable. Look for this one to win awards very soon. Find any way you can to watch this one and get the bragging rights this wonderful movie deserves. Well worth you time.


                
Lovely mood.. Strong feelings.. Amazing music.. It will be a difficult movie for those who live in their lonely planet but for sure is a strong slap on their face. We can talk about an hymn to friendship between different and unlikely people. The story is great, both very funny and touching. There is a good deal of humor. The choice of music is amazing according to a perfect match with the feelings of the movie (The Humming Chorus performed by Nana Mouskouri is a great choice).Themes as Asperger's Syndrome, Depression, Alcoholism, Homophobia, Psychology, junk food, Blindness and Suicide are given in a raw way and make you think deeper. This movie really touches heart to the core... i definitely recommend "Mary and Max" to everybody!!!


                
I just entered my room and switched on the TV without even changing, and there it was on a movie channel. For the next approx 90 minutes i was sitting on the corner of my bed sobbing like a little boy denied of his rightful chocolate. A beautiful script with some amazing characters, depicting the most expressive situations with ease and sometimes triumphing over the real human emotions as well.i never thought an animation( clay model) movie can create so much of an impact as far as depicting emotions, but now i would rate it as the best i have ever seen.i have known characters like Mary , and tears roll down the eyes remembering them.A Blizzard wrapped in sunshine is what you can expect. Its been over a day and i am yet to go out of the spell.


                
I had never heard of this film until my friend told me about a clip of it he'd seen, knowing I was a fan of black comedy. So we sat down to watch the first 10 minutes at 3 in the morning and then we ended up watching the whole thing, neither of us moving from our seats the entire time, fixated. This film is a genuine masterpiece; a unique, stark aesthetic as framework for an engaging exchange between two incredibly complex and lovable characters, the socially awkward Mary and Max, who communicate via letter across different countries. To skip to the meat of the issue; these characters are hilarious. Their world is hilarious. A universe filled with unexpected visual gags that range from innocent to pitch black. Often you'll not know whether to laugh or cry, as the story developments crush you but imagery on screen is side splitting. For these characters are not just funny, they are tragic. Their world is also tragic. It pleasantly reminds me of Forrest Gump, in the sense that we fall in love with these characters and their naivety because they make us laugh and feel elated, so that when misfortune befalls them the empathy coupled with drastic change of tone hits you like a wrecking ball.Although many people claim there is no such thing as a perfect film, I don't believe so. To me, a perfect film successfully achieves exactly what it sets out to do with excellent execution that keeps us engaged and entertained. If a film does all this, and lacks any mistakes or moments where it unintentionally takes me out of the experience, to me that is as good as cinema gets for me. This is a perfect film. Whether you agree or disagree, appreciate the effort, charm and beauty that has gone in to this project. 10/10


                
Having already watched several of Adam Elliot's other films ("Harvey Krumpet", "Brother", "Cousin" and "Uncle"), I felt a strong compulsion to watch "Mary and Max". After all, these other films were wonderful and very original and you find yourself hooked when you watch them--though you probably won't know why. Now, with Elliot's latest film, I have a chance to finally watch a feature-length version of his wonderful and very strange work.The film begins in Australia and concerns a very lonely girl named Mary. Her parents are completely inept at parenting and mostly she entertains herself. One day, on a lark, she rips a name out of an American phone book and writes to a "M. Horowitz"--telling him about herself as well as asking him where babies come from in America. As Max Horowitz is a socially inept odd-ball, his response to her strange letter is amusing to say the least. And, through their ensuing letters to each other they become friends--an 8 year-old girl and a 40+ year-old man and the film consists of showing each writing and narrating their letters. Where this bizarre business goes, you'll just need to see for yourself. However, without spoiling the film, I can safely say that I never, ever could predict where the film would go next!! Like all of Adam Elliot films, the film is just plain odd--with a delightful strangeness you can't help but like. And, even more than his shorter films, you can't believe how much time and effort he took to make this movie. It's amazing....really. And, fortunately, his work is totally unique and inventive. Aside from his previous shorts, I've never seen anything like it--and I am pretty sure you'll feel the same way if you try this delightfully strange film. Just don't try to understand or make sense of it...it might just make your brain explode. Oh, and do NOT watch it if you are feeling depressed. Although it's got lots of funny moments, the film is VERY, VERY dark--so much so that you should think twice before watching it. And, although the film looks like a kids movie, I would probably think twice before showing it to young kids.


                
Mary and Max was everything I wanted and more. The story is about a girl named Mary who doesn't have any friends so she sends a letter to a random person in the phone book. The letter is sent to a man in New York. The whole movie is about their relashinship as each other's only friends. This film absolutely drained me emotionally. Their relashinship made me laugh and cry a lot. It really gives off the feel of a real relashinship with all of the ups and downs. In other movies friendships usually don't seem real and are predictable. In this film, their relashinship is anything but predictable. That leads to the rollercoaster of emotions. The best part of this movie though is the writing. Mary's writing perfectly captures the thoughts of a child. Max's writing perfectly captures the thoughts of a man just trying to make a friend. They never tried to go too houmerous with the writing as well. The characters say lines that are funny in context, but because of the excellent voice acting from Phillip Seymour Hoffman and Bethany Witmore, as well as Toni Collete the lines become more humerous because they don't talk like they're making the joke. It just sounds like they're talking like a regular person which makes the joke seem more real and not seem like "okay, this is where they put the joke." All the writing seems natural. I've heard complaints about the pacing of this film but I found it great. Nothing was ever too slow or fast. The last thing I want to touch on is the stop motion. It is absolutely stellar. This is some of the best stop motion animation I've ever seen, especially with the very smal budget this film had. There is so much detail in the environments, it's crazy. With all of this in mind, please do yourself a favor and see this film.


                
Just as it seemed that with the fall (or at least the decline) of the two most distinguished entertainment industries in the history of animated films – The Walt Disney Company and DreamWorks Animation – The Tale of Despereaux would have to last us for generations, here emerged a most remarkable offering of quality and taste that wipes out the memory of the mouse's tale and smashes Bolt to smithereens. Oscar-winning stop-clay animation magician Adam Elliot has dived deep into his collection of childhood memories and plucked out the pieces of a most fascinating story. It is these mementos and recollections that form the basis of his script. It is a story of many things, one being the extraordinary friendship between the two pen pals of the film's title that arises purely by coincidence.Sweet little eight-year-old Mary Daisy Dinkle (voiced splendidly by the carefully chosen Bethany Whitmore) lives in suburban Melbourne in the seventies with her inattentive and greatly flawed parents. Her mother (voiced superbly by Renée Geyer in one of the earlier scenes) is the most repulsive creature ever to walk the Earth. Apart from being a hideous old hag, a shifty shoplifter, a drunk, and a terrible smoke addict, she is a horrible mother who has hardly any love, care, or time for her daughter. Her father works at a teabag factory. For a hobby he stuffs dead animals he finds lying on the road, and when he is not working he sits in his shed with his revolting collection of preserved carcasses. He has even less time for Mary than her mother does, and the little screen time he is given is symbolic of his obscure involvement in Mary's upbringing. Poor Mary is also the subject of much torment at school due to the unsightly "poo-coloured" birthmark on her forehead. Her self-made action figures are all the lonely girl has in this world. The pitiful Max (voiced by Philip Seymour Hoffman, who is here absolutely outstanding) is in his early forties, and is equally as lonely as Mary. For a person with Asperger's Syndrome, New York is the worst place to live. As a result of his condition he is hypersensitive, clumsy, antisocial and absolutely bizarre to everyone else. Completely isolated socially from all humanity, he spends most of his time in his flat watching television and devouring one of his "chocolate hotdogs" after another. The lengthy, detailed and unbelievably forthright letters that Mary receives from this genuinely good-hearted obese man are incredibly insightful and one of the finest aspects of the film. The touching tale is topped off with delightful narration by Barry Humphries and a fun sense of quirkiness as well as a dash of intelligent humour to avoid things from getting too depressing. The animation is unique and complementary to the story, with a purposeful lack of colour and lumpy appearance. Though the final scenes are a slight letdown in comparison to the charming first hour. The traumatic events that unfold after the final letter is sent to an elderly yet predominantly unchanged Max by a now successful, well-to-do and adult Mary (now voiced by Toni Collette) that apparently aggravates him, seem far too concocted to have been part of the true story upon which the film was based and vaguely even detract from the realism brought about by the earlier scenes. The many deaths however are for the most part believable and fittingly incorporated, but the inclusion of one or two of them seems questionable.
Every once in a while, there's a movie you expect to 'watch' but what happens after the very first minutes goes beyond the idea of watching. I had "Mary and Max" pending in my watch-list for a long time mainly because of its presence in the Top 250. So, when I found it in the DVD store, I thought time had come to give it a shot. Well, let's just say that after five minutes, I was entranced by its beautiful ugliness and if I had one intimate conviction is that it would not disappoint me and that every second of it was to be savored like a tiny bite of my favorite chocolate.That film is Adam Elliott's "Mary and Max", and it's so profoundly and deeply human that it drowns you into its story. It's about two persons who couldn't have been more opposite, age-wise and geographically, but they have in common a few things like their initials, their passion for chocolate, for Smurfs-like creatures named Noblets and last but not least, they're outcasts. Mary is a shy, insecure Australian girl with an odd birth mark looking like poo stain on her forehead, that she wears glasses and is a bit plump completes the ungrateful portrait. But the tone of the film never mocks her, she's not that way because she's supposed to incarnate a stereotype, her personality is the consequence of her insecurity which is a consequence of her appearance. Anyone who's been an insecure child can relate to Mary, and one who was lucky enough to meet beauty standards can at least feel for her, because people like Mary tend to develop a rare virtue in our individualistic world: she care for others, she's empathetic.She's also extremely curious and naive like any child, and just to fulfill her curiosity, she opens an American phone book and rips a page that contains the address of Max Horowitz, a New Yorker, she sends him a letter, asking a few random question about babies and the stuff she likes. Little did she know that she had just started a twenty-year correspondence and one of the most beautiful on-screen friendships, and friendships are never as believable and solid as when they're slowly built by the passing of time, and step by step, the letters Max will receive from Mary will become an indispensable part of his life. And we're not even shocked that this is going between a little girl and a man in his forties because for one thing, their exchanges exude sincerity. Later, Max finally reveals he's got Asperger's syndrome, which finally explains why so many things make him irritable, including a few letters from Mary.These letters occupy the most of the film, but they never, absolutely never, feel as fillers, they help us to learn more about the evolution (or lack of) of Mary and Max and the people who populate their world. Mary's father is an ordinary man whose work in a tea bag factory inspired Mary's dream to marry an Englishman named Earl Grey and live in Scotland with her nine babies. Mary's mother, an alcoholic kleptomaniac, is the kind of mother you wouldn't even wish for your bully, and if it wasn't for a providential slip, Mary would never have read Max' first letter and know how much they had in common, in fact, she would have never known him, period.There is something very true to life in these letters, they tell you more than Mary or Max' lives, they're about the cathartic effect of writing, having someone we can share our problems with as a tool to overcome our own weaknesses. And many people with lamentable social skills have a tremendous capability for expressing their emotions, because they spent so much time in long introspection they know exactly what's going inside. In a way, Mary and Max' blessings came from their curses, and in some of the film's most heartbreaking moments, they both recall the worst episodes of their life, especially when they were bullied. There's a scene with a kid taking Mary's sandwich and peeing on it, and yes, kids can be that cruel. A victim of bullying will never understand the bully's delight in violence because of this empathy. And having discussed about bullying lately, the film sure hit a sensitive chord.Max is a pacifist, but he's not much an empathetic man, more of the apathetic kind, he lives his life according to his nature and never questions his social disabilities, like anyone, he has a past with its burdens and its positive stuff, he regularly sees a therapist Dr. Hazelhof and tries more or less to give a meaning to his life, and what better than goals to achieve this. Basically, Max' got three goals in life: collecting all the Noblets, having chocolate supply for life and having a friend, not an imaginary one. This is the effect Mary has on Max and through an extraordinary reciprocity, even Max positively influences Mary. Well, by that point of the film, it either comes to go further and spoil it or just invite anybody who thinks he or she's seen all in movies to watch this magnificent little gem. I was shocked that it didn't make it in the Oscar nominations because it IS a powerful existential masterpiece.It has the upbeat poetry of "Amélie", the dark humor of "About Schmidt" (which was also about an old curmudgeon venting his anger through a letter he sent to a little African boy) but the result is admirably original because the letters make the plot, they're not accessories to it and because the ending is just perfect. I'm not saying it's sad or it's happy, it's just that after one hour and half of this existential ride, we have an emotionally rewarding ending.


                
"The reason I forgive you is because you are not perfect. You are imperfect. And so am I. All humans are imperfect." It is pretty rare to connect so deeply with an animated film. The animated aspect can often serve as a barrier that prevents people from deeply identifying with the characters they are witnessing on screen and therefore prevents them from deeply caring for them. With Mary and Max, this couldn't be farther from the truth. This is a film that I think I, and many others, will remember for a long time.This film is a poignant clay-animation film that records the 20 year relationship between two social eccentrics. Mary Daisy Dinkle (voiced by Bethany Whitmore as a child and Toni Colette as an adult), is a lonely 8 year old who lives in Austrailia who loves condensed milk, her pet rooster and a smurfs-like show called The Noblets. At school, she is teased because of having an unlucky birthmark on her forehead. Max Jerry Horowitz (voiced by Philip Seymour Hoffman) is a morbidly obese, 44 year old formerly Jewish atheist who, due to mental and social problems, has trouble forming close bonds with people. Their lives both change when Mary fortuitously choose a fellow lonely soul to write to. The quirkiness that separated them in society ultimately links these two pen pals together.The creative idea to use Claymation helps the audience in seeing the films protagonists not merely as characters but as fellow human beings. This is further established by the strong, and true to life, humanization this film creates of its characters. Upon viewing, it is clear that director Adam Elliot's masterful creation was a painstaking process, further solidified when the viewer take one look at the beautiful landscape showcased in each frame of this film. Every detail is manually drawn up with considerable care and beauty (according to Elliot, every detail!). Elliot calls his films Clayography, a portmanteau for 'clay animated biography', each taking 5 years to materialize.In short, the story is a bittersweet tale of friendship that will have you in a mix of emotions come the movie's end. My simply writing about the enthralling animation and creative brilliance would not do this wonderful film justice; it is simply, to recite a common cliché, a matter of experiencing it yourself to fully appreciate it. A film that can so deftly juxtapose its humorous and heartbreaking moments are so rare and Mary and Max seems to be able to pull this off so effortlessly. The witty dialogue, the majestic narration of Barry Humphries, the transient theme music - that almost reminds me of the Friday Night Lights intro song, in the sense that it takes you on a roller coaster of emotions that includes happiness, sadness, hope, regret in its short duration.Philip Seymour Hoffman deserves a lot of praise for how he approached Max's character. His voice was tailored perfectly to that of Max's appearance, from the accent to the tone in which he spoke. He brought a certain poignancy and virtue to the character, giving life to one of the most memorable characters I can remember in recent animation. Even knowing it was him behind the character of Max, I couldn't wrap my head around it. He was truly one of the most diverse actors of our generation and he will forever be missed by many, whether it being his presence on the big screen or merely his voice.It is a shame that the idea of animation movies might dissuade many people from experiencing this movie. At its core, this film is beautiful in all of its forms – direction, narration, acting and, of course, animation. It manages to be humorous, melancholy, hopeful and a million other things all in one. It excels in staying true to the human condition and does not in any way try to patronize the characters or idealize their situations; it is, in simplest terms, real. My words cannot do this film justice; it was and will continue to serve as one of the finest animations brought to life. 10/10


                
Mary is a nerdy little girl living in an Australian suburb with her drug addict mom and bizarre factory worker father. She constantly calls herself ugly, especially concerning the large brown birthmark on her head.One day, while her mother is "buying" envelopes, Mary finds a New York City address book and writes to Max, an obese Jewish man living in a skyscraper apartment. He writes back, reluctantly at first, and Mary's mom assumes the letter is some kind of pedophilia attempt and throws it in the garbage. Mary's beloved pet rooster retrieves it and she eagerly writes back to Max, learning that they both have a lot in common, like their love of chocolate and cartoons.As the story goes on, it is implied that the film takes place in the 70's, when little was known about mental disorders and electroshock therapy and heavy medication was still frequent. Max has a breakdown and is lifted from his apartment in a catatonic state, featured in the news as "retarded obese man lifted from apartment window". He is put through eight months of harsh psychiatric treatment and Mary assumes he thinks she's ugly and tries to forget her friend. He writes back to her eventually, and she's overjoyed, but as she reaches adulthood her parents die and she goes to university, paying for corrective surgery to impress a boy (he turns out to be gay later on) and she writes and publishes a book on Asperger's Syndrome using Max as a case study. Max is horrified when he reads that she thinks Asperger's Syndrome is a mental disability that can be "cured" someday, and when he sends her the M key from his typewriter she falls into an alcoholic depression, contemplating suicide until her agoraphobic neighbor comes to the rescue with a new package from Max.She goes to visit Max with her newborn baby, only to find his dead body on the couch. She sits with him and holds his hand, and then is startled and overjoyed to find tons of her drawings and letters taped to Max's ceiling, and she realizes that she was his best and only true friend, just as he was for her.Max's portrayal of Asperger's is very accurate. I have Asperger's, severe depression and chronic pain syndrome but there is a varied range of types of Asperger's Syndrome on the Asperger's spectrum. Mine is more creating my own imaginary friends although I'm an adult, lacking social skills and only ever wearing one color, as well as an obsession to pollute the planet on purpose. It was wonderful to see Max showing that Asperger's isn't a disease or mental illness, that it doesn't need a "cure".I loved the animation, and it was great to find something with a more adult theme instead of just Disney films and generic anime stuff. Mary and Max is original, creative and incredibly hilarious at times, as well as revealing about the ideology of the 70's. Nothing is ever sugar-coated, it is blatantly stated that Mary's mom is an alcoholic and a drug addict, and that the electroshock methods used in the 70's are wrong. There are some sex comments, vulgar language is used at times, prostitutes, condoms, babies, etc. are brought up occasionally and I have no idea why but various characters are always farting at random times in the film. It was unnecessary and sort of took away from the film, but otherwise: Great soundtrackExcellent voice actors/actressesOriginal plotLovable and creative charactersAmazing animation The plot vaguely reminded me of the 1989 film Babycakes, about the obese woman who works at the funeral parlor in New York City. It came out around the same time Coraline and the Lovely Bones did, and to be honest I enjoyed this story the best out of the three, mainly because it's honest.This is one movie I'll always love, and I highly recommend it. I think it's the best film of 2009, maybe even the best film of the decade, forget all that Hunger Games trash and watch this because it's far more original than anything I've seen in a long time!
Mary and Max (2009) undoubtedly is a display of clay animation filmmaking prowess. It has spectacular cinematography, fantastic clay sculptures, lovely characters, wonderful voice acting and a genuine story that is just so good. To be honest, I do not know how to properly describe this animation film. The story, the art, the cultural significance. It is realistic yet unusual, which will appeal to the mass but it is also quite depressing as it is never shy to portray painful social issues such as but does not limit to abandonment, loneliness, bullies, suicides and accidental deaths.Nevertheless, Mary and Max is not a confusing animated film really, it is in fact quite enjoyable to watch and funny at times but it could leave us emotionally confused afterward if you decide to reflect on it like me. The obscurity of love, life and death, all can be felt in this film! It is definitely one of my favorite animated film. I only wish they would let us know the exchanges between Mary and Max while she's pregnant before the end. You should watch this if you haven't!
