There's a constant stream of animated films these days, but mostly they're either glossy Hollywood product (Pixar/Dreamworks), or Japanese anime. For adults wanting something different we have to wait for the likes of The Nightmare Before Christmas, Waltz With Bashir, Persepolis, or Aardman's films to turn up. Mary & Max is one of these films that comes as a complete departure from all the others, both in visual and storytelling style, and sticks in the mind because of it. I won't repeat the plot here, so I'll just mention a few pros and cons. The cons are obvious. Some people will be put off by the almost constant narration (which took me a while to get used to), the rather numerous calamities (a lot more than you'd expect if you thought this was just a kids film), and the sadness within some of these people's stories. It's actually a little surprising that the film got made without the people financing it demanding a script that was more tailored to appeal to a wider audience. What we get is something that feels a whole lot more personal than the higher profile animated films. It feels personal, and therefore real, and the explanation is that it was written from life by a director who has a real feeling and sympathy for people who don't quite fit into the world, and feel alienated or are misunderstood by others. Mary was partly inspired by the director's own childhood (and there's a little bit of Toni Collette's Muriel Heslop thrown in I suspect), and Max is also based on a real person he's been pen friends with (but so far has never met in person). The way the film handles his Asperger's Syndrome just feels different to how you'd normally see such an issue handled on screen. There's a constant stream of humour (ironic, black, childish), and I really enjoyed the small perfect touches on growing up in an Australian suburb in the 70's and 80's, and the depiction of grey New York, as it appears to the easily frightened Max. The animation is constantly a joy to watch, and I highly recommend seeing it on the big screen where it can be properly appreciated in all it's hand-made glory.


                
In Australia in 1976, a young girl named Mary (voiced by Bethany Whitmore) is a lonely child looking for a friend. She lives with both her parents but her mother is a chain smoking drunk and a thief and her father, who works in a factory putting the strings on teabags, would rather spend time with his collection of dead birds. Mary remains curious about life and finds the address of an American living in New York. She writes him a letter to become his pen pal. The recipient is Max (Philip Seymour Hoffman), a severely overweight Jewish hypochondriac and full-time no-hoper. Gradually, as they send each other letters, Mary and Max's relationship develops and we begin to learn more about their past and their heartache and insecurities of being alone.Following the short animated film, Harvey Krumpet, director Adam Elliot has constructed his first full feature claymation picture, displaying as much skill as many of the major mainstream studios. The film has been immaculately designed, with many tiny details and features placed into the sets, all of which would have taken many countless hours to mould. The lighting and colour scheme too are significant to the unique look of the film, ranging from highly saturated to almost entirely black and white, to reflect the self-depreciative and sometimes gloomy tone of the narrative. It is a film made of great patience and craftsmanship.Yet the strongest asset of the film is the humour of the screenplay. Whereas many mainstream animated films such as Shrek and The Incredibles adopt a great deal of hilarity from their pop culture references, Elliot has an eye for the simpler things in life. From the way Mary and Max share their eating habits of chocolate hot dogs, to how Max describes his past jobs, including a street cleaner and a member of the Communist Party, the humour of the film remains truly original, bizarre and often very witty. Elliot excels in his ability write about the most normal things and then turn them on their heads, or degrade his miserable characters in the most hilarious way. Yet there are moments of poignancy too, such as where Mary describes her difficulty at school as she is teased for the birthmark on her forehead, that provide the film's screenplay with a subtext - no matter how simple – about isolation and the need for friends.The use of Barry Humphries' voice over to convey much of the story is initially highly annoying and intrusive. In the opening scenes it feels overly used and distracting from the story and the detail of the scenes. Gradually though, as the film moves from its opening exposition, the voice over is used slightly less and its scarcity achieves the storybook quality and poetry that it deserves. Barry Humphries reads his lines beautifully. The rest of the voice actors too are splendid. Philip Seymour Hoffman is again in fine form, adding a slight accent to his voice and the decision to model his voice with a character of a similar physique fits nicely. He is quickly become one of the most diverse actors in the world. Bethany Whitmore as the young Mary is equally impressive too and her voice has a real innocence about it. Toni Collette and Eric Bana also have much smaller roles too. It is a well thought out voice cast and while some of the minor characters verge on grotesque, there is still a real sweetness about this film that carries it.Elliot has described his film as being suitable for everyone. This is rather optimistic. I don't know how particularly young children, who have been conditioned by the more mainstream animated titles, would appreciate the film. It is extremely funny for the most part, but there is also a real sense of gloom around these characters that might not be as appealing to children. And towards the end, the film, despite being well under two hours, begins to lose a bit of momentum as the characters wave in and out of their depleted lives. Perhaps the films message of learning to live with your flaws and accepting the path life has given you is something that children, even if they don't entirely understand now though, needs to be seen anyway. Regardless, it remains a mostly sharp and funny film that many will find refreshing and engaging given the home-grown talent involved.


                
I went into this film at the Berlinale with mixed feelings. I knew that Adam Elliot's shorts were great but frankly the last few years haven't been great for Australian films and a number of short filmmakers have made disappointing first features.But right from the opening frame, this film shattered any of my doubts. It's so refreshing to see a film told with such a strong unique vision and pulled off so effortlessly. This is made even more remarkable not only as it's made using stop motion animation but also because of the characters and subject matter it tackles.Mary is an 8 year old outcast living in the suburbs of Melbourne. On a whim, she chooses a name at random in a phone book and sends off a letter asking about life on the other side of the world. The letter is received by Max, an overweight depressive in his 40's living in New York, suffering from Aspergers Syndrome. A friendship is born as the pair exchange letters over the next 20 years. offering each other support, advice and the chance to see life through another set of eyes.While the world is painted in gloomy hues of brown and grey and the characters lead bleak lives, the genius of the script is that the characters never wallow or feel sorry for themselves. The tone is kept humorous and balanced allowing us to be moved by the characters as they stumble through life but also laugh at their foibles and observations of the world they struggle to fit into. Not since Muriel's Wedding has Australia produced so fine a comedy with such rich detail and I probably got even more laughs out of this.My only criticism of the film would be some of its music particularly its use in one key scene of the Humming Chorus (already used so memorably in the finale of Heavenly Creatures). It meant that in a critical moment I was thinking of Kate Winslet up to no good instead of connecting with Mary & Max. But this is more a personal concern and if that's the weakest thing about the film, it's doing pretty well. I hope this film is seen by the wide audience it so richly deserves.


                
Mary and Max is a well-crafted film for adults; it deals with depression, suicide, drugs, sex, and death. The plot is basic but the film is anything but. Mary lives in Australia and Max lives in New York. Both have lonely, depressing lives, until one day they become pen pals and their lives change for better/worse. I am excessively surprised how polished this low-budget film is. The attention to detail is unparalleled, and it might be one of the most unique animated film ever created, not based on the plot, but what occurs throughout the film and the themes you'll see. You will be wowed by their relationship and dialog and may even be able to relate to them. My only complaint is that I did not feel the emotion that many others felt. The creators did a poor job of portraying the sad occurrences in the film through screen; no need for tissues. Stop-motion movies are a rare form of cinema, and it is movies like Mary and Max that prove that stop-motion is one of the premier ways to tell a story.


                
Mary and Max are two individuals which are poles apart from each other, live in separate continents and have an age difference of more than 30. But there is something which makes them care about and think about each other. It is the great relation of friendship. We hear that our best friends are those who accept us along with our faults and shortcomings. Mary and Max are the best examples of that. Mary is a 8 year old girl from Australia and Max is a 40 somewhat obese guy from New York. Both have some things common such as they have no friends, love a particular Cartoon and have the fetish for Chocolate. They interact with each other through letters which reveals to the viewer their life story .Sorry, if I missed to mention that this is an animated movie - Not ordinary but clay animation. It is somewhat difficult to emote through clay animation but this movie does not suffer from that. The movie is filled with dark, satirical humor but you never feel offended by it. Along with it, it has it's 'cry buckets' moments which really move you. I will certainly call it a very matured animation movie by a newbie director. It is right up there in my list of favorite animations.Rating : 8/10


                
I hate it when people assume that animation can only be for little kids. Why should an entire medium be relegated to a demographic unlikely to fully appreciate all the work that went into the detail and animation of this stop-motion world? That's not to say that children can't watch this movie - anything "inappropriate" will likely go over their heads - but it is a bit depressing. I don't have a lot to say about this movie that hasn't already been said. Everything from the animation to the voice acting to the story is absolutely fantastic and I would highly recommend watching.


                
Great movie... will leave your eyes moist for long time. The characters are created with very seriousness.One of the good animated movies of the decade. Its based on a true story. I liked it.Ending was very touchy and heart felt. Thanks to all the crew members for making such an excellent movie. Characters Mary and Max are very well formed. The pace of the story is quite well maintained. During the entire movie one will never feel bored. Narration by Barry is awesome. I love his voice. Its so clear as crystal. Toni Collette voice sounds very cute and innocent.


                
Mary an 8 year old girl living in Australia strikes upon a new friendship with 44 year old Max Horowitz, a lonesome dweller of noisy suburbs of New York in a very peculiar manner.And they share their lives, problems, solutions, chocolates, ups and downs with each other and us.The movie is simple yet persuasive stop motion animation with a strong narrative and strong portrayal of emotions.The narration is simple, jolly yet intense. It tackles the strong subject of how things are perceived by the people and difference between the sane and insane on the deeper grounds.The lives through the eyes from two strangers,the outcasts of the society at far ends of the world who later develop a strong bond of friendship. The higher thinking of what's good or what's bad is left for the viewers.The start is slow where the plot is being build and it gradually thickens into a gripping movie, weaving together a bleak tale of friendship and loneliness.It's different give it a try.


                
I love this film and am still blown away by the music. Especially, Perpetuum Mobile by Penguin Cafe (Mary's Theme).I understand why some people dislike it so much. It can be very very very depressing BUT ONLY IF YOU DON'T WATCH IT UNTIL THE VERY END. It's one of those 'depressing' films that has a feel good ending that wraps everything up nice and neatly.Anyway, everyone must remember that this film is Adam Elliot's second work of this style. Harvey Krumpet is the first. It's a 22 minute short on the ridiculousness of life and appreciating its' simple pleasures. Harvie Krumpet is the real gem.It's my favourite film of all time. Not favourite animated, not favourite short, just favourite film, full stop.Not nearly enough people know about it. It is brilliant. I can't describe it in words. Just go and see it on YouTube. It's beautiful.


                
Wow a little gem of a movie I rented this last night for my daughter(7) who unfortunately did not like this. I can't fault her for that because unknown to me at the time it's really geared for adults. Mary a lonely 8 year old in Melbourne decides one day to write ramdomly to a person across the world to find out where babies come from in America. She chooses Max an equally lonely 40 something jew in New York who has aspergers syndrome and many deep routed personal and social issues. An unlikely friendship that spans 20 years through letters evolve between the two. This film is totally charming you laugh you cry you become a part of it. I wouldn't recommend it for young children 11 and up would be the ideal age as it is full of dark and often depressing themes. Want to see something that has a little depth to it I would put it up there with Wall-E as one of the greatest animated features of all time.


                
I watched the film " Mary and Max " ,beautiful Australian animation by Adam Elliot, based on a true story. It is about the friendship between a lonely girl in Australia and a lonely man in America. Through many years of friendship that held, writing letters to each other, resolve their psychological problems and situations ,that life bring to them .
 In the film, I saw a book that I read "I'm OK, you are OK" .Through the film runs a beautiful music , famous songs like Zorba's Dance and Que sera, sera.


                
A tale of friendship between two unlikely pen pals: Mary, a lonely, eight-year-old girl living in the suburbs of Melbourne, and Max, a forty-four-year old, severely obese man living in New York.At the outset, I was a bit skeptical of the high praise this film has received and how it continues (in 2015) to stay on the IMDb Top 250, despite competing with so many classics and the disproportionately-rated superhero movies. Was this a fluke or some hidden gem that has not received enough attention? Indeed, it turns out to be the latter. Although not a children's film like it first appears, that makes it all the better. Jokes about prostitutes, condoms, homophobia, atheism... never in an offensive way, but still subject matter that will never be rated G. And this allows for some very clever, innocent humor.


                
"Mary and Max" is a complete departure from the usual Disney fare or Japanese animés, both in visual presentation and storytelling style. Unlike most animated films, this one is not very 'kid-friendly' as it deals with themes including childhood neglect, teasing, loneliness, autism (Asperger's Syndrome in particular), obesity, depression and anxiety. Despite its slightly mature nature, I like everything about this film – even the narration.The script was well-written with emotionally appealing lines ("He smelt like liquorice and old books, she thought to herself, as tears rolled from her eyes the colour of muddy puddles"); the voice talents were superb (the voice cast included Philip Seymour Hoffman, Toni Collette, and Eric Bana); the clay animation is crisp and polished; and the characters are relatable. If you still think that animated movies are only for kids, try this one for size.


                
Both morbidly funny and truthfully sad stop-motion picture full of richly detailed, carefully executed sequences and an almost existential air to it.The design is a marvel in itself as are the pointedly drawn characters and the pitch-perfect voice cast. Sometimes the grim and loose storyline is getting close to wallowing in its own bleakness and cleverness, but the warmth and empathy the makers of this gem are contributing to their work wins you over.The sheer wealth of wonderful ideas, images and gags is awesome.8 out of 10 Noblet collections


                
The details in this claymation movie are beyond outstanding. But, more importantly, the script is witty, original and moving.The 2 main characters, a lonely, young girl in Australia and a mid-40s single male in NYC suffering from Asperger's (each beautifully voiced by Tino Collette and Phillip Seymour Hoffman, respectively), begin and maintain a pen-pal relationship that is initially random and bizarre but turns into the most important friendship for these 2 people who suffer from social isolationThe ups-and-downs in 2 decades of correspondence avoids the sugar-sweet path that could have easily been followed. Instead, we watch the growth of these two people, each with flaws, learn to accept the other and themselves.


                
I'm not gonna lie, I watched this because it's in the Top 250 more than anything else, but then upon realising it had the vocal work of the late great Philip Seymour Hoffman, I got to it with excitement rather than trepidation. This is a beautiful story which is warm and loving despite being mainly black, white and brown. It's a story of loneliness, depression and anxiety, but made me laugh more than I expected and almost brought a tear to my eye. Anyone expecting a Burton-esque animation will be left disappointed, but as I despise Burton I was pleasantly surprised. Well worth a watch. 8/10


                
'Mary and Max' is one of the best animated film ever made. It's the story of a true friendship, despite the two main characters never meet but only share their feelings through letters. But it's not only a story of friendship. The movie is so great that speaks about hard themes like teasing, loneliness, family problems, depression and the autism of Max, a 44 years old man (when the movie begins) that in several situations seems to see the world with the eyes of a child, the same eyes of Mary (especially in the first letters when, for example, they talk about the babies origins). It's hard to find a negative thing in this film and at the same time it's hard to understand why Mary and Max hadn't a nomination at Oscars for Best Animated Film. My rating is 9/10.
Mary and Max is the high point of what can be achieved with stop-motion animation. It's a beautifully and hauntingly constructed portrayal of loneliness that's incredibly realized by the directors very singular vision.The film isn't an easy watch and I found myself weirdly uncomfortable with many of its very adult themes, but I couldn't take my eyes off it.A wonderful melancholic score accompanies the sharp and very knowing script. Be warned though this one isn't for the kids at least in my opinion. Mary and Max is a dark odyssey into the soul of human loneliness that isn't quickly forgotten. It's incredibly sad, quite disturbing and deeply affecting. Highly recommended for anyone looking for something a little quirky.


                
The girl lives in the suburb of Melbourne. And the boy in the posh location of Newyork. Bonding of an unusual friendship form between these two when the girl's letter finds the boy's address. Unusual - because , there was very few in common between them except their loneliness. The boy is obese - courtesy his diet include chocolate, chocolate, and did I mention chocolate, and he had to regularly see a psycho-therapist. The girl has an alcoholic mother and workaholic father, and believes the babies are just found in cola-cans. And, yes I forgot to mention - the girl was 8 and the boy 44.The concept was novel. The animation was unlike any other movies I have seen before. The lines that made the script were brilliant. I would rather the ending not to be sad. But, in that sad ending I just found a sort of blessedness, as I had found in 'The Elephant Man' or 'American Beauty'Films like these make the movie-viewing experience worthwhile.(originally posted @ weirdo-on-movies.blogspot.com)


                
Hello, i am Huriye from Turkey. I watched this film in our lesson with my friend thanks to our teacher.It is an stop motion movie and i like too much this kind of film. But I started to watch this movie I thought that it is a boring movie because of its title. I thought that it can be about two lovers. But this movie is about pen pal friends. This movie is made more remarkable because of the characters and subject matter it tackles. There are two main characters. One of them is Mary. Mary is an 8 years old living in the suburbs of Melbourne. She randomly chooses a name in a New York phone book and writes him a letter. The man on the other side who is male main character of movie is an obese, middle-aged. Neither of these people have friends in real life, and they soon become each other's only friends. They send letter each other and write what they like and their family. In this way, they begin to learn much more things about their past and why they are being alone. Along their lives, they become pen pals and their unusual friendship pauses due to the anxiety attacks of the unstable Max.Actually, this movie can be an ordinary story and this is a rather sad story, filmed in a very muted color scheme. And It is extremely funny for the most part, but there is also a real sense of gloom around characters. But really i like this film, especially the end of movie. You should watch and show the end of movie. It is one of the most tender and beautiful films I've seen. And i think this movie is suitable for everyone.
Two different people from two different countries<U+0085> In your opinion, it is possible to cross their ways somewhere coincidentally? Or, another important question.Do you brave that you say everything which related to your life somebody who you did not meet before by letter? Mary Daisy Dinkle and Max Horovitz met by chance.They did not think to be each other's future. Max was alone and unable to communicate with people around. On the other hand, Mary also alone at home and school. She had an alcoholic mother and insensitive father. In my opinion, that's why Mary prefers to share her own happiness, trouble or secrets with Max. I like animation movies. A new one was added my favorites. The story is told so good that people are not bored and even if you can find the missing aspect, movie remains fully the positive aspect in mind. The part of the movie which impressed me very much is the end. Mary looked at the ceiling and saw all her letter which sends him while sitting next to Max's dead body. Do not need to see her or hear her voice for Max.She was so far away. But still he fell in love with a girl who just saw her picture. That is enough for him. If we think in terms of the Mary, knowing to be loved so much by someone must be very nice. But even though knowing it, as soon as you find that person, to lose.It is very painful. Something which thinks me throughout the whole movie is to share her own secrets somebody who did not meet before. I think, Trusting people who do not recognize should be much easier. You know that these people do not use against you what you tell.


                
Mary and Max is a suberbly crafted film released in 2009, and is written and directed by Adam Elliot. To start with this film is Austalian, but takes place in both Australia and New York New York. Next, and most importantly I loved this movie. It was poignant, deeply moving, visually stunning and made you laugh, cry, and think. What more can you ask from a film. This film is somewhat intellectual and takes on some very difficult subjects while having the look of a Wallace and Gromit cartoon. It is beautifully narated by Barry Humphries who is most famous for his Dame Edna character. It also has wonderful supporting voices from Philip Seymour Hoffman and Toni Collette. This is not a mainsteam film and if I find a following, I would hope they maintain a higher standard for their movie watching experience and seek this film out. I can rave on and on about this film, there was not one moment where I did not find myself completely enthralled. If you like great movies which I hope you do, please don't overlook this glorious treasure. if you like concise reviews of interesting films please read my other reviews at http://raouldukeatthemovies.blogspot.com/


                
This sweet, heartfelt claymation (stop-motion animation using clay models) is lovingly directed by Adam Elliot, who previously won an Oscar for his animated short Harvie Krumpet (2003). Here in his first feature, Elliot charts the path to our hearts with a poignant tale of an unlikely friendship between a young Ugly Betty lookalike Australian girl called Mary, and an old and obese New Yorker called Max who suffers from a mental illness. Mary's curiosity about how babies come about in the US leads her to write a letter to someone randomly in New York. At first stunned and confused, Max, the recipient of that letter, eventually reciprocates by sending her a letter and some chocolate.But all is not well as Max receives more letters from Mary asking him what love and "sexing" is. The tensions between a pubescent girl who has low self-esteem, and a mentally-ill old man who has no friends are played out excellently, even though they never really meet throughout the course of the film. Yet as viewers, we see them as perfectly compatible, complementing yet similar, and we want them together as friends. Elliot goes right into the psyche of a volatile and insecure man grasping with the prospect of friendship, an idea that seems alien to him, and parallels it with a girl's desire to make sense of the world.Further, Elliot gives near-equal screen time to both lead characters, alternating between them not by cutting quickly back and forth, but by moving the plot along through big narrative chunks devoted to the development of each character's past and present, as well as laying the groundwork for their futures. I feel that Mary and Max is not a story about two characters, but of two characters sharing the same story. And that story is a bittersweet one. In one encapsulating moment, the Que Sera, Sera song is played towards the end, cleverly juxtaposing with images of an alcoholic Mary on the verge of hanging herself as she recalls her past.Ultimately, Mary and Max is a story about friendship and forgiveness, and the need for redemption. Although the film ends on a quite depressing note, its lighted-hearted take on loneliness as a key theme is likely to fill the viewer with feelings of restrained optimism. Well- written, and conceptually unique, Elliot's film may not rank as one of the finest claymation films ever made, but it certainly presents itself as a solid work in need of greater recognition.GRADE: B+ (www.filmnomenon.blogspot.com) All rights reserved.
I wanted to watch a light hearted funny film the night before my exams.. So i chose an animation film,based upon my previous experiences with animation, which have almost always lightened me up..... But this one was a hell lot different....this was may 2nd claymotion film,, and i noticed that these kinda movies give a more lasting impression... just like molding a bit of soft clay.... This movie id severely depressing,,, and i mean it in a positive way.. the way max and mary's characters were etched out,, one colourless,the other multicolored,,although both their worlds were virtually colourless,,, the way their relationship develops over a series of letters,, how it moves with passing time........ this was a result of a very close observation of many different characters and arguably a work of great precision....


                
The wrinkly and awkward design of the characters and settings, as well as the dry dull color palette in "Mary and Max" gives the film a gross, clunky texture, and I wouldn't want it any other way, because, like the characters themselves, the animation style's (intentional) imperfection is what makes it so charming.The film's premise is simple, but the emotional complexity of the characters get the premise a long way. A 9 year old Australian girl sending a letter to a 44 year old obese man in New York out of curiosity, but mainly out of loneliness, and it just so happens that the very person she contacts is just as lonely and confused as she is. Almost the whole movie is done in voice over, much of it by a narrator and the rest by the main two characters, since all of their interactions are through letters and not physical dialogue, and much of what they are saying and thinking is animated to accompany the voice over. But even the narrator has a distinctive character to it, and Still, Philip Seymour Hoffman is able bring life into this idiosyncratic character of Max, fully embodying all his sincerity in every word, despite an inability to physically communicate his emotions. The effect of the visualization of the voice-over is a somewhat storybook- like tone to the film. But despite seemingly like a film intended for children on the surface, it reaches into the subjects of depression, childhood trauma, and living with a mental disability. While it treats these subjects with as much respect and seriousness as they deserve, at the core of the film is, of course, the sweet friendship between Mary and Max, and how they each serve as a solace; someone they can understand and depend on in a world filled with unpredictability. Because they each knew there would always be a friend that could appreciate them even with all their imperfections, they were both able to accept themselves for who they were, warts and all.
