The whole two series was as close to perfect as I can imagine. Funny, beautifully shot, well-produced, the only downside was that there wasn't more of it. Perhaps the reason that it wasn't as successful as it should have been was that it didn't get a large enough audience. It was aired in a time when "The Royle Family" undeservedly won all the awards and praise, whereas Spaced was considered to be aimed at immature adolescents, film parodies and comic book references only worthy of an audience that doesn't know quality when they see it. And this is a tragedy, because, if television series' can be considered art form by any stretch of the imagination, then this is a masterpiece, something to be admired by others, a definite benchmark for all other programmes.


                
Well what can I say??? The man is a genius.Simon Pegg, Master of Modern Comedy and the gorgeous Jessica Stevenson (yes I did say gorgeous!) have written and starred in what I consider to be the best British comedy ever.From Colin the lovable dog to Brian the nutty artist who lives downstairs, the script and acting is 5*.Set in London with a fantastic cast including the hilarious Nick Frost as Mike (later Ed in Shaun Of The Dead along with Simon Pegg as Shaun and Jessica Stevenson appearing in cameo role) and Julia Deakin as Marsha, the permanently drunk landlady who lives upstairs, you know you're in for a great night on the TV.It was a shame that there was only ever 2 series made however I can understand why it ended when it did.Best character??? Brian as the somewhat over-emotional artist (Anger, Pain, Fear, Aggression...)My favourite moments in the series??? Tyres enjoying the effects of the rave culture with the help of various household noises!!! Best Line (episode 1) Tim : Daisy this is Brian... Daisy : oh hi, Do you rent downstairs?... Brian : Do you mean am I gay?All In All - ENJOY!!! You Americans don't know what you're missing!!!


                
...this is the show for YOU.It's hilarious on many different levels, ranging from the ultra-obscure comic book/film/TV/music references to the downright slapstick.The much-celebrated references may cause you to roll around on the sofa clutching your stomach laughing, or they may pass you by.  It really doesn't matter.  The programme is also incredibly touching.  The writing and performances bring the paint-by-numbers characters (self-pitying cartoonist, lazy would-be journalist, tortured artist, drunken landlady, vain self-appointed fashion guru, weapons-obsessed idiot) to painfully vivid life, and no matter how cynically you may approach "Spaced" you will end up caring about these people and their relationships.  But hey, even if you don't, there's still the pop-culture references to cling onto.From Tim fantasising playing "Resident Evil 2" and blasting zombies in his living room (before reality takes hold), Daisy seeing herself in the future in true "The Shining" style, and Marsha seeing how she might have been had she not turned to drink and rock stars, you'll start laughing and you won't stop.In fact, it doesn't matter what age you are, you will identify with the characters and you will care about them and you will laugh with them.  A lot.Which just leaves the evil hidden agenda behind the series: watch it, listen to the audio commentary on the DVD and it becomes clear that they will make you watch Evil Dead 2.  Before you know it, grandmothers will be watching notorious horror films and LAUGHING.For that alone we should be truly thankful.


                
Id heard of spaced before but never had a chance to watch it, i loved Shaun of the dead and all the actors and recently saw some clips of 'spaced' on you tube and it looked hilarious. With all my Christmas money and nothing much to buy i got series 1 and 2 on DVD for 14 quid :D. After watching them both through and some episodes twice already this has to be the funniest, smartest and most relatable comedy I've ever seen. I hate to say it but as much as i love 'Peep Show' this has now found its way to my favourite comedy placement lol. All i can say is watch it, you will be hooked! All the characters are excellently put across, Brian is hysterical and the scenes with Bill Bailey are genius as 'Tim' (Simon Pegg) cant get his hatred for 'the phantom menace' out of his system. If you see the DVD's just buy it!


                
I am SO glad I ran across this show on BBC America! I'm officially obsessed with it now and only wish there were more episodes! I'm a huge Simon Pegg fan and this show is a perfect example why! The show is cleverly written, smart and hilarious. It's perfect for film snobs, comic fans, artists and writers alike! I'm an artist, writer and film snob, so this show is like my brain laid out on television! My favorite element are the subtle film references throughout. Some are so subtle that only the most advanced film snob can catch them, so it makes me feel that much smarter when I do!(-: I finally feel like my mind full of useless knowledge is being put to good use! Thanks to Simon Pegg and the others for this masterpiece and kudos for the X-File posters!(-;


                
Having now finished this series I consider it amongst my favourite ever comedies. The writing from Jessica Hynes and Simon Pegg is hilarious and heartfelt, and often very clever, resulting in great payoffs and well-rounded and quirky characters who all have such personality. The dramatic moments which are included are also thankfully not undermined by this and feel a natural addition to the story. All of the actors do a great job with their performances as well.Another thing that must be praised is Edgar Wright's direction which goes above and beyond anything comedies usually do, especially with the dynamic camerawork and editing, which greatly help in the construction of a lot of the jokes.What was also executed so well were the numerous references and homages to popular culture, which usually help the overall effect of a joke, rather than just be the joke in of itself and lose any potential because of it. It was also great to see a lot of well-known British actors appear in minor roles in this before they became popular, as they are a fair amount of them.Overall, this is a practically perfect British comedy which I would highly recommend. It got everything it could out of two great series and ended on a lovely note.


                
"Spaced" is a perfect portrait of my generation (well, pretty much my generation - I was born in 1979). It features everything I associate with people my age - clubbing, gratuitous pop culture references, heavy-duty substance abuse and, of course, chronic laziness.I probably shouldn't like it, because I tend to get really bored with TV shows and movies about shiftless twenty-somethings getting stoned. But "Spaced," weirdly enough, manages to balance its sarcasm and weirdness with brains and creativity and even a dash of sentiment. I like the characters, and I root for them to succeed, which is more than I can say for the jerks on "Seinfeld" or "Sex and the City"! I've also gotta admire Spaced because it looks so damned cool. Director Edgar Wright probably labored under a typical British budget of eight pence per episode, but he created some really freakish and memorable imagery. And the camera-work is great - how often can you say that about a sitcom? I have a slight preference for the second-season episodes, but basically the whole thing rules. I find it addicting. Once I watch the first episode, I find that I have to blast through the whole series in a day or two.I have maybe only one interesting (and possibly heretical) observation. Has anyone else noticed that, of all the lead characters, Daisy is the only one who's sort of unpleasant? Think about it...


                
This is, without a doubt, the greatest television series ever made. It is so good that it has even made it's way on to my illustrious Top Ten List of the All-Time Greatest Movies (#8). Now, it may seem odd that it is on a movie list, but in my opinion, this show deserves that classification. It is made with the same style, effort, and techniques as a movie, and maintains a continuity that is only found in movies. That is due to the amazing writing efforts of Simon Pegg and Jessica Stevenson and the superb direction of Edgar Wright. I can't watch it without starting from the first episode and finishing with the last, it's that good. Everything about it appeals to my sense of humor and intellect, whether it be some obscure reference to some film or a clever play on words. This show, or movie rather, is fried gold.


                
SPACED is a wonderfully written and terrifically acted British comedy. Much of the creative team went on to do the great SHAUN OF THE DEAD. Simon Pegg & Jessica Stevenson have such great give and take, such chemistry - they are a delight. The show is just funny - that's all it tries to do - yes the characters become three-dimensional and you care about them - but the pace of the show is so fast, so brisk, with tons of pop culture references - but the pace is like a runaway train (in a good way) and in the long one, Spaced just tries to make you laugh and they succeed. Little moments between friends, buddies hanging out in front of the TV - this is the kind of stuff the show nails - where you, the viewer, go - that is just like me and my mates when we were just hanging out. The rest of the cast is top notch and the actress who plays the older landlady, Marsha - is brilliant. American TV has bought the rights to this (sadly) and have butchered it twice in pilot form - I hope it never reaches the US screens in its "Americanized" version - where I am sure they will take all the rough edges off and give the typical US TV notes - "we have to like them - we want them to be good at their jobs." "Well, they don't really have jobs." "What??? That won't do."


                
Spaced is everything you want from a sitcom and i'm just disappointed that i didn't discover it until last year. I'd heard about it but it was never on TV so didn't get the chance to watch it.Now of course i am hooked on the lives of Tim, Daisy, Marsha, Brian, Mike and Twist. The show is hilariously funny without having gags shoved down your throat and there are great film and pop culture references to spot; however, you don't need to spot the references to enjoy it, there's plenty of great lines and funny scenes to keep anyone amused.The characters are really well drawn and Daisy has to be the best female sitcom character around. The guest characters are top notch-from Tyres to Dexter and Cromwell, showcasing a broad British talent.Jessica and Simon's script is sharp, witty and so well delivered by the cast. Edgar is a great director and everyone in the cast and crew seem to really get on and really love the programme that they are making.It's a must see, 14 episodes of laughs, jaffa cakes, detest for the phantom menace and the friendship between Tim and Daisy.


                
This sitcom is one in a million, so unique as to be in a league of it's own, yet drawing on dozens of film and television references per episode, like a blend between The Royale Family and Family Guy.London - we are introduced to Tim (Simon Pegg) and Daisy (Jessica Stevenson), two twentysomethings searching for a place to stay. With the perfect flat limited to "professional couples only", they don the guise of just that, brushing up on life history and snapshots from a 5 year relationship in 5 minutes.Adding to the ensemble is army-nut Mike, landlady Marsha, next door neighbor Brian, and a host of other oddballs.With top-notch camera-work, precise editing, a sizzling soundtrack, quotable dialogue, and an expert blend of the mundane and surreal, makes for one of the TV shows to come out of the UK in 10 years.


                
With all the in-jokes & -references, the triad of Wright-Pegg-Frost nails it again, seamlessly integrating them into a narrative that on the surface would appear derivative & redundant....but isn't in the hands of all these pros. Why isn't all comedy this clever? Why aren't there more than 2 short seasons? It's almost as though each episode is a mini movie unto itself, reminiscent of Whedon's Buffy, but even more fun. If you enjoy any or all of the Cornetto triology films, this show is a must. If you have ever been a slacker, a fanboy/girl, a renter whose landlord was a drunk, or just a confused twentysomething without direction, you will recognize yourself & your friends here (in a good way).I binge-watched this series long ago when it was available briefly on Netflix (the 1st time I could access it in the USA without purchasing it unseen), but it was removed before I could finish it. I liked the few episodes I saw, but couldn't fully absorb them until recently when they were made available on Amazon Prime. Just binge-watched ALL episodes & I can't get over how brilliant they all are. Wright, Pegg, & Frost are fantastic as usual whenever they work together, and Jessica Stevenson brings more brilliance to the table as the female lead & co-producer. All the acting & writing are comedic genius, and I can't recall the last time I've seen this kind of amazing direction in a show not made exclusively for cable or streaming.Plot setup: Pegg & Stevenson's characters each find themselves in sudden need of a new place & must pose as a couple to rent the only decent apt they can find. Their landlady is a drunk who gets into screaming fights with her teen daughter & their downstairs neighbor is a pretentious, unemployable artist. Frost plays Pegg's bff (per usual), a military-obsessed crackpot, while Stevenson's is more of a vain frenemy played by Carmichael. Other familiar faces appear throughout the episodes as well, and you will get a kick out of every single one, but those all compromise the main cast & they are all wonderful in each role.There are lots of laugh out loud moments and I can't imagine what kind of sour person one would have to be to not enjoy at least some of them. There is some infrequent cursing & a few references that may go over the heads of younger viewers, but I can't see anyone over the age of 19 failing to enjoy this series. Far superior to most of the dreck passing for sitcoms out there.


                
As everybody else agreed on... well err.. almost... this show rocks! Not everyone can make a television show as creative as this one. Maybe there are others but they still failed on other aspects. While this show almost made to perfection, some credits for its script (Pegg & Stevenson), its delivery of humor, its cinematic direction (Wright) and of course its characters. They have a self-pity sci-fi geek, Tim(Pegg), a lazy wannabe journalist, Daisy(Stevenson), an eccentric artist, Brian(Heap), an alcoholic landlady, Marsha(Deakin), a self proclaimed fashionist, Twist(Carmichael) and the gun obsessed, Mike(Frost). They managed to weave all of these unlikely characters in an absurd situation to produce a cult classic series, no wonder they made it big with Shaun of the Dead and Hot Fuzz. Kudos to its production team.Being a great show it has its own memorable moments throughout the series and what can I say, its absolutely funny. Mind me to mention a few, here are some: The paintball scene in s1 ep4, where Mike sacrificed himself... well sort of... to save Tim (Mike spurted out yellow paint in his mouth as if real blood after being shot and Tim was devastated convincingly, genius!). The disappointment of Tim in s2 ep2, where he discourages a boy to buy a Jar Jar Binks merchandise that cost him his job (He cried exactly the same way like the discouraged boy when he run out of the shop). The shootout in s2 ep5, where Tim and Daisy confronts a gang and ended up in an imaginary gunfight (Teenagers responded hilariously to the situation and exchanged fires using fingers, cracks me up every time). Well you might say unoriginal but as I have said, the delivery of the characters that really made the scenes classic. My only complaint to this show is its finally over, it really deserves another season. I was greatly disappointed after watching the final episode. By the way they appropriately wrapped the season with a good ending and a very good song - The Staunton Lick by Lemon Jelly(my new favorite track). Oh well at least they made a follow up through their cult films.I wondered why I stumbled to this show very late. Funny 'coz I've seen the works of Pegg/Wright/Forst backwards, first Hot Fuzz, then SOTD, then this. Maybe I will watch Big Train or Asylum after this one. As almost everyone quoted here, this is worth a DVD collection. And I will be very very happy if someone will give me this as a birthday present. Anyone??
I really enjoyed this show and wish there were more episodes. I'm struggling to understand how I missed it over the last 20y.I don't even like Pegg's other stuff, I switched off Hot Fuzz after 5-10 minutes and wasn't too fussed about Shaun of the DeadBut I really enjoyed this show, the style was good and constant clever cultural references, you'd have to watch each episode a few times to spot them all.


                
'Spaced' is a show that never fails to make me laugh. With the many, many pop culture references sprinkled throughout, this show is a geek's paradise. The cast is absolutely spectacular: Simon Pegg, Nick Frost, Jessica Stevenson (Now Hynes), Peter Serafinowicz, Bill Bailey, Mark Heap. All of the characters are believable and the situations they run into can range from the mundane to the extraordinary. A true template for what a British sitcom should look and feel like.


                
(Warning: Edgar Wright fanboy bias alert!!!) Spaced is the first sitcom I've seen that eschews the banal you-say-this I-say-that style of sh*tty ('scuse my french) TV comedies like Big Bang Farts and Two and A Half Dead Weasels (Whoops, there I go again!). But seriously, the hilariously clever interwoven dialogue and filmy magic enhance the overall quality above standard fare like you wouldn't believe. Instead of just pointing a camera at funny-looking people saying painful things, Spaced gives a camera cocaine, then tells it to bounce around following believable characters doing unbelievable things on a journey that would otherwise be boring if weren't presented with such goddamn VIGOUR! Every glance, every thought, every random object that's dropped on the floor is magnified and pumped full of so much melodrama that everything becomes hilariously blown out of proportion. And, you know, exciting. So, if reading this short review hasn't made your pants rupture with unrestrained excitement, then perhaps nothing ever will. Well, at least until the next episode of Big Bang Farts comes out. (Heh. Gets me every time.)So, to sum it all up, go watch Spaced if you're into something funny, different, and totally NOT boring.


                
This show is freaking hilarious. The characters are all endearing, the plot is amazingly well crafted, and the jokes per episode number in the hundreds. My only gripe is that I wish they would have made more, and each one a little longer. This is a perfect series for people who are looking for something light-hearted, obscene, awesome, and artistic. The actors / actresses in this series really bring out the well written story of mid- 20's laggards, waiting for their big break in the cruel but real world. Perfect. This is a must-watch for anyone interested in comedy or drama. This show comes highly recommended by me and my social circle. I would encourage anyone who enjoys a good laugh to watch this show.


                
I absolutely love spaced. it ranks up there as my favourite comedy program of all time, even beatin Alan Partridge. Me n te girlfriend have spent many a happy night watching it again and again on DVD. Its a brilliant pastiche of homages to nearly every cult flick going, spotting where all the scenes come from is half the fun. Look out for tributes to the Evil dead trilogy, 70's horror 'dont look now', the terminator etc...


                
At last a proper comedy for the mid 20's generation, full of references and conversations that really happen.  Great fun to be had in spotting the various pop-culture references (of which there are a helluva lot) and while the jokes may not fly by when they do come they are very funny.  Check out series 1 episode 6 (with the legendary 'smiley') which will resonate with clubbers far more than pretentious self righteous crap like Human Traffic ever will.


                
When two twenty-somethings are both homeless, they have to pretend to be a couple to get a flat. After this, they have various adventures trying to fit in, trying to make life work, growing up, taking responsibility(it isn't preachy though), etc. They are Daisy(Stevenson), a nervous journalist with writer's block, and Tim(Pegg), an immature graphic artist working at a comics shop. Their landlady Marsha talks forever about her ingrate teenage daughter and her own life, the painter living downstairs Brian is... strange(that's putting it mildly), and finally there are their best friends, Twist(a self-involved fashion expert) and Mike(Frost, as a grown man who loves guns and *really* doesn't think about what he says to others), respectively. If you wondered what Edgar Wright(who seriously left his mark on this!), Simon and Nick were doing before Shaun of the Dead, this is it... and yes, it is every bit as unbelievably hilarious. Two seasons(and both open with a bang!) for a total of 14 episodes of about 24 minutes per each... but are they *all* amazing? ...yes. I didn't think they could possibly be, there must be a slip-up somewhere... nothing. Try not to watch more than one of these per day, or you may overdose, same for both pictures; I would fear having a heart attack as these leave me gasping for air and quoting them. I'm not saying that everyone will love this... if you've seen just a bit of it, or aforementioned movie, or Hot Fuzz, you'll have an idea of what you're in for. We have nearly constant jokes and gags, countless references to, and pastiches of, series and films(and you can tell that they clearly love the flicks and shows they parody... well, most of them), clever, silliness, verbal, black, and really nearly any kind of material. It's all enormously skilfully produced(*this* is how you do spoofs), and if you call this a sit-com, note that it isn't on a set... there are many locations and the camera doesn't linger unless it should. This is filmed beautifully and sharply edited. We do get to care about the characters(however quirky and odd they are), as well, and the main cast do all have genuine feelings. And it's so unapologetically epic! "Over the top" almost doesn't cover it. Honestly, with this, you can really tell that they wanted to make something great, that they were putting effort into making every frame *rock*. There is some strong language, violence, blood and disturbing content in this. The 3-Disc Collector's Edition comes with the 81 minute documentary Skip to the End(I will review it on its own page here on the site), commentary tracks for the around 7 hours of content(and you can tell from them that they loved doing this and working together), over 15 minutes of deleted scenes(with the option of hearing their thoughts over them), 14(series 1) and 13(...and 2) minutes of outtakes, 7 and a half minutes(first season) and 6 and a half minutes(...and second) of raw footage(think B-roll), more than 3 minutes of trailers for this, 3 and a half minute Spaced Jam(dance beat edited together of clips), one minute Daisy does Elvis, biographies and photo libraries. I recommend this wholeheartedly to any fan of British humor. 10/10


                
Spaced in my opinion is probably one of the greatest sitcoms ever to hit our screens in the u.k. It's hysterically funny, has fantastically memorable characters, a great story and is packed with some noticeable and some not so noticeable movie, t.v etc references throughout the whole two series. I most likely love it so much because i can relate to the show in so many ways and i'm only fifteen so that proves how childish you adults can be don't it. Anyway if you haven't already seen the show then here's the plot.Tim Bisley (a struggling cartoonist) and Daisy Steiner(an out of work writer) are two twenty-somethings who meet by chance in a café. Both looking for a place to live they pretend to be a professional couple to secure the tenancy of a north London flat owned by middle aged drunken landlady Marsha Klein. Tim and Daisy's strange neighbour Brian Topp along with Tim is an artist and soon becomes a friend of the dynamic duo and becomes a regular visitor at the flat. Along with Tim's friend Mike Watt (an ex member of the T.A before he stole a tank and tried to invade Paris) and Daisy's friend Twist Morgan who works in fashion...apparently. And so from there their strange and slightly surreal adventures begin!I recommend anyone out there to give up some of their time to watch Spaced and i promise you'll definitely not be disappointed. Even if you don't relate to it in some way i guarantee that you'll find it laugh out loud funny. The only downside of Spaced is that there were only fourteen episodes and that Simon Pegg and Jessica Stevenson haven't decided to breathe life into these characters once more for a third series. If you didn't enjoy Spaced at all and hated everything about it then i suggest you go to the doctors right now cause you have a very serious medical condition.


                
