The original big bang theory and still better. always great to see the start of a classic double act in Pegg and frost.


                
SpacedWright's first project that placed him on the radar as a smart comic director cannot describe more of his work than this. And with his fast, clean and well edited procedure he worked his way up the ladder from then on, on nothing but merit, passion and brilliant sense of humor. Mind you though, this is not the origin story of just the popular 21st Century director Edgar Wright, but also one of the finest British comedy actors and writers, Simon Pegg and Jessica Hynes. Most presumably the first writing is considered a sort of a sneak peek into their own lives of the writers and similarly in here even though the plot might not follow that rule but the characteristics of the characters definitely feels like a semi auto-biography.And with two short seasons on helm, Pegg and Hynes charges honestly on what they have to say- which is mostly the pragmatic uncertain lifestyle of a young person in a town trying to make something big with all the scams he or she can or cannot afford- with a sugar-coated version of pop culture references that is meant to and does appeal the attention. Most of the humor in their language, is got to do with over dramatizing petty things or mocking the actual dramatic moments, either way the entire series feeds on an ironical note.The Guy Ritchie like fast and rhythmic execution of Edgar Wright gets better as the series moves forward, a major drastic change is clearly visible when it enters the second season. Pegg as almost himself that is a stereotypical- if I may dare- nerd and Hynes as a non workaholic writer that does everything in the series but write, shines brightly on screen as they both challenge themselves while writing, on both comic and dramatic tone. The supporting cast like Nick Frost, Mark Heap and Julia Deakin are clearly akin to invest with all their chips in without any bars held in order to work for just a frame and still manages to draw in their share of the laugh. Spaced has every right to call itself that, over the seasons it tries a lot to be something else than that and yet ends up being all about it, and that is the apt summation of a 20s lifestyle.


                
Simon Pegg, Jessica Hynes, the fantastic Nick Frost and the superbly dry Mark Heap as downstairs neighbour and whacky artist, in this trippy, in-joke, homage-a-plenty romp. Tim and Daisy (Pegg and Hynes) pretend to be together to get a flat that requested couples only. They're both slackers (aspiring graphic novel artist and journalist respectively), and nothing much happens but they are both drama-queens, off the wall and it's written so tongue in cheek, and more or less everything is a representation of something else or a gratuitous take off of it. Very dry humour, drugs, sexual references and bad language so not for everyone, but if you were relatively young in the nineties and don't laugh at this I wonder if you have all your neurons firing. There are lots of set pieces, repetitive montages and crazy monologues by Pegg. Nick Frost is TA gun enthusiast Mike and he's the comedy relief in this otherwise already comedy; totally nuts and laugh out loud funny with the bromance between Pegg and Frost superbly referenced. Their comedic timing is just perfect. Both of the two series are short at seven episodes each but it's great laughs, penned by both Simon Pegg and Jessica Hynes (nee Stevenson), the stars of the show, demonstrating an originality and freshness, something a little different in the world of the humble sitcom.


                
This show kick started Simon Pegg and Nick Frosts career on our TV and cinema screens. A very quirky plot with unbelievable characters but a great storyline and dialogue - especially if you are a fan of sci-fi as you will be treated to numerous Star Wars references amongst others! Worth a watch - can be viewed on 4oD and is one of the better comedies I've seen, albeit for a niche audience of those who love pop and sci-fi references on their screens. There is a good chemistry between Simon and Nick's characters as well as the female which points towards romantic interest on all parts. This can be watched on many levels as one can simply ignore all references contained and enjoy the comedy for what it is - witty and sharp!


                
I only saw one episode because I was on a plane. At first, I didn't like it but it grew on me about cartoonist who submitted the wrong picture to the man who can change his life forever. He has to get it before he sees it. Well remember the Mission Impossible scene where Tom Cruise has to break into the CIA but it's far more enjoyable and there are laughs along the way. The cast is unfamiliar to me personally. I don't get much newer British comedies in America but I think Simon Pegg does a wonderful job as does the other cast members. It's kind of quirky and silly but really enjoyable. I think Simon Pegg goes over the edge regarding the show's comedic appeal. It's not so much about Spaced as it is about average ordinary life in London and the characters who wish they were anything but ordinary and average.


                
