Many consider a movie outstanding just because it shows tragic poverty and violence. Subconsciously, people feel "politically correct" for liking it. Praise becomes a form of self- elevation, whilst the mere, unnecessary styling offends the topic's intrinsic seriousness. The ideological showcase overcomes an honest presentation. Mixing tragic elements to create a shocking, poignant movie is easy. But somehow the whole thing becomes a farce too pretentious to be positively assessed. An unpunished, 10 year old killer runs around, kills everyone and then bursts into evil laughs. The horrifying situation exists in reality. But a film approach ought to be different. This film has been sold as a kind of triumph of the human spirit, yet it's no more than a typical mobster movie sited at Jacarepaguá. Scene after scene, someone is killed and the deaths have the same depth or significance of a video game. The protagonist does nothing to improve himself. He is a social victim, period. He features the moral character of a robot. And banditry, to the Brazilians' 'delight,' recruits untouchable children as hoods. A Guy Ritchie-like gang plot has its moments of shock: non stop bloodbaths & revolting human filth. For those fond of Grand Guignol, this is a perfect movie. Horrible and cheap in all aspects, including pain and suffering. Simply pathetic, filmed as an elegant commercial edited with rather annoying camera movements. City of God was just another product from the Third World that dazzled the radical chic community of the First World.


                
To sum it up in one word: overrated.Let's face it, the story isn't anything new (I know most things have been done before, but still). There's no shortage of films depicting the lives of gangsters from their slow steady rise, to that inescapable fall. What's new here is the fact that we're dealing with kids. It certainly is a different take on a familiar plot, but otherwise there are no surprises. For most of the film, it's various gang members shooting each other when they're not busy doing robberies and drugs.One of the arguments for this film being a classic is that the actors are amateurs and that they are "real". OK, if that's what they want to show - do a documentary about them instead of trying to gloss it up with fancy visuals and editing. The latter has also been praised to great extent. My question is: why? There's nothing here that isn't in every other film these days, and certainly nothing that warrants that extra high rating. It only detracts from the story, making the characters all the less believable.It seems like the subject matter (i.e. the horrible conditions under which these kids live - and the fact that it's foreign) has influenced viewers into thinking that the film is somehow better than it actually is. It's really nothing more than a typical genre movie. What's best about the film, and not often mentioned, are some very entertaining humorous scenes that you'd not expect to find in a film like this. [4/10]


                
My opinion on this movie has rapidly degraded as hours and days passed by. I too, as the movie progressed, got involved in the neat technical package, and violence in itself was not so disturbing... you know, we are civilized 21st century men! we love violence (when we are not directly involved with it), plus we love violent movies and this one, well,was just a punch to the stomach a bit harder than the previous ones. And then the story, ooh, it was so wisely penned! with that delicious ironic look à-la Tarantino to smooth the edges of the bullet holes.But after a couple of days I focused my thoughts and decided that I did not like it. I found it disquieting. Not because of the violence and degradation depicted. I'm partially editing my previous comment just because I know that the average 20 y.o. boy (who is, I think the average and perfect audience for this movie) is not able to understand a subtler critical stance about violence in movies and only thinks "hey, violence exists so why movies should not show that?", and that's the reason why such a movie is currently ranked as the 18th best movie in the History of Cinema. Makes me think that when internet will be accessible by all 6 y.o. children, "The Lion King" will quickly surpass this pretentious movie.So what's wrong with violence in THIS movie? It's the way that the director has chosen to treat it. Can you show kids aged 8 that roam through the streets killing light-hearted and selling drugs? Yes, it's not shocking to show that, it sure happens for real in some damned place of humanity. Can you show kids aged 8 who smell death with terror in their eyes (the real terror, like only kids can feel) before getting shot because they have crossed paths with some leading gang? Yes, it's horrible but it probably happens for real. Can you take all this nauseating stuff about our refined societies and bring it on screen packaging it like an MTV videoclip? big show, hip music, special effects, frenzied camera movements? Yes, you can, but you risk total failure in delivering your message. If Meirelles' and the like's intention was to point their fingers at this degradation and tell the world "Look at what it's happening! How can it be possible that we are not able to change all this?", and they wanted to attain this with the lighter feeling of irony... well, then they totally failed! With their opportunistic art they have just shown to be a mechanism of the social processes that lead to that same degradation.How many of these "10 star-brilliant-astonishing-movie" people still bring in their stomachs the look of those kids after the coke and pop-corn have been digested? This is the point: this movie is just like a fireworks show with no moral queue, and the only sensational thing about it is the way it misses the real targets... politicians, police, businessmen and foreign governments. And as for the presumed realism... please, don't make me laugh: just learn that "spectacular" and "realistic" are antonyms.
I just watched this one and I just sat there watching 130 minutes of kids playing Indian vs. Cowboy with real guns. I did not get a single thread of emotional bonding with the characters or any of the events. This belittles all of what happens in the movie and even manages to reduce the most dramatic scene of the movie(initiation of a new member into the gang) to nothing more then one more kid shooting a gun.The story is sad but nothing original. Rise and Fall of gangsters, rivalry over territory and someone who managed to stay sane amidst all this. Kudo's for some of the camera work and directing but thats about it.Oh and please will somebody tell Meirelles that guns actually have recoils and not just say bang and flash a bright light. The scene of Ze returning to the brothel to 'have some fun' almost made me laugh if I wasn't crying for the pathetic efforts of gun-effects.


                
The world is full of unpleasant things.OK, I knew that in favelas under-aged boys use guns, kill an rob. They also use drugs, if they can grab them. If not, they can sniff glues or similar.The same happens currently in some African and Asian countries with soldier-boys.Children prostitution is a plague, also with small girls, in various places of the world. Also child labour is a plague.But, from showing such things to producing a cinema masterpiece, there are light-years.To appreciate a film I would like to reason about plot, dialogs, music, images, places, characters; this movie seems to me too poor of these things. Violence and degradation are not enough.So, while watching, I simply felt bored.I think that this is an entertainment for sick-tourists. My rating is 4/10
One more mediocre film that is over-rated, I can't understand at all why this film is being considered a masterpiece receiving such high ratings. For me the top 250 films list of the IMDb has ceased to have any validity when it comes to deciding what films to watch, time and again I was let down. Some films in it are good but many are terrible.I found the plot to be very muddled and shallow and the story difficult to follow due to the large number of new characters that kept appearing in the film often for a short time.I gave it 4/10 despite the confusing shallow story because it does show the painful realities of grinding poverty in Brazil and how it even compromises the innocence of children with hard drugs and serious violence. Otherwise I would have given it just 1/10.


                
After I read all the praise that this movie was getting, being for example entitled as one of the best movies ever made, I had pretty high expectations. Before watching the DVD I did not read anything about the plot. I really didn't know what kind of movie to expect and barely understood what the genre would be. After watching I don't understand why so many people love this film. Totally overrated.After watching the first 20 minutes I was thinking "Man this is really boring! I wonder if the movie will ever start going?!". Throughout the whole movie I was always like "What the hell is supposed to be so great about this movie? What am I missing?" After the first 20 minutes are over, the film begins to get more interesting. However it just doesn't really do anything for me. There are no characters that I could somehow feel any sympathy for. The storyline is somewhat interesting (though not intelligent) and the effects and visuals may be nice, but the violence ruins everything for me. This Li'l Ze guy has to be one of the most horrid villains of any movie. And to me it is quite dissatisfying to see that the only person that may have the ability to stop him (Ned) gets his girlfriend raped in front of his eyes by this very villain, and soon thereafter gets half of his family shot. And in the end he doesn't even kill the bad guy.I know that this stuff may very well happen in the real world (in fact the story is supposed to be based on real events). I just don't want to see it. I don't like it. I know that there is a sewerage system under our towns, where it smells terrible and all kinds of nasty stuff happens. But I don't want to see a movie about it. I don't want to be taken there. The same thing here. I don't want to see a psychopathic killer and inhuman violence.However if you happen to like horror movies, helplessness, senseless violence and barbarity you may like this one. If you are looking for substance there is not much left after subtracting the violence.
