Wow, this is one of those different movies - meaning not run-of-mill by any means - and one of those which isn't pleasant to watch but one you might find yourself mesmerized by it.This also is one of those "based on a true story" films which makes it even more shocking, if its mostly true. The story is of the many young (pre and early-teen) criminals inhabiting an area just outside the big city of Rio de Janeiro in Brazil. It has the feel of a documentary with real-life street kids but is upgraded considerably by fantastic camera-work, some very innovative cinematography. In other words: stylish.Make no mistake: without that stylish look, the film might be too much of a downer. The street kids are interesting but really brutal, so be prepared. I mean, how often do you see 12-year-old killers portrayed on film? The violence, language and drug use are rough in here and what a sad comment on this social problem in Brazil, a country with a huge problem with these street gangs. Overall, a very tough but fascinating film.


                
The most moving moment in a trip I made to Brasil occurred when I visited a community school in the slums (favelas). These children were desperately trying to better themselves <U+0096> the school (paid for from community and rotararian funds with no government help) was their *only* chance to get out of the cycle of hopelessness and crime. The awful dilemma was that the community and its inhabitants were protected and supported (with no strings attached) by the local drugs and gun running infrastructure. I was safer there than on the streets of Copacabana <U+0096> no-one would harm a tourist as that might attract police attention (bad for business). One infraction to law and order would mean a warning <U+0096> the second, death.City of God looks at the slum area (a slightly less criminalised one than the one I visited) some years not to long ago as it evolved towards this position. The honest struggles of a teenager to break the mould, and the enormous pressures on his less intelligent peers to enter the short lived occupation of  gangster. There are many moral challenges the audience is forced to confront, including the many shades of villains that accept a certain degree of criminality in order, at least in part, to do some good in an environment where the worst are very bad indeed and even the police are generally known to be more corrupt than some of the drug-runners.This is a monumental film ,bravely told and skilfully put together. It opens a world that is largely unseen by the developed West, telling a nail-biting story that accurately reflects generations of children and adults lost to a world we wouldn't wish on anyone. Queasiness at an opening scene where live chickens are beheaded for the cooking pot is soon put into insignificance as we realise the horrific cheapness of human life. This rollercoaster ride of a movie leaves you with very uncomfortable questions about the nature of goodness. Even thinking back to it now brings tears to the corners of my eyes.


                
Quentin Tarantino, eat your heart out! At least in this film they outshot you big time. Watching this film is difficult at times. The violence is to such a degree, the viewer has a problem seating through it.Director Fernando Meirelles has an eye for realism and detail. The most disturbing thing about City of God is the fact that the killers are children playing adult games before they can be children. It is a well known fact that these kids' gangs created terror, not only in the favelas where they lived, which was unfortunate, but they mugged, robbed and just plain terrorized the big cities in Brazil. News about street children being shot in the streets of Rio or Sao Paolo were perceived as criminal because of the ages, but one can get a clearer picture in this film by coming to the realization these same children were killing real grown ups and getting away with murder.The only problem I had with this film is with the English subtitles. Sometimes, one doesn't know who's who. To make matters worse, the principal character grows from a young boy into a photographer who looks like a small boy himself. The plots and subplots are somehow hard to follow at times. The great accomplishment for the director is that he never preaches. He shows the world what went on at that particular time. The realism is extended to the way we see in gory details the corpses of the slain gang members. If Hollywood would have presented scenes that are so hard to take as these, many would be criminals would have been able to see first hand what bullets do to human beings: they kill!


                
"Cidade de Deus" is the breakthrough of Brazilian director Fernando Meirelles ("The Constant Gardener"). It tells the unbelievable but true story of the gang life in a poor neighbourhood of Rio de Janeiro. The neighbourhood is mostly ruled by kids and young adults, who doesn't play cowboy and Indian like most kids of their age do. No, most of the time they are busy dealing drugs, robbing local stores or killing other young adults in order to extend their territory.The story is told by Rocket, a young guy who tries to live an honest life and not to be involved in the gang life. Fernando Meirelles made an amazing movie of an exceptional story. The story is disturbing and chocking. If it wasn't based on true events, this movie wouldn't have been such a big hit either. It's the combination of an objective style, fast filming, a great soundtrack and the chocking story that made "Cidade de Deus" a revolutionary movie.Although the events are tragic, don't expect a melodramatic story. I don't think the purpose of the director was to move us. I think he wants as to be chocked after seeing this movie. Although we are confronted with violence on TV every day when we watch the news, the fact that kids are involved in this kind of gang life is really chocking.Although I really liked this movie, I think it's highly overrated. Personnaly, I don't think it deserves such a high ranking in the Top 250. Nevertheless an excellent movie. 8/10


                
'City Of God' is not an easy film to watch, nor is it an easy film to like. Were it not for the stark reality that permeates most of the production, this could have been a modern zombie flick. None of the characters in this movie are really alive anyway. They're the walking dead, living each moment with the threat of death knocking holes in their front door. The actors do the best they can with powerful material that offers them no real hope. As I said, zombie flick.After 2002's searing documentary, 'Bowling For Columbine', it seems a little ghoulish to see a movie filled to the brim with shots of kids with guns. And they use their guns oh so casually, killing at will. It's not easy to make a viewer immune to the sight of a child brandishing a gun, let alone firing it, let alone shooting it at people. Repeatedly. After a while, I wasn't appalled anymore. 'City Of God' is relentless in its offhand violence, proving once again that ghetto conditions breed desperation and murder. Perhaps that's truthful. In fact, I have no doubt that this movie is bang-on.That's the rub. For every moment of authenticity, there's one of over-the-top brutality. Is it over the top, however, if it's trying to be factual? I'm not sure. See, I can't say I liked this film, but the energy and raw power brought forth is admirable. Certain audiences should see it (not children, not the weak-stomached), but they need to be forewarned of how rough things get. Director Fernando Meirelles puts the camera literally into the action (think 'Saving Private Ryan' in Brazil) and doesn't allow you to view the horrors from a safe distance.So why am I reserved about this film? Violence in movies doesn't usually bother me. Maybe it's that I found it difficult to relate to the characters. I have never experienced the squalor or pain they experience on a daily basis. And---I have to be honest---I had a hard time keeping everybody straight. Once the film gets going and it settles into the '70s time frame after jumping around a lot, that problem goes away. Still, I was supposed to be engaged from minute one and it took a little longer for me to get warmed up.The young, unknown cast is solid. They're not good enough to be etched in my memory, although Alice Braga (as Angelica) is one of the most beautiful girls I've seen in years. Since the actors are portraying biographical characters, they're already limited in what they can do. Meirelles rings genuine emotions from the legions of kids in this picture, who probably had a blast pretending to be a kill-crazy street gang.I think I'd get into the story and the characters more with a second viewing. But is it worth seeing again? Perhaps. I'd probably never enjoy it, though. There's something cynical going on here, a gloomier resolution than what's in similar subject matter (such as 'Boyz N The Hood'). That film is a tragedy, this one is a tragedy of such extreme proportions that you know nothing can save the people---especially the innocent---in the city of God. Judging by how popular the movie is with audiences worldwide, I'm in the minority here. All I can hope for is that this film illuminates this gangland mentality that we see in all downtrodden cities. If the film helps to correct that issue, it will indeed have served a valuable purpose. I recommend 'City Of God', just not very strongly.


                
I have seen some documentaries on how Brazilian police can storm homes with no warrants. And Brazilian shop-owners will pay to murder homeless children because they steal from them. The movie has an 8.7 of 10 rating on IMDb.com. This is an incredible rating, needless to say. I found the camera work far above the norm. The direction was good, but I felt they stole a bit from Lock Stock and Two Smoking Barrels. Also, the story has been done before...poor community, drug dealing, corrupt cops, etc. I think the movie could have rocked if it was 25 minutes shorter, the characters more descriptive and understanding. After viewing the movie, it's difficult for me to understand how it received such high ratings. I found this movie no where near the top 100. It has no place among the best. The photography alone should not justify an 8.7. The story was full of holes, and again, it had been told before in hundreds if not thousands of other cultures.


                
Perhaps expected too much before entering the cinema. Did not turn out as well as I thought it would. The story is told through the mouth of Rocket, a future photographer who grew up with the hoods in the slums of Rio de Janeiro. The narrative style is excellent, the best thing about the film. It throws several stories at the audience one at a time, all linked chronologically and eventually leading back to the opening scene of the show. It's pretty clever and well executed. The acting's top notch too, the hoods feels extremely real, right down to the little 'runt' who cried so painfully when he was shot in the foot. Without doubt, violence is the integral theme in this film. It shocks initially, but numbs you into submission as the film moves along. A friend commented that the only reason why the City of God is named as such is because the people living there get to see God very quickly. It seems inevitable for the boys to succumb to the world of drugs and crime. Admist all these violence it is really a miracle for the narrator to be able to live and tell his story and not get hit by a stray bullet in the frequent gang shootouts. Perhaps this is the fairytale aspect of the movie. The only person who escapes death is the one who has managed not to subscribe to the seemingly unavoidable world of crime. The film should have left a deeper impression in me, but yet it doesn't. I don't know why, but somehow my emotions are not stirred. Are we living in such comfort and are so remote from real violence that there is nothing for us to associate with?


                
It's always important for good movies to keep some mysteries, so that I enjoyed the time guessing why the issues happened through watching the movies.
Besides, villains got what they deserved after they committed crimes, and victims got the chance to revenge are the most exciting plots for sure.


                
*Spoiler Alert*City of God, the erratic and fast-paced thrill ride that is as violent as it is coming of age. With a cast of characters that seemed so organic and believable that you confuse the story for their day-to- day reality. Throughout the film, I marveled at the techniques that the director and cinematographer used to amplify their messages. The use of Zooms, Long shots, Split-screen, Freeze frame, slow-motion, and lighting, just to name a few. These techniques made the film extremely visually stimulating and engaging, which coincided with the dark and gritty subject matter. It also has music that is reoccurring to add an emphasis on the culture and to juxtapose with the environment. An environment where the people need "God" the most, meaning: A city of death and violence.A specific scene that encapsulates this film's tone, subject matter, and techniques is the "Lil Dice bathhouse scene." The bathhouse scene is so significant because of the direct combination of a child, sex, and murder. This scene emphasizes Lil Dice and his psychological development as a child, meaning he displays psychopathic tendencies. The scene also relies on technique to flesh out Lil Dice as dangerous, coupled with the narration to continue a string of narrative. The cinematography focuses on making the victims yelling out of focus (depth of field) to show a mental disregarding of life by Lil Dice. He then murders them, which leads to the mise en scène becoming emphasized. The lighting behind lil Dice is complete low-key, his figure completely disappears in the darkness (figuratively and literally). There is also a yellow-tinted lens used in the scene to set a glorification of killing.Overall, City of God, is an extremely layered film that is defiantly worth a watch. It is violent but also has a meaning of passion through the main character. I highly recommend this film as a developmental and cinematically engaging journey. The only problems I had were more about the narrative and the films approach in gimmicky story-telling (Rocket and his camera), it felt contrived in the way that Rocket was omniscient. 4/5
Planned and executed by the state government of Guanabara, the quarter of Cicade de Deus (City of God) was built in 1960 as part of a policy to remove all favelas (shanty towns; slums) in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. "We came to the City of God hoping to find paradise," reminisces Rocket, our narrator. "Many families were homeless due to flooding and acts of arson in the slums<U+0085> the big wigs in government didn't joke around. Homeless? Off to City of God!" Nowadays, Cicade de Deus is infamous as a high crime quarter, rife with social problems. "There was no electricity, paved streets or transportation. But for the powerful, our problems didn't matter. We were far too removed from the picture postcard image of Rio de Janeiro." Fernando Meirelles and Kátia Lund's acclaimed Brazilian film "City of God" dares to veer from this "postcard image" of Brazilian life, creating an intense and uncompromising glimpse at life in the violent and drug-infested slums at the heart of the city.The story, which spans the 1960s and 1970s, follows two parallel lives in the Cicade de Deus. Rocket is a quiet, honest boy who dreams of becoming a photographer. Whilst nobody in this city is truly innocent, Rocket perhaps comes closest. His father was a fishmonger, and the older brother he respects, Clipper, is a hood (short for hoodlum) who <U+0096> with two other close friends, Goose and Shaggy - forms the Tender Trio, who acquire their money through theft.The second child is Li'l Dice, who will later rise to be known as Li'l Zé. An ambitious young boy who often trails the Tender Trio, Li'l Dice attains his first experience of murder via a shockingly revelational flashback. Li'l Dice subsequently grows to become the dominant drug dealer in Cicade de Deus, after successfully eliminating most of his competition and taking over their businesses.Perhaps the first thing you'll notice about this film is that it is visually stunning. César Charlone's beautiful hand-held camera-work perfectly captures the beauty and horror of Cicade de Deus' chaotic everyday occurrences. Whilst sometimes you feel that the camera darts all over the place unnecessarily, this also offers the film a documentary-like feel, brutally reminding you that this is based on a true story.'City of God' is an unapologetically intense film, and it certainly is not for the faint of heart. The overwhelming combination of violence, drugs and rape (and the very idea that children as young as ten or so were taking part in all of this) made me nauseous at times, and I would be lying if I said that I enjoyed watching this movie. It was a rewarding experience, and I'm glad that I did watch it, but I can't say it was fun. In fact, I felt quite depressed afterwards. Yes, I suppose this just isn't my sort of movie. For what it's worth, I much preferred watching Fernando Meirelles' follow-up film, 'The Constant Gardener' (2005).


                
Very tough movie portraying the lives of kids/teenagers in one of Rio's favelas. What I liked most about the movie is the way in which it is told, through the eyes of one of the kids who manages to escape the harsh reality of the favela. I also like the flashback following the opening scene in which a group of kids tries to catch an escaped rooster. The freeze-frame shots are very nice as well. It is a very fast paced movie and sometimes it is hard to keep track of all that is happening especially because the movie covers a couple of decades. I saw this movie after visiting Rocinha in Rio the week before. I did not realize until after having seen the movie that Seu Jorge plays the role of Mane Galinha. He makes beautiful music these days and one of his quotes is really frightening "The other actors were ... curious. They wanted to know if the favelas are really like that. I said unfortunately they're much worse."


                
This film is really good. In spite of that I believe that but the attractive thing that it has is the terrible reality of the people who live in fabela. The terror that inspires a place to us like that. It is very difficult to escape to that terror and that feeling is the one that dominates the film throughout. It gives fear us, scares the reality to us, because we, as much as you readers we lived in a bubble, in a privileged world, where we have everything , or at least all our basic necessities within reach of our hands. Then we see films like these, that they show another reality to us and we were scared, and we are thankful to have the sufficient thing to live and to be able to give our pleasures us. This film is documentary an extraordinary one on the misery of the world, misery that we deal ed with not watching to be able to live peacefully.


                
I first heard of this on a countdown show, then we watched most of it in Film Studies as part of some coursework, and ultimately I found it listed in the book 100 Movies You Must See Before You Die, so I was glad to watch the whole thing, from Oscar nominated director Fernando Meirelles (The Constant Gardener). Basically the story takes place in a slum of Rio De Janeiro, Brazil, and we see the lives of two boys as they grow up in two decades and choose two different paths in life. Zé Pequeno - 'Li'l Zé', formally knows as Dadinho - 'Li'l Dice' (Douglas Silva) as a child, grew up surrounded by and embracing crime and violence. His best friend Bené Criança - 'Benny' (Phellipe Haagensen) (Michel De Souza Gomes as a child) growing up on the good and more sane side of the law, and not trying to get involved with the activities of The Tender Trio or any other gang culture. The story of the two decades, and from his own perspective as well, is seen through the eyes and narrated by Buscapé - 'Rocket' (Alexandre Rodrigues) (Luis Otávio as a child), a young man who has the ambition to become a professional photographer, e.g. for a newspaper. The 1970's and 1980's see the crime rate and gang culture rule most of the slum city, but Rocket tries to stay away from it, only being drawn into the madness by his photography, which prove very lucrative. Also starring Matheus Nachtergaele as Sandro Cenoura - 'Carrot', Jonathan Haagensen as Cabeleira - 'Shaggy', Seu Jorge as Mané Galinha - 'Knockout Ned', Jefechander Suplino as Alicate - 'Clipper', Emerson Gomes as Barbantinho - 'Stringy' and Renato De Souza as Marreco - 'Goose'. The non-professional actors and the characters they play are all intriguing in their own ways, the story I did find difficult to follow in small moments, but overall it is like another GoodFellas style concept, where one of the characters anyway wanted to be a gangster since they were young, and it certainly has eye catching visuals of violence and torture, and it has a good dark tone style, it is a crime thriller to be seen. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Cinematography, Best Editing and Best Writing, Adapted Screenplay, it won the BAFTA for Best Editing, and it was nominated for Best Film not in the English Language, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Foreign Language Film. It was number 3 on Film 4's 50 Films To See Before You Die. Very good!
City of God is a very violent, moving, and heartbreaking movie about gangs in the slums of Rio De Janeiro.This movie details how crime affects the people who live in the slums of Rio De Janeiro. Rocket has witnessed violence by both gangs and he wants out of it but he finds that he can't escape.This movie does a great job with making itself look violent. I think that the main reason why this movie is so hard to watch is because most of the violence is happening to kids. It can be hard to watch so many kids brutally die off so young in their lives. Slumdog Millionaire did this too but I think that this movie did it better because it displayed violence more brutally with greater buildup involved.The different backstories are all entertaining. They are violent, well-written, heartbreaking, and even a bit funny every now and then. They show us how all the tales are all connected to each other. This movie is non-linear because of that.Nowadays, it's hard to find a good child actor but many of the actors in this movie carried the movie with expertise. Most of them were unknown too which made their acting performances even more unexpectedly good.This movie gives nods to Quentin Tarantino by featuring techniques such as time-jumping, freeze-framing, and texts. It drew inspiration from Pulp Fiction and Goodfellas but this is original in its own way. It has its own techniques which it featured throughout the film.In conclusion, this is a very well-done film. It's violent and it also has great characters and backstories. This isn't for people who are sensitive but it will appeal to you if you like violence in movies.


                
What I taught from this movie is that you need to believe in yourself and your success whatever the circumstances are. You may be surrounded by criminals and killers in a village where few got out, you may be called a loser and weak but as soon as you know it, you are an overall winner because you followed your dreams and actually made something of your life. Karma is unforgiving for the bad but it rewards the good in any which way. It's something everybody underestimates. As a European, I find it completely incomprehensible that people live this way. I judged them the complete movie and it's really hard to watch all of those lives get wasted for actually nothing but I guess it's something me and my culture (in general) can't realize. I found a connection with Rocket. He was a guy which was aside most of the time, has some friends but no enemies. I believe many innocent people like him get killed in favelas, which is frustrating, but surely you have much more chance in succeeding than gangsters and drug dealers. Anyway, an inspiring story, it was easy to watch as well even though a lot of people were involved in it.


                
I don't know how to begin. It's one of those films you can't explain easily to anyone else but yourself. Then you have to, yes you have to watch City of God just once in your life.It's a different kind of cinema. Different than your regular average shoot 'em up. Sure it doesn't offer that kind of vibe at first. But if you see through the whole movie, you won't regret it, just have to stay focused on the on screen stuffs.If I ever learn Portuguese, it would be to watch this movie again. It's kind of shame that I had to keep reading the subtitles, when the real deal was not in it. Don't want to perform any further autopsy on this decent and entertaining piece of art.Final Verdict: 9.0/10. A super powerful slap across the face of Hollywood, where you can witness about 10 failures to create a realistic and gun fighting film every year.


                
City of God is certainly one of the most exceptional foreign language films in movie history! The movie excels in every level. The captivating camera shots make a truly fascinating cinematography. Editing was brilliantly done with some Pulp Fiction influence added into it. No single actor's performance particularly outshine the most, but the ensemble performance, from the street kids to the crime masterminds, is remarkably convincing! The screenwriter made the story so suspenseful, bold and daring, that you would not want to miss a single scene. And the truly best aspect of the movie is its ingenious film making. Watch out for the "apartment scene" where the genius director shows how one small apartment drastically transforms as its inhabitants change through the years.I would not recommend the film though to people with a weak stomach. I must admit that watching this film was pretty difficult to me because i have no experience of residing in the slums or what other people calls "the ghetto." Everything might come extremely shocking if you are not aware of the reality drug trades and gang wars. There are very graphic violent scenes so watch it at your own risk.I would recommend it though to people who wants to see something honest, bold and dare. It is one of the, or probably the, most brutally honest film you will ever see! What this film achieved is boldness, directness, and honest filmmaking at its finest!
"City of God" is about making your own way really! No matter in which conditions you're living in the life you lead is not always conglomeration of what you've lived always but it's something you pick and choose in a life you lead. The more you have power to direct yourself, to choose for yourself, the more decisive and decided you are the more successful you will be. Of course the society always shapes people and it's not the linchpin for your destiny. The movie is such a story. While Rocket dreams of being a photographer and makes his way into that dream Lil Ze is a hoodlum who satisfies his thirst for murder, who plunders and who desire more and more power. City of God is totally realistic! I am impressed by the fact that most of the actors in the film had never acted before and were, in fact, residents of favelas(slums)such as Vidigal and the "City of God" itself. The setting and the time fiction seems totally realistic too.If you wanna a realist piece of story do not forgo watching until the end!


                
I had never heard of "City of God' until two years after it's release. It's a masterpiece. This is definitely excellent film making. The story is very well told and explained about youth gang wars in Brazil. This movie is based entirely on fact and doesn't sugar coat any of the grisly or horrific details. It's fascinating to see that this was seen and filmed through the eyes of one who wanted to go straight laced and avoid being drawn by the gang wars lair. These kids are practically all teenagers from 16 to 19 years of age. They are armed, street wise, crime savvy and drug addicts. The narrative is quite clear without ever getting abundant. Some scenes are done in the hyper fast forward motion to illustrate a typical day for these kids whether discussing drugs in the slums, having sex, or getting shot and beaten. This movie is like the South American version of "Boyz in the Hood", only better and more true.


                
This movie gives a hash look Into the lives of the slums in Brazil. A great story that is hard to watch because they are only kids.


                
City of God is a heartbreaking yet eye-opening look at how children grow up quickly or, unfortunately, not at all in the slums of Brazil. At many points during the film it is comparable to seeing the violent coverage on television news programs about happens daily in the city of Chicago. 
I found it hard to watch this film at many points because of the sheer brutality because it involved younger children. I feel that as a nation we are often desensitized to violence due to various video games, television shows, movies, and real life. However, it is a different story when the violence revolves around younger children. 
An important aspect of the story that I found moving was the fact that this film is based off of true events. The main character, Alexandre Rodrigues, actually lived in the location where the film takes place. 
One issue I have with the film is the fact that I found it difficult to focus on the movie and the characters while also needing to pay close attention to the subtitles. This film requires your full attention at all times. While it is obvious that this is a minor problem, it is still important to take into account before watching. 
One aspect of the film that I enjoyed was the sequence of scenes where we learned how the small apartment had been used by the different gang leaders and how it had changed hands over time. 
The audience is encouraged to root for Rocket as he tries to escape his dangerous slum. City of God is an important and raw re-telling of Rocket's experiences growing up and his journey to escape the seemingly unavoidable fate of those of live among him.
Based on the notorious slums of Rio de Janeiro, City of God is an ironic film (due to the title and narrative) depicting the many struggles of violence that the kids have to live through day in and day out. The film goes through a full circle, scenes being shown back and forth between the past and future years. The persistent use of flashbacks certainly catch the viewers' attention in an extremely dynamic way. The main character, Rocket, narrates as himself experiencing the constant violence and vulgarity that is represented so meticulously. Rocket and his friends do not have a typical upbringing as most children - instead, they are consistently surrounded by vicious criminals who take pleasure in raping and murdering their victims. Lil' Dice and other hoodlums represent how the society views men in the film. Power is essential to these appalling individuals, and it is clear that they will do whatever they need to obtain the highest amount of control over the weaklings in the city. Despite the struggles of his upbringing in the City Of God, Rocket wants to be successful and make something out of his substandard life. His passion for photography is very well demonstrated throughout the film. The characterization of not only Rocket and his peers, but the criminals in the film as well, undoubtedly keeps the viewers on their toes constantly. The action is so relentless that it can be difficult to keep one's eyes away from the screen for even a moment. Being based in the 1960's, it is only fair to say that the editing of City Of God is subpar, however this is what makes the film so very compelling and it would not be as engaging if it was presented in a different way.
City of God is a beautiful telling of the story about Brazil's citizens, a photographer, and those who wanted to be the Lords in the City of God. It starts with a beautiful scene with people enjoying a party and making chicken. It is shot so that the humans seem almost savage and the audience beings to sympathize with the chicken that seems to know what is going on. In one sweeping move the chicken seems to out-think the humans and escapes. This is not done as most vegetarian commercials would, the audience does not empathize with the chicken, instead it flips the script and out maneuvers the humans, until it leads them to where they meet the main character. This movie does more showing than telling; in this instance, it shows the villain through the action-filled cinematography. The movie begins at this point, but this point is actually the end of the movie. Little motifs like this let the story come full circle without seeming repetitive. When a scene is first shown it tells one side of the story and when it comes back it shows you the other side, bringing the scene full circle. That means that the mise-en-scene has to be done perfectly, otherwise the scene is first shown it would expose too much. 
Another fascinating aspect is that the movie's narrator is not in every scene, however he narrates the whole movie. Letting other people's points of view be shown allows the audience to learn more about the movie without having to be told every detail, and this is done though the fact that the narrator does not reveal all aspects of the story. Similarly to these motifs I also do not want to give too much away; I believe you should see this movie because it takes a basic story line and does not end the way you may expect. Based on a true story this movie is too good to pass up.


                
City of God is a beautiful telling of the story about Brazil's citizens, a photographer, and those who wanted to be the Lords in the City of God. It starts with a beautiful scene with people enjoying a party and making chicken. It is shot so that the humans seem almost savage and the audience beings to sympathize with the chicken that seems to know what is going on. In one sweeping move the chicken seems to out-think the humans and escapes. This is not done as most vegetarian commercials would, the audience does not empathize with the chicken, instead it flips the script and out maneuvers the humans, until it leads them to where they meet the main character. This movie does more showing than telling; in this instance, it shows the villain through the action-filled cinematography. The movie begins at this point, but this point is actually the end of the movie. Little motifs like this let the story come full circle without seeming repetitive. When a scene is first shown it tells one side of the story and when it comes back it shows you the other side, bringing the scene full circle. That means that the mise-en-scene has to be done perfectly, otherwise the scene is first shown it would expose too much. 
Another fascinating aspect is that the movie's narrator is not in every scene, however he narrates the whole movie. Letting other people's points of view be shown allows the audience to learn more about the movie without having to be told every detail, and this is done though the fact that the narrator does not reveal all aspects of the story. Similarly to these motifs I also do not want to give too much away; I believe you should see this movie because it takes a basic story line and does not end the way you may expect. Based on a true story this movie is too good to pass up.


                
