I agree with the other positive reviews here. I just saw this again after 15 years - still far exceeds anything made today when it comes to struggles of troubled youth in urban slums plagued by drugs and violence. So raw. So shocking to the system. Highly recommended!


                
City of God, co-directed by Fernando Meirelles and Katia Lund, is a gripping tale about life in the slums, or favelas, of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. In particular, the film follows the story of a boy named Rocket, who is determined to not become a street hood like most young boys his age, and instead become a photographer. Another main character the film chronicles is Lil' Ze, a determined youth with the end goal of taking over all of the illegal drug operations and other activities in the favela.The Brazilian favela is perhaps one of the worst examples of slums in the world. Criminals run rampant, and there is a feeling of lawlessness and apathy from the government towards the areas. As Rocket (who also serves as narrator in the movie, when need be) clearly explains the situation in the opening minutes of the movie: "We came to the city of god hoping to find paradise. Many families were homeless due to flooding, and acts of arson in the slums. The big wigs in government didn't joke around. Homeless? Off to City of God! There was no electricity, paved streets or transportation. But for the rich and powerful, our problems didn't matter. We were too far removed from the picture perfect postcard image of Rio de Janeiro." The directors capture this feeling almost perfectly. Meirelles and Lund take an extremely objective view towards life in the favelas, not playing favorites or trying to draw sympathy for those who live there. The only compassion one feels for the characters is of their human emotions, like Knockout Ned's family being killed, or Rocket losing the girl of his dreams. The main goal of the directors is to report on the conditions and lives of those who live in the favelas, rather than editorialize. There are no scenes of comparison between the favelas and the nice tourist sections of Rio, scenes that would normally be added to draw sympathy from the audience. Based on information known about the favelas, City of God paints an extremely accurate and telling picture of these slums, and even gives greater detail than what they teach in the history books. For example, the story of the runts was interesting and surprising to see that children get caught up in the hood-life so early.Aside from its historical context and importance, City of God is a great piece of cinema. The actors, mostly non-professionals (in fact, the only star really is Seu Jorge, a famous Brazilian samba artist who made his acting debut in the movie, and has since gone on to have a minor role in 2004's The Life Aquatic With Steve Zissou), are extremely believable as their characters, giving the movie almost a documentary feel. The cinematography is also stellar. Many scenes appear almost washed out, and very vintage with high contrast, creating a gritty visual landscape. The screenplay of City of God itself has also spoken beyond the Portuguese language barrier. The film has a cult status among college students and those in the know. Many see it as the 21st century's first stellar gang-wars type movie, a la Scarface or Goodfellas.Overall, City of God is an amazing movie. It has even had effects beyond the screen, provoking the Brazilian government to make social reforms in the favelas after the public became more aware of the conditions through the movie. It is rare for a film these days to have this sort of far reaching effect. I give it a 9 out of 10, only because I felt like it could have been shortened by about twenty minutes or so..
There are many films that don't live up to the hype they are afforded, particularly modern day films. 'City of God', directed by Fernando Meirelles is not one of them. From the moment the film began until halfway through the closing credits, my eyes did not leave the television once. Based on a true story, 'City of God' spans two decades and is about rival street gangs in the town Cidade de Deus (City of God), just outside of Rio de Janeiro. The city is one where the government sends the 'unwanted' residents of Rio, so most of the inhabitants are homeless, criminal and/or dirt poor. The story is told through the eyes of Rocket, a young boy who manages to stay on the outer fringe of the gangs, befriending some of the hoods, but not participating. What he discovers he wants to do is become a photojournalist, and begins to take photographs of his neighborhood. When he is in his late teens/early twenties, he goes to work delivering newspapers, when one of his photographs of the slum gang boss is discovered and published without his permission, putting his life in danger, but beginning his professional career.There are so many reasons why 'City of God' is compelling, but besides its stylish and flashy cinematography and brutally realistic script, the pacing of the film is unrelenting. Not one time did I check the clock to see how far along we were in the film, even though I was on a time constraint. From start to finish, Meirelles gives us a solid yet exciting film. Of course, since I had no idea it was based on real events, 'City of God' became that much more intriguing, especially when, during the closing credits we see actual news footage of some of the primary characters, and we can see how closely the film mirrored actual events.With a film like 'City of God' it is nearly impossible to convey why it is an excellent film because it is just seamless and well done in so many ways.All I can do is recommend the film to pretty much anyone who is looking for a good story and a great presentation. See this film. Now. 9/10--Shelly


                
Probably the best movie that the Portuguese language has ever seen. The way that Fernando Meirelles used to capture and describe the harsh reality of Brazilian slums and, via a special embodiment , was able to transpire the difficulty that young people have to disconnect from the criminal environment surrounding them and all the corruption and urban warfare that exists in Brazil today .Fantastic cast, could not have been better chosen .Maybe if this movie was spoken in English language, it might have been further recognized.Congratulations to all involved and keep up the good work to producers and director.


                
When I say "horrible" I am referring to the vileness of the characters and terrible images in the film. Technically speaking, this is a great film--with some of the most amazing and innovative cinematography I have ever seen. The stories are interwoven very well and the film seems so very real. It is so unfortunate at the film's conclusion you find out that although these are actors, the story itself is true. It's just so hard to imagine living in this hell on Earth in Rio. After seeing this film, there's no way I am ever visiting Brazil!! I'm sure many viewers feel the same way due to the absolute brutality of their slums where the police do little to interfere with gangs who run it.FYI--there's an excellent and sobering documentary on the Criterion DVD of this movie about the drug problem in Rio in the present day. However, it and the film itself are very intense and bloody so I would not allow kids or even teens to view the film. It's really a shame, as most of the way through the documentary I realized it would be a great thing to show my high school world history class. But, the sight of a room full of naked teens with their penises a-dangling changed my mind!


                
This movie does not take any prisoners. Although I have not been into any "favella" (= ghetto) and I don't really know if the movie depicts it realistically, I do know that it is a gripping story. About kids growing up in a violent environment. Not that this movie is an action movie. It's a drama, with action scenes in it.The style and the look remind you a little bit of a documentary, just to make things scarier/real. It fully achieves it's goal. The "actors" (the director mostly used people who really live or lived in Brazilian ghetto) are superb too. And since the story is well written and told, there is nothing more you could wish for. Of course if watch it in it's original version and don't speak Portuguese, than you will have to read the subtitles ... but it's more than worth it (and I personally prefer it that way)


                
Long before have I seen movies being overly praised but were not worth the hype and time and vice versa for the rest. It's been like that for a few years already.But now finally, I can see a film that's pretty close to perfection and one that everyone has been right about for four years already. This is the story of Rocket and Ze, one who becomes the most notorious criminal and dealer in the "City of God" and the other who tries to make a hard, honest living while tasting the temptation that is drugs, sex, and vengeance.The movie portrays the "City" as a land of corruption but at the same time undeniably beautiful to look at. Through the cracked walls and deteriorated letterheads from decade old paint, there lies an incredible and breath-taking city. Through a style similar to Tony Scott's Man on Fire, Fernando Meirelles and Kátia Lund portray the city in a "grunge-shine" point of view, with a realistic shaky camera (complete with zoom ins and outs) to enhance the city and its inhabitants. Its use of colors and interesting angles throughout the entire film (with a few creative shots tucked in) gave it an edgy look that makes it near impossible to turn away from. The visual imagery I thought was incredible...but not the only reason to like the film.The story is surprisingly well-thought out. Before you know it, twists are implemented here and there, which I think is fantastic. The best films, to me, let you soak into the atmosphere and characters and while you gaze and become fascinated with them, *BOOM*! The writers secretly add in a few flashbacks and interesting twists and slam them into the picture, which prevent you from guessing beforehand on what's about to happen. And how can you? The movie captures you and absorbs you, making you feel that you're apart of the "City". While I wish certain characters, like Angelica, were emphasized as much as all the other characters, overall what you get is definitely worth the price of admission.The characters themselves are pretty memorable. We have Rocket the photographer, Benny the stylish dealer, Ze the notorious bad guy, Knockout the good guy gone vengeful, and the little Runts. We have a whole lot of other characters as well, but these are the main characters we focus on. Through clever and interesting flashbacks, we get to know each of those characters more and find out more about events that have happened in the beginning of the film. As we near the end, the piece of the puzzles come together, the evil are finally punished, and the story is finally told. Poetic justice involving Ze, Knockout, and the Runts is especially evident near the end. Its pretty sad, yet fulfilling.Top #20 material? Maybe. It has the goods and it delivers. But while it entertains, it didn't impact me immensely or have any catchphrases and whatnot. But for what I saw, it was a good film. One that should be viewed by all. I would recommend this to anyone who's even remotely interested in film, gang life, or stories about coming together in the face of destiny in general.
City of God (2002)A broiling, gruesome, vivid, unforgiving submersion in the drug and crime world of a Rio de Janeiro barrio. You want to just say wow wow wow, it's so violent and awful, and yet the filming and acting, wow again, it's virtuosic and artful. On that most visceral level, there is no faulting a film with this kind of cinematic integrity.Questions start to rise by the last hour, however. In terms of the subject, you wonder, could it be so? Is life so apparently run by children with guns? Where are the older thugs, where are all the kids who aren't criminals, on and on? You come to realize this is a hugely partial view. That's okay, for sure--it's a movie--but it then draws attention to its own need for violence. You will never see so many people ruthlessly, heartlessly, even laughingly murdered, point blank, by children, on and on and on. This makes the movie awesome and awful, both. As a narrative story, it needs, it demands, greater complexity, and maybe, even if it's basically fiction, greater truth.On this level, the movie begins to depend on its energy to succeed. It has energy to spare, for sure, both in the acting, and in the camera-work, both of which are nothing short of unbelievable. But there is a lack, oddly enough with all these "types" of young men and boys, of actual "character." Where is some sense of the psychology behind so many of these people. Yes, the mood, the interactions, the scenes taken whole, the groups and even the confrontations leading (usually) to murder, all are filled with human depth. But the individuals seem largely to be types of people, not digging into their motivations and their inner states of mine. Maybe that's asking too much.I've seen the movie twice now, and twice I got anxious half way through because it was mostly kinetics and film-making on crack. And it really is astonishing stuff. But as with Slumdog Millionaire, the fractured and imaginative mise-en-scenes would mean so much more with deeper understanding of the human elements involved.A masterpiece, with some large chinks in its armor.


                
City of God is based on the true events of a young man growing up watching everything around him is destroyed. Families are changed and friendships are destroyed so that each character can escape the ghetto that consumes his life.City of God captures innocence lost at an early age and spans two decades in Rio de Janerio. The movie tackles the hardships of living in poverty, a situation in which the only way out for many is to fight and steal. City of God has two main characters: Rocket and Lil Ze; the movie uses these characters to show that there are different ways to escape the ghetto. Rocket uses his brain and an eye for a great photograph. Lil Ze takes a completely different approach to escape, using muscle and weaponry to take over the drug trade in Rio.Bráulio Mantovani does an amazing job of making each character three-dimensional. Each character is built with personality and attitude. There is black and white, good and evil. The movie shows the events that each character has gone through to come to a decision point that could change his life from that day on.City of God borrows a lot of the ideas and techniques from American films. The gangster motif is something that has been done in the United States for over eighty years. Drawing from modern American hits like Goodfellas and Casino, City of God takes over-the-top characters and puts them in adverse situations. A common theme in these movies is the obsession with money and what to do with it when you have it. A big difference between City of God and its American counterparts is how real the violence seems. There is nothing to glorify the killings that take place in City of God.Another American movie that City of God pulls from is Citizen Kane. Just as in Citizen Kane, flashbacks are used to reveal the story and develop characters. In Citizen Kane, the technique is used to show what kind of man Mr. Kane was. In City of God it is used by the screenwriter and director to develop characters in a limited amount of time.City of God has it all: a great story line that fosters the development of all the characters, the struggle to overcome one's past, and the battle between good and evil.


                
Wow,really good movie. The action of the movie is placed in the rough hoods in Rio and presents the hard life there or how the narrator says:"City of Gods has nothing to do with the Rio De Janeiro you see in postcards" It has everything-love,war,revenge,crime,funny.The movie can be seen in two opposite ways- of the child who wants to escape from the rough world and of the rest of the children from there who think the only place to make something in life is there. The actors match very well with the story ,also the director Fernando Mirelles done a very good job. In conclusion this movie deserve his spot in the top of the best movies ever made.


                
One of my favorite movies. I can be very short about this film. Never has a movie evoked so many emotions in such a short period of time from me. From raw excitement during some scenes to sadness in others. The story is very well presented, with realistic characters. The good guys aren't 100% good, nor are the bad guys 100% bad. For me, every character had at least one thing I could relate to, even Zedje. Some may consider the film to be too violent, but I think the violence is needed to realistically portrait the hard life in the City of God, or any other slum where drug cartels are present. A well shot and edited film, with uplifting music, an evoking story an ensemble of characters, uplifting music. What more could one wish for in a movie?


                
This is what fine cinema is all about: motivational, probing and ultimately thought-provoking. This film scrutinizes the gang lifestyle in the Rio suburb of the film's namesake, City Of God, and along the way, captures the audience with its strong performances. This is one of the most influential and beautiful pieces of film-making one will ever see. This is a film that stays with you long after viewing it. Truly a benchmark in modern cinema, proving that the cinema of today still has hope. One of the greatest films, if not the best, of the '00s. If you only watch one foreign film in your lifetime, make this it. 9 out of 10.


                
I knew nothing about this film before I actually saw it. Considering it was one of the first foreign films I had ever seen I was shocked that I enjoyed it that much. The acting is brilliant, the story is delightful and very understandable. Everything has been put together and made a compelling finish. The camera work helps the film to be so gratifying especially for someone who does not understand the language the film is made in. Every angle tells a different story so you never draw your eyes away for a split second as the film captivates you that much you do not want to a miss a single shot. The director has admirably captured the idea of the poverty, crime, drugs and violence and throughout that you follow Rocket (the one ounce of hope of escapism from the favelas). Considering I had never really enjoyed a foreign film before I would say this was a great one to see and I found it very satisfying and would definitely watch it again.


                
One thing is for certain, City of God didn't back down on the shock value. From the random killing of children to the more organized gang violence, City of God is more of a testament to the failures of capitalism rather than a failure of law and order. Either way, the film was a stunning depiction of a world no one really gets to see. This is a world you don't see in the tourist guides or in the movies.What was especially incredible about this film was the dirtiness and authenticity. Instead of making this film on some back lot or recreated set, this film was actually made in the slums of Rio. In fact, the slums themselves become a major character in the film, illustrating how disgusting this world truly was. Adding even more authenticity was the use of non-professional actors. While many critics have panned films that have used this paradigm for acting, the lack of false reality made for a rather well acted film.Years from now, this will be considered one of he best foreign films to hail from anywhere, and it is time to take some notice.


                
I thought Godfather,Goodfellas were the best gangster movies ever made.This movie was comparable and at places even better than Goodfellas.But considering Goodfellas was released 13 years before Cidade de deus puts Goodfellas in a different league altogether.Cidade de deus has awesome cinematography ( Cesar Charlone - Oscar nominated ),totally offbeat editing ( Daniel Rezende - Oscar nominated ),scintillating screenplay (Braulio Montavani - Oscar nominated ) and some good direction.The audio was in Portuguese but the subtitles were pretty good to follow the movie.The movie is styled similar to pulp fiction since the answers are given first and questions asked later in almost all the anachronous sub-plots ( like chapters in pulp).The movie is narrated by Rocket,a journalist who takes just a minor role in the movie ( btw. this is a true story).The story is set in 60's Rio de Janiero and revolves around a ghetto.Its very powerful and disturbing with kids carrying guns and robbing motels, shooting to kill,sniffing n selling drugs.Its somewhat reminded me of Black Hawk Down but this is a war amidst drug lords unlike the war in BHD. "I sniff,I steam,I kill.I'm man" uttered by a 12 year old speaks of the way the kids of the ghetto use their pistols as toys. Overall, a beautiful masterpiece that will take you on a time travel to the 60's Rio.


                
City of god tells a story of "Rocket a slum boy who wants to be photographer,but caught up in a war between rival gang in the city of god"Its been a long time for me to watch this movie,since theres so much good praise about it and sitting on a 100 top imdb list,and im not disapointed, City of god its unique and well written story based on real story that happens in Brazil with the exact same location in the City of God . I watch some of the clip before watching this movie,i watch the clip in youtube where Lil Z confront this kid and then shoot their feet,back when i watch it i didnt know the story or the context of whats going on and it makes me feel sorry for the kid and it feels so unreal watch it back then,but when i watch the movie now i kind feel different ,like less sorry for the kids after knwoning what they do, anyway back to the review,the cinematography is something else its zhame they didnt won oscar for it,the acting is on spot .Its amazing movie def gonna see it for a second time.
This movie was intense. It keeps you on the edge of your seat, waiting to see what's going to happen next. I wouldn't recommend letting your children watch it, but for mature adults - it's a very entertaining flick.


                
Incredible Incredible Incredible Incredible
Incredible Incredible Incredible Incredible
Incredible Incredible Incredible Incredible


                
In the Film City of God, Directors, Fernando Meirelles and Katia Lund, do an excellent job conveying the story of a young boy who lives in a favela known as the City of God. They show his story growing up in poverty and the pursuit of his dream of being a photographer. With use of excellent motifs and stunning order of events this Film earns two thumbs up in my book.
 One motif that stood out to me during the screening of the film was the relation of Good and Evil. Many times, throughout the film, characters reference the idea of "Love and peace". In reality, this idea was stretched most times to being evil. Even many Characters who lived peacefully, found their downfall by facing evil head on. 
 Another thing I found spectacular in the Film was the order the story was shown in. The opening scene of the movie was the most important and actually serves as the climax of the film. The opening scene also conveys a series of flashbacks (or even flashbacks inside of flashbacks) in which story is described and narrated. Throughout this description, we learn about all the characters and their importance to that final scene. It was an interesting and powerful way to convey the story nonetheless.
 In short, the Film City of God is a must see for anyone who enjoys strong storyline where little is left to the imagination. In the Span of a couple hours, you will laugh, be sad, and even be heartbroken. I Recommend the film to everyone to see!


                
I am a big fan of this foreign film, because it's nice to see directors having a different point of view then the classic Hollywood film. It's a fast pace movie with subtitles, but worth the watch. City of God is the epitome of a great foreign film. It showcases the classic struggle between right and wrong, in a twist of lifestyle differences. The raw directing style, coupled with a great soundtrack makes for a movie which many different kinds of people can enjoy. Whether you are a top scholar or someone just wanting to watch a film this movie is for both. The continuity of editing helped the movie flow. Also, the vicious cycle of the gangster lifestyle is portrayed with cringing accuracy. The many close up of characters help you sympathize with people you thought you wouldn't be able to. All in all, City of God is a very well done film which you can find yourself relating to a whole different lifestyle.


                
Superb editing, and Fernando Meirelles splashy direction made this movie visually stunning, and this was necessary. Because without being so, City of God wouldn't have been the easiest hard-to-watch movie to be watched! I know that sounds weird, but I'm not kidding this movie is so disturbing and shocking, but its vibrant visual style made it impossible to look away from.Like the visuals and colors, the soundtrack is so vivid and dynamic to mirror the vicious cycle of violence in the eponymous city, and the slums of Rio de Janiero.That being said, City of God's exhilarating visuals and soundtrack aren't the only, nor even the main two reasons that made it unbelievably engrossing. As what really dazzled me the most this masterpiece is its narrative control. Considering the fact that this movie has this abundance of characters, which all of them are almost equally important, and a non-linear storytelling, it's beyond belief that I haven't felt lost even for a moment. Instead, I found myself caring for each of the main characters for equal measure. Every time our protagonist, Rocket mentions one of the new important characters while narrating the story, I start getting worried a bit because I think this would harm the narrative thread of the story, and make it lose its balance a bit. But every time I ended up being totally wrong till I eventually said to myself: "More characters, please!" By the way, the use of voice-over narration in this movie is exceptional!Every single character is as grounded as its compelling and throughly interesting. And they are brought to life by some of the most authentic, honest, and uncompromising performances I've ever seen in film. All the non-pros actors delivered downright terrific performances that I really can't single hand one of them.The only issue I've with City of God is its first fast-paced 20 minutes. Putting aside the magnificent opening scene, everything in the rest of the first fifty to twenty minutes happens very quickly that kept me from being engaged from the start.Powerful, visceral, uncompromising, yet honest, Cidade de Deus is a Latin masterpiece, and easily one of the this century's best movies, so far. I really regret not seeing it till recently, it's a MUST-SEE!(9/10)


                
This film is amazing. City of God tells the true story of a young Brazilian boy growing up in Rio debJaneiro and his attempts to avoid the local gangs. The best thing about this film is the direction. At the very start of the film we are thrown into the frenzy of Rocket and from then on the entire film moves at a non stop pace. It is breathtaking. Some of the scenes are very shocking which helps to portray a true image of this boys tough life. The flashback scenes also work very well, such as The Story of the Apartment.This film is also a technichal achievement. The cinematography and background sounds help to capture the shocking scenes in almost a horrifying manner. The actors all do a very good job too, considering their lack of experience. In general, this is an excellently paced film with a brilliant plot. Truly wonderful.


                
Such a hyper stylised film might be a turn off for some but personally the breakneck pace of the film is amazing in telling such a detailed story and also keeping things light hearted in what's quite frankly a bleak existence for our protagonist 'Rocket'. An extremely enjoyable film the twist of sorts at the end is very pleasant


                
This is a movie about young people who live in the guts of Rio de Jeneiro. It starts with a scene where a gang of children chase a running chicken and suddenly flashbacks to 60s to set up the background for the main theme. After that, more than 90% of the movie are dedicated to laying the ground work for the opening scene, which is indeed the overture of the finale and a substantial amount of mental effort is needed to piece together the events which unfold at a very fast pace and involve a lot of characters. Despite its patchy storytelling style with full of flashbacks, the movie is coherent without any plot holes. Although a good deal of the actors are recruited amateurs from the favela the acting is pretty good and director's portrayal of the gang leader Ze Pequeno is uncompromising. The movie's fast tempo and action packed scenes doesn't leave any room for character development but this doesn't really stick out. Viewing more than once will probably be needed to grasp the whole story with its details.


                
Great Picture. I believe the true lure of this movie is that, it shows the dystopic underworld that can come to pass when seemingly normal people has no espace from poverty. The decisions that come after, consciously made by these normal people can be very obtuse and because it shows us ourselves in this kind of light and getting you lured into the picture, it does it's job of truly telling a epic story. Doesn't get enough credit.


                
