I'm forced to say I just didn't "get" or enjoy Rebecca at all. I'm sorry.Our male hero alternates between making his love interest cry and heckling her for trying to please him. He proposes by mentioning it in a flippant and sort of insulting manner from the next room. Our female hero tries so hard to please everyone that she's constantly excusing herself and breaking down.Sure, people like this exist in the real world. But this is not a Leaving Las Vegas story of crippled people... it's portrayed as a true love story. I find it sickening. These days, we look up to strong women, and we certainly don't want people (of any gender) constantly saying thing that are mean.To add on top of this, I didn't feel any chemistry between the characters... declaring their love felt quite sudden, I didn't feel any real chemistry about the hero's angst about his dead wife... the whole film just seemed contrived. The scenes where the heroine isn't quite ready for rich living become repetitive, like beating a dead horse. It would feel preachy if only there were some message to preach. Finally, I'm sorry to say it, but cinematography and things like color have been in films for a long time now.This film left me even more confused than Chasing Amy and I couldn't get all the way through it. I can see from other people's reviews that a murder mystery eventually surfaces. But hey, I did get an hour into the film without a hint of tension so I guess that all happens later. I'm forced to give it a 3 out of 10.


                
I still have no idea why people like this movie so much.  The acting is poor, particularly that of Olivier.  He comes across as overacting terribly. Miss Fontaine fares better.  She, at least, gives us a decent performance. Anderson is completely not to be believed.  The music is so overdone it makes you wonder what they were thinking by putting it in there so much. This movie is just waiting to be parodied (as it has been).  And then there's the ending when this turns into a movie in search of an editor. Every time you think it might be over it goes on for ten more minutes. Then, is it over?  No, it just rambles on and on until you want to strangle whoever is playing that awful music.  It should be noted that this movie has more of Selznick in it than Hitchcock.  After making this film Hitch began to try and get every other studio in Hollywood to hire him out so he wouldn't have to work with Selznick again.  He even makes fun of Selznick with smug jokes in later movies.  I can see why.  If somebody took my movie and put in that music and let it ramble on forever I'd be mad at them, too. There is a good idea for a film in here somewhere, but this isn't it.  I hope all the people who voted this the best picture of 1940 were given a nice padded cell.  I was planning to write more, but just thinking about this movie is making me cringe, so I'll just stop.  If you like good movies, see many other Hitchcock classics, but leave this one on the shelf.


                
This film is pretty much a disgrace to the book. It has terrible dialogue, music, and is very, very boring, not even in such a way that leaves you to hope for a climax, or some kind of abstract moral or psychological meaning, but in a way that makes you claw out your eyes with frustration that a movie can be so terrible.It is baffling to think that this won an Oscar, and just because you have a pretty face doesn't mean you make a movie good. And I'll add that the character of the 2nd Mrs. DeWinter is supposed to be dreadfully boring because she is supposed to be of no consequence at all. What a terrible letdown after reading the book.The only thing gloomy about the movie is that it actually exists.


                
I'm not much of a book reader but I LOVED the book and was very excited in school to watch this movie... then right from the beginning I was severely disappointed. The characters didn't reflect the writers picture of what they should have looked like and the acting was way over dramatized. It seems in many cases Hollywood ruins movies for the readers of the original books points of view. Was the acting good in this movie? Yes Was the directing good? Sort of... Was the casting correct and true to the story? NO I never understood why this movie was so popular... probably because most of it's viewers hadn't ever read the book before and since Hollywood loves to change things to make them "better" people didn't notice. If you want to see an amazingly accurate version of this wonderful book, watch the version from 1997 by Masterpiece Theatre staring Charles Dance as Maxim and Emilia Fox as Mrs. de Winter. The casting was PERFECT as was the acting. All the characters fit especially Mrs. de Winter who is supposed to be a little quiet mousy thing of a girl, very naive, who isn't all about glamor like the Mrs. de Winter depicted in the original film, who looked more like Rebecca than the character she was cast to play.


                
Rebecca, a movie from 1940 directed by Alfred Hitchcock; starts of being told by a narrator from a dark gloomy outside setting. It quickly changes to the indoors of a wealthy home. A wealthy woman, Mrs. Van Hopper has a young lady that tends to her needs and young lady takes a liking to Maxim played by Laurence Olivier. They start spending a lot of secretive time together and they fall in love. Mrs. Van Hopper continually reminds her that Maxim had a wife named Rebecca Van Hopper's daughter is getting married in New York and she must leave Maxim. Maxim wants her to marry him and not go to New York but to go to Manderley with him.The new Mrs. De Winter is treated differently by everyone in Manderley because Maxim's first wife, Rebecca still has an impact on everyone there. Mrs. Danvers, the main housekeeper doesn't take a liking to her because she loved Rebecca. It's hard for her to adjust because everyone compares the old Mrs. deWinter to the new Mrs. deWinter. The new Mrs. deWinter is forbidden from going to certain places within the area. From the beginning of the movie I couldn't figure out what the young lady's name actually was. Only after her marriage to Maxim was she referred to as Mrs. deWinter. Clues are given throughout the beginning of the death of Rebecca but the lady never asks directly what happened.Through the curiosity of the new Mrs. deWinter, she accesses areas of the house that are considered sanctuaries for Rebecca. Mrs. Danvers torments her by showing her all the important things to the late Rebecca.The new Mrs. deWinter instructs Mrs. Danvers to get rid of all of Rebecca's writing. She suggests a costume ball to Maxim and he agrees. Mrs. deWinters dresses as Rebecca in the portrait and Maxim is mortified. She wasn't aware that it was Rebecca in the picture. Mrs. Danvers suggested she wear it knowing he wouldn't approve.Maxim tells Mrs. deWinter that Rebecca's shadow has been in between them. Maxim knew Rebecca's body was the whole time because he put it there. He killed Rebecca and was living with the guilt. During the court proceedings due to the new findings of the case of Rebecca's death. The new Mrs. deWinter faints during the proceedings. The investigator finds a note from Rebecca and claims Rebecca was murdered by Maxim because she was pregnant and it wasn't his. They visit the doctor finds out she was not pregnant but actually was sick with cancer. Both men were devastated.The camera angle at the end of the movie expresses that Mrs. Danvers died to be with Rebecca. Her infatuation with her drove her to her own death.
