Many people like this movie, maybe they do have their reasons .. well, I like Kubrick and he is one of the greatest directors but this movie is the black sheep in his career. It is too violent and too disgusting; no wonder it was banned in the USA and other countries. I didn't even like Malcolm McDowell performance which was an OK at its best. I wouldn't say this movie is thoughtless but it is less thoughtful than most of Kubrick's movies .. to be honest the music was wonderful especially Beethoven's, there is good cinematography and there is some sign of brilliance in the picture, I mean visually but unfortunately all of that didn't do the movie any good.. in short, the movie is horrible and it celebrates the violence .. I wouldn't recommend the movie to anybody even my enemy(s) .. so, save your time and money .. do yourself a favor and skip it. Mark my words: you wouldn't miss much.


                
People say that this film is somehow amazing. To me it is far more about image and very light on any content. I am all for the freedom to depict unpleasant acts where appropriate and where it has some purpose to it, but I don't see any point to the vast majority of this film. The whole thing seems to be designed to appeal to base instincts through violence and sex without ever making any valid or thought provoking points about either these or any other issue. I realise it is in the top 250 list but personally I feel this film owes more to its notoriety (people thinking it was banned despite the fact it was actually willingly withdrawn by Kubrick in certain countries) than to any real merit in the film. The characters seem to me to have very little real depth and the film is just a series of scenes designed to shock and court controversy. This probably won't be a popular review but I just don't see that this film in itself justifies its position in the polls.


                
Usually, before watching any movie I look up IMDb to see its rating and viewers' comments on it. I did the same before seeing the Clockwork Orange. It said, mostly, yes, violence, yes, the main hero's a monster, but what a masterpiece! It seemed to deserve its place in the first 50 in the IMDb rating... Then I watched the film. And I believe it is one of the most disgusting films I ever saw. It is no doubt intended to be full of hidden significance, the grotesque manner in which characters speaks, move, dress, live. This is supposed to be "new and frighteningly surrealistic", a "sharp, futuristic social satire". The viewer is probably supposed to be saturated with disgust to the point that he/she realizes, oh my God, that's us! That's the worst part of a person in modern society, bla-bla-bla. Suppose, however, that you don't go along with this idea. What do you see then? You see an empty film. It is filled with violence that serves to get the oh-so-new idea of a social satire through. Because, you see, without it the viewer won't understand. He won't understand the idea of mixing English with misused and twisted Russian words. He won't understand that the Music line is supposed to be thought-provoking and not just stupid: ah, Beethoven and the Nazi, Beauty and the Beast, whatever. This film is two wasted hours of your life. After having watched it, you get the awful feeling you've been taken for an idiot. One way to deal with the situation is try to look thoughtful and say, "hmm, so new, so sharp". Another way is throw the DVD into the waste bin and try to forget you've ever watched it.


                
Yes a give it a flat out 1. 1 has (awful) next to it and that is what this movie is in every way.So many people just love this film. If you are considering watching it be prepared for violence without conscience, gang rapes, dialog you will not understand, more violence without conscience, more gang rapes (with all the men clothed and of course the woman nude and trying to fight for her life) which is very disturbing. Basically a group of guys that live with utter hate for everything, hang out and some twisted bar where all the coffee tables are statues of nude women spread and ready for sex.There is not one individual in this movie that has any redeeming qualities of a decent human being whatsoever. The main villain gets caught and is submitted to experimental techniques to help him detest or fear ever doing crime again.This film was such an utter waste of a few hours. Many more will probably want to watch this film to see what the hype is all about.This movie is filth, drizzle, swill.. get my point?Kubrick loves hate and violence, loves the overuse of sex.So many people think he was a genius, and that this film was a masterpiece. I have just come to the conclusion that there are some people out there, well many, that cannot get enough violence, acts of hatred, acts of defiance, acts that are shocking. What empty lives these people must have. Then they try find how deep this movie is and the various deep meanings. THERE AREN'T ANY. It is a mess. Chaos. A bunch of characters with no redeeming qualities.Kubrick believed mankind was born violent and hateful. To each their own.Very simply put, this movie is sick, twisted, hateful, disgusting, and people love it. What a shame.
I tend to enjoy movies that make me think or feel something. This did neither. It doesn't really fit sci-fi, or horror, or much of any other genre at all.I've read up on peoples' takes on the show--I simply didn't enjoy it; nor did I think there was anything at all revolutionary or novel about it. It was one of those films I watched while constantly checking the time wondering when it would end. But I soldiered on because so many people consider this seminal. I needn't have bothered.Far too long, ridiculous narrative, over-the-top characterization. Nothing was interesting, nothing was shocking, and there seemed to be no coherent plot at all.This one simply isn't for me.


                
A Clockwork Orange was done in really poor taste. I was looking forward to this, everyone was raving about it. The worst thing about it is that you remember certain bits of awfulness for ages and ages afterwards. The movie has nothing (I really mean it). Every thing about the movie is slow. It simply suck. One of the worst pointless movies I have ever seen. I fail to see why this movie seems to be regarded as fresh and groundbreaking. I must be honest and tell that I had a hard time just staying awake, thanks to dull characters and dark photography. The final 20min though do get better with a little suspense but by this time do we really care about what happens in the end? There are no fitting words to aptly describe how truly horrendous this crap was. I saw a commercial advertising this movie--- and that's when the laughter started. Just the commercial alone was enough to make me almost pee my pants laughing. This movie is so empty and vacuous it's hard even to comment. 90% of this film consists of people standing around talking, a lot of it shot outdoors in such darkness that you can't see much of anything. I was recommended this film by a friend who went on to tell me how "brilliant" and "fantastic" it was. Yeah, right. This is one of the worst adaptations of a book to ever be seen on film. I find it ironic that a film considered by some as 'stylish' is devoid of suspense, or any kind of visual flair... The directorial style seems to be simply point the camera and shoot. If you care one iota about plot, consistent and or logical character motivation, and pacing, avoid this never-ending series of outrageous vignettes masquerading as a movie. The idea of the movie is not bad in fact, but extremely bad acting and just simply horrible realization overcomes any possible good. I was desperate to watch a movie that day ... I didn't have anything else to watch ... but I preferred to stop in the middle and go stare at the wall. I about fell over laughing while reading the previous review!! Clearly a family member of the director, a cast member or the director himself wrote that overly detailed ALL HYPE review! In short-- DON'T WASTE YOUR HARD EARNED MONEY ON PIECE OF CRAP MOVIES LIKE THIS ONE! DON'T be fooled by the HYPE MACHINE reviews!!!
This is the most god awful, disgusting movie I have ever seen. The fact that so many people think its brilliant or amazing is very insightful and informative for me. It tells me that there are a lot more sick and twisted people out there and it makes me doubly glad that I'm not afraid to look out for me and my own. The only message this story has is that it's great to be a criminal, there is no justice in the world and that's acceptable for humankind. For those of you who say its just art, I call bulls**t. I love art. I know the difference between great art and one sick mans indulgence. This is more of a look into the minds of others and it's creators. And it is very unsettling. I guess bandwagons are more popular than I thought.


                
Someone needed to tape my eyes open just so I didn't fall asleep during this movie. If I could give this movie zero stars, I would, no let me take that back, if I could give this movie negative stars I would. The crux of the story is really a question, does being good count if you didn't choose to be good out of your own free will? Everything is quite blunt to the point of literally being stated. Everything is done to the extreme to emphasize the question. You can't just be kind of bad here, you have to be a raving psychotic killer and rapist, no nuance. The simplicity combined with the pacing made the movie quite boring. The question at the center of the movie also didn't fully sing since it is being asked about a psychopath - to me it didn't matter if his motivation for being good is the right one or if his free will has been taken away because his free will should be taken away by the prison system. He shouldn't be allowed back into society. And even what should be the purpose of prison isn't really explored, is it rehabilitation, punishment, or sequestering those unfit to live in society? The question at the heart of the movie would have been more interesting if it were asked about someone who is good only out of fear of say the law or God. Let me add, I know this is a book but I haven't read it. Even without this next complaint, I didn't think the movie was good. This is why I would give it negative stars. What I really hated was how the violence towards women was presented. The rape scenes are quite graphic with out conveying the gravity of situation. They had too much of a light feel and the movie seemed to not just enjoy them at times but revel in them. The first rape scene of a woman just being tossed around as a group of men tear her clothes off verged on comical when it should have been repulsive. I just felt that rape was too serious an issue to be treated so lightly. Not to mention those horrible mannequins (which I could have lived with and maybe even appreciated if the actual women in the movie weren't also just props)? Being a morality play, women are only present as an object of violence. Edit: If you think I'm seeing something that isn't there, Kubrick said how Alex, the main character, "represents the id, the savage repressed side of our nature which guiltlessly enjoys the pleasures of rape."
The tale of a violent man (a boy in the book) and societies attempt to reform him.Never before has so much junk been written about a low budget movie that fails on so many fronts. You can read quite a bit of this cheap sociologist gobbledegook  in the reviews that surround this one - in case you doubt my word!Let us start with a few facts for a change: The film was made on the ultra cheap. Look at the lack of extras or expensive sets (all filming took place in real locations). Look at the cheap TV lighting. Look at the amount of hand held camera work. Warner Brothers didn't really want to make this movie, but Kubrick told them it would make pots of money and that won them over - in this he was right!(To quote a Clash lyric: "They wear smart suits. And think it's funny. Turning rebellion in to money...")Alex is living in a society we don't really see (in the movie at least). So how can we judge "society values?" Is Alex a one-off or common?  This is a society that sells penis-shaped ice-lollies to children so it must be a bit sick in the head, but no attempt is made to give the movie on-the-ground context.Set in the future is it? Well it is a future that looks a lot like the year it was made right down to the trousers and haircuts. Maybe the future looks a lot like 1972!I look for films to do two main things: To educate or to entertain. Clockwork Orange does neither. Many scenes are quite revolting - and bizarrely they are even found revolting by some of the  people who rate the movie highly!I went to a rough house school that housed real football hooligans, rapists and sociopaths. Let me tell you now, they didn't like classical music or have the ability to explain their actions in clear language to anybody. Several were too stupid to even form sentences.Having experienced/suffered the real thing why would I prefer to listen to the version of a highly protected/highly privileged  middle class man (Kubrick) who - in success - chose to live his life behind barbed wire, protected by big dogs and shotguns?
I can stand rape and violence if it has a point to it, but here it doesn't. I am not surprised the original "rape victim" quit the movie, who would want to be portrayed on screen like that? Being held down and stripped, while someone with a bad comb-across tries to worm a hand held camera between your legs? I don't attack Anthony Burgess's book (which I have read) because I think that is a valid exercise in literature. Not that it is that good or that original. Even AB admitted that the use of slang was borrowed from elsewhere.I hate this film and the reasons that it was made. I also hate the people that make excuses for them. They should all be ashamed of themselves. Avoid at all costs.


                
I watched this film on its original release, I also watched it a few days ago, I was hoping that with age it may have appealed to me more, but unfortunately it failed to hold my attention now, just as it failed to hold my attention way back then. The director has chosen to use graphic sex and violence to gloss over a bad script, feeble plot and mediocre acting. This film is remembered today for all of the wrong reasons. If looking at full frontal nudity is your thing, or unrealistic violence turns you on, then this film would probably appeal, but if you like a movie to entertain or to be thought provoking, I should give it a miss.


                
What is the message? There is a lot of symbolism in here but it does not add up to anything. This movie is great technically it does not really fill this major void of what the message is. Is it to show how bad we are as people? I'm not to into that and pretty sure plenty of other people are like that too. This does not seem to be it either. I'm fine with negative movies just not this one. It makes you feel so horrible and use you get the feeling of what was the point of watching this movie in the first place.The writing is good along with the cinematography which is great giving you the feeling of the chaos we call life. The music is very fitting and the directing is great with every scene showing something different. Kubick is the best in history at disguising a movie as a masterpiece, he has a long track record of it. Even the acting is pretty good at showing the insane world and characters. Malcom Macdowell is just perfect in here.Still this is not enough for me. In order for a movie to be good it has to have some sort of a message. This movie seems to fail horribly at it. This is why we watch movies, to get something out of it. None of these great technical achievements really matter because of this. In order for the technical parts of a movie matter it needs to represent something and that does happen a lot except it does not add up to anything. This makes this movie very shallow rather that deep. What I can credit it for is that it does probably the best job of disguising itself as deep when there is really not much there. This movie feels as if Kubrick is just tying to just impress once again rather than deliver something meaningful.


                
I truly don't understand why so many people hold this piece of crap in such high regard. I think the premise of the film is o.k. and there is enough material there to really make a quality film, but what was presented, is virtually unwatchable. Here we are shown, what is supposed to be violent street hooligans, but what I saw was wimpy looking, makeup wearing, nerds who dress in matching jumpsuits and sing show tunes while committing violent acts. What am I missing? For me to admire such a piece of art, I would have to find this believable and I certainly don't. Even if I were tripping on acid, I wouldn't find this movie believable or enjoyable.


                
In my opinion, this movie is a painful mess and has wasted my time.But I am unlike most people, I don't see the point in a lot of mainstream things. For example I dislike football as it over glorifies aggression and division. I don't like drama TV series as they just suck you dry and fill you with anxiety. Basically I don't enjoy things that suck my intellect and compassion.So if you have already had all your intellect and compassion sucked out of you by this aggressive insensitive world, like most people, you will be tricked into thinking this movie has something clever to offer as it merely harmonizes with the dark insecure feelings you already own.I also dislike how the scenes in this movie are so abstract in order to shock you but then leave you questioning the meaning, good movies should leave you with a strong message, or a powerful sensation of mystery... unlike the dull confusion this film left me with.


                
Imagine a movie where you're asked to identify with a pedophile, sympathize with him, even. Suppose that the whole film was mostly graphic scenes of beating and raping children..the sadist is singing during the torture.What's wrong? Having trouble with that idea? Good. So am I.Any point the film attempts to make gets drowned out with nothing but violence from beginning to end. Oh, but the film is about so much more, like the "controversial" theme, which asks you to focus on the bizarre idea that some psychopath losing his freedom to choose for himself is much more oppressive than the torture he's inflicted on his victims, who have lost a far more profound sense of freedom? Having trouble seeing such a movie as "art"? It's okay if the victims are adult women, though, right? Or how about a film where we argue over the rights of a KKK criminal who "accidentally" killed someone? Do you get it now? Know anyone who thinks criminals should be allowed to continue their violence because it's uh..free will, man? There is no such thing as absolute free will in any society anyway.This film was like any other exploitative film. It's all been done before.


                
What a waste of time! I don't know what was more frustrating, a ridiculous plot that made little sense and seemed to go nowhere tortuously slow, the difficult-to-understand cockney accents, or the retarded cinematography. Yikes! How can this movie be in the IMDB top 250? Be forewarned, this movie SUCKS! There is a scene in the movie where a woman is bludgeoned with a large ceramic statue of a penis, and at the end, I felt as if I'd been similarly beat. I would bet that Stanley Kubrick probably smoked a phallic shaped crack vile for the inspiration to make this movie...nothing else makes sense! It oughta come with sub-titles, and while they're at it, make another movie.


                
Well, I like countless others was swept in to watching this supposed Classic by the reviews and the acclaim, however one thing struck me as odd, why did Roger Ebert give this film a bad review? Well I had to find out. I started watching the film with uncertainty and was initially haunted by its opening theme when the title flashed on screen. The opening scene, as the camera zoomed outwards, tingled my dislike for the film, the nudity of the female statues. I thought to myself, well this was expected, but as I watched on, due to the violent scenes, including the fight with the other gang and the rape of the writers wife; I started to feel an extreme revulsion towards the film and switched the screen off. Then I thought to myself, it might get better, so I continued. But it only got worse. My 1 star out of 10 review for this film is because any director, even Stanley Kubrick, who seeks to glorify violence and nudity will never stay in my good books. On top of this grotesque and dirty scenery, violence and nudity was coupled with the mesmerizing music of perhaps the greatest composer to have ever lived, Ludwig Van Beethoven. This was where I put my foot down, for, as Alex says, when he is being tortured with Beethoven's music by being showed violence with it, that it is sin. Stanley Kubrick has committed sin and the writer of the book is absolutely demented. Instead of this film, another one that portrays the oppressive nature of governments, systems and organisations that attempt to control our choices; and leave us without the freedom to choose, 'One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest' should be watched because without nudity and extremely less violence it conveys its message. And the book was written and published the same year as Clockwork. This film(Orange) is a complete and utter failure and those who like it only prove that like Alex they also have a taste for the old ultra violence.
If you who read this are one of those who hated this movie, I really feel your pain. If you are one of those who thinks this is a masterpiece, then you don't know what a good movie is. I have never seen a movie this bad ever in my entire life. The actors are really, really bad - and even though the main character plays a villain, he seems more like a sissy retarded wimp. All I can remember from this so called "movie" is pain... I suffered through it all the time. I would rather get whipped 100 times than watch this horrible piece of s**t ever again. People ONLY love it because of it's satire of society, which makes no sense. For someone who knows how you actually make a movie, this is a joke. I can actually tell you about the ONLY time I watched it - it was when I was studying the art of film making. In class, the teacher told us we should watch it. Afterwards, our teacher said she actually likes the movie (like most people unfortunately do), but still, she told us this is NOT HOW YOU MAKE A MOVIE. That says it all. And just for the record - this is the only movie that have actually managed to make me feel like a brainless weirdo who should go and bite my hands off, while I dance like a idiot.


                
I had heard about this movie for many years so I finally decided to watch and am embarrassed that I even spent any time watching this junk, which so many 'enlightened types' apparently think is art - or according to some articles that I read. Let's suppose for a minute that the protagonist was a female and little 'Jane' spent her nights sodomizing and castrating unsuspecting males, drawn to her beauty. Janie is just a little party girl, you see, who loves to have fun - she doesn't realize how bad she really is. We are supposed to sympathize, you see. When the terrible government tries to reeducate her, we should mourn for her passing.... Uh...yeah. Bet that some who think this movie is just nifty would have a different view if tables were turned. Personally I have a hard time with any movie portraying graphic violence against women posing as a movie that is trying to portray society in a meaningful way. The sets may have been futuristic at the time, but just look dated now; the constant camera angle looking down at the menacing face, becomes tiresome very quickly. It's as if the movie tries too hard to convince us of its uniqueness or artfulness, if you will. What a waste of time and money.
I personally thought the film was not good at all, yes it was standard Kubrick, however I don't see how he became so famous. This film had a truly terrible storyline and the acting was dreadful. This film had no real highlights and when it offered them it made them to over the top and just really stupid. Malcolm was not frightening in any way, nor was this film. The direction of this film should have at least got somebody with talent when he chose the lead for this film. But quite frankly it would have been an insult to anybody to even offer them this part. What a truly disappointing experience of cinematic viewing. A true waste of two hours and seventeen minutes. This film is in the same league as Pulp Fiction, The Black Dahlia and The Last House on the Left, just a waste of time.
After reading the reviews of the 250+ opinions of this film I am reminded of the Emperor's Clothes... and after reviewing this film again I can clearly state he has none.  This film is Gratuitous in it's Violence of a Physical, Sexual and Mental type the 70's spawned.  Kubrick is NOT God he is a director who pushed the envelope with great success.  Best thing I can say about A Clockwork Orange is that its disturbing... the Worst is that it's an over rated waste of celluloid.


                
OK, so we all know it was bad. Violence for violence sake. Some folks bathe themselves in it. Some think themselves highly elite to watch rape and call it art. It's a poignant "social commentary on the state of affairs in America"..."a cinematic masterpiece". Please! Call it what it is: Awful, nonsensical, disgusting, gross, low-browed, unintelligent entertainment for the very weakest of minds in our society.They will call us dumb for not understanding the greatness of this film. I for one will wear that like a badge of honor.Kubrick seriously dropped the ball with this one.


                
Bad Story, Bad Behavior, Bad Scenes ... Usually, before watching any movie I look up IMDb to see its rating and viewers' comments on it. I did the same before seeing the Clockwork Orange. It said, mostly, yes, violence, yes, the main hero's a monster, but what a masterpiece! It seemed to deserve its place in the first 50 in the IMDb rating... Then I watched the film. And I believe it is one of the most disgusting films I ever saw. It is no doubt intended to be full of hidden significance, the grotesque manner in which characters speaks, move, dress, live. This is supposed to be "new and frighteningly surrealistic", a "sharp, futuristic social satire". The viewer is probably supposed to be saturated with disgust to the point that he/she realizes, oh my God, that's us! That's the worst part of a person in modern society. Suppose, however, that you don't go along with this idea. What do you see then? You see an empty film. It is filled with violence that serves to get the oh-so-new idea of a social satire through. Because, you see, without it the viewer won't understand. He won't understand the idea of mixing English with misused and twisted Russian words. He won't understand that the Music line is supposed to be thought-provoking and not just stupid: ah, Beethoven and the Nazi, Beauty and the Beast, whatever. This film is two wasted hours of your life. After having watched it, you get the awful feeling you've been taken for an idiot. One way to deal with the situation is try to look thoughtful and say, "hmm, so new, so sharp". Another way is throw the DVD into the waste bin and try to forget you've ever watched it.


                
Anthony Burgess wrote a wonderful novel. In fact, it is one of my favorites. This movie is such an awful misrepresentation of that book that I have to choke back vomit whenever it is mentioned. When I think of how this movie goes about representing the text, the word "rape" comes to mind. Haughty over-acting, obtuse direction, and an overwhelming sense of "we're smarter than you are," make this movie an abomination... not a classic.


                
I saw this when I was 15, and wasn't able to finish it. Just about nothing in this movie was necessary. It had no point. Just another hunk of junk that over-uses sex and violence to sell, with no real plot. At least if there was a redeeming plot, I didn't figure it out. Seriously bad enough to where I want to smack the crap out of people when they talk about how "Good" it was. Sorry, but you're probably brain-dead. I've literally heard so many good things about this film and I have wondered, "Did we watch the same movie?" And it's not that I don't like violent movies, because I do, but when it has a point to make. The writer/director seriously did just a horrid job at this "masterpiece". I will never watch it again.


                
This is without a doubt the worst Stanley Kubrick film I have ever seen. I am a big Kubrick fan, and amongst my favorite films of his are The Shinings, Full Metal Jacket and Barry Lyndon. Maybe the film is ruined already because I actually read the book first.One of the main reasons Kubrick totally missed the ball with this movie, is because he forgot to include the last chapter of the book. This is the chapter where Alex grows up and becomes a man. This is like watching The Usual Suspects, but then switching it off 5 minutes before the end - you lose the entire point of the whole film.Besides this major flub, the film is a poor rendition of the book. Like a lot of Kubrick films, it has a totally unrealistic feel to it. He composes the shots more like paintings than movie scenes - like in Barry Lyndon. People forget that Kubrick was initially a still photographer before he became a director, and I think it shows a lot in his work.When I read the book, the world that Alex and his droogs lived in did not seem anything like the "futuristic" world Kubrick presents (complete with 1972 VW Beetles and 70's styled trucks). Instead of ultra-violence, we see much more of ultra-cheese. Which idiot made up the idea that Dim should repeat every word everyone says? That didn't happen in the book.Kubrick has took the book and butchered it. Some reviews on here make it seem like Kubrick was the genius who came up with the concept, the idea for this great story. He just took a great story, snipped the ending, and made a rather silly movie that glorifies violence. I understand that this is a very "in" film to like, and there are probably many idiots who idol Alex and his droogs.Overall, very poor work from Kubrick. Verges on downright cheese at times. Especially the shots of Alex with fangs in his mouth for no apparent reason. I give it 1 star.
