It's hard to judge a film such as this. Its cold and hard, yet can be exhilarating and sarcastic. It can be average, yet it can be visionary. Exploitive? Satirical? Too many questions to consider when one watches this film.Even after 34 years, this film still speaks volumes about our current culture, which many ideals are ringing true today. The younger generations are out of control due to lack of parental control, junk culture is becoming commonplace, violence is desensitizing the masses, and we all seem to be enjoying the ride on the way down. It's very difficult to find movies which can make such startling commentary, yet hold on to such accusations for an extended period of time. Nowadays, films are focused-grouped to death, conformity is more powerful than artistry, and money is far more important than quality. Kubrick took a huge leap with this film, challenging society to take a hard look at itself. Unfortunately, society wasn't ready for this film, which is why it is revered now more than ever.


                
To say that the Alex character from Stanley Kubrick's "A Clockwork Orange" is unlikable is like saying the Manson family was sort of bad. He's not just unlikable; he's despicable, terrifying, sick, twisted, and ultimately a haunting embodiment of all our greatest realistic fears and worries. But Alex does not see himself as a sick person. The key to this is in his voice-over narrative.Alex does not see himself as a pervert, just as we do not see our own flaws and Ramond Babbitt did not see his own autism. To us, we are all normal, which is a scary thought."A Clockwork Orange," which was originally released in 1973 after an appeal for an R rating (that was granted after originally being tagged as an X-rated motion picture), had been banned from Britain for close to thirty years. Most film fans in Europe will tell you that they had seen the movie on grainy bootleg videotapes years ago when they were young and curious.But for those of us lucky enough to enjoy (or squirm through) "A Clockwork Orange" in its entire odd splendor, it is an experience you are likely to never forget. Its characters, its style, its subject matter, its explicit material--all of it combines to create a marvelous whole that will stay with you long after the credits stop rolling.Essentially a tale focused on Alex's journeys in jail and his process of being re-submitted to the world after inhumane treatments to cure the evil out of him, "A Clockwork Orange" is indeed as offbeat as its title.All tales of redemption involve characters that we gradually come to appreciate, or like, or--at the very least--learn to tolerate. Not "A Clockwork Orange." Our narrator remains the same throughout the movie, always an incarnation of everything wrong in today's modern world. He goes through no cleansing process and by the end of the film we like him less than we did at the beginning. That's daring.
Stanely Kubrick's "A Clockwork Orange" is one of the first movies that proved that cinema can be the most enlightening and amazing art form around. Movies have always been a true love for me, but it wasn't until this film challenged me that I fell deeply in love.  The first viewing left me speechless, unable to describe how weird and terrible I felt.  I thought it was the film that left me in this mood, so of course that was the easy target to blame.  It was just a bad movie, overrated and stupid and a waste of time.  But upon further thought, I realised the film did exactly what it was supposed to.  It showed how the world can be a weird and horrible place, and how this young man who goes around torturing people and being a wicked person ultimately doesn't have to pay for what he does.  And it's funny too. So this film brilliantly satirises this world, showcasing pure evil and people who ordinarily do not perform such evil are forced to laugh and observe what we all hate to admit is the truth.  It's sick, but at the same time brilliant.  And when one gets down to the core, you can't really explain it.  It just is what it is.  It's real.  No one really sees it very often, but it is out there and everyone knows.  And no one does anything about it.  In essence, "A Clockwork Orange" is the ultimate satire, and one of the ultimate film experiences.  It's art, it's life, and in a funky way, it's entertaining.
Stanley Kubrick has a way of telling stories about violence without actually exploiting them, or going into exaggeration. In DR STRANGELOVE, OR HOW I STOPPED WORRYING AND LEARNED TO LOVE THE BOMB violence as war was discussed, overheard, never truly seen until the final reel when a flurry of atomic bombs exploded into bright mushrooms as the song "We'll Meet Again" lovingly played in the background. In 2001: A SPACE ODYSSEY Hal-9000 terminates an entire crew in a most chilling way and all we see is a computer screen indicating the termination of life. Now, in A CLOCKWORK ORANGE, Kubrick actually brings a story about violence, and even then it is art directed within an inch of its life.Alex DeLarge is the leader of a band of 'droogs' who move from location to location terrorizing their victims, putting them under outrageous acts of violence. When two of his 'droogs' refuse to follow Alex's path of destruction, he turns on them and beats them, until an act of reversal turns against Alex and he is brought down by the medical industry who decides to "reform" his heretofore sociopathic tendencies. One he is cured, an interesting chain of humiliating events that bring Alex even farther down ensue: he is, for example, now attacked by his very ex-mates, now policemen, and his ex-victims. Sometimes the cure is far worse than the illness. Karma is a bitch.Kubrick has a particular way of visualizing his films. A CLOCKWORK ORANGE has a look and feel completely out of its time, closer to sometime in the future, and its torture sequence in which Alex is regenerated also looks straight out of a science fiction movie. However, this is not a science fiction film. It's actually quite difficult to categorize CLOCKWORK because it's something of a social satire, something of a drama, has comedic moments and deconstructs a musical for a horrifying rape sequence; however, its approach to the material gives it the feel of a hybrid out of time, out of place, but visually arresting and impossible to take for granted. It's this approach that makes the work the product of a master of direction -- it can be seen multiple times and every time a different perspective arises, and all one can be left with is with the notion that this is pure, ultra-modern cinema.
A disturbing but yet very beautiful piece of film-making, Kubrick has created the ultimate study of mind manipulation in this film. It is a protest against reform programs that take away freedom of a choice, and the message of the film in terms of paying for one's sins in all eternity is inescapable, evident to a large extent in the sardonic nature of the tale. Although set in the future, it hardly feels like it is, this being because the message of the film is overwhelmingly powerful and capable of applying to any age. The film has a number of possible hidden meanings to it <U+0096> a feat equaled on scale only by Kubrick's former film '2001: A Space Odyssey'. Besides for the meaning behind the film, there are still the marks of a masterpiece. Kubrick's direction is superb alongside the good photography, capturing shadows and angles needed to establish tone. The editing is excellent too, done in a flashy, brainwashing style at times to have relevance to the film. The choice of cast is again inspirational, however the film achieves the most in terms of music. Kubrick manages to use one of the earliest forms of art, classical music, and give it an unforgettable style and importance in the film. It is truly a difficult task to explain what is so great about a film such as 'A Clockwork Orange' <U+0096> it is maybe best explained by watching the film itself.


                
i just saw this movie about a day ago, and it completely blew me away, namely the main character, protagonist, hero? Alex. we love, hate, and or just plain utterly confused about how we feel of Alex. Alex is the greatest villain ever because he is ourselves, he is the worst of ourselves. hes the deep dark place inside you that rises to the surface eventually, and then pushed down just as fast because it terrifies you. the way Alex stares into the camera in the first scene just freaks me out, he has a little smirk on his face that seems to say you may hate me, but you'll never be rid of me, because there can never be good without the bad, and i am the bad.


                
A Clockwork Orange is the finest film that has ever been made, in my view. Stanley Kubrick has made so many masterpieces, and is by far the best director that ever graced our world. A Clockwork Orange is simply his finest hour!The film grabs you and glues you to your seat from start to finish. Malcolm McDowell gives us a shining example of superior acting, and the movie is as perverted as any of Kubrick's masterpieces (and then some!). It contains horrifying violence, extreme emotions, perversity and weirdness at it's very worst. It all boils down to serve you a plethora of thoughts for you to take with you and contemplate, after the film ends.However, with all the perversity bursting out of this film, you will probably NOT like this film the first time you see it. I know I didn't. Fortunately, I gave it a second chance, and thought: Hey, it was actually not bad at all. After the third time, I was lost for words.After the fourth time, there was little doubt in my mind, that this was the finest film ever made, and regardless of how many great masterpieces I see, A Clockwork Orange still towers above them. I'm sure you'll agree, if you give it the chance it deserves, although it may require for you to see it more than once.


                
A CLOCKWORK ORANGE (1971) ****Starring: Malcolm McDowell, Patrick Magee, Michael Bates, Warren Clarke, and Adrienne Corri Written and Directed by Stanley Kubrick   137 minutes    Rated R (for strong explicit sexual content and rape, perverse nudity, brutal violence, and some language)By Blake French:	Stanley Kubrick's "A Clockwork Orange" holds the recent record of being the number one film of all time on my charts. The film is everything that you'll never want to watch. The scenes are disturbing, gut wrenching, mind twisting, and way over the top. In result, "A  Clockwork Orange" has the most powerful and overwhelming dramatic impact that I have ever experienced in a mainstream film. 	"A Clockwork Orange" is the story of a young man named Alex DeLarge, who is, by day, a regular student who lives with his parents at home, but, by night, a homicidal rapist/killer with his accomplices who dress up like demented clowns at a bleak freak show. He and his buddies weasel their way into the happy homes housing innocent people by chanting the same deceiving phrase every night: they scream that their friend has been critically wounded in an accident near by--and plead to use their telephone to call for help.For a few unfortunate souls, this devious trick proves to be successful in nature. One night, however, a woman known as "The Cat Lady," refuses their plead, and calls the police in suspicion. Alex, being both smart and sneaky, somehow manages to break into this perverted woman's home, while his accomplices wait outside. Once indoors, a fight begins. A struggle featuring a sex toy owned by "Cat Lady," one that not only causes panicked arousal, but also is featured as the weapon of her graphic and disturbing murder. Alex quickly flees the scene once the police sirens reach his shaky ears, but when he gets back to his pal's waiting outside, they return their experiences with him by bashing him over the head with a hard object, allowing their jumbled escape, but his certain demise.
After the process of being sent to prison, Alex grows to learn to tell offices and guards what they like to hear. He reads the bible, is never involved with any major fights or complications, and almost volunteers for a new kind of experiment. An experiment so probationary it is still being tested and held under wraps. What it does, though a series of "sessions," is cure a violent individual from his sickness; he will feel terrible pain if involved in any sort of violence after the medicine takes place.The scenes involving the "cure" of Alex's disturbances are truly emotionally troublesome. They are so explicit and detailed that I myself felt tempted to look away from the screen at points. This is not a film for those who are prone to walk out of movies, those who are easily offended, or especially for those with week stomachs. This is the most grizzly enumerated film I have even screened, but it happens to be one of the most perfect and precise in message.  I definitely don't recommend the production to everyone, though. The soundtrack to "A Clockwork Orange" is one of the most inspirational and spirited ones I have ever heard; right up there with the turns to "The Graduate" (1967). Although the actual music is far from fitting each individual scene, the overall presence is not only worth listening to, but also worth the purchase price.Here, a young Malcolm McDowell explores the character of a lifetime with vivid imagination and tremendous description. His character fits him very well as an actor. Even though the character is meant to be despised, I couldn't help but to be very convinced and interested in his sick, demented, psychotic mind. Most of this is because of the flawless point of view the film contains, one that both provokes empathy and involvement. It investigates the mind of a killer, rapist, and a confused, somewhat harmless, adolescent--all existing in the same character. This is no doubt the character, and the performance, that inspired a generation.As well as being a movie of violent and sexual repulsion, Stanley Kubrick's direction to "A Clockwork Orange" also forces us to investigate deep down in ourselves and chew on the idea of us being in the character's shoes. There is a scene in this movie that forces two parents to make a decision of a lifetime. After receiving the treatments he volunteered for, Alex returns to his household only to discover that the only mom and dad he's even known have rented his old room out to some strange college kid, who is said to have been there for them during many hard times--like a real son. His parents must make a choice: to throw their only son, who has suffered for years in turn for making others suffer, out of the house for good, or allow him to return with open arms trusting that he is "cured." Well, dear reader, what would you do? Brought to you by Warner Bros.
This is just possibly the most "perfect" movie ever made. There is no meaningless dialog; not a single extraneous character; and every plot twist is rational and reasonable. Not to mention a superb soundtrack. Because of the intense violence, particularly against women, it is a disturbing and difficult film to sit through. But if you care about the cinema, you must watch without interruption! Characters get what they deserve...in the beginning and at the climax. Let Kubrick take you on the emotional rollercoaster of your cinematic life. And don't forget to breathe.
Without a doubt, my absolute favorite film of all time. I first saw this movie three years ago and I have been in love with it (and Stanley Kubrick) ever since. I never get tired of seeing this movie. Why it remains so underappreciated (at least by "casual" movie viewers) is beyond me. Everything is great; acting, direction, cinematography, the sets, everything. Something that I don't think anyone else commented on was the Russian motif. The names of the droogs (Alexander, George, Peter, and Dim...short for Dimitri) are decidedly Russian. The singer referenced in the record store, Johnny Zhivago, has obvious Russian overtones. The statement made by the Minister of the Interior about the "peace-loving citizens" is a direct reference to the name that Soviet government representatives applied to their people when talking about the Cold War. Red seems to stand out from other colors. And, of course, who could forget Nadsat, the Russian slang language? I wonder what Burgess and Kubrick were trying to suggest about the future of Ingsoc (those familiar with "1984" will understand)?


                
With the sudden death of Stanley Kubrick recently a part of my love for film died along with him as I recognized the unfortunate fact that there was no other director alive to closely heed the call for attention to detail and visceral content.  The thought of looking to Steven Spielberg for future answers was almost unbearable as I remembered that his originality often gives way to family fare (The Pinnochio finale of `Artificial Intelligence') in an attempt to pad his already overloaded wallet.  I thought about Sam Mendes and cringed as I remembered that for him art was a floating grocery bag with unclever teenagers clamoring around it in `American Beauty.'  No one could replace Stanley Kubrick and after the intitial tears I bought his boxed set and tried to make the best out of a bad situation.  And it was then that I rediscovered his greatest achievement `A Clockwork Orange.'What inspired me to watch `A Clockwork Orange' all those years ago was initially it's `X' rating.  I knew that mom would have a fit and I had to see why it was so provocative.  For the better part of the 1970's it was also banned furthering my desire to see it.  I was surprised by the `X' rating until I witnessed the hilarious in-out rape scenes and was somewhat amazed at the blatancy and sheer delight of the slow-motion pummeling of his droogies by the sweet looking but awfully scary Alex De Large (Malcolm McDowell).  Upon further viewing a new love and passion grew for the film until I became part of the passionate cult that remains inspired by `A Clockwork Orange' more than any other films on the AFI Top 100 of all time list.`A Clockwork Orange' was a very sad film for any lawmaker who adores social order and loathes freedom of speech in 1971.  The response of lawmakers who banned this critical statement on social order proved their fear by banning it almost immediately though it still managed an Academy Award nomination for Best Picture and Best Director and deservedly so.  Ironically, Kubrick's most original piece was a witty and insightful adaptation of the terrific Anthony Burgess novel.  I believe that Burgess would have loved what Kubrick did with it.  There were subtle changes and Alex ultimately failed to become a do-gooder in the film but it was all for the best.  You almost never like the movie more than the novel but this is a film where Kubrick works overtime to bring his imagination to the proceedings and the movie is better than the novel.With every Kubrick film comes the feeling of eating Turkish food.  As a principle Turkish food can be presented with a taste that is somewhat unedible.  More importantly is the idea of presentation and the experience requires elegance and an amazing contrast of color.  This as opposed to taste makes for quality food.  Similarly, Kubrick often shied away from telling a fundamentally coherent plot and concerned himself with the details of visual artistry.  `A Clockwork Orange' was his best effort on the silver screen because he was able to finally incorporate a fantastic story with the elegant presentation of color, a task that surely kept him at night as he tossed and turned searching for a perfect balance of the two.What truly makes this adaptation of the Burgess novel a success, is what Malcolm McDowell brings to the screen.  He is Alex De Large and you can't help but kind of adore his urgent needs for a little of the old ultra violence each night as he unexpectedly makes his house calls through the neighborhood and pounces on innocent women.  You also can't help but appreciate his interaction with his good old mom and dad as a tiny snicker forms when he insists on not being able to attend school and a sad but sweet look of confusion and sadness innocently appears as his parents introduce him to their replacement son and he finds himself homeless and in need of his droogies.  His interactions with his droogies are a delight as he goes from `singing in the rain' to a mad villain beating up the little groupies in slow-motion.  There is a sense of sadness as he ironically goes from being Beethoven's number one fan to a botched suicide that leaves him with broken limbs abounding but the same clever smile and good attitude.  The finale is quite possibly the best ever in cinema as sweet Alex cannot help but think of a little of the old in-out as the nurses attempt to curtail his ultra violent tendencies.  The slow smile that appears on his innocently despicable face is a sheer delight.  The incredible accent makes it all the better.`A Clockwork Orange' was a film that was so far ahead of it's time in 1971. The Kordova Milk Bar was a trendy little place we can only picture existing in the future.  The fascinating way that his crime was dealt with could be the wave of the future should the capital punishment issue cause too much disagreement.  In short, a little of the old ultra violence is what propelled this film to high rankings and what will eventually allow all of us to allow our children to see it, once their 18 of course.10/10
I haven't read the novel that this film is based upon, and I didn't know that much about it before I sat down to see it. I decided to see it after hearing pretty much nothing but praise for the film(in fact, the only negative comments I've ever heard about it is that it deviates too much from the original novel... which is something Kubrick was famous for) and because I immensely enjoyed The Shining and Kubrick's directorial style as seen in it. I must say, it's been quite a while since I saw something so full, spectacular, exhausting and powerful. From the very first frame to the very last... amazing. Kubrick's style is magnificent, his storytelling is among the best ever seen in cinema. With this film he truly captures the raw and pure qualities of violence. I don't think(well, I certainly don't hope) that anyone who ever has or ever will see this film confuses this as an ode or a tribute to violence... this is not, in any way, shape, or form glorifying violence or violent behavior. Quite the contrary, you might say. The film proves, once and for all, that violence spawns violence. Visually, the film is absolutely stunning. The angles, pans, tracking shots... fantastic work. The ideas presented in the film are more than enough to disturb and freak out any normal person... which is(at least part of) the point. If I mention the words 'eyes opened forcefully' you probably already know what I'm talking about, right? That famous sequence has been referenced, spoofed and talked about more times than just about any other visual impression in the history of cinema. The way everyone and everything turns at Alex after he's apparently cured... truly disturbing. I found a surprise at every change in scenery or even in immediate situation, especially in the latter part of the movie. The way society turns against Alex after he rejoins it, apparently a better man... one of the most 'true' and real cinematic truths ever told of humanity. We are beasts, we are what is commonly referred to as 'inhumane'... and Kubrick tells us this in a truly astonishing manner. The plot is very good. It deals with the main character of Alex, beautifully played by Malcolm McDowell, who loves 'a bit of the old ultra-violence'. He is incarcerated and offered a chance to be re-entered to society, after being 'cured' of his psychotic tendencies. The pacing is... well, hard to describe, really... it feels slow, the movie seems to move slowly... but it hardly drags at all. It's exhausting, not to mention hard to sit through, both due to the extreme content and the slowly moving plot, but it's all worth it. The point is pure genius. Pure Kubrick. The acting is flawless... and believe me, that is not a term I use lightly. Every single actor performs perfectly. The characters are perfectly written, credible in every scene and interesting. The cinematography is pure beauty... pure excellence. I've come to love Kubrick's visual style. His cuts of varying speed and intensity, his long takes when dealing with dialog... truly amazing. His use of music is astounding... the use of classical music is great and really adds to the ironic tone and the atmosphere, the mood of the film. This is truly a work of art, and an exhausting but truly worthwhile film. I haven't seen anything quite like it for a while... in fact, maybe I never have. I recommend this to any fan of Kubrick or intelligent theater. If you believe yourself to be perceptive and intelligent enough to understand the film on most or all of its levels(I don't claim to, not at all), or even on the most basic levels, such as theme and morale(which is what I understood of it) then you should, nay, then you *need* to see this film. Be prepared, though, it does contain quite a lot of disturbing themes and ideas, and is not in any way for the faint of heart. 10/10
It's funny, after you watch a film many times you begin to fall in love with it. This is true with a lot of films but for Clockwork Orange, I only had to watch it 2 subsequent times to fall in love with it. There are so many elements of this film that bring it together and make you totally enjoy the story. The music in the film is one such example, at times it's beautiful and at times dark and disturbing, setting the right tone for the scene. Technically this is a sci-fi film because it does take place in the future and there is the plot which involves brainwashing. When many people think of Stanley Kubrick, they think of 2001 and this film. It's because this film stands out as possibly the scariest image of the near future


                
Kubrick's's best film ever.absolutely mind-blowing.quite disturbing though but that's what moves us.he has amazingly blended the disturbing scenes with the lovely music of Beethoven.a riveting journey of a vicious young hoodlum in modern England who is caught due to the betrayal of his friends and his journey through aversion therapy that drives him to try and do himself in and his cure at last.i never thought i would understand and really appreciate this film but i did and i say that it is one of the best films of the century.Kubrick has excelled himself and i truly feel it is his best film ever.it also has an absolutely mind-blowing performance by young Malcolm Mcdowell as Alex,the best acting performance i have seen.


                
"A Clockwork Orange" is a one of a kind masterpiece. It's odd, intelligent, funny and sickening. Kubrick at his best!The opening sequence in the milk bar might very well be the best and most well known opening in cinema history. The movie manages to stay strong throughout the whole movie after the opening and only gets better and never weakens for a bit. Every minute is a pleasure to watch because the movie never gets predictable in anyway and the oddness level of the movie makes it so that it will be always a surprise what will happen next and how it will happen.Every scene is pure cinema brilliance. The cinematography, sets, costumes and music all contribute to this, they make the movie a true piece of art. But the true artist is Stanley Kubrick who deserves the most credit. There are countless memorable moments, in other words, watching this movie is an experience that you'll not easily forget.The violent sequences are sickening, twisted, odd but also funny at the same time. The way they are filmed are unique and very artistic. It's violence in its purest form, it's violence at its best. It gives us a view in the the extreme violent twisted mind of the main character and how he struggles against society and how society struggles against him. The story sounds more complicated then it truly is. The movie itself is easy to follow but it are the layers and deeper meanings that makes this movie not easy if not impossible to explain.In my experience it is always very hard to comment on a Kubrick movie mainly because his movies always have so many layers and deeper meanings than a single few hundred words comment can describe. It is best to just watch this movie and experience the brilliance of it that is not easy to describe or explain.In my opinion the best movie ever made.10/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
Clockwork Orange is definitely the most bizarre film I've ever seen. The whole idea of brainwashing a criminal to never do harm again in itself is genius. Stanley Kubrick amazes me with just the music he picked for the movie alone. I was hooked from the opening scene! But, I did find the movie rather disturbing at some points, with the violence and rapes. But the story just made me look past it, and concentrate on the movie. In my opinion, its one of the most brilliant pictures ever made. But, you really have to look past the things you might find disturbing, and just concentrate on the story.
Many people may say that Alex was the villain of "A Clockwork Orange", but he's only really evil for the 1st 3rd of the film, right? Well, who really is the villain? The people who punished Alex, the people who had their vengeance upon Alex? Or is it society, itself?To me, "A Clockwork Orange" is a film in which everyone is wrong, yet everyone is right. Everyone is guilty, yet everyone is innocent. It is a chilling, emotional, disturbing, and, sometimes, quite funny look into the evils of the world itself. Everyone is villainized by Kubrick's lens, from the criminals that rape and murder victims, to the punishers of these criminals, enforcing cruel, almost torture-like methods to "cure" these criminals, to those who were victims of these brutal criminals, having their revenge using more harsh techniques of brutality."A Clockwork Orange" is a film that got me thinking and feeling. A true must see, Kubrick is a master!


                
A masterpiece of a movie that contains one of the best introduction scenes in movie history and also one of the best ending scenes in movie history.
The satirical content is obvious.
The soundtrack is also a killer... especially the electronic synthetic music parts! Isn't that the darkest piece of music you've ever heard in a dystopian movie? Those synths sound so haunting and the psychedelic effects are awesome! No wonder it was a major influence for the early synth pop bands!


                
I can not express in words how artistic and captivating this film is. Almost 30 years old, and I only heard about it this year...that is such an embarrassing shame.  Stanley Kubrick did an exemplary job with this film, it is a jewel.  This movie is based on a book I have yet to read, but I will. I already have a fascination with the criminal mind, and this movie allows you to dive deep down into a true criminal's mind and be erotically frightened.*SPOILERS* First I must say that Malcolm McDowell was the absolute perfect choice to play Alex.  He was haunting, erotic, evil, and utterly bewildering.  You can see from the beginning, that even though his friends are also violent, he gets more of an erotic pleasure from feeding off of the fear of others and hurting them.  The use of Beethoven in this movie was genius and I personally love the Ninth.  The music he loved was shown as a corresponding parallel to his love for violence.  When he began to abhor the violence he so loved, he also began to hate the Ninth Symphony of Beethoven.  The movie is completely unpredictable, so you do not get anything you have seen before, even in this decade.  There are many movies about the criminal mind, but this one has to be the best.
This was first of all,a damn good movie.But it's very dark,it has portrays scenes of rape,burglary,and a sick twisted murder scene.It follows Alex DeLarge,who thrives for rape,ultra-violence,and Ludwig Van.He and his friends walk the streets terrorising people.In one scene,Alex helps a girl to safety when she is about to be raped.In the next,he rapes a woman in front of her husband.After a while,he is arrested and taken into custody after murdering a woman.He of course,wants to get out of prison.We watch him as he is volunteering for a new drug,one that turns every urge of violence,or sex into sickness.He is completly turned around now,and at the mercy of all his previous victoms.It was a great movie,because it's different.But it is hard to watch at some points.I don't see why it didn't win any Oscars.
One of the most horrific, but gripping films ever made. Kubrick injects enough sardonic humor and grisly menace to make a viewer go in five different directions by the film's end. McDowell is ingenious in his performance, as is Patrick Magee. Say what will you about Mr. Kubrick, but this film is artistry at its best.


                
**gives away scenes in the movie**This movie is one of my favorites. It really gets you into the mind of a psychopath and what makes him tick. Every scene of this movie shows just how his mind is set and what exactly he is after. He is violent and aggressive. To me the name of the movie really can say a lot about it. ''Clockwork'' meaning mechanical. When Alex is arrested he is then placed in a mental hospital where they basically brainwash him to be good. Well, what this movie really symbolizes is you can't play the role of God. Alex is being forced to be good when it's not in his nature. ''Orange'' actually represents a person. How their bright and can stand out. They're simply trying to take is individuality away. They're just trying to make him mechanical. After all the therapy and brainwashing he endures he realizes that every time he is exposed to violence he gets ill. And at a few other scenes in the movie you notice he gets ill from hearing Beethoven.(something he actually found beauty in) Which at some point drives him crazy and he attempts suicide. As he lays in the hospital and promises to keep what really happened secret it shows how he is no longer brainwashed. This is shown when they play Beethoven in the background and his sudden vision at the end. It also represents that you can never mold someone into what they are not. You can't change someone if they don't want to be changed. And in the words of the writer Anthony Burgess: "What I was trying to say was that it is better to be bad of one's own free will than to be good through scientific brainwashing" he also says "When Alex has the power of choice, he chooses only violence. But, as his love of music shows, there are other areas of choice."


                
The "Clockwork Orange" treatment was actually done by putting the victim into the "transpersonal" of "perinatal matrix three" (Hell) with large doses of LSD. See hp://www.allotropic.com for definitions.Dr. Stanislav Grof replaced LSD with allotropic breathing, but, allotropic breathing has to be voluntary, unless it is forced involuntarily like by crucifixion.In the "Clockwork Orange" treatment the victim is forced to watch violent films while under high doses of LSD. What happens is that the victim then body switches backward and forward in time experiencing the torments of all the people in the film as real as life.In my case, it didn't stop there. I body switched into everyone I had ever seen. It seemed like a thousand years to me, but I was told by a Greek professor who is in the Greek Orthodox Church, that in the "aioniu automates" (eon of failure) the eon is only a hundred years.The original Greek words, "aioniu automates", eon of failure, was translated into English, "eternal damnation". You may wonder, what happens after the one hundred years? I have always gone back and lived it over, but different ways, vaguely remembering what I did wrong the last time around.If I go back again, but my deaths have always been "unnatural", if you get my drift, I will get my inheritance back, that I lost this time around, by a failure of the guardianship system.Knowing that crucifixion also causes this. Christ, knowing everyone who ever was or will be, IS in every one of us. This explains how He atoned for our sins by His crucifixion.(Due to the spelling censor, words had to be distorted to get through.)


                
Stanley Kubrick's ninth film, "A Clockwork Orange," is a brilliant and dangerous work, but it is dangerous in a way that brilliant things sometimes are, because it is a movie of such manifold, contradictory effects that it can easily be seen in many ways and may well be wrongly used by a number of people who see it.Although the film, like Anthony Burgess's novel from which it is adapted, is cast as futurist fiction, it is much more a satire on contemporary society than are most futurist works, all of which, if they are worth anything, are meaningful only in terms of the society that bred them. It may even be a mistake to describe the movie "A Clockwork Orange" as futurist in any respect, since its made-up teenage language, its décor, its civil idiocies, its social chaos, or their equivalents, are already at hand, although it's still possible for most of the people to ignore a lot of them.It seems to me that by describing horror with such elegance and beauty, Kubrick has created a very disorienting but human comedy, not warm and lovable, but a terrible sum- up of where the world is at. With all of man's potential for divinity through love, through his art and his music, this is what it has somehow boiled down to: a civil population terrorized by hoodlums, disconnected porno art, quick solutions to social problems, with the only "hope" for the future in the vicious Alex.In my opinion, Kubrick has made a movie that exploits only the mystery and variety of human conduct. And because it refuses to use the emotions conventionally, demanding instead that we keep a constant, intellectual grip on things, it's a most unusual and disorienting movie experience. 10 out of 10.


                
Malcolm McDowell steals the show as one the greatest anti-heroes ever(or villains if you prefer), but Kubrick's direction and style make this a work of art. So many memorable scenes it's impossible to narrow it down, but the opening scene is the most menacing introduction ever, where nothing really even happens! It's visually impressive, boasts an awesome soundtrack and is full of great lines and interesting themes, all this while also being ridiculously entertaining. This movie will make you think and might change how you see some aspects of the world around you.. and it might change it again if you watch it again(which you will very likely do!).


                
