After seeing this generally disagreeable assault on the senses, I need a rest now, possibly even a rest home for a while.I last saw this turkey when it was released in 1971, the year that I graduated from college. I couldn't appreciate it at the age of 22 and still don't like it at the ripe old age of 67. I decided to watch it again because I had just viewed Kubrick's outstanding "Paths of Glory", one of the best films that I have ever seen on the subject of war and the arrogant abuse of power, and I was very curious as to why IMDb subscribers rated this film a stunning 8.3, which is very rare for any movie and ranks it as one of the top 100 movies of all time. After my second viewing, I'm at an even bigger loss about this very high rating and ranking than I was 45 ago.I believe that the often unbearable level of intense brutality in this movie is enough to provoke actual, real-life bloodshed in persons who are already inclined to be violent, specifically against women and defenseless elderly people. As my country, the USA, is currently experiencing a very dangerous epidemic of horrifying, violent incidents, including several recent mass murders, movies such as this, are not at all helpful to our present situation, which has become a national crisis. I can't see a single benefit of this violence to me as a viewer or to my society as a whole. That having been said, I still believe in the first amendment and in freedom of expression, but after seeing this relentless display of viciousness, most of which seems to be merely for its own sake or perhaps fulfills a desire to shock viewers and for no other purpose, I find myself struggling with my own deepest convictions.I read several of the glowing reviews of this movie by others on IMDb. Many described this as a "masterpiece" and an "extraordinary work of art" without clearly explaining why and without the use of adequate, specific examples that support their high ratings and adoration.Personally, I could not relate to the central character, to his vicious gang, or to any other of the movie's unlikable or weak personalities in any way. During the "rehabilitation" phase of the movie, I could not understand what society or government, today or in the future, would elect to employ the methods that were used. The future world that was created, consisting of ugly, vulgar works of art and interior designs, abandoned theaters, perverse behavior, uncontrollable sex drive, constant physical abuse, disorder, neglect, filth, and general disrespect for anything and everything, was just too creepy for me to want to experience for even one hour, let alone two hours and seventeen minutes. Another major offense was the inappropriate use of Beethoven's magnificent music as it accompanies the most unpleasant visual images conceivable. It's too bad that deceased artists have no say as to how their works are used after they are gone, but who ever said that life was fair? I gave this movie a rating of four out of ten only because it did manage to produce a response of utter revulsion from within me, but I can't think of any other accomplishment. Not my cup of tea.


                
The fact that this film is still held in such high regard is surely one of the greatest mysteries in cinema.For the record, I love the book. It would be easy, then, to dismiss my disliking of the film as being no more than that I preferred my own vision of the story upon reading it. Alas, my reasons for not liking the film go far beyond this.Firstly, and perhaps most significantly, I do not like Malcolm McDowell's reading of Alex at all. I find him tacky, annoying and not in the least fearsome. To be fair, Burgess wrote the infuriatingly tacky lingo that Alex uses in his relentless narration throughout the film, but I don't remember him describing Alex as an annoying, whiney Northerner.It is not just the performance of Alex's character that misses the mark for me. Almost everyone in the film seems to think they're in an episode of Monty Python. Yes, I know it's meant to be satirical, but it's more parodical than anything. We're not laughing with it, we're laughing at it. You could be forgiven for assuming that every actor here thinks they're in a stage production and that we won't understand their character unless they shout and overact their way through each scene.The production design is possibly an even greater crime. Rather than looking futuristic, the whole film looks so stuck in the '60s that I can't help but be completely detached from the action. The colour is overwhelming and the lighting only serves to enhance the feeling that this is a cheap TV movie, not a "classic" Warner production.Don't even get me started about the cheesy, electronic renderings of Beethoven that plague almost every scene. What on earth were they thinking? Surely they knew that by using "state-of-the-art" synthesisers they were condemning the film to being out of date within five years. To begin with the music is mildly amusing. Soon it becomes tedious. Then downright annoying, like everything else in the film.Quite simply, I just cannot take this film seriously. It has no impact whatsoever. Part of the film's longevity in the minds of moviegoers is said to be the controversy and the powerful, disturbing tone of the movie. Frankly, I found Bambi more disturbing, and a damn sight less tedious.On that note, let me not forget how long, slow paced and drawn out every single scene is. By the 90 minute mark the film has gone past boring into something completely new. Needless to say, when the film finally ends, you'll find yourself struggling to resist the urge to follow Alex in jumping straight out the nearest window.


                
In regards to 1971's "A Clockwork Orange" - When I seriously consider Kubrick's previous movie-project (the triumphant, outer space, extravaganza - 2001: A Space Odyssey), I can't help but scratch my head and wonder what the heck prompted said film-maker to take such a violent U-Turn as he did with this film.With "A Clockwork Orange", Kubrick clearly offered the viewer a motion picture of very questionable entertainment value. Here we are handed a truly demented tale that gleefully showcased white-trash, juvenile delinquency at its most vicious, vile and corruptible.If "A Clockwork Orange" was meant to be some sort of a twisted & perverse moral lesson, then it clearly missed its mark. If it was meant to be viewed as a scathing social commentary, then its message definitely told me that (as a society of human beings) we are, indeed, utterly and hopelessly doomed.I certainly found it very difficult to look upon this film's hypocritical stance, as well as its hatefulness and its brutality, as being really worthwhile entertainment. Considered one of the absolute, most controversial films of the 1970s - You can be sure that even today, 43 years later, "A Clockwork Orange" still remains something of a bona-fide shocker.I certainly can't imagine anyone (in their right mind, of course) ever wanting to watch "A Clockwork Orange" more than once. But, hey, with that said - Isn't one man's pain (sometimes) another man's pleasure?


                
***POSSIBLE SPOILERS***First time a saw 'A Clockwork orange', I just didn't know what to think about it. It left me utterly depressed and confused, felt like Kubrick just performed ultra-violence on my soul. I was 15 at that time (just like Alex deLarge), and I was watching it on some German channel without subtitles, with German synchronisation. I had no idea what kind of movie I was watching. Right from the beginning it was completely weird and dreamlike which was appealing but when the white gang went into that house with the big neon sign 'HOME' in front of it, a real horror begun. Because of that sign I thought Alex and his gang were going to his parents's house and those people inside really looked like some ordinary 'mum' and 'dad' in their leisure time. So when the infamous 'rape sequence' started, it was like a nightmare to me, felt like a movie went completely wrong at that point just for the sake of being shocking and disgusting in its literal attack on family, women and everything else. Some says it's a silly and entertaining scene. Well how about punk girls attacking pretty handsome males and then cutting their clothes and sexually humiliate them while singing 'Girls just want to have fun', because that is what they need to feel happy and be free? However, after this horrible atrocity, movie didn't get much better, just shock after shock after shock like a punch in the head, all with aggressive and tasteless visual style (thanks a lot, Kubrick). Behind that, I had to admit that composition of frames and use of music are some of the best I have ever seen on a film ( I own the soundtrack of ACO). It's so good it stucks forever into your head. But also got the feeling that the whole movie would be better with less hysterical and vulgar characters that are handled with some compassion, not just to appear in one scene and then disappear from the whole movie without a good reason (specially female characters, they are just horrible, hollow Playboy caricatures). Thanks to that the movie fails into some bad British comedy desperately trying to provoke with something that is known already. We all know that government is corrupted, police is violent, scientists are evil, youth is stupid and senseless and so on. It's nice and easy to accuse somebody else for our problems and behavior, but world will never change to something better because of that.It also looks like this film was purposely made to appeal to young men with not enough life experience(skinheads, punks and various kinds of geeks)with its untamed ugliness, cheap female nudity and expression of blind immature rage at the world that tries to restrain their wild instincts. But when one grow up into mature person, he can naturally perform this taming on himself. And that was the big Kubrick's mistake, to change the end of original story into something so banal like pure celebration of violence. And now Rob Zombie continues this path with his violent and awful characters in every single movie he made,'cause ultra-violence is so cool. What have you done Kubrick?:( And those sculptures in the movie.. so horribly tasteless, like lots of 'erotic' art from 70's anyway.
It disturbs me that a lot of these 10/10 reviews rave on about the "ultraviolence" and sex.  Now I do not have a problem with art - I have no problem with realistic portrayal either - but to extol the art of a film because it is violent or has sexual content, debases the people who do so into carnal savages.Is it so wrong that in the 21st Century, with all the misery and destruction, that we learn to elevate our culture and society to have some self-respect and compassion?  Evidently when someone gleefully watches "A Clockwork Orange" delving delightfully in its violence, that being a better person isn't a virtue worth striving for for that person.On to the movie review: Malcolm McDowell plays one of the most hateable characters I've ever watched - and one can only naturally congratulate Malcolm for his acting talent.  However, the rest of the film is only average.  Perhaps in the 70s it may have been brilliant for the cinematography but I find the themes very basic.  There's certainly nothing extraordinary about this film at all.  Stories like "1984" or "Metropolis" would be considered brilliant in conception and vision, but "A Clockwork Orange" has nary a thought that would cause one to pause more than a second of afterthought.  The concept of removing one's free will to do evil was very poorly conveyed and it never once caused me to ponder it.I just get this feeling that there is really nothing great about this film at all, and so all these animalistic fans of violence-for-the-sake-of-violence make up all these so-called qualities for this film just to pad their reviews so it's not so obvious how so lacking in substance this film really is.  A film like "Brazil" for instance, covers the themes of "A Clockwork Orange" so brilliantly that one thinks about how it relates to society.  "A Clockwork Orange" does nothing to relate to the real world since it poorly relates anything except for some brute violence.  Whoopie-doo.In fact the only thing that makes fans of this film rave on about this film is the violence and the fact that it was banned.  Yawn.  Let's move on shall we?  4/10


                
A Clockwork Orange is a 1971 dystopian crime film adapted, produced, and directed by Stanley Kubrick, based on Anthony Burgess's 1962 novel A Clockwork Orange. It employs disturbing, violent images to comment on psychiatry, juvenile delinquency, youth gangs, and other social, political, and economic subjects in a dystopian near-future Britain.Alex (Malcolm McDowell), the main character, is a charismatic, sociopathic delinquent whose interests include classical music (especially Beethoven), rape, and what is termed "ultra-violence." He leads a small gang of thugs (Pete, Georgie, and Dim), whom he calls his droogs (from the Russian word "friend," "buddy"). The film chronicles the horrific crime spree of his gang, his capture, and attempted rehabilitation via controversial psychological conditioning. Alex narrates most of the film in Nadsat, a fractured adolescent slang composed of Slavic (especially Russian), English, and Cockney rhyming slang.The soundtrack to A Clockwork Orange features mostly classical music selections and Moog synthesizer compositions by Wendy Carlos (then known as Walter Carlos). The artwork of the now-iconic poster of A Clockwork Orange was created by Philip Castle with the layout by designer Bill Gold.
This was not a 'brilliant' film. This is a bandwagon film. It's cool to rave about how life changing and beautiful of a masterpiece it is. Some even go so far as to say that this is the greatest film ever made (or one of them at least).Sorry, but the emperor has no clothes.I'm a fan of Kubrick. He does amazing work in general. A Clockwork Orange, however, is not a very good example of his talent. It is self-indulgent and shallow, with violence purely for the sake of shock and no greater lessons to be learned. Ah, but you say, therein lies the brilliance! Nope, I don't buy it.This films' entire world is patently two-dimensional (to its discredit) and, quite frankly, boring. I had to attempt to watch the film several times before I finally made my way through its entirety, as I found myself simply turning it off out sheer boredom. The visual style is interesting, I'll grant that. But nothing else about the characters, story or message (such as it is) was able to hold my attention at all. Its gibberish, then violence, then more gibberish, then more violence, The End.I don't see how any intelligent individual can walk away from this film thinking it was good in any way. And I'm not making a moral judgment at all, mind you. Yeah, the characters are reprehensible... but that is beside the point. You can have a great movie with reprehensible characters... just not when you hang the entire premise of the film on some pornography of violence, then wrap it up in pseudo-intellectual claptrap and hope people are so confused that they mistake laziness for brilliance.In this case, that particular gambit seems to have worked, as 'smart' and 'cool' people all agree in unison that Clockwork Orange is a great film. Unfortunately, it is not.


                
I am utterly shocked at how bad this movie was. I'm tired and don't feel like going very in depth, but here's why this movie is horrible. And there will be spoilers.We have a main character we hate because he enjoys raping and killing innocent people.We are then supposed to sympathize with him, which we don't, because we hate him. This goes on for a VERY long time. Horrible things happen to him, but we don't really care, because he's a bad person.The movie is extremely long and drawn out. It climaxes so many times that it's very anti-climatic by the ending.We are supposed to get a sense of irony out of Alex going from a sociopath to someone who is constantly being beaten and tortured while he can't use the very thing that got him in the situation, violence, to help himself. We do not get this sense of irony because the movie is CONTRIVED, some examples being: how Alex just happens to run into everyone he ever did wrong one day after getting out of jail (the bum, his droogs, the cripple), or how after Alex luckily is not recognized by the cripple, he goes on to sing the SONG HE SANG WHILE BEATING HIM AND RAPING HIS WIFE while in the cripple's house, as if he were the most idiotic person in the world, which he is obviously not.The fight scenes are silly and anything but "ultra violent".The atmosphere of the movie is redeeming and there is some cult/shock value. I give it a 4/10.
Before I begin my review I would like to point out a few things about my movie preferences, yes, I don't mind watching mindless entertainment like Transformers, The Avengers, The Expendables etc. I also enjoy deeper viewing experiences like Apocalypse Now, The Dark Knight, Inception, Life of Pie, Schindler's List and books like Stranger in a Strange Land etc.I'm fine with a movie that knows it isn't thought provoking or trying to convey a deep philosophical message and does nothing but try to take you for a fun ride (much like a theme park ride doesn't try to answer 'why are we here?').I'm also fine with a movie that is making a statement about the human condition, is philosophical or tries to be more than 'fun'.My issue is when a movie tries to be philosophical/deep, jams it's message down your throat and in doing so ignores character development/plot and is simultaneously boring.I know exactly what certain people will think when they read this 'HE JUST Doesn't GET IT... MORON!'. So for those people I'll provide my reasoning why I disliked this movie and why I thinks it's all style and clever cinematography to convey a sense of 'intelligence', with no substance.The philosophical messages of the film are free will VS conformity to societies morals (practically jammed down your throat and I think it's been done better and in more intelligent ways since it's release), youth rebellion and boredom, inherent human evilness, discovering yourself and social taboos.The main character is completely unsympathetic and uninteresting. He is a jerk of the highest caliber and boring. Musical preference does not change this, attacking defenseless people is not scary, he is a thug and he's not intelligent. I'm fine with the whole 'some people are just bad' cliché but at least give them some type of noteworthy attributes e.g. The Jokers intelligence and deviousness. Simply having a twisted mind does not count and in my opinion, other than being a somewhat handsome guy he wasn't charismatic, although that's debatable.Using risqué footage in your film doesn't automatically make it meaningful.Relying on clever camera work to create a certain atmosphere around your character doesn't automatically make it meaningful.If you removed the clever camera work, the musical score, the interesting set designs/costumes you would essentially have a soft core porno with an uninteresting story to match. Seriously watch the film again and try to imagine if these things were absent.The story is, gang leader prays on the weak, gets caught, undergoes controversial treatment which is ultimately unsuccessful... THE END.
I watched this movie a couple of days ago and was strongly Disappointed. I went in excepting a lot (from it being on friends favorite movie list)but got out little. Don't get me wrong i fully understood the movie and i am not just one of those people who doesn't get it, therefore its crap but i just though it was a boring, psychedelic interpretation of an apocalyptic world filled with corruption and roving gangs. Could somebody enlighten me if there is any reason why i did not enjoy this movie. Also i think that the horror of this film is largley hype and it is not truly that bad. (excpet the rape scenes is pretty bad)


                
One of the most enjoyable aspects of a movie are its characters. The characters of a movie bring joy and life to a film. Many characters in movies have become household names in the United States; Luke Skywalker, Don Corleone, Michael Myers, etc, etc. One of the main things I did not like about 'A Clockwork Orange' was its main character, and that was what ruined the movie. In fact, I think this movie did not have any likable characters, which makes it even harder to watch.Stanley Kubrick's 'A Clockwork Orange' has become a cult-classic. I remember in high school, this film was very well known and liked by a lot of people. At the same time, I realized that it was liked because of how grotesque and violent the story was, and not famous for the messages it was trying to convey. The film is based on a book with the same name by Anthony Burgess. I think both the book and movie are vastly overrated. The book was slightly better than the movie, but it still did not impress me that much.One of the main problems with the story is that we have so sympathize with a rapist and a murderer. This is hard to do regardless of what punishments he receives. The basic problem is that we have to feel sorry for a character whose main solutions in solving problems is through violent means. Sorry, I cannot like somebody like that regardless if his free will is taken away. Let me ask a question to those people who are in favor of this film. Would you still be adulation of Kubrick's overrated movie if it had starred somebody similar to Jeffry Dahmer, Adolf Hitler, or any other real-life killer? Think about it and let me know the answer.


                
I'm not sure how Kubrick's "A Clockwork Orange" ended up such an overrated movie. It's mind-boggingly juvenile and I could find no apparent reason to justify the constant violence and sex in the movie. The story was weak to begin with and I think it may have gotten its original appeal from the shock value it created. The problem is that 30 years of escalating violence later, the shock value is lost and you end up with a movie that seems more like a half-hearted retelling of the fantasy life of the average geeky adolescent boy. Of course, the movie does have the Kubrick name attached to it so that could also explain some of the hype since so many of his other films were truly excellent. In the end, after all of the hype, "A Clockwork Orange" is a huge disappointment.


                
I've never been a big fan of this movie. I'm indifferent to the violence which I find unconvincing and comical. Instead I find the movie to be so ridiculously streamlined that for all it's outrageousness, just ends up feeling like a children's story, underscoring its moral over and over. Kubrick has reduced the whole production to a schematic argument with no real detail. There's just nothing else to consider in the movie except a singular, remedial idea about free will. Two hours and 16 minutes is way too much time to be this ideoogically barren. The first part proceeds rapidly enough, but the obvious developments after the Ludovico treatment drag unmercifully. How could Kubrick make 2001, which is teeming with ideas, and then go on to make this?Its provocations are way over the top as unrefined minds prefer. Patrick McGeehan's grotesque hamming is the most unsubtle thing in a very unsubtle movie. I suspect guys talk themselves into this being a masterpiece in their horny, rebellious teens, then spend the rest of their lives never thinking about it again; continuing to defend their initial position and premature rave. There's nothing going on in this movie. it's like watching a juggler with one ball. Kubrick further undermines his art and the shock of the violence by getting too much titillation out of it; his rape victims are always attractive women with supermodel figures and enormous, spherical breasts. How many nitwits would be raving about this movie is even one of the chicks was out of shape?
I found the movie boring, pointless display of cruelty and violence, scene after scene, without any good reason or conclusion for the film to come to.
No development of any of the characters, and the film circles back right to where you start from 2 hours earlier.


                
The young boy Alex always takes a role of "bad" action. At first, he and his fellows commit robbery and something again and again, but later he and his fellows split, and he is framed. One day, being arrested by the police, he makes use of the new plan of rehabilitation...This movie is a kind of drama, novel-based, thought-provoking, award-winning movie that contains a lot of sexual and violent description. Some dirty images with clear classical music make "different" scene, and the director want watchers to have a "different point of view" in this movie. However, since the description is so strong, you maybe become uncomfortable after you watch it.Alex is always tired of real world, and wants to make use of others. But he also has a very weak mind, so he started to step into the collapse. The other people want to make use of him too, and every thing is going to be failure. The Beethoven's No.9 sometimes sounds comical, violent, sentimental, or just heartless in this movie... One of the most cynical movies.


                
I had been dying to see A Clockwork Orange because of all the hype and criticism surrounding this motion picture. It has been known for its grotesque display of sex, violence, and music which make people rather squeamish but, hey, it didn't disturb the crap out of me. Stanley Kubrick never came across to me as a wonderful director and A Clockwork Orange is no exception. His work maybe daring but his films are to old fashioned and boring. 2001: A Space Odyssey was probably the most boringest movies ever because most of the time it was about a couple of monkeys sniffing each others butts. I don't see how people get into that sort of stuff. The "Old-Ultraviolence" moments were where you saw people being beaten to death or ladies being raped by a couple of hoodlums, as described in the film. Malcolm McDowell was truly great in this film but I can't say it's the best movie he has ever been in. I have hardly seen him act in any films but he is known for films that had nudity (like Caligula). He provides the role of someone who is angry and he uses his anger towards his victims. The accents from the actors in this film were particularly good if not weird. The film is banned in most countries for it's realism of sex and violence but, thankfully, it is not banned in Australia. The cover for this film is mysterious and...... ah sh*t......mmmm.............mysterious. Damn! I ran out of words. Please pardon that Language I would like to call French. Not the French spoken In France But the swearing French. Okay? So don't report me. The setting for this film could not have been better because it provided the exact atmosphere I needed. A Clockwork Orange will leave some peoples minds after two hours but with some, e.g. Old People, it will stay there with them forever and ever and ever. If I had to choose the most disturbing thing that disturbed me during this film it would have to be the scene where Alex's eyes are literally glued to the screen. Some people find find that funny so go on and laugh.A gang of hoodlums are on the loose in Britain and the aftermath is devastating. An old man has nearly been beaten to death and some women have died from the gangs vicious hands but that is not the end or worst of it. One night a plan fails leaving the main Character, Alex, to be thrown into prison. Two years later, Alex is still rotting in the jail until he hears a new treatment that can brainwash you into stopping your old "Habits". Alex becomes the guinea pig of the experiment and changes into a new man...... or does he? From then on people will use him to take down the government and he will meet some of his old buddies. The consequences will be dire but the end will be inevitable. If you are looking for a horror, look somewhere else because this isn't one of them. It is more of a drama and will appeal to some. If you are planning to watch this one a date with your girlfriend prepare to be dumped or worse, being spat into the face.. Really, I mean it. The book is very hard to find so i don't know if the film is accurate or not. Anyway, If you want to watch a disturbing-sci-fi-thriller-crime drama then this id for you. 7-10 - Good for what it is!
Clockwork Orange is widley known as a classic. And frankly I got dissapointed. The idea of the movie is basicly genius. But there was something that didn't appeal to me. The whole movie is so obviously 'overacted',but I rather think that was the whole point.The main character,Alex,sometimes worked on my nerves. But what I VERY much like in this movie is the message deliverd : The hypocrism of the government,and how the only crimes tolerated are theirs. (What I also liked was the way they used skinner's theory of conditionning) So in the end...You either like it or hate it(for the violence,although in a very estatic kind of way,and the fact that it is rather tacky and disguisting at times). You should watch it anyway... gives u something to talk about :)


                
I think I might have liked the movie more if I hadn't read the book first. The book is one of the most brilliantly written pieces of literature of all time and the movie leaves out a lot of the depth and complexity that was originally part of both the characters and the plot. The fact the last chapter was left out, and several key pieces of the story, Such as Alex killing a man in jail, and the origin of the title, were left out really bothered me. It also bothered me how certain scenes were changed, and changing them added nothing to the movie. For example, in the movie when Alex fights with Georgie and Dim, it appears that it a complete sneak attack, when in the book Georgie and Dim are the ones that actually initiate the fight. Overall I was fairly disappointed with the movie, but if you ever have the chance, read the book. It's amazing


                
Quite how this peice of film ever gained a reputation is beyond me!!?. After Kubrick's withdrawal of it from Britain, it has been hailed as a masterpiece, but by today's standards, look's nothing but a second rate, no budget movie with little or no story to it.The portrayals of violence are nothing to get concerned about, it is a movie afterall, not a reality tv show as alot of people feel movies are at times. 
Just because it was made in 1971, doesn't make it anymore worthwile, it's a bad film, simple as that!.Watch Kubrick's "The Shining" for a good movie, this one is best left alone....


                
As a true film buff, I can accept the fact that some of the greatest movies ever made can also be extremely difficult to watch -- whether from its content and/or the emotional response it generates.  Most movies like this usually receive my adolation and praise, even if it may take me time to recover from the first viewingBut in my opinion, A Clockwork Orange takes the grand prize as the most disturbing movie I've ever seen, and it does not get much easier with repeat viewing.  The movie's brilliance in directing and storytelling makes it impossible to dismiss critically, yet the film disturbs me to the core.  I would almost hope that I am not alone in this opinion -- to truly 'enjoy' this movie you'd have to be pretty damn callous to hideous imagery, especially when it comes to rape and excessive exploitation of the female body.If there's one very big dislike I have against Stanley Kubrick, it is way in which he treats the naked female body onscreen.  It becomes impersonal, cold, devalued -- cheapened and readily exploitable.  Think of these examples -- A Clockwork Orange: 5 gangsters rip the clothes off and rape a young woman to a classical waltz; the milk bar with naked women statues and dispensers; Alex's daydream of being in Roman times; the high-speed menage-a-trois; the naked, stoic 'temptress' onstage approaching Alex; and the 'humorous' winter-wonderland end-scene slow-motion daydream of public exhibitionism.  That's just A Clockwork Orange.  Throw in the naked woman in the tub in The Shining, along with scenes totalling a full one-third of the running time of Eyes Wide Shut and you should have a pretty good idea of the devaluation of the female body I'm referring to.I think of Spartacus, Full Metal Jacket, 2001, Dr. Strangelove, even Barry Lyndon, and I just want to praise Kubrick forever.  The man is a cinematic genius.  But, because of how adversely A Clockwork Orange affects me, I must dismiss it and can't recommend it to anyone.  The more sensitive you are to what you see onscreen, the more this movie will deeply, deeply disturb you. I've seen it three times now, my first time being over 12 years ago, and it's no easier to watch now than then.  And sadly, because it is so disturbing, I am deprived of enjoying the greatness that the movie really does contain.I read the book by Anthony Burgess because the story is truly brilliant. I was surprised to find out that the book's final chapter was purposely left out of the film.  Also, I was surprised to find that the author disliked the film, as he alludes in the book's introduction.  He feels that "A Clockwork Orange" has become to him what "The Nutcracker" was to Tchaikovsky -- what he considers as one of his least important works has become his most famous and recognized.Ever wonder what is meant by "a clockwork orange"?  Mr. Burgess explains the metaphor in the book's introduction.  An orange is sweet, refreshing, and juicy -- fulfilling and delicious.  But it is organic and cannot provide this sweetness forever -- it will eventually expire and rot.  Man cannot make an organic object function like an inorganic object, or something man-made, or 'clockwork'.  The term 'clockwork orange' is therefore an oxymoron and a paradox -- it infers that man has converted something organic into a controllable, inorganic process.  The experiment Alex goes through, by robbing him of free-will, effectively creates 'clockwork oranges' out of human beings -- he is forced to be sweet, gentle, and moral all the time.
Final thoughts: I am LDS (or 'Mormon'), and it's noteworthy to mention something about the beliefs of the LDS religion as it pertains to this concept...  It is believed that in pre-earth life, Lucifer proposed that everyone who comes to earth be forced to do good, so that everyone will be worthy to return to God's presence after death, therefore 'no souls will be lost' -- however, he wanted the credit for this plan.  Jesus wanted each person to have complete free-agency in order to learn from their own decisions, and he voluteered himself to be the one who must live a perfect life as THE example as well as be the atoning sacrifice -- and all glory go to God, not to himself.  To have mankind robbed of its free-agency is the Devil's original plan and ultimate goal.  So, the movie and the book asks this supreme question: What's more evil -- a person who focusses all his thoughts and energy and actions on doing bad, or forcing this person to only think and feel and do good?My answer: Skip the movie and read the book -- it's a far more edifying experience.  And you also get to know what happens in the final chapter!


                
This movie is absolutely terrible. I can't believe I wasted my time watching it.


                
Normally, I would rate any memorable movie, even if I did not like it, or certain parts or acting, a 6 or 7 at least.The reason I rate this so low is for the gratuitous violence. Mad Magazine did a dead-on satire of this movie two decades ago. The violence is repulsive and over the top. It's putrid. The rape scene, and the constant batteries and assaults are too much.Most unusual is some of the dialog between the gang members, which uses a made-up slang.That being said, I loved the acting and the score. The plot is basically relevant to modern times. The set design and live action scenery is excellent.Everyone should see this, but hold your hand on the fast-forward, which is used on one sex scene anyway, very humorously.
Re-release of the sicko-psycho-cult movie that would have had people spitting on Kubrick's grave had he died then instead of years after withdrawing it. Scenes of pure cinematic brilliance combined with moral bankruptcy that can maybe be blamed on the author of the book who was better at painting problems (or exacerbating them if we are to believe critics) than making any responsible social comment on them.


                
A Clockwork Orange follows a young man involved in a brutal gang who is used for an experiment that tries to cure his criminality. Stanley Kubrick is one of the biggest things to appreciate about this movie. His directing is quite good. Despite everything else in the film, his work behind the camera was something I couldn't ignore. In addition, Malcolm McDowell as Alex, the protagonist, is quite good. His performance only gets better as the movie progresses, making the last act all the better. Speaking of the last act, it's pretty great. The direction it decides to go is fascinating, with all the stuff the main character goes through as a result of his past life, and it really says something on society as a whole, all the while not being too horribly blatant about it's message. As far as the rest of the movie, it's okay. The first two acts are painfully boring, and even aspects of the third are too. I found little purpose in the tasteless display that the first chunk of A Clockwork Orange was. It was like the movie was trying to be both brutally edgy and artsy at the same time, but it forgot to be tasteful about it. So much of the movie is over the top for no real reason other than to be over the top. I read a little on the movie where it tries to draw a parallel between the movie's content and the experiments that Alex is subjected to, the parallel being the audience's inability to look away, but I found myself looking away from the screen far more than I have in a long time. I had no problem looking away and paying minimal attention to the film while I looked at my phone or watched the paint dry on my walls. The first two thirds are incredibly simple and frankly, rather uninteresting. It was unnecessarily drawn out and as a result I felt myself dozing more than once. The movie started out actually making me feel physically sick, which I thought was a good thing because that meant that I was semi-invested already (it was able to make me feel something genuine early on), but then it divulged into a boringly unoriginal story that I simply couldn't care less about. Some aspects of the third act prove to be rather absurd as well. I know that I said earlier that most of it works really well and isn't overly blatant, but there's one scene in the movie that really doesn't make a lot of sense. It didn't need to be in the movie really. It involves two characters from the first act, and it felt kind of unnecessary. Like it didn't need to involve those two characters, it could've (and should've) been literally anyone else. And the music is, while mostly good, overused to death. Most every track started to feel like a frustratingly obvious cop-out, where instead of showing actual characters and story we just got montages and narration to said tracks. And that music was all the same. It was like Kubrick could only get access to two or three tracks and recycled those over and over. Overall A Clockwork Orange isn't my cup of tea. While the leading performance, directing, and final act are solid, the first two acts, use of music, and pacing were all lackluster. I've read reviews where people say 'you have to see the movie more than once to fully appreciate it' but I'm sorry that I can't stand the idea of sitting through this movie more than once. The artsy stuff all feels artsy for the sake of being artsy, and that's it. I'm not curious about what everything else means, it doesn't seem like there is any meaning to begin with. So in the end I personally wouldn't recommend this movie.


                
