Few films are as sensational or infamous as Stanley Kubrick's "A Clockwork Orange". It's impossible to sit through ACO and not have a reaction; whether it be shock, disgust or amazement. The savage tale of a brutal young droog and his subsequent "reformation" by the government is as shocking and thought-provoking as ever. While the film's depictions of violence and sex are what it's most known for, ACO works on far deeper levels. The disturbing portrayal of youth and its satirical depiction of a government's attempts to create a better society are brilliant, but the most fascinating aspect of ACO is the questions it poses about good and evil. While the crimes Alex commits at the beginning of the film are atrocious, what the government does to him is worse. The film presents the absolute worst aspects of man, but shows that even these are still favorable to a man without the choice. People can denounce the film because of its brutal content, but the importance of the questions it poses can't be denied. Equally excellent to the film's content is the effort by the crew. Kubrick's perfectionism pays off well, as ACO in one of his most visually striking films. Malcolm MacDowell is nothing short of amazing as Alex. Kubrick's use of surreal imagery and set pieces, as well as the ingenious use of music to compliment the on-screen action, creates a world that perfectly reflects the protagonist's behavior and the government's policies. A Clockwork Orange is by no means an easy film to get through, as many will be turned off by the scenes of violence and rape. But this masterpiece is far more complex than a simple romp through a world of youthful violence. It's a rare example of film-making that demands that the viewer actually think. Real horrorshow all around, Oh my brothers.


                
"A Clockwork Orange" starts out with Alex and his gang of "droogs" sitting in the Kerova milk bar drinking the milk plus... Then the camera starts slowly to move back and we see naked female statues and drink machines which purl out the milk through their breasts...McDowell is splendid as the star-child Alex... He is simply a vicious and amazing sadist monster, lethal in his sincerity, taking delight in rape and violence... Never such a vile character has been so charismatic and attractive... His life is perplexing, questionable and terrifying... He doesn't show the slightest regard for other's rights or morality... He doesn't even regard his victims as human beings...His paradoxical character is in nearly every scene... McDowell captures Alex's human and inhuman side with equal skill... Alex is a victim at the mercy of an uncaring society, condemned to the physically unbearable "dislike therapy" and preyed upon by his former targets...Set in England in the near future<U+0096> a future which vaguely reflects our own, but it seems that society has started to crumble and at night the streets are driven with teenage gangs who run free of parental control..."A Clockwork Orange" is too strong for some people to accept and is still too powerful today... It is an extremely disturbing meditation on the violent nature of man... Kubrick emphasizes the human element by paradoxically dehumanizing the characters...Viewers see images they may not have wanted to see, but will never be able to forget... He presents violence in a confusing and increasing fashion that makes it alarmingly attractive... He invites us to join Alex in raping and pillaging into London urban jungle to show that violence and power are invariably attractive... He makes good use of the camera, showing, in strange ways, the furious underworld of Alex... Kubrick is the driving force behind "A Clockwork Orange." The film is without exception his picture... He took the novel of Anthony Burgess re-shaping it to fit his own vision... Images and sound pull in different directions, stimulating conflicting emotions... In a bizarre juxtaposition of often classical music with violence, we see ourselves manipulated into cheering for Alex, despite his brutal and amoral nature... We are forced to really think about the implications of the events with no answer...The film serves as a battleground for philosophical arguments making comments without forcing an opinion instead preferring that we ourselves decide what to make of the satire... Exposing themes to think about, significant prediction, liberalism of society, sexual acts gaining acceptance, violent films in higher degree, alcohol-currently legal, accounts for many acts of violence, crime out of control, violence in schools, television, illustrating the inconstant nature of public opinion, raising questions, themes and ideas that many people would prefer not to confront...Style has always been one of Kubrick's strong points... He maintained a reputation for an obsessive attention to detail... He was known for getting the most out of his actors... Distinct images often play a significant part in his films...With its dynamic bizarre sets and pulsating classical music score, and with a word of warning on how bad violence is and should be watched very closely, Kubrick's motion picture is unsurpassed with intellectual content... It is a film described often as the sociological masterpiece of the decade and, often as dangerously vicious<U+0096> a film with more violent sex and dangerous thugs than any other I can remember, a film which daringly brought to larger-than-life those areas of the unconscious mind which some people felt were best left hidden<U+0085>It is also highly dramatic, extremely graphic, compelling and provoking... It is frightening and intriguing masterpiece with a powerful message about the reality of human nature...
Spoiler herein.Kubrick's films are misunderstood. Reading the professional reviews and comments here, one would think the reason for this film to exist is for Kubrick to make a strong satire. What bunk. What a small view.This movie is about the tyranny of movies (and similar performances). The fact that so few people see it as something else is a testament to the self-protective nature of films in our soul.The Droogs engage in performances. Their speech is theatrical. Their rival gang is discovered on the stage. There is a focus on the eye. They wear costumes. The sex with the teeniboppers is cast as a performance (and photographed that way). The accosted writer is (selfreferentially) the writer of the film, who incidentally drives the character to suicide by exposing him to a performance. During that attack, the Droogs act out another film.The therapy is forcing `us' to watch movies precisely like the one we are watching. Kubrick follows the Film-within-the-film rule of having the distance of abstraction from the film with to the film be the same as from `real' life to the film. The entire film can be seen as (pick one): one of the punishment films; a subsequent vision in the hospital; a musical drama played out in some kid's head; a simple hallucination in the milk bar; a simple invention of the gay writer (who pretends he had a wife).All of Kubrick's work starting with Lolita is an exploration into the plasticity of narrative, in the context of obsession (`Lolita'), war (Metal'), power , space (meaning the environment as in `Lyndon'), and invented reality (`2001') and adulterous fantasies (`Eyes'). Here we work with violent adolescent sex: cockworks. It is what Phil Dick had in mind.Ted's Evaluation: 3 of 4: Worth watching.
To be honest I'm not a big fan of Kubric as I find some of his movies overrated. But I have to admit that this movie is truly a masterpiece and a classic in both crime and anti utopian geners.There are many things that make this movie so great. The acting is on a very high level and Malcolm Mcdowell gives an outstanding performance. The scrip is well written and the plot is intriguing. I can go on and list many other things that make this movie a masterpiece but probably the most important one is the storytelling. Kubric has shown that he is a good storyteller and this movie proves it undoubtedly.Let's not forget how controversial "A Clockwork Orange" is. There are many scenes that might seem disturbing to some viewers. But these scenes are of great importance for this movie as they make it more intense and intriguing.It is a controversial movie, indeed. But even though filled with violence and sex, "A Clockwork Orange" manages to talk about important themes that concern the human society.
Friends are shocked when I tell them I find this movie fascinating and enjoy watching it every five years or so. They all think this is a very sick, shocking and just plain revolting movie. Hey, I understand that. When this film was released 35 years ago, it was highly controversial. Even though nudity is nothing new in films today, I suspect this story still shocks a lot of people. It isn't just the nudity but the carefree-sadistic attitude of the main character that is repulsive to many.The vocabulary and the creepiness of lead actor Malcolm McDowell's character "Alexander de Large" is like nothing I have ever heard and seen on film. I play the DVD now with the subtitles on to understand all the strange words and expressions McDowell uses as he narrates this story. That dialog, too, is still unique and probably always will be. A big attraction for me or the wild visuals. The outrageous colors in here from the clothing McDowell and his gang wore, to the futuristic house interiors and sets, are still something to see! I think this is director Stanley Kubrick's best work, cinematography-wise.Yes, the violence is shocking but that sets up the main storyline: dealing with that kind of mentality (a sick thug with no apparent conscience). What ensues in the story is almost as disturbing - and thought-provoking - as the violence early on. After "Alex" is captured, he is a part of new experiment to cure violent and overly sexual tendencies. The scenes of his "rehabililation" are always easy to watch. He then returns to the street and is almost killed by his former victims who "accidently" run into him. Things get so bad Alex" tries to kill himself, so the media gives him a big splash and they de-program him back to his normal sick self and the movie ends abruptly with Alex a happy man again. How twisted is that?? A rapist homicidal maniac is set free and the government is made to look stupid? Well, since this comes from Kubrick, that's not surprising. But, this film probably was interpreted in numerous ways and was an interesting discussion-starter.In summary, a perverted story but the one-of-a-kind lead character, famous visuals and sets and interesting message always make this film watchable, but be warned: this is a brutal and often uncomfortable movie to watch.
I find it bizarre how so many great films from spat upon genres like horror and costumed heroes receive such vitriol from critics who enjoy BAD films in those categories but despise good ones, alway's their pathetic answer is the same: 'OMG The 'BATMAN & ROBIN' IZ BETTER DEN The 'DARK KNIGHT' BEKUZ IT DUZNT TAEK ITSELF SERIOUSLY LOL!' I fail to understand that argument. It's fine for a director to have a sense of humor and not be obnoxious about his craft, but there's a difference between having fun and not giving any effort by goofing off. Would you give some lazy student who sleeps through class who always comes in high and writes 'F- you' on a test as an answer an A+ because he doesn't take school seriously? If you give bad films like 'Batman & Robin' good ratings over 'The Dark Knight' because they 'Aren't serious' you are essentially doing the same thing. This filthy minded Liberal mentality has infected all aspects of film, with many excellent directors taking flack for the serious thematic content in their films.Chief among these persecuted directors is the once-vaunted Stanley Kubrick, whose name is now used by these indie film fans and liberal canker sores as slang for 'pretentious' or 'overrated' or 'Taking himself too seriously'(one truly bizarre troll who sees the untalented Jason Friedberg as superior to Kubrick who I insulted sent me a string of hate mail telling me to orally pleasure him for weeks, that sums up the level of maturity of these people). What these disgusting people forget, however, is Kubrick's amazing range. He has directed romantic films, horror films, science fiction films, period melodramas, war films, but also comedies. Not only is he responsible for the famous comedy/satire 'Dr. Strangelove'(Which I will review along with another, more blatant comedy I feel is a spiritual descendant of 'Strangelove'), he has also infused even his grimmest films with humor('Full metal Jacket' has lots of black comedy in the suffering of 'Gomer Pyle' and in the Drill Seargent's over-the-top insults, and the famous 'Here's Johnny' sequence in 'The Shining'), but 'A Clockwork Orange' is perhaps his most biting speculative satire, and like I said, it's so grim many will fail to see the comedy.The plot is simple, an obnoxious but intellectual young gang leader named Alex(Malcom McDowell in what is easily his best performance)commits the vilest of deeds, is betrayed by his cronies who are sick of his tyranny, and volunteers for a reformative treatment which makes things worse than before. And it encompasses all spectrum's of comedy, from slapstick, sexual innuendo, irony and social satire. The wonky imagery, along with it's bizarre but blatant sexual overtones, ridiculous outfits and classical music score smacks not of a Kubrick film, but a Ken Russel film on drugs. Alex isn't really that different than cartoon character's like Woody Woodpecker, Bugs Bunny, and in some cases Mickey Mouse, or silent comedians like Chaplin's Tramp. He antagonizes people in a stylized manner, makes a bunch of dumb cracks then suffers last minute. There's a big difference, though. Here, we SEE and FEEL him pay for his crimes, and are forced to consider what we as an audience have accepted and voyeuristicly participated in, and makes us feel guilty. If that was Kubrick's only purpose, the film would still be a masterpiece, but it's just his secondary purpose.He explores just what happens when Alex is subjected to a 'cure' that will rob him of his violent impulses. It does rob him of his negative impulses, but it fails to make him 'good' so much as unresponsive, even when he needs those impulses. It also stops him from engaging in the only loves in his life that AREN'T destructive; his love of 'Ludwig Van', his neglected and manipulated, but still beloved parents and his pet snake(Symbolically representing his now circumcised manhood). For all of his crimes, his suffering is genuinely heartbreaking, AND WE STILL FEEL GUILTY ABOUT IT, since Alex is a character that we should have no reason to feel sorry for, but do anyway. One minute we are forced to be disgusted with liking him, then disgusted that we ever hated him. Brilliant, manipulative, but brilliant.Beyond that, the film poses the disturbing question about 'reform' programs: If it is unjust to rob someone as disgusting and deserving of punishment as Alex of his free will, then how much worse is it to subject lesser criminals or the mentally ill to such treatment? In real life, those lesser criminals or the mentally ill would be subjected to such treatment, and someone like Alex wouldn't get the chance, thus meaning that the truly innocent suffer even MORE undeservedly than the guilty. And then there's the implication that it all comes undone and that Alex returns to his old ways. So that means that in real life, lesser criminals would suffer FOR NOTHING.What a brilliant question to pose: If the guilty don't deserve it, who does? It's all a balancing act, social commentary, satire, horror, humor, but Kubrick makes it all work, and doesn't 'Take himself too seriously' for a second of it, unless you consider a rape scored to 'Singin' in the Rain' and women eager for an orgy sucking on phallic-shaped lollipops to be reverent and conservative and stuffy.Try and make a film as rich as that, 'Care-free filmmakers'. I dare you.~
If ever there was an over-rated Kubrick film, for my money, "Clockwork Orange" is probably it. I may be unfairly judging it because so many things since its initial release from any number of films glorifying violence to similarly themed bloody satires like "Natural Born Killers" or "Fight Club" to the pop phenomenon of gangster-rap have repeated the same message. What I prefer to do is view the film as I think it should be, a brilliant black comedy.There is maddening genius on display here amongst the anarchy in Kubrick's film adaptation of the controversial novel. From the quasi-futuristic set designs to the hilarious speech of the characters to the outlandish costumes, "Clockwork Orange" presents a future that doesn't seem that far-fetched, so we the viewer develop a certain familiar comfort level with the oddly off kilter surroundings we find ourselves in. The culture of fear it presents where elderly citizens and an incompetent government cower to roving bands of ultra-violent hooligans isn't that far removed from say, oh, I don't know, present day France or even America in some ways.What makes the film go down so well despite some of its shocking depictions of rape, violence, and torture, is that it never preaches to the viewer. Yes, there is something to be said about a culture of fear in an over-developed nation leading to an erosion of civil liberties and a totalitarian government parading as democracy....but let's face it, this film is in it more for the laughs (the facial expressions on Malcolm McDowell and Patrick Magee are especially uproarious), as its closing scenes will tell. Alex, was cured, alright, but we the viewers may never be.


                
I think I may have just found my new favourite director.Stanley Kubrick outstrips himself yet again with a fantastic piece of film based upon the novel 'A Clockwork Orange' written by Anthony Burgess. Filled with superb acting, direction, dialogue and absolutely timeless photography; Clockwork Orange is a true masterpiece, often defining at every moment exactly why we watch movies.Throughout we are treated a whole ensemble of fantastic and sometimes zany performances from the whole cast, with special mention to McDowell in the lead role as the ever deranged and sadistic Alex DeLarge. This is perhaps my favourite feature of the movie and is indeed an absolute treat from beginning to end to watch McDowell go through nearly every emotion imaginable with uttermost believability and conviction. Not only this but there are some characters I will never forget because of the their seemingly surreal and disorientated nature that defies all reality or even normality, if there is even such a thing in Kubrick's directorial palette. This is quite a bit to do with their actual dialogue actually, often showcasing very proper and old English grammar, which contrasts the very nature of the scenes it is being used in to grand effect.This is also why I often found myself chuckling during quite a few scenes in the film. Whether it was seeing DeLarge bending over to have his anus inspected or the over-the-top nature of the officer in charge of his cell-block (whom often reminded me of John Cleese of Monty Python fame of all things), I loved the odd breaks in drama for a bit of tongue in cheek, dark witty humour often left out of such films.This however is probably not why A Clockwork Orange is hailed as the classic it is today. Instead it is the completely believable and realistic portrayal of torture and violence born in a very bleak and not so distant dystopian society. The whole affair is brought to life accordingly and very successfully through the main characters and their distinctive obsessions of mindless violence and rape. It is these themes and many others present during the film that makes it one of the most thought provoking and emotionally startling films ever made to date. With his previous film Kubrick sought to provoke the mind, but with Clockwork, he goes mainly for the heart and strikes emotions that are very rarely or only mildly touched on by any other movies.Another couple of things before I wrap this up: the camera work and photography are again beautiful and Kubrick's unique vision comes across vividly in the film, creating a world not easily forgettable. Furthermore -and another trademark of his- is the perfect use of classical music where it is needed, creating a brilliant soundtrack instantly recognisable from all others.So there you have it, just a few reasons why this movie will more than likely having you gripped, with your eyes unable to move away from the screen, whether you like it or not. And yes, you'll probably walk away quite a different person than you were when you sat down. That's the mark of a great film, and that is exactly what Stanley Kubrick does with A Clockwork Orange, showing why he was one of the finest directors of modern cinema.
Perhaps a bit of both.  While the visual shock of the "ultraviolence" has diminished over time, the inherent perversity of the acts and the aloof demeanor and sociopathic sadism and apathy of the droogs can still elicit responses of disgust and repulsion from viewers.  However, the almost comic tone and musical-like choreography in Kubrick's presentation leave others wondering exactly how to react and undermine the perceived severity of the crimes being committed.  Nevertheless, Malcolm Macdowell effectively captures the amoral essence of Alex on-screen, his charismatic and well-mannered veneer belying his perverted and ingrained sociopathic tendencies.  After an arrogant power trip and betrayal by his disillusioned droogs, Alex goes to prison.  There, he learns of and enrolls in an experimental aversion therapy program in an effort to rehabilitate himself (although it is unclear if his motives are to get better or to get out of jail more quickly).  The tables are then turned on Alex, and the viewer is shown that the inhumanity of society's punishment is as repulsive as the depravity of Alex's crimes.  The film raises a variety of socially relevant questions: Is society truly able to ever rehabilitate criminals? (is this Alex's case solely, or youth in general?) What are the dangers of allowing society to remove free will in exchange for security?  What means, if any, are useful and/or justifiable to change the inherent nature of a person? With increased fear in the present age, societally and self-imposed suspensions of freedom, and recent phenomena like the reprehensible idea of "the criminal as victim", Burgess's prescience and Kubrick's provocative vision of Burgess's dystopia seem quite relevant and foreboding.
One of the most controversial, violent & disturbing films ever made, A Clockwork Orange is a meticulously crafted, ingeniously narrated & brilliantly performed cinema from Stanley Kubrick that presents the demanding perfectionist in sublime form as he blends violence, erotica, humour & classical compositions into one tightly structured & highly gripping sci-fi comedy to offer his biting take on morality, psychology & the importance of free will.Based on the novel of the same name, the story of A Clockwork Orange is set in the future Britain and follows Alex DeLarge; a delinquent youngster who leads a small gang of thugs, and covers his crime spree with his droogs, his subsequent capture by the police & his time in prison where he learns of an experimental aversion therapy which, if he manages to pass, will get him back on the streets but not everything during his rehabilitation goes the way he expected.Written, produced & directed by Stanley Kubrick, A Clockwork Orange makes its intentions very clear within its opening moments that it isn't going to be an easy sit for its audience as just one evening of 'ultra-violence' perpetrated by Alex & his droogs is enough to scar many but this sadistic nature of the depicted violence exists for a reason and plays a vital role in the story's outcome for Kubrick here aims to critique the bigger problem than the evilness of an individual.Just like any other Kubrick film, A Clockwork Orange is a work of painstaking craftsmanship that presents the filmmaker in complete control of his craft. Although his vision of the future Britain may not be entirely convincing but some of its elements are much in tune with where the current society seems to be heading. Production design team come up with set pieces that brim with sexual undertones while the excessive use of white colour is one of Kubrick's own trademarks.Cinematography is inventive, influential & effectively carried out for the camera makes very efficient use of its bright colour palette, lighting, shadows, fluid movements & close-ups to capture the unfolding drama and encapsulates the whole picture with an otherworldly feel. Despite clocking in at 136 minutes, its pacing is never an issue. Plus, the seamless manner in which the already existing classical compositions are fused with its disturbing images is certainly amongst the film's most spectacular aspects.Coming to the acting department, A Clockwork Orange is pretty much a one-man show as Malcolm McDowell steals every moment with a charismatic but equally maniacal rendition of his character and his screen presence is so magnetic that it makes Alex DeLarge one of the most fascinating antiheroes to surface in cinema history. Although the performances by everyone, including McDowell may seem overly theatrical, it eventually works out in favour of the picture for it adds a sardonic element in an already bizarre narrative.On an overall scale, A Clockwork Orange has aged tremendously well over the years and only gets more rewarding on every subsequent viewing. Frightening & witty in equal doses, controversial on the grounds of its violent imagery yet an eye-opener when it comes to the subject of morality, this socio-political satire remains as relevant today as it was during its time of release and its critical take on mental conditioning that aims to control an individual by removing his or her ability to choose transcends the realms of psychology itself. Highly recommended. Multiple viewings advised.


                
In Kubrick's adaptation of Anthony Burgess' bizarre 1959 dystopian novel, a juvenile delinquent (Malcolm McDowell) and his gang of droogs whittle away their time partaking in such wholesome activities as beating homeless drunks, warring with rival gangs, raping helpless women, and enjoying the music of Ludwig Van Beethoven. There are two things happening in this film: one that Kubrick inherited from Burgess' writing, and another that is endemic to the cinematic medium.The first role of 'A Clockwork Orange (1971)' is as a rather vicious political satire, dryly mocking the hypocrisy of the government and its policies on institutionalisation and criminal rehabilitation. In the film, the Minister of the Interior (Anthony Sharp) is depicted as opportunistic and self-serving, latching onto the unproven Ludovico technique in a bid to stem his party's failing popularity with voters. When public opinion turns against the therapy, the Minister very swiftly back-peddles, reversing the treatment so that Alex may return to his former ultra-violent ways: "I was cured alright!"The UK edition of Burgess' novel contained a final chapter in which Alex sees the error of his former ways, and vows to reform into a productive member of society. Kubrick was unaware of this addition until he had almost completed the screenplay, and never considered using it in the film. This was, I think, a good decision. Burgess' ending shies away from the problem: by letting human nature run its course, he seems to be implying that the problem of juvenile delinquency will sort itself out. Kubrick, admittedly, doesn't offer any solutions of his own, but the corrupt manner in which he ends the film leaves a sour taste.The Ludovico technique involves the screening of movies, which also allows Kubrick room for a degree of self-referentiality. It is in the audiences' nature to recoil from acts of sex and violence, and Kubrick's hard-nosed, deliberately-subversive approach (utilising the perspective of its biased protagonist and narrator) only encourages this response. Just as Alex is exposed to the Ludovico aversion therapy, Kubrick is exposing his audience to the same treatment. Does it work? Do we become desensitised to the violence, or do we begin to associate socially- accepted cues (i.e. Beethoven's Ninth, "Singing in the Rain") with acts of evil?
I have waited too long to finally watch this movie.
I always thought the cover didn't look appealing, I didn't know much about Kubrick, the white clothes looked silly, I thought this would be a random gang violence movie, 'A clockwork orange' - I couldn't think of anything meaningful to it.
But I can tell you, there's more behind this movie and it is definitely worth a watch !!!


                
My Rating : 9/10I watched A Clockwork Orange when I was a teenager and it became my favourite. I have watched it several times and love how disturbing it is.It is still a favourite no doubt but I've seen many more movies since then.
This is easily in the Top 3 Kubrick films along with Spartacus and 2001: A Space Odyssey for me.


                
Kubrick proves what a master director he is with this one. Its a really unique film filled with stunning camera work, amazing set design, and a mesmerizing lead performance from Malcolm McDowell. Its definitely not for everyone, its a dark and cynical film, but if your a art house fan who appreciates serious subject matter then its not one you want to miss.


                
Minor spoilersThe plot of this film involves a group of street thugs having a bit offun at the expense of everyone they meet.  The groups youngleader, Alex, finally runs afoul of the law and decides to enter anew re-education program to "cure" himself of violent behaviour. There are better plot synopses out there, I leave the rest to them,and turn to reviewing the content.Another reviewer remarked that the violence, consideredoutrageous at the time this film was released, no longer seemedshocking on screen.  Despite the recent explosion in violentimagery on film, Clockwork Orange does not seem dated at all. Modern violence scenes, even those in which the charactersexpress as little remorse as Alex and his pals do in this film, seemto be more emotional.  The use of classical music in thebackground of violent imagery, or Alex's rendition of Singing in theRain as he beats the liberal author and rapes his wife, somehowseparate the action on screen from the normal emotions a viewerwould feel upon seeing such things.  Because of that, this filmstruck me as far more violent than any of the Tarantino-style flicksreleased these days.The moral issues discussed in Clockwork Orange are even morefascinating than the wonderful portrayals of detached violence.  Asa civil libertarian, people sometimes face me with the question ofwhether I could hold onto those ideals if it were *my* loved oneswhose security were threatened.  I enjoyed seeing the liberalauthor face this dilemma when Alex suddenly reappears in his life.This is probably the 3rd Kubrick film to watch, behind Strangeloveand Full Metal Jacket, and before Shining.  If you need a fifthKubrick film to watch, just watch Strangelove again.  Thesimiliarities between Orange and 2001 begin and end with thescore, despite 2001's "cameo" appearance during Alex's trip to therecord store.  I never miss a chance to warn Kubrick fans to stayaway from the horrible 2001, but Clockwork Orange I highlyrecommend to any fan of other Kubrick films.
I read on Wikipedia that this film has been accused of glorifying violence? What the heck? Only people as sick as Alex DeLarge can like and be hungry for more of this after watching him for two hours. Only sociopaths. Alex DeLarge is a sick, sick character. I felt repulsed, angry, sick and hateful watching him and his doings. It felt good to see him get arrested and tortured by his treatment. But it hit me that when he got his treatment, the doctors and the politicians responsible was doing virtually the same things to him. They took away Alex's free will by torturing him, threw him out on the street unable to defend himself and when he got beaten up and tortured by the people he had offended earlier in the movie it was really the governments fault. They almost killed him and was applauded for it, even though they were just as evil as him, cause they knew they didn't make him a better man, they were fully aware that they were just restricting him violently to make him a better man TO SOCIETY. And I felt sick. Just like Alex I felt really nauseous. It all felt so meaningless. Everyone and everything was sick, everyone was violated, everyone got hurt, everyone just thought of themselves and not of others. It made me wanna throw up! The government just wanted to use Alex, first to front their new program, then to ensure that he didn't give them bad publicity after their treatment almost killed him. Yes, he is a sick sociopath, but so is the government people. They say that Kubricks intention with Clockwork was to attack the treatment. And its probably true, but for me this is just as much a study of all that is bad in mankind, and it really made me feel how bad we humans can be! In the end, Alex turns out just as bad as he started, maybe even worse, because of the violent treatment. And he's glad for it. He's back on the track of violence and raping and he is LOVING it. In Alex' own words: "I was cured all right". The violence made him worse. The bastards made the bastard worse.Many movies glorifies violence. But never before has a movie made me feel THIS repulsed by it. Now, an hour after seeing the movie, I still feel like crap. Violence makes nothing but more violence, and no one can be cured from anything by violent means. This movie showed me, made me FEEL that one thing clearer than anything has ever done before: Nothing good comes out of violence! Absolutely NOTHING! It just strengthens, expands and makes evil. I had never thought that I would love to be repulsed by a movie.We should think about that after watching violent action movies. Why do we enjoy violence so much? And I'm the first to say that I do so myself! I find movies like Die Hard very entertaining. But why? After all it is horrible, and that is what makes A Clockwork Orange a masterpiece, what makes it unique; it makes us feel the horror of violence and evil. No other movies that I can think of does that, at least not in such a degree that I have felt literally near vomiting. And that effect is outstanding, cause that's how we ought to feel. In a way, Die Hard is a much more dangerous movie to see for children than this, cause it portrays violence as cool and entertaining. And THAT is scary!So I ask myself: Can you really like and be fascinated by a movie this repulsive? Yes, when it is horrible for a purpose! And the purpose is strong messages against violence and perhaps even more important against the "justified violence", that the society does for "the common good". I would very much like to give 10/10 but the middle-part could've been paced/altered slightly, so I'll settle for a strong 9/10. Perhaps Kubricks greatest.
I'm writing this review years after seeing this movie. The reason? Just because I think it has one of the all time great scenes in movies...the scene where the anti-hero of the piece finds religion. When you see why he is attracted to Christianity, you will soil yourself! I think this scene illustrates the human condition...we believe all sorts of things without really understanding them, which is why this scene is so funny.Anyway, this is a movie about a gang of thugs who terrorise people. The State captures one and tries to 'reform' him...using some quite disturbing techniques. Perhaps this film is about human nature and whether it can be changed or not.This film has many images that will stick with you forever-the sequence where the anti-hero discovers religion; the scene where the State tries to 'reform' the anti-hero, and some of the bizarre art featured in it-like the statues of the ladies in a bar, or the giant rocking gonad.A disturbing yet funny movie about bad eggs and 'remedies' for them.


                
This is probably the baddest movie in history(and when I say bad I don't mean a horrible movie, I mean bad as in what the characters do in it.) It is actually probably the best movie of the 70's. It got hosed at the Oscars and should've beat the French Connection for best picture. The only reason that it didn't is because people were shocked at the movie and that it was the first film in history to be rated "X".Malcom Mcdowell does a great job playing Alex DeLarge in this movie. Every character in this movie actually does do a really nice job.The plot is great and very original. It keeps you on the edge of your seat waiting for what will be coming up next.The movie is phenomenal but definitely not for everyone to see 9/10


                
As relevant today as when the film was made 30 years ago, Kubrick's film has become a classic. I include it in my best ten. With keen penetrating vision Kubrick has given us a slice of life as it was....and still is. Let's face it....what has changed? Rampant youths stealing cars, breaking into homes, daubing walls with grafitti, overdosing on drugs, bashing the elderly, involving themselves in murder, rape and terrorism.  What a prophetic film! And how magnificently does Andrew McDowell portray the character of Alex Delarge (under Kubrick's expert direction).  This actor was at the right place at the right time and Kubrick seized the opportunity.  McDowell has never done better than his role in "A Clockwork Orange".The various brutal acts performed by Alex and his gang have been amply described by other reviewers.  They are scenes not easily forgotten, and the hatred, disgust and loathing captured in Alex's expression is a credit to his acting ability.Alex's so-called rehabilitation was an interesting part of the film. While "aversion therapy" is not so much in use to-day because of the introduction of new medications, to have one's neck clamped and eyelids pinned back is an unenviable position to be in and actual torture for Alex. The subsequent testing of the success of the treatment by exposing a naked woman in close proximity to Alex in front of the assessing medical fraternity seemed to me to be primitive to an extreme, but it made good cinema.The media report on Alex's attempted suicide with its political ramifications brought a new sense of power to Alex. As the Government Minister pandered to his every need, even feeding him with a fork. (I laughed outright at this point. It was such a humourous situation).The film does not state what happens to Alex.  It gives us little hope.The best that can be said is that Kubrick thrusts the facts directly at us and just as in the ""aversion therapy" we cannot turn away. This film has such a strong message. What has happened in these intervening years....what have we accomplished to put things right? Sad to say....nothing!


                
One of Stanley Kubrick's best. Alex DeLarge is my favorite character in cinematic history. The film takes such an ugly idea of a young man and he's goons spending their free time drinking drug filled milk, beating up homeless men and breaking into peoples house and doing some very ungentlemanly acts; and then still not being able to get to school the next day. That idea is then filled with some amazing cinematography, brilliant music, dark humor and an unconventionally likable main character that it becomes a masterpiece. Also the way they speak in just awesome. It is a serious mind-flip of a film but I love it and if you are fan of strange films, you should definitely check this one out.


                
England, the future: Alex (Malcolm McDowell) and his gang of 'droogs' lead a campaign of terror, raping and beating the innocent at will. After Alex is sent to prison for murder, he is subjected to aversion therapy designed to cure his violence, but finds himself a pawn in a political struggle.Stanley Kubrick's 1971 dystopian sci-fi, based on the cult novel by Anthony Burgess, deals with the theme of freedom of choice vs. social order, questioning the ethics of depriving an individual of fundamental human liberties for the sake of the stability of the state, whilst raising numerous thought-provoking questions on the subjects of morality, good and evil and the abuse of power.There's plenty for the brain to chew over for sure, but it's never a dull experience, being one of the most consistently visually impressive and evocative films of the 70s, a stunning assault on the senses boasting an unforgettable central performance from McDowell, countless memorable supporting characters (my favourite being Alex's creepy post corrective officer, Mr Deltoid, played by Aubrey Morris. Yesss.), a wonderful classical/synth soundtrack, endlessly quotable dialogue, and, for those who like their cult cinema on the controversial side, lashings of the old ultra-violence (as Alex would say).8.5/10, rounded up to 9 for IMDb.


                
Saw it about a week ago. Heard about it from a colleague who told me he almost wet himself from the get go. So I just bought it and saw it. First of I'd like to say it was a pretty good movie with an original idea considering when it was made. The movie is about a teenager whose soul passions are Beethoven and "Ultra violence". The movie starts off with Alex the main character and his companions in a milk bar. The movie can be divided in 3 parts from this point on. The first part, we are presented with the mischief that Alex and his gang do, like raping a woman and beating up her husband, getting in a gang fight and other nasty stuff. Because of some arguments Alex had with his gang members he got left at a crime scene so the Cops caught him. At this point we proceed with the second part, in which Alex is imprisoned and starts reassessing his life up to this moment. He behaves well and thus is recruited sort of speak for a new experiment that is meant to stop violent behavior. After the terrifying experiment (which involves showing violent images while playing Beethoven's fifth) Alex is unable to commit any violence acts so as a result he is released on parole. This marks the beginning of the third part. After being released Alex returns to his home where he soon learns that things change. He's parents rented out his room, the people who were abused by him get their revenge, and so on and so forth. The last person that gets its revenge is the man whose wife he killed and left him a cripple. The man locks him in a room and plays only Beethoven's fifth symphony which leads to Alex's meltdown and he's attempted suicide. The end of the movie like in all my other revisions I won't give away, you'll have to see it for yourself. So in the end just to summarize "Clockwork Orange" is a brilliantly thought out movie about violence, which everyone should see at least once in their life.
it took me a long time to understand why i liked this movie so much.i do not only liked this movie but felt so personal about it,i started thinking about this movie all the time.the feeling of exploring and experiencing something new and unique took over my mind.i never believed that the art of movie making can be so pleasantly shocking, daring and sensational.the movie is also very thought-provoking satire,a precisely correct vision of our dark future,where we are heading ourself in future.the movie was challenging and daring as the movie shows the failure of society and system at every point in a very straightforward manner.the futuristic tale of a teenage boy Alex set in Britain,Alex whose fascination is for all the deplorable and shameful criminal activities.the fascination of Alex towards all those crimes can be figure out by looking into the world where he lives.the future world of anarchy,chaos and immorality.all the things he did was in his ignorance.in fact he was the product of the society where morals and wisdom have been extinguished long before Alex was born.there was no sense of good and bad in him,all those crimes was his means of entertainment,he find them equally amusing as Beethoven was amusing for him.the movie shows the decline of culture and morals,lack of communication bw. parents and children through the relationship of Alex with his parents.the story shows two stages of Alex at first,a completely evil machine created by society and was programmed for anarchy and chaos.at the second when he betrayed by friends and sent to prison where he was selected for a test.the alteration of Alex from completely evil to completely good was very painful and unjustifiable.the movie here also shows the failure of the system to understand the problem and its inability to find solution properly.when Alex returned from prison,he was abused and condemned,without realizing his condition he was punished for what he had done previously.Alex was called a clockwork orange because he was like a machine(a robot),at the both stages.at first a pure evil programmed for anarchy and chaos.and the second one was of pure good where he was painfully programmed to do only good.a human is a mixture of good and bad both but Alex had no understanding to choose bw. good and bad,he was living in ignorance like a robot,without realizing what he was doing, without any insight of it.Alex was played by Malcolm McDowell perfectly,he was the best choice for the role.Alex was evil-minded,sinister and a monster and also a nescient teenage boy living in ignorance.the brilliant performance by Malcolm McDowell convey the message perfectly.direction of Stanley Kubrick was flawlessly path-breaking and imaginative.everything was perfect with the movie,the dialogues in archaic form maintained the feel of the novel and the soundtrack was also brilliant.the sets and costumes was designed very perfectly to give the bizarre feel of the movie.a clockwork orange is a movie can be consider as ahead of its time,even at the present time no one can think about making a movie like this.a clockwork orange crossed all the limits of movie making showing the way for the filmmakers from all over the world to do something path-breaking, unconventional and extraordinary.at last,i have to say that this movie can be easily misconceived by anybody,so watch it carefully with an open-mind and don't jump to conclusions instantly,think deeply about it.
When I was told to watch this film for the first time I wasn't really interested in it at all. Upon watching the movie and seeing the credits I realised that i had taken for granted possibly one of the most beautiful and timeless films that iv'e seen for a while. A Clockwork Orange should be considered one of the must watch films of the past 50 years.The actual story is one that tries to teach a lesson. That lesson being that you cant control people, as it causes more bad than good. This idea is put well in the book, but after watching the film I was left with an idea of empty purpose. If your looking for an emotional film then this is it, but certainly not a film that teaches any strong messages.The acting in the film is superb and Malcolm McDowl truly pulls of the character of Alex, making the film that much better. You will laugh, you will feel pity and you will feel angry. All at the same time with him pulling off the cheeky character of Alex that's telling a story of a young criminals journey of madness .Another notable performance is that of Michael Bates, Whose role as the prison Capitan brings in a quirky and comedic feeling in a somewhat dim setting.For me personally the use of music in this film is what helps bring it a notch above the rest. Its classical music approach is perfect for the film and suits the settings and characters better than any other film does. My favorite being "The Funeral of Queen Mary", by Wendy Carlos which epitomizes the film to a degree of perfection.This film is one of the most important and special films of the 20th century. It caused controversy and hate among people, but despite it all came through it to be seen as a cinematic masterpiece that will be enjoyed for years to come.
Malcolm McDowall's Alex is easily one of the best leads ever to make it to celluloid, he's truly a thing to see. Alex is just right, the right mannerisms, the right tone of voice, the right expressions. They say no movie can compete with a person's imagination. They are wrong. I've read the book, but this interpretation of it is better than I could ever imagine. Just the inspired narration already gives you the idea that you're watching something brilliant. A lot of the genius to this movie is in the way the violence is handled. Innocent people get beaten up all the time, and Kubrick manages to make it look really beautiful. The classical music is a great touch as well. I watch Kubrick movies mainly for the stories that are always well-developed and the cinematography, but the actors steal this movie. Not that Kubrick's efforts are any less remarkable though. I'm running out of hyperboles, but this is a marvellous work, one of Kubrick's true masterpieces.


                
