The case of O.J. Simpson is one that received wide scale media coverage and attention with the events being closely followed by many and is now the topic of season 1 of FX's new biographical crime drama, American Crime Story. However despite this, this show manages to remain just as gripping and haunting as the case was in real life.The acting is across the board incredibly strong with not a weak performance among the main ensemble; Cuba Gooding Jr. and John Travolta in particular stand out. The writing is sharp, never is it overly formulaic or mundane but understandable and real, tension is built tremendously from the dialogue alone. But above all the direction is excellent, the tone is established straight from the beginning and it is crafted to such a high quality.There is rarely a dull or wasted moment throughout, the story and pacing remains tight with no parts lacking in comparison to the soaring heights. The show, as said in the title of this review, is both evocative and powerful. The some of it's parts truly do this story justice and will more than likely stir something within you that compels you to keep watching and to examine this story in much more detail. As far as crime dramas go, this feels, to a certain extent, rather fresh and different in comparison to what has come before.The show looks set to keep reaching new heights and it is off a magnificent start.


                
At first I thought who needs to see all this again but once I started watching it I was hooked. The pilot moves quickly from discovery of the bodies (and they are shown) to fleeing down the highway in the Bronco. There are so many details and people that come flooding back and it's interesting to see things put together in a quick moving episode. Lots of details are included that you won't have pictured in your mind at the time because they didn't come out all at the same time in sequence. With race, money, abuse, celebrity it's still the crime of the 20th century.The A list cast is hit and miss. Cuba Gooding is an enthusiastic actor but too small in size to play OJ. He looks shorter than the other male actors around him. Should have chosen someone more physically imposing. Sarah Paulson looks enough like Marcia Clark with the wig. Surprisingly David Schwimmer as Robert Kardashian looks like him if you check out photos. John Travolta as Shapiro has some strange eyebrows but he is fascinating to watch. Selma Blair as Kris Kardashian is also a good fit. Connie Britton looks a bit too healthy to be Faye Resnick but these are all people you like to see on screen. The link with the Kardashians is quite interesting to watch.Well done and very voyeuristic and entertaining.


                
The series so far follow the O.J. Simpson trial and the Andrew Cunanan murder spree and both are hooking and must see tv. The acting is top class and storyline keeps you interested and anticipating the next episode throughout both series'. I hope there is a series 3 as both these series made me research both events after I finished. 10/10, 5/5, amazing, must see.


                
This show is brilliant.I just finished watching the premiere, and I am blown away by its sophistication and complexity. Ryan Murphy is a masterful director. He has succeeded, so far, in handling the varying issues of the case with sympathy and truth. The show captures the complete essence of 1990's and has a very professional look and feel. The racial tensions at the time, blended with the austerity of the case, OJ's celebrity, the naiveté of the prosecution, and the madness of the media, are all captured here. The actors are at the top of their game. Sarah Paulson embodies Marcia Clark. She is overworked, ambitious, idealistic, and unaware of what she is up against. I envision a future Emmy nomination for Paulson. Her portrayal is spot on, and allows the viewer to empathize with Clark- who was unfairly portrayed by the media at the time. Cuba Gooding Jr. and John Travolta are all standouts here as well. Some of the message boards have criticized Selma Blair's acting. I, however, think she has done a great job of capturing the vanity and nuance of Kris Jenner. In the short airtime she has in episode one, I think she has done a great job of playing a flawed and well known figure. I cannot wait to see how the show will deal with Faye Resnick, Detective Mark Fuhrman, and the rest of the key players in the case, and in the media. For now, I am hooked. This is a definite must watch.


                
Incredible, season 2 is brilliant and a story you wouldn't fathom could be true. The direction is stunning which underpins the horror. I would say season 2 is the polar opposite of the OJ season, but in the most positive senses the word. It's really more of a character portrait and a study of homophobia in the 90's over a courtroom and media circus.


                
Season 2 A perfect 10 for 10! This was not only great casting by the film producers in selecting versatile actor Edgar Ramírez as Gianni Versace and his serial killer Andrew Cunanan, played by TV star of Glee (2010-2015) fame, Darren Criss, but all the other key people in Gianni Versace's life. Versace's partner Antonio D'Amico, played by singing sensation Ricky Martin, and Versace's sister Donatella Versace, played by Penélope Cruz, provided the audience with how real and how tragic this crime really was.Gianni Versace loved living in Miami and he also loved being able to walk down the street to his favorite local cafe to drink coffee and read the newspaper, and when he felt like it talk to the locals. As a designer of fine clothes and a fashion legend, Gianni was at the top of his game. Even the police and FBI agents assigned to the case were all selected for this mini series for their specific parts with obvious care. If I compare this mini series to some of the crappy character selections such as in the current TV series S.W.A.T., or Criminal Minds, where everyone of the starring roles is provided to an attractive under 35 actor/actress, these shows rely on eye candy and not on content.Actor Edgar Ramírez is a true chameleon who shows in this mini series how superb a character actor he actually is who dives deep into the great role of Gianni Versace, playing the designer with both elegance and display for the love of the people that surrounded him continuously. Darren Criss who plays the serial killer Andrew Cunanan, was blessed with good looks and an ability to lie his way "in and out" of any situation as he so chose. These men have lived two lives that could not be anymore different. Their sexuality is what they have in common. One man, Versace is world renowned, a gifted fashion designer and is loved by everyone. The other man Cunanan, had humble beginnings but desired to live a rich and privileged lifestyle without having to work for anything.The senseless point blank and intentional targeted murder of Gianni Versace by Andrew Cunanan, initiated an international media frenzy, and one of the largest police investigations in the U.S. to make an arrest before serial killer Andrew Cunanan could/would kill again.This mini-series provides its audience with a significant historical adaptation of the events leading up to Versace's murder and the events leading up to the eventual capture of serial killer Andrew Cunanan. The screenplay is excellent, the story which as any good historical series should be able to do seamlessly flips between past and present situations that occurred. I cannot say enough about the entire cast who deliver their parts with a realism seldom seen which portrays the real life characters they are portraying.Kudos to the entire production company, the screenwriters, the various directors who sewed the scenes together, and the actors/actresses who dived into their individual roles with a heart felt love for the real life people they were paid to portray. I cannot wait until this mini-series is released as a Blu Ray special edition.A perfect 10 for 10!


                
Oh man... So sad it's over! Why so short??! 
Murphy, you are an artist god. I very much loved the second season than the first one. I mean, the OJ's was very good, but not so much has the Versace's. Maybe it's because i'm European, or maybe it's because im used to all the crimes in USA, that we watch in films and on the news, so the OJ's case i always saw it like another "normal" (not normal at all!) us boring thing. Did he did it or Not? And on Versace's case it was always the "why".. which was also the typical young traumatized child, who wasnt loved by one or both is parents/family, who was thought to be a fight dog and who would eventually bite. The psychological level on this season was more intriguing and exciting. Everyone on this season has done an incredible job, and the actors are amazing. Your Cunanan, is impossible to hate... even 'tho we all know what he did..! Versace is a total look-alike. Congrats also to Penelope, she has portrayed a lovely Donnatella.


                
The original events virtually hijacked a year out of my life, as I was certain of O.J. Simpson's guilt the first time he gave a press conference after her death, with the typical abuser's tripe about how Nicole hit him too. I was skeptical about this series at first, because I thought that out of fear of offending those who cling stubbornly to the idea that he was actually not guilty, they were going to try to straddle the fence, leaving the viewer to ponder what actually occurred on the night of the murder. But I was thrilled to see that this movie is showing events as they truly happened, not as his defense team tried to muddle up by casting law enforcement officers as the villains, instead of the man who carried his domestic abuse to the ultimate finale, by butchering his ex-wife, as well as a completely innocent bystander. Bravo. The only disappointment for me was the casting of Cuba Gooding Jr as O.J., David Schwimmer as Robert Kardashian, and John Travolta as Robert Shapiro. It seemed that since the producers went to such lengths to make the rest of the cast look almost identical to the real characters, they wouldn't have settled on these actors. I love them all as actors, but they are just not physically appropriate, and I find it a bit distracting. Maybe as the season progresses, my eyes will eventually accept them as who they are meant to portray.


                
One of the best shows I have seen in a while. There's a lot to say here about the intelligent direction, writing and overall masterful performances of a cast that mostly feels like was born to play these roles. OK, so it's about the most famous trial in US history, but it's so well done, every aspect of the show is handled extremely well. Including the ending which I thought was brilliant. We all know what happened and it's interesting to see it unfold from all the angles that were involved in this case. The highlight of the show is Sarah Paulson who plays Marcia Clark. Wow, such a fantastic performance. It's all in the eyes. You can tell this case waa very tough for her and as her character evolves throughout the season, so does her appearance in the sense that she feels more and more tired and frustrated. Everyone's great here. Travolta is fine, and he's by far the worst performance here. But still, I found it to be right between spectacular and mediocre. It's OK at best. It seems like he was going for the rich white man who goes to country clubs approach. Sometimes, he just comes across as an overacting prick who exaggeerates the way he talks and his facial expressions.The show is fantastic, overall. I loved it.


                
This is without question the greatest television show I have ever seen. Here is why:1. The acting: This show has better than movie performances by Cuba and Travolta, along with the rest of the cast. I could literally feel OJ's pain when I saw Cuba portraying him in the back of the bronco with the gun to his head. I really cannot remember being so moved by a performance from TV or even a movie. And in my opinion this is Travolta's best performance I've seen yet. 2. The script: It is very well written and in such a way as to feel like it was an actual portrayal of how it all went down. To me this is one of the most important things in documentary dramas and this show nails it.3. The pace: The pacing is just perfect in this show. Its obvious to anyone that watches.There is more I could write about, but basically if you haven't seen this and you like these genre you will love this show.
I cannot say enough things about this show with the long Title, Ryan Murphy has done it again and this time in my opinion struck gold, I love the way the story was told and more specifically I love the way Darren Criss played the role of "Andrew" this guy is gonna go places, this actor was able to play every emotion and played it all masterfully and perfectly, as of this writing I know he already won an Emmy and a Golden Globe, to me it's not enough praise for this actor. Darren Criss is going to be a name that's going to be remembered mark my words!!! I cannot say enough about him, just watch this show and see what this guy did, it's remarkable. Now to the rest of the cast, Edgar Ramirez was nothing short of amazing also in the role of "Gianni" and I also have to mention another up and coming actor his name is Cody Fern he played the role of "David" and let me tell you he played fear and pain so perfectly he should get an award for his performance as well. Every actor in this series was amazing don't get me wrong, but those three were phenomenal. The show looked great, the cinematography and music was also great, just watch this show People I can go on and on about how great it is, but I'm gonna stop here.
I discovered at the end credits of the 10th episode that this a true story, that the character portrayed have been real. I had no knowledge of that court case, living and growing abroad. It was a very surprising and fascinating discovery.In call cases, this series is absolutely tremendous. The acting, the storytelling, the writing, editing is of the highest calibre. I wish that judge Lance Ito's character would have been developed a bit further. That the story would show more of him and his life outside the courtroom, like for other important characters, as it's very interesting character as well. It's possible the production tried some episodes doing that and may have realized it works better by keeping the judge Ito more mysterious by showing less of his personal life.Finally, the cinematography is technically excellent but I think it could have gone a bit "further" and more "creative" in some scenes as there is potential to play with in the courtroom especially. But of course, usually, on these series, there is so much pages of script to get in one day that it just reduces opportunities to play with the image and lighting... which is often what makes the difference with feature films.Regardless, this series is absolutely great work.


                
Amazing. Totally amazing!! Most deserving of all awards won


                
For both seasons so far they've been really good. And amazing writing.


                
Addicting. Just really well done. Kept me completely engaged.


                
How do you make an 8 hour movie where everyone knows the ending and NOT bore the audience? They did it here with this first rate production.This is based on the book by Toobin that i read years ago and they stuck with the book and did not take sides. Simpson is neither monster nor martyr in this movie. Gooding plays him as a rather dim-witted man who may or may not have done it.Everyone was excellent but esp the guy who played judge Ito. He physically looked just like him and also behaved just like the Ito i remember from 20 years ago. At the end of the movie, they said Ito never wrote a book about this case while everyone else in the case did.


                
When it comes to cutting edge dramas, no one does it well like FX. The first entry in the American Crime Story series, the People vs. OJ Simpson, recreates the moments when OJ fled the scene of a murder in one of the most popular crime stories of all time. There are some changes to make it different from real life, but the casting is well done and the way its shot is good. The music and soundtrack is well done, and Cuba Gooding Jr. is pretty good as OJ. I'm sure FX will do good with the story based on Hurricane Katrina and its impact on America. I think it's better than American Horror Story and more educational for young people like me.


                
From various news sources, Fred Goldman was asked to respond to the show, its actors and its production. He responded critically stating that the show did not focus on the victims, he was not consulted, and the actors playing on OJ's team should be ashamed. While he owns the right to express such criticism, perhaps Mr. Goldman can take some solace in larger lessons about his son's role in the case. Clearly, OJ's defense team won that case based on appeals to vindicate systematic racism within LAPD, given the revelations from Mark Fuhrman and the unhealed wounds from the Rodney King beating and trial. But it is only with so powerful a force that the otherwise dispositive evidence of OJ's guilt in that case could be offset and overcome. Thus, Ron (and Nicole) are fairly viewed as tragic but real sacrifices for the greater cause of combatting racism. Put another way, how much reputational harm, loss of prestige and subsequent reform did LAPD have to undergo after the OJ fiasco, given that it singularly lost the most high profile case of the 20th century – and saw Ron and Nicole's murders publicly, shockingly and painfully unvindicated – because of necessary political compensation for LAPD's history of wrongs against minorities.Few people can claim that they taxed the forces of racism so heavily. By participating in the show – which by all accounts was brilliantly done – all actors, producers and other individuals deserve praise for keeping alive the memory of how expensive racism can be. Ron Goldman and Nicole Brown are the murdered currency by which those lessons are perpetuated through time, by public reminders like the TV show in question. For the family of the victims, while the pain of loss and injustice can never be erased and perhaps not even mitigated, the perception that Ron died needlessly can be offset by the reality that the price his death exacted against the forces of racism was as steep and as glorious as anyone could dream.Benjamin Pavone, Esq. Civil Rights Attorney


                
