OJ himself has less to be ashamed of than the people who contributed to this cinematic disaster. The first episode is the expected true crime drama tripe but with A & B -list actors. Absolutely wooden performances by Travolta & Schwimmer and Cuba is trying so hard you half expect him to turn to camera and remind us that he won an Oscar 2 decades ago. All the sensationalist boxes are checked on this one... it's like looking through the tabloids of the checkout aisle in the 90s.Marcia Clark's chain smoking and divorce The obligatory scene with the Kardashian children running through the funeral. Mark Fuhrman's issues Kato! (stoned and stupid) etc... If you like trash TV... then this may be for you, if not this is to be avoided.


                
Im only giving this show a 2 out of 10 for the simple fact it may prompt a younger generation to spend some time researching the actual events .... Trust me from the beginning to the end the real thing is SOOOO much better, instead of clouding your mind with little tidbits of false information... I must admit it re-sparked my interest in the whole thing and i binge watched the whole "real" thing as closely as i could to how anyone watching it on live TV would have. Why watch a show u have to wait for when the main points already happened minus the terrible acting among other inaccuracies. Thats all i have to say about this, it could of been a lot better


                
Basically, once again, the name of Versace is used to sell something else. Also, the story about the killer is boring and things seen a thousand times in other films about killers and serial killers. Nothing new! Boring and cliche. So much filler, like the story of Jeff Trail but man other scenes. Many things seem there only for shock value. Plus the storyline is weird, it goes back and forward WAY too many times and it's not clear often, I think this is done to give some sort of originality and confuse the viewer because otherwise it would be a very boring and cliche story.


                
Well, the jury is out. I've just seen the first two episodes. But if this is a prelude of what's to come, the raving reviews from the 25 or so who have responded thus far seem to be coming from the paid hacks and shills and cheerleaders of the series.Jeeze! I was watching real time of the O.J. chase, the arrest, the trial, etc. This series, so far, seems to be fabricating stuff out of thin air. Can you imagine the defense attorneys REALLY relating what they were thinking at the time? Or, Marsha Clark, who never looked so good with her new hairdo just for the series? Ugh! I was hoping for a rather authentic document-drama. Not this bunch of hype, tripe and fake made-for-TV drama.If I can stand watching a few more episodes, I can't wait to see how they treat Judge Lance Ito.


                
I wanted to enjoy this series to relive/learn about this huge event of the 90's, but David Scwimmer and Cuba Gooding? OJ was/is a confident guy, and all I can now hear in the back of my head is Cuba Gooding constantly crying for "mamma" and a glass of orange juice. And is David Schwimmer supposed to be Robert Kardashian or is he still Ross? Every scene he is in he looks like he is about to burst out in tears. They do a good job of recreating the events, but the acting was unbearable. I felt like this was some weird montage of Theo Huxtable, Ross Geller, Radio, and "the now much older" Vinnie Barbarino.


                
Why does Donatella Versace have a Spanish accent? Rhetorical. Poor casting.


                
