Season 1 was fantastic, season 2 was dreadfully slow placed and just plain boring.


                
Straight off the bat, is this The People vs O.J Simpson or a Origin story for Keeping up with the Kardashian's? I watched the 1st episode with true excitement. The cast names traveling the screen was like a IMDb top 50 list. it started well until we meet David Schwimmer's "Bobby Kardashian", his monotone delivery and facial expressions baffled me. Travolta as Shapiro will haunt my nightmares for years to come, bad delivery, even worse make-up. Sitting with my American girlfriend, even she didn't have a clue as to what was going on. Cuba isn't actually half bad, although if I hear the word "Juice" again I will probably have to go to the toilet, as I felt I was watching a Minute Maid commercial. Now the Kardashian angle is my biggest turn off. Why the need to have Selma Blair at all baffled me, the "kids" running around at the funeral and the constant need to throw in the Kardashian name at every opportunity. Then to top it all off you have the Pubescent KKK SPELLING their name. S-E-R-I-O-U-S-L-Y?? I will continue to watch, just through plain intrigue, but this needs to focus more on O.J and less on the hangers on who found fame through their Father.


                
I can't stand watching this. I'm sure it's a beautifully -made series and it does have a great cast, but the only sections I can watch without squirming (and puking) are the behind-the-scenes sections involving the police and the LA judicial system. The sequences involving OJ, his lawyers, handlers, family, posse, and hangers-on, and their interactions with each other and the press&public, are so overblown and overdrawn that half of me can't believe it and the other half is revolted. Are celebrities (and their pilot fish, the celebrity lawyers, celebrity agents and celebrity "business associates")really this mawkish, clannish, fawning and maternal toward each other? The Us-v-them situation is clearly established, but is there no one among the celebrities who sees the situation as it is? That OJ might have actually murdered his ex-wife? The closest any character comes to offering a realistic aside to the audience is when the celebrity lawyer reads OJ's "suicide" note, shakes his head in disbelief and says: "who signs a suicide note with a Happy Face?" Maybe I'm missing the point, and the first presentation of the pro-OJ faction is simply to point out their circle-the wagons, above-the-law attitude, but the way it's been done here, this member of the audience wants nothing further to do with them. Yech. 'nuff said.


                
Anything from Toobin contains a lot of false, exaggerated drama and this show is far from different, sure he was in O.J in America and good at making up rules for how long a jury should be sequestered when he's not the one away from his family.To say nothing of his own hypocrisy and personal issues over the years in the media.Most of the people involved are quick to point out the things flat out wrong with this series.Bill Hodgman did not have a full blown collapse in any courtroom, he had some chest pains, went to hospital, and that was it, he was in court and fine through trial.If Fuhrman was worshiping Nazi paraphernalia, no one would know that, same with Clark and Dardin romance. They really needed to produce actors to play the Goldman's and the Browns. Could they make (where's the bag Kardashian) out to be a bigger hero while ignoring that part of it? Just seemed like many of the scenes were made up or oversold for dramatics so it would run ten weeks, they got a memorable cast and frankly an excellent actor but poor choice to play Simpson.Be prepared to be skeptical and question what you watched. Most of the people who lived it felt it was full of lies and misconceptions. But it got awards and made money.
If you're looking for a story about Gianni Versace, I wouldn't recommend this show. The name trick us to watch because we think it's a Gianni Versace story, and all that we see is a story about Andrew Cunanan. There's a few parts about the Versace family after the murder but all they seemed to me that they put them there to say that it was, in fact, a Gianni Versace story, when clearly it's not.
If you have the curiosity to see how Gianni Versace was murdered, watch the first episode and that's it.
The show didn't make me feel like I needed to watch everything, it was very difficult to watch the entire season.
My 3 stars are only for the Gianni and Donatella parts.


                
Title should be - To All the Boys Ive Killed Before


                
