I had high hopes for this series as I believed it would accurately portray to the best of it's ability the story and trial of OJ Simpson. I was only 4 years old when this took place and As a true crime enthusiast, I didn't know much about the true story. So far I'm not impressed. The portrayal and the over hype of the "Kardashians" is tacky and disgusting. It makes me cringe every time one of the Kardashian children is shown in this TV show. They were kids at the time who had no real part in this story. Shame on you Ryan Murphy for using their name to promote a TV show. This show could be great, and I hope out improved and continues to portray accurate true crime stories. For now I'll watch it until I find something better on TV.


                
Cuba Gooding Jr. as O.J. Simpson??? Really??? Who on earth was in charge of casting? Mr Gooding bears no resemblance at all to Mr Simpson, apart from being an African-American His facial structure is all wrong, very different from O.J. who had a most strikingly handsome and distinctive face. Jamie Fox would have been an excellent choice, I feel. Gooding's acting is very hammy, over-the-top, at times silly. Travolta is the big surprise in this series, developing his role strongly and masterfully. Kudos! On the other hand, Schwimmer comes across as weak and pitiful at times, but generally about passable -- I keep seeing him as Ross in "Friends", which doesn't help. The car chase occupied one entire episode, plainly ridiculous. Overall, a slightly below-par effort, but watchable.
I thought I'd wait for the final episode but I can no longer wait. This season has much good and fascinating aspects but lacks a coherent thread to pull it together. Fundamentally this is the story of a spree killer who murders Gianni Versace. This is not a spoiler unless you think the title of the series is in itself a spoiler. I'm saddened mostly by the sympathetic portrayal of Versace, who fairs well as portrayed except that he speaks more with a spanish accent than an Italian one. Same goes for Donnatella Versace, though she has more of an edge to her. The killer, Andrew Cunanon, is a serial liar and confabulator on level even worse, if possible than our Idiot President. But coming into the final episode, he's being treated as a possible victim of both his father and mother. But truthfully, there is little ties ties the victim to his killer. We're left guessing what is true and what isn't. Truth as always has to be in between.


                
