This series is riveting, well directed, fast-paced and informative. The casting is marvelous with one little exception: OJ Simpson!! Cuba Gooding is a fantastic actor, but he completely fails to portray OJ Simpsons incredible charm and charisma that actually enabled him to sliver through years of abusive behavior and the cold-blooded double murder. Gooding is reactive and unsophisticated, while the cocksure Simpson is just missing. This is an incredible failure of casting where the remaining characters are spot on and compelling. Why not Dwayne Johnson or someone with the physical charisma and cool? Travolta deserves great kudos for taking this on, but one has to wonder why he allowed the utter miscasting of the major role. At any rate, this is a worthwhile series to watch and it surely is award-rich.


                
I enjoyed the first series revolving around the OJ Simpson murder trial, the second series is all about the assassination of fashion designer Gianni Versace.The emphasis throughout the series on the serial killer Andrew Cunanan rather than Versace himself, although we do get to see a good amount of backstory on Versace also. We get a real raw insight into Cunanan's psychotic mind, background and his shocking killing spree. It is a very gripping series and Darren Criss played the role of murderer Cunanan absolutely outstandingly and in my opinion deserves an award for his portrayal of this complex character. My only criticism is the timeline jumps were confusing at times, when there's a week between episodes and each episode centering on a different year and back and forth rather than chronologically, I did get confused at times of what took place when. It did all come together though in the final episode.


                
After a really good first season comes second - the ode to Versace's killer. I honestly haven't been expecting that angle of the show. Especially when it could have been told from so many point of views. It feels like the director has lost his perspective somewhere around 2nd episode and shifted more towards 'American Crime Story: Andrew Cunanan'! I really do hope that he finds his compass toward the end of the season 'cause this has become awfully tiresome. BTW, this kind of focus in American cinematography and TV shows makes me realize why there is so many serial killers and mass murderers in America - it's been popularised.. so I guess every psycho wants his five minutes of Glory.
The reason I love Cuba Gooding is because he's so good at portraying conflicted characters who have a lot of heart but get into messes. He did that here too, but from what I hear, that is not who O.J. is.
My understanding is that he was an arrogant, horny, self-absorbed hedonist. Gooding's portrayal is much more sympathetic. As for physical size, it is important, because the real O.J.' s size was related to his cocky charisma. People admire a big athletic guy. The Rock has that, but he's too big.
Everyone here is complaining about Schwimmer here, but I thought he was good. Granted he had been a decadent party animal with O.J., and what kind of person has O.J. as their best friend anyway, or produces daughters like the ones he did? But I suppose his religious side did play a role in real life. After all, he had left both his wife and the lawyer world.The Garcetti character was stilted. I know that Davison guy is a decent actor, but I felt like he was serving almost as a narrator filling in the blanks. Of course the best parts are the two defense lawyers and Cochran. They all seem natural. The portrayal of two working-class public lawyers versus a "Dream Team" is done well, via scenes at all of their homes with their families.Not that it matters, but Nicole probably was part of a rather shallow and decadent lifestyle. Who else would marry a guy like O.J? A lot of girls are drawn to cocky jocks and must pay the price in terms of their infidelity and abuse. Obviously in this case it went way too far.I believe Mr. Goldman that his son had a good heart, but he was also drawn to that West L.A. scene of restaurants and materialism I'm guessing. That world can lead to bad liaisons.
My motto is: stay away from heathens.


                
I was a little girl when the real trial of OJ Simpson for the murders of his wife Nicole and Ron Goldman took place. I don't have much memories of it but I know how it kept the country and the world completely addicted for most a year.I've watched a lot of footage about that case including the great ESPN documentary 'OJ: Made in America' so don't mind me if I compare the two as they were released within months of each other. Let's begin with the good points first. The overall performance of the cast is spot on. They added some drama in their play to make it more excited but it was pretty accurate in general. I was particularly amazed by Sarah Paulson, Courtney B.Vance and Sterling K.Brown. Those 3 really nailed it. They brought a touch of empathy to the real people they are impersonate in the show as we follow them behind the scenes and discover a new side of them. Sarah deserved her Emmy for her performance as Marcia Clark. I remember how Marcia looked like an Iron lady when she took the stand but Sarah made her more vulnerable than she looked and I take this as a big plus. When I see the real Marcia getting interviewed, I feel this side of her and it's good to see.The rest of the cast is not bad either except for Cuba Gooding Jr and John Travolta who I truly think were far from being the best choice to play the part of OJ and Shapiro but I will talk about this later on alongside another issue.I also liked how the trial itself was accurately presented. You can feel a lot of research has been done to make it look like as real as possible. Of course you can't expect any suspense in that show as we all know how it turned out. I wish we could have seen the Goldmans more often especially how they are coping with the death of their beloved son instead of Rob Kardashian and his family who is appearing way too often without bringing anything. The Goldman and Browns would have however more than you can imagine.Which brings me to my main issue about this show: Where is Ron Shipp?? For the people who are not very familiar with him, Ron was one of the best friends of OJ and Nicole. He was a member of the LAPD and a close witness of what was happening in their marriage especially the domestic abuse. He's also the one whom Simpson confessed having dreams of killing Nicole. But here in that show, he doesn't appear at all! He's not even mentioned once in the 10 episodes. Not once while he's definitely a center piece of the case. That's something OJ made in America didn't miss as Ron was one of the main part of the cast as he shone the light about what was going on in the Simpson Marriage. They should have made him part of the story as he would have brought so much. Having him completely removed is gross negligence at least for me.Now about Cuba Gooding Jr. He should not have been the one casted for the role of OJ. OJ was charismatic and impressive. He made the show before the camera and he still does today. Cuba is a great actor but he just doesn't have that presence. To be honest he's looking like a pawn in that show. He's also way too small and not as athletic as the real OJ was. If there is one actor who would have been better, it should have been Denzel Washington. He has the charisma and the body. It should have been him.And John Travolta as Robert Shapiro is a complete joke. I truly don't know why they chose such a bad actor to undertake the part of that colorful lawyer. I watched a lot of footage of Shapiro and he never gesticulated in the manner Travolta did, ever. Instead he was someone much restrained in front of the camera, he sure wanted the attention but Travolta, with his grand gesture frenzy makes him look like a clown. To be honest I never had a high opinion of John Travolta and he surely not redeemed himself with that performance. I'd rather say he buried himself a few feet more.But besides that, I would give the show a high mark as it deserves it. It's not perfect but it surely does the job.


                
The People v O.J. Simpson has one good thing going for it by the makers. They just decided to for camp with the constant mentions of the Kardashian's with David Schwimmer's permanently pensive look as Robert Kardashian and Travolta's botoxed face and eyebrows that had a life of its own.OJ Simpson a former football player turned colour commentator and actor in the popular The Naked Gun series of films was accused of murdering his ex wife and and her boyfriend.Ever since OJ tried to flee in his white Ford Bronco the case attracted frenzied media attention and the trial was closely followed by the media and public as personalities emerged and quickly parodied such as The Dancing Ito's on The Tonight Show.As for the trial itself Travolta's Robert Shapiro is quickly sidelined by Courtney B Vance's Johnny Cochrane who is more wily, assured and willing to fight dirty whereas Shapiro is looking to cut a deal.The trial itself and its mechanics is interesting with jury selection being key and also the stress put on the jurors that one of the episode concentrates on.Cuba Gooding Jr while not having the physical size of the real OJ does well in portraying his shallowness and even his dumbness.The makers of this ten part series just played up the absurdness of the trial. Although at first glance it looked like the Prosecution had a water tight case, they were too cocky and the police made too many mistakes inn the crime scene. This is shown up when OJ tries on the glove, a crucial moment in the trial. I remember that part myself watching it live on TV. It is then you find yourself thinking that he may not be guilty of the crime.Yet the person who they should had concentrated more on and he only had a minor role in the television dramatisation was Barry Schenk. His dismantling of the technical forensic evidence was a sight to behold for those who watched the trial live. At the end OJ was found not guilty but a persona non grata in his beloved LA neighbourhood. Just note how Simpson is walking around his celebration party on his own followed by the assigned magazine photographer. No one wants to know him.The series ends wanting us to remember the real victims of the crime. Nicole Brown Simpson and Ronald Goldman.


                
Would be fantastic,BUT Cuba Gooding acting is really bad and this makes it 7 stars instead of 10.


                
After 20 plus years the gawker effect still lingers with this terrible case. Terrible because many us wanted justice for the handsome Ron Goldman and the beautiful Nicole Brown who were brutally killed. Their families agony is still painful to watch and their outrage over the show is expected. As we know Hollywood is not very original most of the time so taking a page from past history and giving it a fresh spin seems like business as usual. Based on the book by attorney Jeffrey Toobin viewers learn more about what went on behind the scenes with Simpson's dream team and the other legal players in the trial of the century. Casting is interesting but not surprising given Ryan Murphy is one of the producers; he has a flair for giving forgotten actors a second life.
