Telling the story of the murder of Gianni Versace (Edgar Ramírez) at the hands of Andrew Cunanan (Darren Criss), what's especially interesting about this season of American Crime Story is the narrative structure. The opening scene of the first episode sees the murder, and the show then goes backwards, with each episode set earlier than the previous one, an achronological structure that unifies form and content; this isn't about a murder, it's about how Cunanan became a serial killer.Within this, the show deals with two interrelated issues; 1) the concept that one must work hard to be successful, and 2) the desire to be remembered. Cunanan is obsessed with the second, but unwilling to acknowledge the first, despite his conviction of his own greatness. His attitude is nicely critiqued by Versace himself ("Life isn't about convincing people you can do great things. It's about doing them"), and the last shot masterfully encapsulates much of Cunanan's deepest existential fears. For all that, however, the season is good, but not great. The last two episodes are far and away the strongest, especially Jon Jon Briones's appearance as Modesto, Cunanan's detestable father, but, overall, it isn't a patch on 'The People v. O.J. Simpson'.


                
When I read the critic's reviews of this fascinating portrayal of the trial of OJ Simpson, the most common complaint was John Travolta's performance. So I was expecting to find it a bad, cheesy performance and everyone else to be great.Instead, I thought Travolta did an excellent job as a supercilious attorney who finds himself increasingly outside his own case. True, Travolta has had so much plastic surgery that he looks like he was sewn together by a dollmaker, but his performance is, while not as notable as the really terrific performances by Nathan Lane and, more surprisingly, David Schwimmer, it's a solid performance.The truly awful performance is by Cuba Gooding as O.J.When I watched the movie, I thought Gooding seemed wrong based on my vague memories of O.J. I'm not a sports fan, I didn't follow the trial, which at the time I thought of as just another lurid celebrity crime, and I'd only seen Simpson in a small part in a movie years ago. I thought Gooding's whiny, unpleasant, crybaby performance seemed untrue to that memory, but I couldn't be sure.Then I watched the terrific documentary series. O.J., Made in America, and I realized that Gooding was really horrible. He lacked O.J.'s famous charm, and instead came across as ineffectual where the documentary portrays O.J. as a strong force in his own defense.If you've never seen Simpson at all, perhaps the performance would seem fine, but it's an absolutely wretched performance from the point of view of verisimilitude. It's easily the biggest flaw in an otherwise gripping portrayal.Why the critics didn't notice that I can't say.


                
My only complaint about Season 2 is that there is to much conjecture about Cunanan's relationship with his some of his victims. We see an entire episode about him traveling with David, conversations they have, David's reluctance to escape...no one but Andrew and David knows what really happened in the apartment or the days following, or what conversations took place. Maybe Cunanan had a gun on him the entire time. Same with Miglin and the discussions about his Space Needle, or Miglin willingly allowing Cunanan to tape him up. Things may have in fact been very different.


                
Great series except for Penelope Cruz. Her natural accent is way too heavy to even try to change or do any other accents. You can tell she is struggling. Plus, Dontella is awful looking in real life. I think she was a bad choice for this. Darren Criss is great!


                
For season 1 alone I would give score 9 or maybe even 10 - the details and precision of bringing back OJ Simpson case in a TV show will blow your mind. After each episode of season 1, I spent time digging up the real facts and stories of that case and comparing them with that show. Sarah Paulson acting is pricless. The OJ Simpson's "Dream team" portrayed by Nathan Lane, David Schwimmer, John Travolta and Courtney B. Vance will blow you right into face. And season 1 is not only about OJ trial - it's about racism struggle across US in the 1990s.Unfortunatelly the exelent performance of season 1 was lost in season 2 - yes, there are also great acting performed by Edgar Ramirez as Gianni Versace and Penelope Cruz as Donatella Versace - but two great acting performance won't help 2nd season - it's simply boring and has very little to keep audience before silver screen.


                
The first show of 2016 that could stick around for the top ten list of the year is The People v. OJ Simpson. The look of it is similar to American Horror Story as it's also on FX. The show has movie quality to it with actors from the big and small screen coming together, all of them appear at the top of their game. The performance that most of this hinges on is Cuba Gooding Jr. as OJ Simpson. The accent and demeanor were strange at first but Gooding's acting chops really pay off when the emotions start pouring out. I've not decided on this performance but I can see good things coming as the season progresses.Continuing with the cast members, John Travolta plays the lawyer Robert Shapiro with a particular sliminess and gusto that Travolta often brings to his roles. Another interesting performance is Robert Kardashian played by David Schwimmer. The cultural impact of the Kardashian family is not left untouched and several lines mention the now famous daughters.After the finale: I was hooked from the first episode of this new anthology series on FX. American Crime Story kicks off with one of the most controversial cases in American with The People v. OJ Simpson. The story was already compelling but the presentation was engaging and the production very high quality. The acting was ranged from excellent to pretty good, and the story telling never ceased to be entertaining. Cuba Gooding Jr. played the title character OJ Simpson ranging from emotionally stricken to glorified and ecstatic over his verdict. Gooding took on the role that could only be performed by a veteran actor and continues the growing trend of movie actors moving to high production television. I will be curious to see how the critics review him later in the year and with awards in the hindsight.Check out more of this review and others at swilliky.com
Most non-Americans will probably know O.J. Simpsons from this exact infamous case or simply as that silly guy from Naked Gun comedy series. It's serendipitously better if it's seen without deep knowledge of the case or as time would have it, not having much recollection of it. This is a chronicle the case with adequate dramatic proportion and prejudice undertone in surprisingly deeper look without going overboard.Cuba Gooding Jr. as the alleged suspect is funnily fitting, not in his usual comical way, but as a weary hectic man. He shows the symptoms of celebrity in influence of crime. Make no mistake, this is a heinous act and the series does not shy away from the realization, yet Cuba Gooding Jr. creates a certain scandalous and distracting ambiance about the character.John Travolta and David Schwimmer are admittedly not the usual cast for defense attorneys. They seem very outlandish, although the picks might just work in this case. On the other end of the spectrum are the racial prejudice and the actual footwork of the case. They do give the social undertone of the decade a portion of the limelight, still it doesn't hinder any progress and done with caution.A few nice rich details about the case are also shown, both from the prosecution as well as the defense's point of views. There's quite a bit of CSI work involved, these are maintained by approachable showcasing as not to overwhelm or bore audience with police or scientific jargon. It is also nice to see the scheming antics the lawyers pull to stall or gain any advantage. Some parts of these might just be weird enough to be true.The name of the case might paint a sinister portrait, but it's actually displayed with light ironical accessible approach and still a balanced enough investigation aspect to not demean the gravity of the event.


                
Let me start by saying that I absolutely love this show. It's intense beyond belief. It's riveting. It's powerful.Now let me say this: It's already obvious that this show's quality will largely depend on which season you are watching. Season 1 was darn near perfect. Season 2 was good, but not even close to how good Season 1 was.In short, I say this television show is very much worth your time. Even if you just watch select seasons that interest you. I will also say that Season 1 is definitely must-watch television. Given this IS an anthology series, you could totally get away with watching only the seasons that interest you, especially since it's clear that the quality largely will depend on the story.Even if you aren't familiar with the cases, it's still excellent television. For much of the time, it will keep you on the edge of your seat. I can guarantee it.If you are familiar with the case, but don't exactly see the sense in watching a something and already knowing how it ends, I say give it a try. You might be surprised. I was hesitant at first, but I was pleasantly surprised -- just like you might be! You won't know unless you try. As a whole, I give "American Crime Story" an 8.5/10.


                
Pros: Great acting (even from CG Jr. as Juice which was the creators' intention to begin with); fascinating to watch
Cons: OJ, who else?


                
Granted, we're only 3 episodes in, but I feel the need to write a review on how I feel about the show, rather than wait until the end of the season's run."The People vs. O.J. Simpson" is the FX drama that dramatizes the aftermath of Nicole Brown Simpson's and Ron Goldman's murder(s), the trial, and the eventual verdict of O.J. Simpson in 1994. A media frenzy that sent everyone to their televisions at every given moment for an entire year, wondering how a beloved football star and actor could be turned into a criminal. It's as neurotic as it is interesting, and the show is able to capture every ounce of the story's nuance.People are pretty divided on the case: is O.J. the killer or not? The series is able to take you in - every single episode - thinking you know how you feel about the case, then making you think a different way. With its sleek camera movement, larger than life sets, and an all-star cast, "The People vs. O.J. Simpson" makes you feel as though you are (re)living the nostalgia of the "trial of the century". I can't tell you how much I enjoy getting an inside on what went on behind the cameras, and how each legal team came to their conclusions and trumped each other. It's very intricate and the show handles everyone's jarring emotions with care.All-star casting keeps this show addictive. David Schwimmer as Robert Kardashian and Sarah Paulson as Marcia Clark capture audience attention with vastly different personalities. Both want to win, and you can't help but root for them, even though they're on opposing sides. Rob just wants to be reassured that his friend is innocent, and Marcia wants to bring justice to a woman that has no voice to speak with, anymore. They paint the pictures of how the audiences in real life felt back when the case was happening. (And it's funny and ironic to point out that the Kardashian family appear together in a restaurant (in episode 3), and they are just starting to have their names realized.) To think John Travolta was last seen on primetime as '70s hunk, Vinnie Barbarino, is scary to think about, especially since his portrayal of Robert Shapiro is one that haunts you because of his stagnant emotions and plastic face. But he plays a man ready to win, and that's exactly what Travolta is doing with the audience. Courtney B. Vance is another whose performance for winning truly wins and commands attention every time he is on screen. You want to listen to these men.And then there's Cuba Gooding Jr. as O.J. Simpson. Is he Simpson? No. Is he trying to be Simpson? Yes. Is he pulling it off? Sure. The problem that I do have (and that a lot have), is not his height, but his charm. Not to think Gooding doesn't have charm, but he doesn't have the charisma that helped Simpson eventually win over (half) the public and win his case. Gooding is doing a phenomenal job with his acting and easily scraping past legal questions with real emotions. It's a good performance, but it isn't what I was hoping out of O.J. Simpson.All-in-all, so far, it's a great show. Even though we all know the outcome, the show does a great job revealing one thing after another and telling a story that everyone loves to hear. I'm continuing my journey with the series, and I'm excited to see what lies ahead!
I had been looking forward to seeing this for some time now, and finally got FX NOW back up & running, and watched the first couples eps last night. If you recall (how could you not??) that whole ordeal played out in the media twenty years ago involving sports legend OJ, the investigation, the glove, Kato!, etc... this series recreates all that from an inside perspective. I found this completely compelling, and comparable production-wise to any mainstream theatrical feature. In fact, I see that it's produced by the same writer/producer team that made "The People Vs. Larry Flynt", "Man on the Moon", "Auto Focus", and other biopics of media celebrities..?? Cuba Gooding has a good presence to represent the Juice well enough. David Schwimmer is perfect as Kardashian (and look for the whole "Keeping Up With The Kardashian" clan- who were kids back then!), and I know someone mentioned that John Travolta's acting was a bit off as Robert Shapiro, and I can see that at first. I think part of the problem was the make-up job sorta made him look like he had a face-lift, and that was a bit distracting, but I think as time goes on, you start to go with it-?? Courtney B. Vance is also perfect as Johnny Cochran. And was that... Malcolm-Jamal Warner as AC Cowlings- who of course drove the Bronco in the infamous chase-?? And look for a whole slew of other stars- I don't even know where to begin. I am LOVIN this so far!............. Thumbs WAY up!!
Although not every episode is as good as the first, this is, without a doubt, a quality series worth watching, Darren Criss is sensational. He was good on Glee but he shows his real talents here. The remainder of the cast is very good too, as is just about everything in this production.


                
For anyone older than a millennial, they probably remember the endless courtroom TV we were subjected to for months on end. I recall what felt like weeks of the same DNA analyst answering questions, Marcia Clark's face became a fixture, and I remember Mark Fuhrman's monotone delivery; unemotional.It wasn't until after I had watched this show--and learned things I didn't know about the trial and its players--that I sought out a description of the crime itself, to put all the hype and hysteria of the trial in context of the act of murder itself. I came across a video reenactment on YouTube that was sobering, angering and startling in its detail: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gqpvNQZxCtg ("OJ Murders Nicole and Ron")There is no question that Simpson murdered these two people, regardless of racist cops; but what was lost in the trial was the sheer barbarism of the act. One is left wondering whether Simpson's brain is affected by CTE symptoms, now seen in so many other NFL players. It would explain his temper and his capacity for committing such a heinous act of violence with no remorse. Monstrous inhumanity.


                
I appreciated this 2018 season of American Crime Story more than anticipated. The writing supercedes most other series, because the writers doggedly escavate the background of each lead character. And what they reveal is fascinating. The story carries on at a nice pace, and thankfully it is absent of the redundancy which most series are plagued with. The direction, production design, and editing were also well done.Darren Criss was quite convincing in the lead -- in fact, he was scary-good. This year, I'm happy to discover his fine work, along with Richard Madden (starred in another series, "Bodyguard") -- both are attractive in a typical way, which can limit the viewer's perceptions of their range... but they both blew it out of the water. Criss is deservedly winning various awards.The rest of the Versace cast is quite committed, yet I felt the role of Donatella could have gone to someone like Lady Gaga (3/4 Italian). She is blessed with ample passion and vocal prowess -- I'm sure if she spoke (English) with an Italian accent, it would have been thoroughly convincing. Penelope tried her hardest, but I found that her natural Spanish accent was distracting.


                
Everyone has or should have some cursory knowledge of the OJ Simpson trial. It was a cultural phenomenon that significantly altered the status quo of how the media operates and how people regarded race relations and the police force. It's been covered to death and lots of people probably have 0 interest in hearing or watching any more about it. However, if anyone thinks they can skip this season of American Crime Story because they already know what happens, they are mistaken. American Crime Story delivers a thrilling batch of 10 episodes revolving around the lives of the people at the forefront of this trial. This drama shows us the trial through a lens that we have never had access to before. Sure, it's only "based on true events" and is not a documentary but this dramatization of the events surrounding this trial is gripping and very accurately portrayed.The casting for this season was very good and the actors delivered with very compelling performances. I cannot say enough about Courtney B. Vance's portrayal of Johnnie Cochran. He steals the show every time he's in a scene. Without a doubt, he deserved the Emmy he won for this performance. I won't go into details but the cast of this did a wonderful job. Even Travolta, who no longer puts down great performances like he used to, does an admirable job. I suppose my one complaint is Cuba Gooding Jr. I don't dislike Gooding Jr., I'm just not sure he was right for this role. OJ was a large hulking man with a deep, baritone voice. It's just not possible for Cuba to pull that off. When I see him pretending to be a football player, I start thinking about Jerry Maguire.What I enjoyed about this take on the trial is its focus on personal relationships between characters and behind the scenes interactions. The trial and evidence have been played to death and a show revolving around that would have been unnecessary. Seeing scenes such as Marcia Clark's personal struggles with sexism, divorce, custody battles, etc. gave the show a dimension missing from many of the OJ focused movies and shows out there.I would call the dramatization of of the OJ trial a success and am excited to see what this series has to offer in Season 2.
Powerful and brilliantly acted, American Crime Story Season 1 will keep you hooked from start to finish. Even though the subject is already well known and has been analyzed so many times, the series manages to take you deep into the story from the perspective of the people that actively participated: The prosecution, the defense team, the judge and the jury, showing the emotional roller-coaster of everyone involved, but also presenting interesting details of the case. It also managed to capture the whole vibe surrounding the trial, be it the media or just the man on the street.Excellent acting, especially by Sarah Paulson (Marcia Clark), Courtney B. Vance (Johnnie Cochran) and Sterling K. Brown (Chris Darden). Those three really shined, exceptional job. I also liked Travolta as Shapiro, despite the mixed reactions that his performance has received.Only minus was the portrayal of OJ himself. Cuba Gooding, although a great actor, was horribly miscast for the role, and despite his best efforts (there were times that he did succeed), most of the time he didn't look or sound anything like the real Simpson. High-pitched voice, shorter statue, smaller frame, didn't really fit. I'm really baffled as to how they managed to do such a good job with the casting regarding everyone else but OJ Simpson.
La serie si guarda velocissimamente perché tiene veramente incollati.


                
I have seen many reenactments in which the actors looked nothing like the actual historical figures. In this series, every actor except the one portraying O.J. looked almost identical to the true-life person they portrayed. Very well cast and very well acted. John Travolta as Robert Shapiro gave a very convincing portrayal, as did the actor playing Johnnie Cochran. I refused to follow this farce of a trial when it originally happened back in the early 90s. This movie properly portrays how unjust the outcome (and the thinking of the jury) really was. . . . Four hours to arrive at a verdict?! The deck was stacked for "social justice" to prevail over true justice. The black prosecutor's statement that the trial was the first time a man was acquitted just because he was black was an excellent summary of what happened. The producers and director did an excellent job of making this ten-part series binge-watching worthy.I did not appreciate all the foul language, but realize that such language was probably representative of the mouths of the persons portrayed. It is notable that the "church" within which Johnnie Cochran received his religious support had no problem asking their "god" to bless Johnnie as he attempted to help a murderer go free. Just as in many such churches, "solidarity" in getting back at "the man" trumps any transcendent truth the Bible they wave around may have in it. Such a shame, but again faithfully reported by this movie.


                
The O J Simpson trial or the trial of the century captivated the curiosity and interest of so many Americans in the 90s. The American Crime Story drama has beautifully captured and accurately depicted the intensity and detail surrounding the case. From the close resemblances to the great performances by the whole cast this 10 episode drama more than delivers. Its not about the outcome but the execution and behind the scene drama that is so intriguing and beautifully laid out. It is not far fetched why this was referred to as the trial of the century. Highly recommended as each episode gets better as it goes on. 8.5/10


                
The People v .J. Simpson: American Crime Story (Season 1)How much the amazing real story. That after hearing that Nicole Brown was beaten to death at home, the main suspect is, her husband, O.J. Simpson, acclaimed national sportsman and idol of the black race. The prosecution, led by Marcia Clark (Sarah Paulson) takes letters in this and sues O.J. Of murder. The defense headed by Robert Shapiro (John Travolta) also takes letters in this, hiring a great team of lawyers headed by Johnnie Cochran (Courtney B. Vance). And during passionate 10 chapters will know the jury's decision.Let's start with the actors. Sarah Paulson as Marcia Clark is a hero of the series, well deserved her Golden Globe for best actress in a television series. John Travolta as Robert Shapiro is also a very good ace, but not as much as Sarah Paulson. Cuba Gooding Jr. as O.J. Simpson, or Orenthal James Simpson, is another assert. The guy has personality, in court when there is a joke or an ingenious play (or TDFW for people of this time) he laughs or he just laughs. At the beginning of the series was weird, says that it was not the killer, but everything indicates that it was the. Courtney B. Vance as Johnnie Cochran is another of the stars in the series. The guy has personality as well as seriousness and protects his (the blacks).What I liked the most about the series is that I did not lean on one side of the scale. I also liked how they used social pressure as something evil. In one chapter they name the word "Nigger" and the trial turns round, the lawyers made a mute scream, the jury, the spectators, even the judge.So Real 7/10


                
The People vs. OJ Simpson accurately depicted what America experienced in 1994 and 1995. FX did a great job in portraying the emotional element that made this case so monumental. What FX didn't do is pick quality actors and actresses for this TV series.The good...I felt that Courtney B. Vance, who played Johnnie Cochran, was the best character in this show and really put forth an astounding amount of effort to give justice to the real Mr. Cochran and anyone who fought for racial equality at the time. His persona and motivation created a driving character that thrusted this show into success.Kenneth Choi, who played Judge Lance Ito, was also very respectable and played his role extremely well. While he was not allowed to show much emotion as a judge, his subtle gestures and authoritative stance propelled the show throughout the series.The bad...Cuba Gooding Jr. played OJ Simpson. I felt that he did not properly embody the correct personality and defining characteristics that made OJ who he really was. Gooding lacked proper emotion at times and failed to portray and accurate depiction of the real OJ Simpson.John Shapiro, who was played by John Travolta, was a complete nightmare. Travolta needs to stick to Tarantino movies, not crime dramas. The amount of makeup he wore was tremendous and embarrassingly comparable to the skin complexion of Donald Trump. His acting did not fit the bill for the role, and ultimately became a huge distraction in the story development and overall show.Marcia Clark, played by Sarah Paulson, was a very unlikeable character. She did have a few good moments in the show, but her personality made it nearly impossible to root for her.Overall, I felt that this show had very good writing and directing, but definitely needed some work with character selection and development. This show highlighted a key issue that was felt during the time of this trial and even to this day, and that is racial inequality. Including this topic allows the viewers to reflect on how we viewed this issue over 20 years ago, and how we view it today. Sadly, it has not changed much. It will be interesting to see how this issue will evolve in the next 20 years.


                
Behold a barrage of superlatives - superbly written, brilliantly acted, aptly cast, breathtakingly paced; all while capturing some of the most intensely dramatic moments on TV. O.J.Simpson's controversial trial is one of the most covered cases in the media during its time and had an on-going pop culture presence through out. Most people involved in this case have penned some best sellers based on this episode leaving plenty of perspective and gossip out in the open - a primary fodder for this amalgamation. Popular football player O.J. Simpson is the prime accused in a double homicide including his wife Nicole and a 25 yr. old Goldman. He puts together a dream team of the most accomplished lawyers that money can buy who overcomes their infighting and egos to defend their client.First thing that strikes you is its bold content and next is the sensitive and unbiased handling of that content all the while walking a very tightrope. They managed to include perspectives from all the people involved as well as different cross-sections of the society. The screenplay is bright, upbeat and doesn't wander; much. A revelation was Courtney B. Vance's portrayal of central character Johnnie Cochran which is the heart and soul of the drama and ably supported by John Travolta as Robert Shapiro as a character who gets sidelined in the dream team he created. Travolta has always been an over achiever considering his limited acting capabilities and his bad botox work doesn't help much. Cuba Gooding Jr. as O.J. Simpson fits in well as a likable superstar celebrity who makes the audience root for his character despite overwhelming evidence against him. Rest of the huge ensemble cast is well selected and they do their job perfectly.Despite knowing the outcome and sometimes the most intricate details about this case already from other media available in the open, the series succeeds in maintaining the palpable dramatic tension, adds in some unknown facts, perspectives and opinions to keep it interesting. A highly sensitive and popular story given the treatment as it originally played out - entertainment first!!


                
