This mini-series is so blatantly inaccurate that to say that it was based on the book by David McCullough is akin to calling McCullough an inept historian -- which he certainly was not. The book was extraordinary. But the film makers took huge and gross liberties with history – much of the "history" portrayed in the film is just wrong. And, as well, they interjected a massive amount of political correctness, apparently to make the film more pleasing to a wider audience -- particularly targeting the Gen Y and non-white viewers. Indeed, it seems that the producers and director wanted to portray white men as foolish and dishonest half-wits that could not possibly get anything worthwhile done without the help of their brilliant and angelically honest slaves. And, yes, thanks to those very strong and supremely intelligent women who also helped the weak, timid, and immoral white men get through the day. I'm not at all saying that black people and women did not play any significant role in our history – they certainly did. But this film clearly demeans and disparages white males in a profoundly erroneous and shameful manner. If we made a film portraying black males in this way today, there would be rioting in the streets -- and rightfully so. I don't understand why David McCullough allowed them to butcher his work. And I don't see how any thinking person could watch this tripe of a film without being insulted.


                
I have to be honest and admit that once I realized this series was going to be filmed in its entirety with the use of shaky cameras, contrived picture framing, and crooked horizon lines, any ability for me to be objective about rating this series on other merits became a somewhat futile exercise.It's bad enough that one has to put up with that obnoxious methodology in movies like the Bourne Supremacy which are set in current times, but that "trendy" style of filming is a jarring hindrance to a viewer's desire to become lost in history from two centuries past. In other words, it's quite a challenge to feel you are in the 1790s when the film style is more like a cheesy 21st century episode of Boston Legal. The self conscious camera gimmicks prevented me from giving the story, the acting, the period details, etc. anything that may have been due.In fact, it got to the point where instead of taking the film seriously, my family would laugh at every scene filmed at a 45 degree camera angle.Beyond these camera antics, there is a real problem with the storytelling in this miniseries. It lacks instinct and is simply not compelling. After a somewhat promising starting episode, in which Adams finds himself defending British Soldiers for the Boston Massacre, the series quickly devolves into a progression of scenes that view like events listed on a timeline. And even then, some major events are told in such a deliberately understated way, these events often have no impact. The unimpressed viewer is left to conclude the following for example: "Oh- the Revolution must be over." Or, "I guess George Washington must have died." Ditto for Adams' son and daughter. And: "Did I miss something? Is Adams' presidential term over?" Or: When did his son become elected President?" Etc.But then, on the other hand, the well-known fact that Adams and Jefferson died on the same day of July 4th is given such a prolonged and heavy handed treatment, it actually detracts from the magic of that strange historical coincidence.The fact that Adams is depicted as being so surly, bitter and egotistical doesn't help either. One gets the impression after watching this miniseries that Adams' biggest frustration was that history would not give him as much love as Washington, Jefferson and Franklin. It is difficult to relish a prolonged miniseries with such an unlikable, uncharismatic leading character.I found other roles of founding fathers disappointing as well, from the smarmy, decadent Ben Franklin to the Washington who was as stiff and wooden as the real president's false teeth. I can understand a filmmaker's desire to inject a realistic humanity into these historic characters, but one would think this treatment of the founding fathers almost seemed driven by a disrespectful contempt for all of them.One element I can say I was pleased with was the opening title music composed by Rob Lane. It perfectly set the tone and mood for an epic, Revolutionary War period film. Too bad the miniseries didn't measure up at all to that inspiring music.At any rate, we almost gave up on the series at the point where Adams becomes president, which you would think would be a gripping, climatic aspect of the miniseries. By that point the series had become so cumulatively dull and irritating it was becoming unwatchable even for the more tolerant members of the family.It's a real shame, because such potentially educational and historical subject matter ordinarily would have been a very refreshing change of pace from the proliferation of Law & Order & CSI reruns that are shown around the clock on every other cable station these days.
Unlike some other reviewers, I never read the McCullough book, am neither incensed nor titillated by nudity, nor, although I love this wonderful country, am I extraordinarily interested in John Adams or many of the other founding fathers as individuals. I watched it for entertainment (it WAS a TV show), and as entertainment it was just bad.I felt like I was watching a big-budget, nine-hour soap opera Thanksgiving special. There wasn't a single subtle or even objective minute in the hours and hours this thing dragged on, just one heavy-handed, melodramatic, grossly overacted and manipulative set piece after another. I hated it. If it got a lot better near the end (which is practically impossible), I missed that, and I'm not even sorry.I love history, but I'd rather let facts speak for themselves and be allowed to have my OWN reactions to them than be force-fed somebody else's highly-charged emotional responses to everything, as this thing did.Hollywood produces nothing but junk any more, whether it goes to TV or the octoplex. Nothing but mindless, formula-driven, pre-digested garbage for the mindless violence- and laughtrack-dulled masses who would have a stroke if they suddenly had to figure something out for themselves. Thank God, there are still some imaginative, challenging, and creative independent filmmakers out there, even here in America, and the rest of the world is full of them.


                
I don't know what there was to like about this miniseries -- the directing/editing was horrible -- Paul Giamatti was not up to the task; he came across as mean-spirited and unlikable -- I had a migraine headache after 30 seconds; was there one scene that was not filmed with a $20 hand-held camera, operated by an unskilled, on drugs, amateur with the shakes?Here's an idea: next time HBO makes a film, maybe they should hire a professional camera person, or at least an adult with a measurable IQ, that knows how to hold a camera; and they should invest in something -- I don't know, a tripod, dolly, or other stable base -- and actually take a second to THINK about what it is that you want to film? I can only imagine that each scene went something like this, "Dude, why'd you drop the camera? That cost $20 dude. What are we supposed to be doing here? Does anyone know what this scene is about? Oh the hell with it. Dude, stop picking your nose and run over there and shove the camera into that guy's face, then back up and shake it around bit, do that a few times, and then just follow him around, and then spin around in circles and try to get everyone if you can. I'll be back in half an hour, I have to see a man about a horse."All this did was give me a migraine headache. The camera-work sucked, the directing sucked, the editing sucked, everything sucked.


                
