The attention to detail in this mini-series only caps off the brilliant writing and acting, top to bottom. So refreshing to see this attention in simple things like seeing the cannons fire in the distance, THEN hearing the blasts several seconds later, as it is in real life... ditto thunder and lightning... brilliant. Even more importantly, seeing how our founding fathers (and mothers!) laid it all out on the line, risking life and property for ideas and ideals. This series should be mandatory watching in high school history classes from now on. It should also be mandatory viewing for our Congress, if only to remind them of what guts, personal conviction, and personal sacrifice in service to your COUNTRY is. Maybe today's leaders wouldn't be so quick to dismantle the Constitution if they see accurately what our ancestors went through to secure it in the first place. HBO, Tom Hanks, et al ... you are to be genuinely congratulated! And special thanks to David McCullough for the book, and the writers for their screenplays.


                
Although the miniseries title and episodes focus on the life of John Adams, the strength of the film lies in the exceptional ensemble cast. It was impressive to see such giants as George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, and Benjamin Franklin, as well as the lesser known individuals, truly inhabited by the actors.The challenge of the series was to breathe life into those stories and lives we know so well. The filmmakers worked closely to David McCullough's outstanding book for the details, along with the human side of the story captured in the voluminous correspondence of John and Abigail Adams. The political, military, and personal issues were all thoughtfully brought to life. The design values of the film were also superb. Nothing looked stagy or stilted in the sets and costumes, which provided an unusual authenticity of period style for television drama. With each appearance of George Washington (David Morse), it was hard not to gasp due to the believability of his character.The drama of America's breaking from England for independence was an improbable story and one dependent on the courage and idealism of the individuals portrayed in this film. The personalities of these great figures make this program an accessible and rewarding experience for the entire family. For the patient viewer, what emerges from the John Adams miniseries is not merely a history lesson, but a drama with great relevance today. Simply put, we need more people in our country right now just like John and Abigail Adams, Jefferson, Franklin, Washington, Knox, and, above all, the ordinary human beings heroically portrayed in this fine film!


                
In the film industry we have seen many exceptional productions, made so by incredible special effects, animation processes, Computer-Generated Imagery (CGI) and the like.Seldom we find this same quality in the performance from the individual actors. More often we do recognize the difficulty, uniqueness and the gift that theater performances bring to their audiences. The gift of the individual performer is bared to the audience, where the audience feels the essence of the character transported by its performer.The John Adams production has accomplished this by giving these performers the opportunity to display the essence of their talents. It is evident they gave their all.The professionalism and talent of the entire production is of the highest quality, the realism and fidelity to the times is very impressive.The attention to details, the very talented cast and the unique ability of Tom Hooper to capture what words cannot describe, has made this production a true work of art.Paul Giamatti and Laura Linney professional eclectic careers are and will continue to define them as great actors. Both have reached for the best performance have not only achieved it but have surpassed it.Paul and Laura do not only deserve the Oscar but they should be recognized has to have given their all, in an effort to help the audience better understand the complex multi-dimensional and existential realities of two historical individuals that have truly shaped the genesis and future the United States of America.Paul Giamatti and Laura Linney have with their performance added the unique and the exceptional to an already fine production.A truly multi-dimensional performance. Thank you Paul - thank you Laura for a rare gift.


                
As fine a political documentary as I have ever seen! Understated, yet amazing in its depth. Even the exhilarating music portends the events to come. A must see for those interested in how the nation they live in came to be. This film may upset some with its frankness of the times in which the characters lived, that said, I applaud that very frankness that allows us to see the people that supported and opposed our becoming a nation. A very "well done" to all those involved with the making of this ode to a time long gone. May we as a nation once more learn the lessons that came to be so well known by the majority of our "Founding Fathers"... AND Mothers.


                
So many of the comments posted here regarding this series are baffling. BORING? Because they aren't showing us the revolutionary war? Perhaps the title John Adams would be the first clue. This is the story of the man in the times not the times through the man.Giamatti and Linney are giving the performances of their careers - the Emmys and Golden Globes are already in the bag. I find their relationship to each other and their playing of the reality of late 18th century life astonishing.I think that Giamatti, Linney, Wilkinson, Dillane, Morse et al are turning these people (whom we tend to think of as stiff, formal oil-paintings or faces on currency) into fleshed-out, three dimensional human beings. In the fourth episode alone we had Giamatti's heart-breaking reaction to the news of Britain's defeat; the reunion scene between John and Abigail when they have no idea how to approach each other after so many years apart; Giamatti's first scene in the English court which captured both the magnitude and the discomfort of a moment that had never occurred before in history; and the moment between Adams and Washington after the oath of office where we realize that only THEN, in that moment, had the goal really been achieved.This series is full of small, intensely honest moments <U+0096> moments of real people caught up in a storm of their own creation but one that they have no way of being prepared for - and these moments, for me, are adding up to a very satisfying whole. In fact, it's made me rethink the whole Revolutionary era <U+0096> but then, so did David McCullough's book.
I have to preface this by saying I'm not (nor have I ever been) a big fan of history or social studies; these were my least favorite subjects in school, mainly because they were presented in such a boring, uninvolving manner. I've never been big on historical drama movies either, but if you read my reviews at all, you know I love Paul Giamatti, and yesterday night I was mentally thanking the man repeatedly because if it weren't for him I most likely would not have been watching the first two episodes of what is shaping up to be the TV mini series of the decade, John Adams.Not since Iron Jawed Angels have I seen a show based on historical events that is this inspired, moving, and both emotionally and intellectually riveting - it felt like I was taking a trip through history in a time capsule, genuinely being there in those early colonial days, when the idea of independence from Great Britain was controversial, revolutionary and shrouded in fear. But the core of the series is not political - it's the story of John and Abigail (I'm on a first-name basis with them now) and how they stayed together, raised a family and survived during this most trying time in a young country's history.Giamatti and Linney bring extraordinary passion and complete believability to their roles, but the whole cast is brilliant here, the stand outs (from the first two episodes, besides Linney and Giamatti) being David Morse as George Washington, Tom Wilkinson as Benjamin Franklin, Stephen Dillane as Tom Jefferson and Damages' Zeljko Ivanek - who for some reason is not mentioned in the credits! - as John Dickinson, Adams' staunchest congressional opponent on the subject of independence. The scenes in Philadelphia, where the reps from all 13 colonies meet to hash out the situation, are magnificently compelling - you feel like you're there with them, seeing from the inside how our country actually came to be.There's a great scene where John and Ben are reading Thomas' first draft of The Declaration of Independence (which John begged Thomas to write, saying that he himself was "obnoxious, suspect and unpopular" while Thomas was far more eloquent with his pen); they're editing it, beginning with the first line. This scene really evokes the feeling of how our independence came to be - it was forged by necessity, by these men who were literally flying blind, by the seat of their pants.4/21/08 ~ Part 7, Peacefield: poetic, devastating and profoundly sad, the finale, which aired last night. Brilliant how they kept the focus on John and Abigail's relationship through all the political turbulence that had taken place in their lifetimes. At the end I felt like I had lived their lives along with them. Paul Giamatti's and Laura Linney's performances - TOWERING. Cannot heap the superlatives on this show high enough. A brilliant concept, breath-takingly realized in every aspect.
"John Adams", the HBO series is by far the best Colonial film or series I have ever seen. Paul Giamatti captivates viewers with a super performance. He has really given me a new respect for John Adams. Laura Linney plays Abigail Adams beautifully. She is wise and kind, but also is franc and honest. The first two episodes are so incredibly accurate and indulging, that I feel like I am in the center of the American Revolution. The script is brilliant. People speak the way colonials spoke. Adams lines just get better as the show goes on. HBO has truly made a brilliant masterpiece. A must watch for any history buff.


                
Given the current state of affairs, everyone should make time to watch this mini-series. It's refreshing to know that people though imperfect truly cared about the true nature of freedom. The actors do an outstanding job of portraying the flavor of the times, and the souls of their characters. For most of us the Declaration of Independence is taken for granted. It's wonderful to see how many struggled to unify this country and by no means was the thinking unanimous. I love Jefferson and his quiet nature, resorting to words on paper more comfortably than speaking in public.For as much as I thought I knew about John Adams I'm finding I didn't know him at all. Pay close attention to the courtroom scenes and thank the stars that court room behavior has evolved since then. I'd hate to have to testify in an environment like that.Watch this series and hope that some of our politicians today are watching too. I would hope that it might spark something inside them that has been buried in todays hypocrites


                
Thank you to HBO for the making of this series. Its was a joy to watch. The last part (7th part) was perhaps the hardest to watch. More than once tears were brought to my eyes, in compassion for many of the characters and the conclusion of their life story. What can be said about the making of it? There are not enough words to praise all those involved. Paul Giamatti's and Laura Linney's performances were absolutely astonishing and by the end, had me in tears, I as a man, am not ashamed to say. They were brilliant, class and I will forever be a fan of them. The rest of the cast were like a collection of fine art. Whomever brought them all together, alone deserves an award. Great fine acting on their own and as a group. This series deserves every award possible and more. I agree totally with all the praise that has gone before and will come after. This is a TV series that does HBO and America proud. It should be shown in every class room in the states. Its a work of art...Further comment: Such great men and equally great thinkers are lost today on many of the youth. The likes of them will perhaps be never seen again. May they rest easy within the soil of America, for the freedoms they brought to their country they loved so much.They could teach today's politicians a lesson or two on truth, sticking to upholding true meaning of liberty and the rule of law. I fear however they would not be impressed by the actions of those that this day, April 25th 2008, that stand within the blocks of the White House. History will also be their judge and it will not treat our present day leaders so kindly and deservedly so. Those that have now gone before at the foundation of the country, were clearly better upstanding citizens.What is now is Congress and the White House is just a bad shadow of once true and honest men (and women) that passed away with the founding of America. May they, the founding fathers (and mothers) rest in peace.


                
The production values are extremely high with excellent acting, design and costumes and I've only seen the first two episodes. The writing is wonderful! The series inspires me to read the book. The "making of" information was fascinating and the visual effects technology amazing! I've always loved your original movies with "My House in Umbria" my favorite until now - John Adams is your best offering yet! Thanks so much HBO and to all the cast and crew of the movie!!! The Los Angeles' Times review was wrong in its assessment of the series. I find every aspect of the series interesting and moving and of the highest quality! Looking forward to the DVD!!


                
The only t.v. dramas (historical or otherwise) that I would watch was Masterpiece Theatre because they were mostly British made and classy. Now we have something to rival anything that Masterpiece Theatre put out: John Adams. First, the theme music is first rate slowing building up to a quiet crescendo. Second, the photography is of a theatrical release quality. The set and production values are first rate: you feel as if you are in the scenery and living at that time of our history. The makeup and costumes are historically correct or close to it. Finally, what superb acting by Giamatti and the great Laura Linney and the supporting actors are fine. In fact, I can not find a fault with this mini-series so far.I look forward to watching every Sunday on HBO. I agree with others who say this will win Golden Globe and Emmy Awards. For anyone who says this is boring or lacking bloodshed and violence, I say: "Your ignorance is beneath my contempt" - John Adams, 1777( to Samuel Furlong who told Adams that the 'Declaration of Independency would be the death warrant of the colonies."


                
I have seen many exceptional series, but few lately have been as so as this, John Adams. There is so much attention to detail here, the whole of John Adams is exquisitely photographed and is advantaged further by authentic period recreation and costuming. John Adams also has realistic atmosphere, something that some of the best period drama series(such as North and South, Little Dorritt, Bleak House and The Crimson Petal and the White) excel at.The music enhances the mood of each scene very well too, the writing is full of grit, poignancy and intelligence, and the story is both absorbing and interesting. The characters intrigue with enough depth to them to make them not fall into caricature. The acting is wonderful with no weak link. Paul Giamatti and Laura Linney are exceptional, and they are given top notch support from all particularly the always reliable Tom Wilkinson and David Morse.All in all, simply amazing is really all I have to say about John Adams. 10/10 Bethany Cox


                
I usually don't easily rate with 10 stars, but this series is absolutely worth it. I didn't know too too much about the beginnings of the history of the US, but this series taught me a lot.Thanks to a great cast who brought these honorable people back to live and very moving scenes it will stay in my mind and heart.I agree that this should be showed to school children and especially modern day politicians.What especially positively impressed me was the nearly complete lack of violence compared to oh so many other (american!) productions.We all know how terrible things can be, so there is no need to show it over and over again and satisfy merely voyeuristic wishes.Voices, quotes, Face expressions,subtle gestures should be enough for any human being to understand the message of this movie.VERY WELL DONE!


                
I love the US history, and among my favorite topics is the American Revolution. Then, there is one man whose great deeds are somehow overshadowed by all-time greats such as Washington, Jefferson or Franklin. This man is John Adams. His fervent character, his single-minded vigor and pursuit of his goals made him a remarkable and controversial figure. His often fiery character and his inability of not keeping his mind, all of these made him enemies quite too often. The HBO series made a great, huge, impeccable job of depicting John Adams and his time. Everything is done here with an utmost accuracy and mesmerizing precision. The casting is another great win - Paul Giamatti as Adams, Laurs Linney as his beloved wife Abigail, David Morse as General Washington to name the few, are all excellent choices. All of the primary and secondary actors do their job well, and how can we forget great Tom Wilkinson as Mr. Franklin. The setting, the soundtrack, the costumes and the unbelievably precise details add it all to the utter pleasure of watching this awesome serial. Highly and undoubtedly recommended


                
I doubt the likes of John Adams could ever win a senatorial seat today. The presidency would be absolutely out of the question. At best, he would be a behind-the-scenes intellectual, akin to a David Axelrod or a David Plouffe, guiding tough decisions but allowing a much more glamorous candidate to make the speeches and sign the autographs. In short, John Adams could not have been president in the late 20th and early 21st centuries because of his looks and temperament.John Adams has been one of the most enigmatic of figures of the early days of the founding of the United States of America. Part of this ambiguity was cleared up with the book by David McCullough, "John Adams". This HBO miniseries, maybe the best made-for-cable production since "Band of Brothers", chronicles the legal and political career of one of the more complex of America's Founding Fathers; it follows much of McCullough's book. McCullough spent hundreds of hours of research, particularly at the Massachusetts Historical Society in Boston, pouring over the myriad of surviving primary sources from the mid-18th century. John Adams, unlike Thomas Jefferson, is one of the most well-documented of American historical figures. Much of what we know about the circumstances regarding the War of Independence, the Continental Congress, and other incidents is because of the preservation of these documents by the Adams family for the last two and one half centuries. (By contrast, Jefferson destroyed many of his own documents.) Much of the series comes from these primary sources sifted through by McCullough.John Adams was nothing like a Jack Kennedy, a Ronald Reagan, a Bill Clinton or a Barack Obama. He was short, stocky, unattractive, and had a pug nose, although he had penetrating eyes. During congressional debates he was once referred to as "His Rotundity". He could be overbearing, argumentative, occasionally rude and often big-mouthed. He could not tolerate incompetence and stupidity, at least as he defined it, and he had a bad habit of tactlessly letting people know. And yet, he was one of the titans of legal and political intellectualism in the American Colonies and one of the key figures that enabled their secession from Great Britain. During the Enlightenment of the 18th century, intellectualism and scholarship was more highly valued among leaders in America than it is today, and John Adams made up for his other shortcomings in spades. (Alas, in modern times, American politicians are often elected because of charisma, charm and movie-star qualities rather than intellectualism.) Therefore, no other actor in the business could play him as well as Paul Giamatti. As Adams was no Kennedy, neither is Giamatti which made him perfect for the part. Only the finest actor lacking star power could handle such a role. His performance is one of the best of an American historical figure, on par with Denzel Washington who portrayed Malcolm X. High marks also for Laura Linney as Abigail Adams. Both won Emmys for their performances. The series begins with the tides of animosity and distrust that began stirring between the American Colonists and their British rulers in the 1760's and early 1770's. Although the acts of the so-called Sons of Liberty were already escalating growing tensions, Adams was not the first to sign on to the idea of secession, although his cousin Samuel Adams already had. Few Americans know that Adams was involved with the case of the so-called "Boston Massacre" of 1770, in which soldiers fired upon an angry mob that resulted in the deaths of five colonists--not exactly a massacre but that's how it was portrayed. On principle, Adams accepted the case to defend the soldiers who were eventually acquitted. The acquittal did not endear Adams to many of his fellow colonists. It was only later, in part convinced by his cousin Sam Adams, that he agreed to join the cause for independence. The series chronicles his rise in leadership during the debates of the Continental Congress in which he and Ben Franklin advocated secession. He later became ambassador to France along with Franklin to negotiate the French supporting the colonial rebellion.After the war, he was elected as the first Vice President. Apparently he was quite ambivalent to his office, wondering if having been given the role of Vice President was somewhat of insult, but he would later recognize the honor it was. After Washington retired from public life, Adams was elected for one term as the second President of the United States in 1796, in part because of his crucial role during the War of Independence and his high intellectualism. As President, Adams avoided a war with France that probably saved the American nation, particularly since the United States had almost no defense. Unfortunately, since they were largely ignorant of the state of the military, the citizenry was largely in favor of such a war, and he lost his office to Jefferson in 1800. Later, a correspondence between Adams and Jefferson helps to reconcile their differences. They both died on the same day, July 4, 1826, the 50th anniversary of the founding of the new nation.John Adams may have been the "smartest man in the room", and he had the integrity to go with it. Even though many of his colleagues, particularly Thomas Jefferson and Benjamin Franklin, thought him insufferable at times, they revered his high intellectualism, and honored him by electing him President of the United States after George Washington. But in some ways, Adams was his own worst enemy, not knowing how to negotiate and debate in a civilized manner without demeaning and degrading his opponents. Politics is the art of negotiation, not just making the best arguments. I liken Adams somewhat to Jimmy Carter who was also highly intelligent but could not always negotiate with his political colleagues. This docudrama helps to reveal the multiple sides of Adams, and hopefully, the importance of what he did, how he did it, and why.


                
Being Canadian and history buff i was intrigued by this series prospects of my southern cousins' history.Upon seeing the series i would say that this series is superb on all aspects, from the visuals to the story. The series played out well and there was magic flow thru all of it because of the marvelous acting and casting and visuals. Somehow i wish this series would have been longer because you really grow attached to the characters just after a few shows...The only caveat is that the end shows feel a little bit rushed on the time-line that these persons lived in and you are left filling the time-line voids and try to figure out what happened to some characters in the series but then again it is absolutely engrossing to watch this show.A glorious effort at trying to show us history for the modern men and women of this generation.


                
When the final episode ended, I cried. Not because it was sad (it was); not because it was emotional (it was); not because it gave you a swelling of pride (it did)... No. I cried because it was over.The highest compliment I can give any story, be it a book or a movie, is that I don't want it to end. This was the case with John Adams. A show that I had high expectations for - and that it met easily. I wished it was 14 episodes instead of 7.This was nothing short of a triumph. The production and cast were outstanding. Some people would argue that Paul Giamatti was miscast. And those people would be wrong. This is arguably the finest work he has ever done, and that's saying a lot because he has done some great, great acting.There is only one complaint that I can make and that is that the story peaked too early. That zenith is reached at the beginning of Episode 4 during the reunion of John and Abigail after they had spent so much time apart. This was quite possibly the most touching love scene I have ever seen.That was the heart and soul of the series. John and Abigail's unconditional and unbreakable love was the anchor that held all the turmoil and upheaval in place. Weaker men and women may have crumbled under such pressure, but they survived. The admiration and dedication they had for one another came through with a blinding radiance. It was not and over the top, grandiose, passionate-kiss-in-the-rainstorm kind of love story, but one that was far more subtle and real. I can't think of anything more beautiful and romantic and loving as the simple act of John calling Abigail "my friend."What historical inaccuracies there may be are irrelevant. Even if only half of this story is true to history, this man deserves far more credit and respect than we have given him. So HBO turned a bloodless ship to ship encounter into an action sequence... big deal. The spirit of the moment is what matters, because we can never truly know what happened at every moment or know every thought and emotion.And what emotion there was. Because if this show, this story, can make even a cold blooded cynic like me feel patriotic, then it sure as hell has done something right.
This is one of the finest television events that I have viewed. It is so powerful that we can watch something of value - something that we can view with wild anticipation. If we could see other events like this -- founding father by founding father - we should only be so lucky.Paul Giamatti is masterful. Morse as George Washington is unbelievable. Wilkinson as Ben Franklin makes me understand Franklin's depths and flaws. I am not sure how we can continue to teach our children only the highlights without the lowlights. This production shows us the process of making our country, warts and all. I applaud the producers, the cast and the director.


                
First I would like to address the criticism of the first two episodes, specifically about the so-called plodding, odd nature of the first episode. Like any book, there must be an establishment of characters and a base by which to work from- nobody can be expected to understand a story unless those involved are understood. The Boston Massacre was a sudden jolt of reality to Adams, and his relationship with friends and family are vital pieces which must be explained. The camera work is used to emphasize the dramatic forces at work, the tension of having to choose between what is right and what is popular. The Boston Tea Party was not shown because obviously it is more important to explain WHY the colonists were so upset rather than every event that occurred, and in one scene we would never know who John Hancock really is unless the conflict with the official is shown, and his interests in seeing America independent down the road.The acting by Paul Giamatti is truly outstanding- the subtleties of the man himself are shown with careful precision rather than overdone acting, which is all the more important when faced with other giants of American history like Franklin, Washington, or Jefferson. Whoever was involved in choosing this cast has really earned themselves many, many awards, because from what I have seen the rest of the series can only get better when more action is added.To add about Pennsylvania's role in the Congress- what most people are not aware of is that Pennsylvania was a large roadblock when it came to defending the colonies from native rebellions and wars- they constantly ignored cries for help from fellow colonies and even from their own people in the western part of Pennsylvania. Franklin had failed to bring together a common defense in Albany, mainly due to his own fellow constituents. This was the primary reason why the tension between the New England colonies and Pennsylvania ran high, and why John Adams went after the Pennsylvania representatives out of sheer frustration, and why Benjamin Franklin understood both points of view and reacted the way he did. Adams felt that once again Pennsylvania was hiding at the rear as they did during the earlier part of the century.I am thrilled that historical drama, well done, has made a return to television in the form of episodes. I would highly recommend this production, even only seeing Episodes 1 and 2.
Very few of our nation's forefathers seem very human to us today. Important men, yes, but with the exception of maybe Benjamin Franklin, he of the smiling face and the twinkle in his eye, we don't connect with any of them.The brilliant HBO miniseries "John Adams" gives heart, soul, ambition, foibles, and temperament to these men - Washington, Jefferson, Franklin, Adams, Alexander Hamilton, Samuel Adams, and tells us about who they are, how they lived, their interpersonal relationships, and their goals for our country.Meticulously cast, historically researched, and impeccably costumed, we are given a look at the personal and professional life of John Adams (Paul Giametti), his wife Abigail (Laura Linney), and his children. Because of his work for the country, the family was asked to make sacrifices as he had to travel and stay away for long periods of time. It fell to Abigail to take care of the farm and their family.We get a good look at the hardships people endured in those days, including the crudeness of the medicine, the difficulty in communication - no Internet, no phone, only letters that had to travel great distances.Giametti and Linney -- there isn't much to say because there aren't sufficient adjectives. Brilliant, mesmerizing, detailed, flawless, emotional performances - all those words are trite. The beauty of the casting is one of the things that makes this miniseries great, and these two actors are at the top. Stephen Dillane as Jefferson, David Morse as Washington, Tom Wilkinson as Franklin, Rufus Sewell as Alexander Hamilton, are all sheer perfection. But none are asked to do what Giametti and Linney did -- Giametti had two days off in six months, apparently -- Adams lived until he was 90, and we saw him do it! This is a breathtaking miniseries that vividly shows the language, the way of life, the hardships, and the political arguments of the era, and puts the experiences into breathing human beings. I am so glad that I saw this, and thrilled that the actors and series received so many awards and nominations. Painstakingly directed by Tom Hooper, and written by historian David McCullough and Kirk Ellis, "John Adams" is a landmark in television and not to be missed.


                
This is truly a work of genius and HBO's finest presentation yet! The cooperation between the British actors, the director and his staff, and the Americans was an example of the finest collaboration possible. The actors gave credence to their roles superbly and fleshed out the reality of the enormous struggle for independence. As David McCullough said, this was the confluence of the right men at the right time coming together united with one purpose. Nothing prior to this has been so eloquently done and by such an outstanding cast, both American and English--portraying the best of American determination, fortitude, purpose and dedication! BRAVO TO ALL INVOLVED! Paul Giamotti, Laura Linney, David Morse, Tom Wilkinson, and the gentleman playing Jefferson (as well as the entire cast) are to be commended for producing their finest work. Judi Rogers


                
The pure brilliance of every aspect of this mini-series has almost left me speechless. If you watch this mini-series without being moved to tears, are not left with an overwhelming sense of patriotism, or do not have a profound new respect for the founding fathers and mothers of this country, then you were not really watching at all. After viewing this mini-series, I have now witnessed the greatest scene in a MOVIE ever; that being the scene between John Adams and King George III when they met for the first time after the war. Absolutely astonishing. Kudos to Tom Hollander for a brilliant portrayal of George III; I have never seen emotion like that on screen before. Others have tried, but Hollander nailed it. This mini-series needs to be REQUIRED viewing for all American school children. Fantastic.


                
Thank you to all concerned for bringing this absolutely first rate and intimate view of the founding fathers particularly of John Adams and George Washington. David Morse is incredible as George Washington. The physical resemblance is remarkable but the essence of character, humanity, humility and quiet strength of his leadership as portrayed is a wonderful reminder of our first Presidents greatness. The strengths and failings of John Adams as he goes about the business of These United States and his family reminds us that the founders were real people subject to some of the same issues we all confront. Paul Giamanti and Laura Linney are magnificent. I could go on for pages of how informative the entire works are to date. I look forward to the remainder episodes with great anticipation.Thank you Art Pratt Aliquippa, Pa


                
Television drama gets no better than this.Flawless scripting, acting, directing and photography.It's not about "history". It's not about "America".It's about people.And few groups of people, present or past, have ever had their times and their stories as superbly chronicled as here by screenwriter Kirk Ellis, and biographer David McCullough.The word 'masterpiece' is too often devalued by being hauled out of the cupboard where it should have been left.Dusting it off though for 'John Adams' is fully justified.11/10.


                
The people who made this miniseries did their history homework. David Morse portrays George Washington so well and looks just like the real George Washington just stepped off the one dollar bill and into reality. Paul Giamatti is one of the best acclaimed actors in the business. I recommend this miniseries to ALL schools so our children can learn something about the birth of our nation. The subtleties of the everyday items during that time period are portrayed near perfectly. King Louis is excellently portrayed as well as King George. You can almost feel yourself in this time period with the way the costuming is done and the mannerisms. GREAT MINISERIES.


                
