I am a professor of early American history, and I love the Revolutionary period. I had high hopes for this production. Certainly the cast is remarkably well-chosen. Paul Giametti IS John Adams - what a brilliant stroke. Laura Linney equally brilliant as Abigail, David Morse eerie in his portrayal of George Washington (and that is a very difficult personality to try to flesh out - it's not just the physical resemblance), and who could complain with Tom Wilkinson as Franklin? The attention to detail is correct and a marvel to watch.But. The script is boring. How could they make such an exciting time in our history so boring? I can't figure it out - although taking the point of view of one of the crankiest of the so-called "founding fathers" might be one reason.I blushed for the memory of Abigail Adams when the screenwriter had her moaning because John had to leave her yet again - for heavens' sake - the war lasted seven long years for Massachusetts militiamen, most of that time spent very far from home. They were paid in worthless currency, and when they finally came home, the state government tried to take their farms away from them, leading to Shays' Rebellion and, eventually the Constitution (and, by the way, a new legislature the next year, who stopped the foreclosures).Abigail Adams was smart, she was resourceful, and Laura Linney portrays her well - but she was definitely NOT alone in having to run a farm without a husband beside her. At least HERS wasn't killed or maimed.I did love the scenes of the Adams couple watching the Battle of Bunker Hill, and the cannon being dragged from Fort Ticonderoga (over the White Mountains). (Too bad they didn't also include how furious the New York militia were when Massachusetts filched what they considered should be THEIR cannon - although it was Vermonters who actually stole them in the first place). But very little else resonated.There was so much diversity between states, and within the large ones. So much interesting going on. So little included in this series.It's not factually misleading as The Patriot was, but ... it's so godawfully BORING.I fear we've lost the point of view of the colonists - who bottled the British up in their "safe zones," in cities, for the British dare not set foot in the countryside. Hmm. Maybe that's just too familiar. Maybe we can't understand any more what the fight for liberty was all about.What a pity. Brilliant actors, a fantastic set, an enticing topic - and thus far some of the most boring hours I've spent watching TV. (My husband, who is definitely NOT a historical scholar, shared that point of view by falling asleep soon into every episode thus far. He did not fall asleep during Band of Brothers.) Next time have Ken Burns write your script. Or at least vet it.


                
I felt that every line was a hackneyed rehashing of 4th Grade history. The characters gave no recitations that showed the considerations of these tumultuous times. I was excited to order this set and disappointed to finish it.Boring is being kind. In comparison to Giamatti's role in the 1995 remake of Sabrina, I came away with a much lower opinion of him. There was no sense of urgency in the story. No sense of interest by the actors. I actually expected them to have David Morse chop down a cherry tree, since the writers had him saying every other American myth attributed to him.Albert Finney's portrayal of Churchill so was much better than this soporific drivel. It's my opinion that this should have - and could have -- been done much better.
