The first two episodes of this mini series have captivated me like very few things have. It is interesting to see a detailed look at the foundation of this great nation come to life instead of merely being read on page.The cast is stellar. Giamatti is a great actor and he brings John Adams to life. Wilkinson as Benjamin Franklin is one of the highlights. The realism of the time frame is brought to life like few movies have done; accuracy in costumes, to architecture, and locational shots.This is a truly moving piece, and a must watch for fans of history, and those with a appreciation of great cinema regardless.


                
This series is truly amazing. The actors are very talented and believable, and the whole is a well-done and remarkable representation of John Adams' life. I always get bored out of my mind by the flat, matter-of-fact nature of textbooks and documentaries. Although I prefer films that show the actual war more than the politics, this film is what got me hooked on the Revolution, and history in general, and I would strongly recommend it to anybody who is interested in that kind of stuff.I dropped one star because there are a number of historical inaccuracies throughout the series--pretty much all minor details, and for the most part, the plot is authentic, but it is something that matters a great deal to me with portrayals of history. I got the David McCullough's book after I watched this and I would highly suggest reading it as well if you really want to learn the details more accurately. Also, some parts of Adams' life feel like they were rushed/skipped over, but considering that they have to go through his whole life in seven episodes, they do a good job covering the important aspects. Other than that, I can find nothing to criticize. There is much use of silence throughout the film, which works wonders to inspire the mood of the various scenes, but when the score is played in the background, it emphasizes the moment dramatically. The title track, especially, is wonderfully patriotic and takes my breath away.Again, I absolutely recommend watching this if you are interested in history and America.


                
This series was so good I am having difficulty finding words to do it justice. I have only faded memories of John Adams from my high school history class almost 50 years ago. The teacher spoke well of John Adams but I didn't really remember why. This series has not only reminded me but it has also provided me great detail as to how great a part John Adams played in the birth of America. This was so educational and enlightening for me. The more I learn of the men and women who created this county out of nothing the greater is my admiration for them. They made hard choices, they were willing to risk life and limb for the chance to see a dream come true. I am amazed by how well they sorted out the constitution and the bill of rights with the intent of preventing problems for those who would follow. Their wisdom and the ability to foresee conflict is incredible. We owe them a great deal of gratitude and respect.I wish this was required viewing for all high school students.


                
John Adams is directed by Tom Hooper, produced by Tom Hanks and Gary Goetzman,is based on the book by David McCullough and stars Paul Giamatti, Laura Linney, Stephen Dillane, Danny Huston and Tom Wilkinson and tells the remarkable true story of the second President of the United States and how the USA gained independence from the British.John Adams(Paul Giamatti)is a lawyer in America in the 1700's and we follow his struggle to help America gain independence from Britain and see how he eventually becomes America's second President.The highlight of the series is the relationship between John and his loving wife Abigail(Laura Linney). Abigail is John's anchor,conscience and is his best friend as well.The scenes between these two are so raw,honest and heart breaking at times.Abigail was left alone much of the time while John travelled on state business but the two wrote such beautiful letters to each other declaring their love for one another.The series also stars Stephen Dillane as Thomas Jefferson the man behind the declaration of independence and a lifelong friend of John's, David Morse as the first man to lead America George Washington,Tom Wilkinson as the legendary Benjamin Franklin and Sarah Polley as Adam's ill fated daughter Abigail"Nabby". The entire cast give superb performances but this is Paul Giamatti's show for sure, he is absolutely outstanding giving one of his best performances.This is more than just a biography of one man and his family, it's a fascinating look at that time period and shows the hardship of life back then and how people coped with not very much to live on. This series deserves a great deal of attention and is a good look at the contributions to history of one man and the start of a way of life that many now take for granted.
Historically-based drama, like historical romance, is not history. Having said that, I rate this new television series somewhat high.I like many other students of history will find fault with historical details that go astray in this presentation. I may also find fault with the manner in which some of the historical facts and characters seem overemphasized at the expense of others. But the key question is whether the story as compelling drama holds up against all that background.For example, is the character of John Adams as played by Paul Giamatti believable? Does he seem consonant with the storyline? Are the other cast members and episodes structured so as to advance a clear image in our minds of the man and his times? I must confess I have a very different idea of what the real John Adams must have been like. But the words and actions of this drama are in and of themselves generally representative of the written record of history. As an example I cite from the most recent episode the beginnings of antagonism between Adams and Jefferson that would lead (I hope will lead!) to the very dramatic facts of their bitter enmity and eventual reconciliation before they died as old men, coincidentally on the same day. Every schoolchild needs to know what these two men stood for in the formative years of the republic, and how each one like so many politicians today felt occasionally inclined to put vanity ahead of what they truly believed. That is the makings of good drama.So I can forget from time to time that much of this stuff is being filmed in Hungary, that Breed's Hill was not Bunker Hill, that the accents aren't right (especially undifferentiated as between the South and New England), and that the sun is almost always shining.Instead, I concentrate more on why there is so much mumbling and whispering. My ears are not as good as they used to be.


                
I just finished watching this series on DVD. Although it's boring at times if you're not into history at least a little bit, overall it was a very excellent production and true to history. I don't think that TV actors, even if it is an HBO film with a big production budget, that it is not eligible for Oscar nods. Too bad, because Giamatti's portrayal of Adams was simply the most powerful performance I recall seeing in years. Simply unforgettable. Laura Linney, and many of the actors did Oscar-worthy jobs as well. Oh, and the actor who plays Washington (what's his name?) was a dead on ringer, like the brought the first prez back to life just to play himself. Also, I know it's not recognized as a big effects movie (thank god) but it's one of the best use of CGI enhancement I've seen.


                
As others have already noted, this miniseries should become required viewing in every American History class in the country. I read McCullough's bio of Adams about a year ago and found the miniseries to be endlessly impressive. Giamatti portrays Adams as a full human being rather than an historical caricature. Laura Linney makes you feel the inner strength of Abigail Adams. The other actors in major roles all perform wonderfully. I just wish they'd gone a few more episodes, giving more space to some things that were glossed over (like the whole War of 1812). Multiple Emmy's for HBO are certain, and for several of the cast. With the short shrift the Founding Fathers are given these days, portrayed either as horrible slave-owning Old White Men or else unapproachable god-like figures of American legend, this very humanizing look at the times and especially of Adams himself are a breath of fresh air. Can't say enough good things about this one. It's going to do well on DVD.


                
Very gripping and great acting.Some historical inaccuracies (pointed out to me by my son, but I wouldn't have known otherwise), I wondered why.Visually striking and often thought provoking.Certainly a must for students of American history.Possibly not as good as the novel, but then thats a tall order.Subtitles help when viewing for those unfamiliar with the details of names and history of those times.A must watch for all Americans who will grow to admire the founding fathers and have a perspective on the birth of a nation.


                
Excellent....the sets, production, costumes, direction, writing ... but most importantly, the actors...Paul (Adams) and Laura (Abagail) shine, as does the rest of the cast. You feel like you are watching American Independence, the events leading up to such a momentous occurrence, and our country's infancy actually happen before your eyes. Thank you HBO, and thank you David McCullough for bringing history to life, both as narrative and film. Every detail contributes to an intellectual and entertaining whole.HBO ... you do some outstanding work, I thank you for keeping the American public on their toes and such quality programming. A remarkable achievement, I wish you many many awards, and hope you will continue to make more quality historical films. You show not only good taste, but your executives have made some bold decisions, at a time when TV could use both!


                
Amazingly well documented. So enormously fun to watch the birth of USA.


                
I have not finished the series yet - the acting and characters are great - Adams (John and Abigail), Washington, and Jefferson acting was great and believable. Not sure how true to history some of the dialogue is but it is great watching a story about Adams passion, hardships, and experiences while founding the United States.


                
I finally got to this HBO film series ten years after the initial release, and I must say, it does live up to its reputation as a great film. Attention to detail was second to none; it really looks like they went back in time and made this film! Most, it not all of it was filmed in existencing light, meaning no other lighting sources i.e.: movie lights were used.However, I did find myself wanting more. It's only seven episodes but, being supposedly based on David McCullough's book, could've been twice that! I also had to keep reminding myself that it's about John Adams and NOT the Revolutionary War, as you see none of it. And many of the supporting characters like, Benjamin Franklin and George Washington just disappear without much explination. And there is some strange 'creative licensing' taken. The biggest example has to do with John Adams' children who they make about five years older than they would've actually been. As there isn't very much in the way of films surrounding colonial times, this is a real welcome; and even with all its flaws, a good history lesson for everyone.
Excellent HBO mini-series based on the David McCullough biography of the second U.S. president. It begins with Adams witnessing the Boston Massacre in 1773 (he was the defense attorney for the British soldiers - something I'm surprised that I didn't know) and ends with his death on the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the country (on the same day as his best friend/worst enemy, Thomas Jefferson). It's a beautifully mounted series. On a technical level, it's just gorgeous, with great detail to the sets and costumes. The writing is great, giving us a well-paced story, nicely divided into seven parts, covering long segments of Adams' life. It rarely feels like they're just trying to cram information into the episodes. The acting is generally fantastic. Paul Giamatti and Laura Linney are John and Abigail Adams. Stephen Dillane gives quite a unique take on Jefferson. Tom Wilkinson is Ben Franklin, David Morse is George Washington, Danny Huston is Sam Adams, Rufus Sewell is Alexander Hamilton and Sarah Polley John's daughter Nabby. I do think Giamatti can be a little too nebbishy, as he has a hard time escaping his nature, but I mostly think it works for the character. I wonder if Adams comes off that way in McCullough's book, or if this is just something that comes out of Giamatti. All of the famous historical characters are well drawn and come off far differently than one might imagine. Alexander Hamilton, for example, comes off almost as a villain with a somewhat poisoning effect on George Washington (Adams and Jefferson apparently really didn't like him in real life, and their evil eye certainly comes through in the POV of the series). By the end of the series, I felt like I knew a lot more about the time period than I had since I was in history class back in high school (maybe more), and I was extremely entertained all the way through. The Blu Ray edition (and perhaps the DVD, though I don't think so) has a feature that delves further into the story with pop-up facts. I watched the series with this feature playing from near the end of the second episode (I had wanted to see if it had any more information on Thomas Jefferson's view of slavery).


                
With an MBA in American History, I can honestly say that this mini-series was very well done and quite historically accurate. Minor details are changed for dramatic purposes (such as Abigail had encouraged John to start correspondence with Jefferson before her death and John did, in fact, start while she was still alive) but they are inconsequential.The only element that I take exception to is the portrayal of John Quincy Adams by Ebon Moss-Bachrach. I don't know if it was by design or if it was Ebon's interpretation, but his performance made JQA come off as sniveling and whimpering, subservient to his father while in his presence, and always seemed to be on the cusp of breaking out in tears. John Quincy was anything but that. I don't know where this came from and it make the role unconvincing. Otherwise, Giamatti and the rest of the cast performed without equal. Exceptional film!


                
How much do you know about John Adams? I mean really know? If you're Pulitzer Prize winning author David McCullough, you know enough to share this enigmatic former President with the world.Not much of a congenial man, nor known to hold his tongue in tight situations, Adams has often been brushed aside by historians in favor of the more famous George Washington (played here by David Morse, 16 BLOCKS) and Declaration of Independence creator Thomas Jefferson (played by Stephen Dillane, THE GREATEST GAME EVER PLAYED). Even Ben Franklin (Tom Wilkinson, MICHAEL CLAYTON) has more political notoriety than poor Mr. Adams. But Adams is so incredibly important to our nation that he deserves much more notice, and thanks to Mr. McCullough's astounding novel, there's been a resurgence in interest to the former President, thus this new miniseries by HBO.Paul Giamatti (LADY IN THE WATER) stars as John Adams, the first Vice-President (Did you remember that?) and the second President of these United States (Did you remember that, too?). His trail to fame and Presidential glory is paved with danger, disease, love, and loss.Giamatti's performance is especially notable in that he pulls off a "man of the times" role in effortless fashion. It didn't hurt, either, that the costumes were exquisitely done, the sets dirty, muddy and generally what one would expect to see around the mid-late-and-post 1700s. Adams lived to a ripe old age, too, of 91 (a good run in any era). During his lifetime he will be witness to the Boston Massacre, the Revolution against Great Britain, become the first minister to Britain after the U.S. gained its independence, and serve as Vice-President and President. A life not ordinary. Especially when you consider the nature of the man: broodish, quick to anger, stubborn in decision-making. But his temper was ...tempered by a friendship that would last a lifetime. And I'm not talking about his well-known association with Thomas Jefferson. I'm talking about the person whom he called "My dearest friend." Of course, this was Abigail Adams (played with exceptional poise by Laura Linney, THE SQUID AND THE WHALE), his dedicated wife and stalwart confidant. The two were opposite sides of the same coin and proved to be a formidable pairing. When John was angry, Abigail calmed him. When he was writing, Abigail was his editor. When he was away from home (often), she took care of the children, the farm ...everything.Although this miniseries didn't incorporate all that John Adams was (how could it?), it did perform the prerequisite of showing us a glimpse of a man and how he battled the developing politics of his new country while trying to be the patriarchal leader of his extended family. Being a beer drinking man myself, I couldn't help but pay closer attention whenever Samuel Adams (John Adams' cousin) was mentioned or showed up on screen (played by Danny Huston, 30 DAYS OF NIGHT). Although just a side-note by comparison to the rest of the film, it is topical to mention that John Adams' son, John QUINCY Adams (Ebon Moss-Bachrach, THE LAKE HOUSE), was the first son of a former President to become President himself (but I think he did a tad better at it than our current 'son-of-a-former-President'). These touched-on items added more historical depth to the story and made the viewing audience equally enamored with John Adams even if the man himself was the complete opposite.This seven part miniseries is exceptional with costumes and sets that play the part just as well as the actors themselves. And if you've forgotten about John Adams' past, well, this is a nice refresher.


                
