Yes, the cinematography is very nice. Yes, Ry Cooder's slide guitar is compelling. Yes, the plot is simple minded, predictable and the characters have little in the way of depth. I saw this snoozer when it was first released, and even though the date I was with was stunning, I hated her for liking this simplistic tripe. Does anyone want to know why a babe like Kinski was involved with a geezer like Stanton? Why is everyone so "shocked" she works at a booth in a phone sex place? It's not like "requiem for a dream" exactly and is quite low on the shocking scale. And its long and dull - Wim Wenders seems to have forgotten that a movie can be edited. How this movie is anything more than a dull rumination on life is beyond me. Saw it on cable a year or so ago - it's still pretty, still sounds good and is still visual sominex.
How this low-budget, pretentious, and seemingly interminable film deserves a high rating is beyond me. A script that must have looked (to those concerned)aesthetically and financially good on paper turns into a disaster on the screen. The acting is wooden. Each character comes across as memorizing lines, and even worse the lines promote a teasing of episodes failing in both dramatic and psychological conflict. The frames fall in a series of suggestive motives and "profound" insights worthy of a high school production, maybe. And the camera work? At times fixating in dissociative relationship with the script, but for the most part flat and amateurish. Odd. The film's theme of emotional healing is belied by its own clumsy and uninspired devices.
As a woman I found this movie insulting, I watched it because it was an important movie for someone who's important for me, but I'm quite disgusted with it, it started alright, I found the sights and sounds appealing, but then, it's such a miscast, from the perfect cherub of Hunter, to the out of this world beauty of Jane (Kisnski), to the decrepit eyesore and bad actor of Travis (Stanton). It could have made a little more sense casting someone like Don Johnson instead of him, a young hunk. But you can't ask sense of this kind of garbage wrapped in artsy paper. This beautiful woman with a perfect son with the whole of the US to make a life for herself, turns into a pseudo hooker? That's all that she can strive for? And with that beauty and youth, she can only put in 5 dollars some months? While the sorry guy gets to go looking for adventures in Mexico? Give me a complete break! Piece of garbage.
We first join Travis in the middle of the desert, not remembering who he is or why he's there. Some personal documents are found on him, his brother is called to pick him up, and we spend the next half hour watching him refuse to talk as they drive about the desert. The acting was bad, the dialogue bad, and the intrigue not enough to sustain the monotony, so that was enough for me. I fast forwarded to the end and their did appear to be some engaging scenes between Travis and his ex-wife, now a sex worker, but it was too little too late.


                
