I shall be very generous and give this overrated movie 3 stars.I can't believe this movie won such awards.The reason I do so is because of the superb cinematography by Robby Müller. That, some nice dialogue, the mirror-sex concept and the beauty of Nastassja Kinski somehow made this film not a (complete)waste of time.The rest of the movie: mediocre acting, a childish plot, annoying and 2-dimensional characters, without anything symbolic and that awful scratchy guitar music...Don't waste your time on this one.


                
Wim Wenders is the equivalent of a talented chef with ADHD, who comes up with a creative recipe for a chocolate birthday cake, mixes it all together, forgets what he was making and starts adding garlic, peas and onions. Some reviewers would have you believe that it's an acquired taste. But no, it's just a chocolate birthday cake with garlic, peas and onions.There are 2 creative ideas which, on their own, would have made great film shorts. But thrown in this mess of ambling stream-of-consciousness, they do nothing to hold a feature length film together. I'm talking about (1) the opening premise of a mysterious, silent man who stumbles out of the desert, and (2) the very creative conversations that 2 characters have through a mirror towards the end. I don't doubt that Wim conceived these 2 ideas and thought he could fill in the gaps to make a complete movie, but no. Like a rhinoceros trying to mate with a giraffe in a Wal-Mart parking lot, it's confusing, pointless and annoying.I was severely disappointed in this dud, given its high praise in artsy circles. Unfortunately this is another one of those films that gives "artsy" a bad name. I highly recommend passing this one and instead checking out some of Wim Wenders' coherent work: UNTIL THE END OF THE WORLD, and the first 75% of HIMMEL UBER BERLIN (Wings of Desire).I give it 6/10 for style and 1/10 for substance. Still, for students of Wim Wenders (who, don't get me wrong, is a very talented man), this is a curious watch for the sake of seeing his earlier, immature works.


                
beautiful shots, gorgeous landscape, nice idea for a plot but really far to slow to drag viewers in. The ideas behind the film are very interesting and at first you watch with all intention of following things until the end; the strange silent man (Travis) is intriguing enough in the beginning to catch all your attention. However as the story progresses, or rather fails to, Travis' silence becomes more infuriating than a helpful and necessary plot device. i find you just cant sympathize with Travis at all, and he just ended up as being irritating. Regardless of that, the real star of this film was the little boy who played Travis' son (name? unsure). fantastic acting from him, but all said and done, you'd be better off watching this film on mute.


                
I was reading a book titled "1001 movies you must see before you die," and Paris, Texas was in there, thus compelling me to rent this movie and check it out for myself. I thought "Hey, I am from Texas, and this was in that book, so it must be good." I can say one thing about that book, and that is that they must've gotten the title wrong. They should rename it "1001 movies you should see if you want to die." Why do I say this? Because this movie is unbearrrabllleeeee!!! I've been able to learn many things in my lifetime, but for the life of me I cannot figure out why people were captivated by 150 of the worst minutes in film history. People will get this movie based on it's rave reviews and just out of curiosity. I guarantee you that 80% of you will be writing a review like mine shortly after you view this film.


                
I like the idea of this movie. I like the deliberate pace and moodiness. I like the music.I just don't think it really worked. The whole thing was inconsistent and haphazard. The acting was inconsistent, The characters were inconsistent. Stanton and Kinski were pretty good, not great, but good. Stockwell and Clement were terrible, but I can't really think it was all their fault. Some scenes just seemed like they needed to be re-shot. I couldn't forget that I was watching people acting. The boy, Hunter, was probably the best actor in the film and I generally don't like child actors.There was some beautiful scenery, but on my DVD it seemed bright and fuzzy and washed out. Maybe the original was better? Most of the movie seemed like they were making it up as they went along and they didn't really know what they wanted to say.Really could've used some editing.I didn't think any of it had any emotional resonance, mostly because none of the characters seemed real or fleshed out.The music was nice, but we've since heard better stuff from him.It wasn't a terrible movie, just ehh. One of those movies you watch and afterward have no feelings about.


                
Very long-winded and pointless. The opening scene is fascinating enough, because the overdressed tramp quick-marching out of the desert raises a lot of questions. From here on, unfortunately, things deteriorate rapidly. He ends up in a local hospital, fine, but why has it to be a greedy kraut doctor? Next: a road movie somewhat like Rainman (1988, four years later and much better). Next: back to normal life. Next: finding his wife. The whole story of the couple (which is not very exciting in itself) is told by the main character through a telephone while his wife is listening. Boredom supreme! It's bad enough when a stage play is turned into a static movie, but this beats everything. We had as well read it, instead of having to listen to this long long long story. I gave 3/10 for the nice pictures: a desert view here, a bright blue wall there, a giant dinosaur somewhere else etcetera. As a "movie" (as in "moving") it's worthless.
A 3 only because it seems to give meaning to those who've lost control and are finding it again.I watched it because of some of the many positive reviews found here.And am left pondering whether you need to be an entitled American whose privileged un-thought lifestyles were coming undone by Reaganomics and, what permitted such 'leadership' to take over the 1980s, the Energy Crisis of the 1970s.Alas, am not. Am a foreigner who migrated to the states in the mid '80s and didn't know the American English enough to have understood this film even had I the means to have watched it then. And am glad.Never had the entitled lifestyle this Travis character so unthinkingly mismanaged then spends the latter part of his life trying to put back together and that so many here seem to identify with. Not realizing it half of it happened by not having led an examined life. Had he managed to question the status quo and his place in it, it is likely he would not have lost so much.I can see the hope and redemption so many find inspiring and helpful. But is for a specific American, and an American way of existing, that never questions the status quo, their place in it, where their privilege comes from or at what cost to their surroundings, or that the place is not made just for them.The point of this diatribe is to warn you: those times are here again. If you seek to not have others experience the same wayward alcoholism and lost of control, warn them. Get them to live a more examined life, a life not requiring a constant stream of stimuli, a more self-sufficient, frugal and resourceful life.Else other "Reagans" now lining up will make them go through what so many of you went through. And cause much pain to the Hunters around them that don't deserve it.Peace.


                
