I regret watching this movie. The characters and performances are shallow and irritating. The cinematography is nice, but the direction is bland, substance-less and devoid of style. I understand that a lot of people who feel inclined to review Paris, Texas are so inclined because they really like the movie. ... but having just watched it, partially based on seeing so many gushing reviews here, I really feel that a contrary review is in order. My friend and I both just watched it and both regret it. Here are some of our mutual favorites, for reference, so you know who we are:In A Lonely Place, Chinatown, Brazil, Taxi Driver, Maltese Falcon, Blue Velvet, Stroszek, Persona...We both agree that Paris, Texas is THE most regrettable viewing experience we have shared.For additional reference of what this ranking means to us I will list other things we've watched besides our favorites, all of which we regret less (if at all) than Paris, Texas:The Quatermass Trilogy, Dune, High Sierra, Aquaboy cartoons, Melancholia, Plan 9 from Outer Space, the Sinister Urge, Gates of Heaven...I would say that if you happen to be one of the folks who will end up liking this movie, then you would have a good feeling after watching the first bit of it. But if you start watching it and feel irritable after only 15 minutes, you should stop watching it because that's the movie. That is what I wish I had heard from a trusted source several hours ago.


                
After being abandoned by his wife, a husband and father from California drops out; four years after disappearing, the man's brother finds him, grizzled and wearing a dusty suit and tie, walking purposefully, yet aimlessly through Southwest Texas. Director Wim Wenders, working from L.M. Kit Carson's adaptation of Sam Shepard's original story, overdoses on the cloudy, majestic skies and rugged terrain of Texas--but once we return to the West coast, there's nothing much going on visually, and the reedy-thin plot isn't enough to support the film on its own. Shepard doesn't create characters through his writing, he sketches outlines: the withdrawn father, the shattered wife, the conflicted child. And even if these were three-dimensional people, it might be difficult to forgive Shepard the fact they aren't particularly embraceable. There are isolated moments of lonesome beauty and regret, yet "Paris, Texas" is that most irritating breed of art-house non-wonder: it invites us to appreciate its craft and intuition while giving us little more than a carefully-posed series of life-like images. *1/2 from ****


                
"Paris, Texas" is an art movie. It's in similar fashion as Jim Jarmusch's Dead Man. The plot revolves around Harry, a silent man (Harry Dean Stanton), who comes back to his kid's life. The kid's been living with foster-parents that he has regarded his own so far. Foster-dad (Dean Stockwell) tells the kid who the real father is and Harry and the kid hit the road to go look for the real mother (Nastassja Kinski).There's probably a lot of social commentary in "Paris, Texas", I just didn't understand any of it. All i saw was whispering lonely people, who are filled with memories and regret. I think the movie is about loss. "Can you see me when you turn the light off?" (pause) I don't know (pause, pause, pause) I never tried.." (pause, pause) My god, get to the point!Not the most depressing movie, not a bad movie, just too slow and too long for me. The music is good.


                
Drifting aimlessly for the most part, Paris, Texas manages to bring its story full circle as it nears its conclusion but the journey to its final destination is slow and may become frustrating if you are not already invested in the plight of the protagonist. A stark, strange & somber experience, it does put the viewers' patience to test but also rewards them with an emotionally hefty finale.The story follows an amnesiac named Travis who's been missing for four years and is found drifting in the South Texas desert. Retrieved by his brother, he is brought to Los Angeles to reunite with his young son. However, soon after their relationship is mended, the two embark on a new journey in order to track down Travis' long-missing wife who left their son shortly after he disappeared.Directed by Wim Wenders, the film begins with our protagonist wandering alone in the dry & barren desert before passing out at a rundown bar. The next scenes do establish an aura of mystery about him and Harry Dean Stanton does well to articulate those pent-up emotions, but the film eventually started frustrating me the way it did Travis' brother when he was trying to connect with Travis but got nothing in return for a while.The story isn't heavy on dialogues, at least not until the very end, and the plot is narrated with a contemplative eye that ruminates more on what the characters are feeling in the given moment. Travis' return to society, his own life, to fatherhood & his new-found purpose to reunite the family is finely illustrated but the deliberately slow pace becomes tiring after a while, for there are scenes in it that it could've done without.Wenders also paints a distinct portrait of America, contrasting its rich suburban city life with vast, desolate & deserted landscapes while the camera is employed as a silent observer, capturing the images neatly yet leaving a mark of its own with some clever placements & angles. Editing allows the plot to unfurl at an unhurried pace that may divide its audience. Lastly, its minimal & funereal score bears much resemblance to an old western.Coming to the performances, the film features a devoted cast in Harry Dean Stanton, Nastassja Kinski, Dean Stockwell, Aurore Clément & Hunter Carson, and they all resemble a once big family that is still reeling from its unexpected break-up. Stanton steals the show with a strong input and his chemistry with every cast member adds something to their relationship. Carson plays the kid and works well with what he's given while Kinski does amazingly well in the end to leave her mark.On an overall scale, Paris, Texas articulates its themes in a concise fashion and the final act is no doubt compelling but the road one needs to travel to get there is a long & tedious one. It's not that the way its plot progresses is incongruent with its tone & mood but it just wasn't able to garner my full attention and didn't have anything interesting enough to keep me engaged. Another viewing a few years down the line may result in a different outcome but for now, Paris, Texas was, for the most part, highly underwhelming.


                
