Moody, slow, absorbing, you lose yourself in this 'love lost' and in many ways tragic story. This film was probably an early warning to us all of how life can easily overwhelm without us realising it. It is also virtually unique in the successful portrayal of a man who is deeply lost in his innermost thoughts that the outside world becomes almost a minutiae. Mr Stanton encapsulates this mood perfectly and this is probably his best performance ever. The most moving scene (and there are many) might be when he reviews some old cine film of his life (a normal happy love story which surely could not have gone wrong so badly)before he walked away from it all. I can't help but think this is a real life epistle which could be a marker for how life has overtaken the human race in the last 20 years.


                
Paris, Texas is my first ever taste of acclaimed director Wim Wenders, and while the film isn't exactly sweet; it's certainly not bitter enough to steer itself away from the realms of the masterpiece. Paris, Texas is very much a character driven story and it follows the account of a man that wanders out of the hot desert sun with an acute case of amnesia. When his brother, Walt, finds him, he helps him to remember his life, and we then watch as our protagonist rekindles his former relationships first with son, and then with the mother of his child. Wim Wenders handles this story with the utmost skill, and it works thanks to the tentative way that he portrays the characters to the audience. Just like the town of it's title; Paris, Texas is basically a film about being lost. I (and I'm sure many other people) didn't even realise that there was a place called Paris in the middle of Texas, and this little place is symbolic of the substance that is at the core of this movie.The film doesn't benefit from any big name actors, but the actors in the movie do give it their all and ensure that it doesn't fall down on the acting side. Harry Dean Stanton takes the lead role, and does a good job in, at first, portraying a man consumed with amnesia; and then consumed with the time he has lost. Nastassja Kinski is the only member of the cast that has a really notable list of film credits other than this movie, but ironically she has the least screen time of the five leads. Every minute she is on screen is a delight, however, and she lights up the screen with both of her talents; looks and acting ability. The young Hunter Carson gives a rare child performance; i.e. one that isn't incredibly annoying, but strangely he didn't appear in very many movies after this one. The climax to the tale is more than satisfying, and is easily one of the most haunting and potent I've ever seen in a film. Wenders shows his talent with both the execution and the implications of it, and it's a satisfying end to a very satisfying movie. Recommended.


                
had the opportunity to watch this film recently, and I'm glad I did. I wasn't familiar with the work of Wim Wenders but now after seeing this film I'd like to check out more of his filmography. I honestly felt like this film was just refreshing and captivating the way it portrays the Texan landscape. Its beautifully shot and the authenticity of the setting heightens the atmosphere of a man like Travis traveling across the state, trying to reassemble his life.Harry Dean Stanton stars in this film about a quiet man walking through the desert mysteriously, until his brother locates him and tries to get him back to see his abandoned son. His son is young so he does not know his father well, so Travis (Stanton's character) must try to build a relationship with his son. He also is on a pursuit to find his long lost wife and when he finally finds her emotions ensue. The film is a slow build but I think the cinematography is a joy to behold during the wait.One thing I have to really commend about this film is the sheer authenticity and simplicity of the film. Its very straightforward yet there is such complexity in the characters of the film. I think the two scenes with the two way mirrors between Stanton and Kinski were just so raw and sharply written. It puts a smile on your face and you become curious as to how bad their relationship must have been and the steps needed to recover and find themselves together again.I can't praise Robby Muller's cinematography enough in this film. Its so encompassing of Southern America and the journey of the protagonist. There's a sheer beauty to all of what we see in the film. Dean Stanton is perfect, he's always wonderful when I see him especially in his pairings with David Lynch. Haven't seen so much of Nastassja Kinski in the past but she is absolutely perfect and stunning in the screen time that she is given. Highly recommended, a film that doesn't really typify films of the 80's but you just feel as if it something that captures decades past in America.8/10


                
No one knows better than we do how difficult it is to fix past mistakes.However, with determination anything it is possible, and what seemed hopeless, turns out a possibility.When i saw Travis, looking like a beggar in the desert, I could not imagine the reasons for their appearance. However, we all have a story, a past. The way in which the film develops the outcome is extremely intelligent, and it's like reality itself. This is why the film is moving and intense, despite of it's apparent lack of pace.8/10


                
From the first minutes of "Paris, Texas" you realize that this film is a little different from the others of its kind. Starring Harry Dean Stanton as Travis Henderson, a man who suffered a nervous breakdown and estranged himself from his family as a result, the film is both a deep character study and an effective family drama in the same time.The movie begins with some beautiful images of the desert, vast and desolate. We are then introduced to Travis (Stanton) a man wandering through the desert for reasons unknown to the viewer. As he enters a bar, he collapses due to dehydration and is taken to a doctor by the bar owner. He is later reunited with his brother Walt (Dean Stockwell), who came from California to his aid and had not seen him for 4 years. We know little about Travis' character and the fact that he initially refuses to speak to anyone only adds up to this mystery. As the story progresses, we slowly find out more about his background, we find out that he has a son named Hunter who is in the care of Walt and his wife, Ann (Aurore Clement).Harry Dean Stanton plays the main character and this is probably his best role. His best moment in the film is his conversation with Jane (Nastassja Kinski), a scene in which he showcases his whole talent. His performance is all the more impressive as he is supposed to express a full range of emotions in the beginning of the movie when his character is not speaking. I also thought that Nastassja Kinski was good in her role, despite the fact that she had quite a short amount of screen time.The film is character driven and we are interested in Travis' actions because we really care about him. Wim Wenders manages to direct the movie with precision and manages to keep the viewer connected. We want to find out why Travis wants to go to Paris, Texas, or why he was wandering through the desert in the first place. What I liked about this film is that you don't know how it's going to end, there are actually moments when you don't know what the main character is going to do next. This is probably the merit of writer Sam Shepard, who is probably better known to the public as an actor. I also found the movie's score to be great. Far from being very elaborate, it manages to bring the audience to where the action takes place. As a downside, the film might seem a little slow at times, but this is necessary for the build up."Paris, Texas" is an art-house film that presents a realistic story. I believe Wenders was just a little short of creating a masterpiece here. Nevertheless, this is a great movie and I think that it deserves more recognition.My rating: 8/10
'Paris, Texas', mind you, is not edge-of-the-seat viewing. It is not thrill-a-minute cinema; neither will your adrenaline be activated every 5 or 10 minutes.It is a slow, introspective study, through the interplay of just 5 characters, of solitude, and loneliness, and its gradual fading away ... of the ingratiation of the archetypal 'outsider' into the fold of mankind, once again ... even if, at the end, the wheel turns full circle ...Harry Dean Stanton, even if he underplays his role to textbook perfection, straddles the film like a colossus from start to finish. A complex character if there ever was one, it is Stanton's triumph that he imbues it with shades which make it more comprehensible and less dense ... and the mercurial Natassja Kinski, who gets barely half an hour of screen time, lights it up as only she can. The penultimate scene between the two (I won't reveal the details here) provides one of the most intense picturizations of the husband-wife relationship that I, at least, have seen.So far as performances go, it would be unfair not to put in a word for the adorable Hunter Henderson, who plays the couple's son Hunter, and illumines every scene he is in.And yet, perhaps, 'Paris, Texas' would not have been what it is without Ry Cooder's haunting background score ... perhaps the greatest example of the use of the guitar in the background music of any film, to devastating effect.Not popcorn viewing for sure, but if you're in the mood for serious, affecting cinema, don't miss 'Paris, Texas'.


                
Paris, Texas is a film that encompasses so much human emotion and spiritual drive; a film that travels such sociological lengths within the human mind just as it does physically in space and setting. The film begins in a dusty and lonely desert location, but journeys from here to busy airports; to contemporary American suburbs to the highways connecting these places, to apartments in towering buildings and right on to sleazy performance houses located within the deep, deep crevices of large cities. The sense of travel is important; the sense of journey is apparent. One of my favourite scenes-come-shots in the film occurs when the film's lead stares out of his brother's garden overlooking a highway and an airport runway. No one says or does anything, the character just sits and observes all this activity going on as he forms thoughts in his head; thoughts linked to the fact he must conclude a certain journey he has begins to realise he has already undertaken.The film begins with a lone man walking through a desert, he is Travis Henderson (Stanton) and wears a rugged and unshaven look as he potters about in a smart, but dusty, suit. Eventually, his brother named Walt (Stockwell) drives out to meet him after being called out by an individual that comes into possession of Travis' wallet, and attempts to figure out what happened. Quite quickly, director Wim Wenders combines beautiful scenery; the bending and twisting of conventions when we see a formally dressed man in a place we don't expect to see a formally dressed man; and an element of mystery when it transpires Travis' memory is less than perfect and he's been out of contact for four years. Additionally, when asked what happened – Travis rejects the question, tiptoeing around it and further placing it on a back-burner. All that he does reveal, to begin with, is the explanation of the title; that being that he wants to own a small plot of land in Paris, Texas – something he's been observing via a small photograph for all these years. This gives the film an initial overall direction, or something for its mysterious, mute character to aim for.Part of the film's underlying effectiveness is the way Wenders allows us to slowly get involved with characters like Travis. Initially, the audience is invited to toy with a few ideas surrounding him. Do we think he's in trouble with someone? Is he on the run? Can we trust him when he's driving for Walt? Can we trust him when Walt (who knows about as much as we do at most points and thus; speaks for us, the audience) leaves him alone in the motel room as to not merely run off again? The answer to that last question is 'not really' and when it transpires Travis does run away from Walt's attempts at help, maybe we feel a little angry at him; a little frustrated that he's acting in this quite shut off and childish manner.But things change, and people branch out. It's interesting to note that when Walt does disappear from the text as the film nears its final third, Wenders is clearly signalling that he feels comfortable enough he has delivered the necessary information for us to form our own realisation of what's going on and allows Travis to take over as that character that drives the film; as a character that goes places, not randomly, but because he knows what he needs to do – we know what the situation is and away he goes. It's an effortless switch on Wenders' behalf; a master-class in directing as he delivers this long and drawn out story in the most humbling of manners but never, ever looses track of who's who and what their role is on the screen.The core of the film revolves around the sorting out of problems past; a sort of correcting of mistakes. But this is no film resembling a crude red marker-pen streak straight through several errors on a page, this is more a noting of mistakes made in a first draft before re-writing what should have been accomplished first time out in slick and effortless typography. Not knowing what transpires and why certain people are in the position they're in is 90% of the fun but what I will say is that a third party agent is involved and they're of a rather innocent variety. It is this agent that, when revealed, bridges gaps and enables certain personnel to take on certain responsibilities.Another key tactic in Wenders' delivery is Nastassja Kinski's character. Looking at some of the old posters uploaded here on IMDb, it seems there are a fair few detailing her character with the face of said person slapped all over the covers. But Wenders doesn't reveal what it seems he considers his prize jewel until much later on. I could say her name is Jane perfectly fine, but to mention her surname would be a spoiler of rather unfortunate consequence. Needless to say, she is connected. Paris, Texas is a rewarding experience. It asks us to find time to lend to those that come across as immediately eccentric or not of a 'type' we would immediately pay much attention to. It wants us to look at a person and look at a world through this person's perspective as we begin to realise those of an unspectacular variety might very well have a story of the spectacular variety, to tell.


                
What is your definition of the western? Is it the story of the gun-slinging "Clint Eastwood" type who comes into town to take out the bad guys, or is it something more complex? The answer is that the western by definition is the hero's journey, whether it is physical or mental. More often than not, this hero is alone, and without question, he turns out to be a different man than who he was at the beginning of the picture. "Paris, Texas" is a western. Unconventional at best, but nonetheless, the hero that Wim Wenders presents to us is perhaps the loneliest man in Texas (Travis), and by the end of the picture, he's a fully realized, beautifully spoken, saint-like human being. But should it be a surprise that "Paris, Texas" seems anything but a classic western? Wim Wenders is one of the great mold-breakers of international cinema, more specifically the father of the German New Wave. In the grand tradition of Antonioni and Goddard, Wim Wenders challenged the conventions of the cinema of his native land, and used the screen as the canvas for which to paint whatever was on his mind. I see most of these "New Wave" filmmakers as painters, or beatnik poets. They are always looking for something to say, and to find the art in anything they come across. But more importantly, Wenders's western, or whatever you'd like to call it, is arguably his masterpiece. Travis is our hero. At the beginning of the picture, you have no idea what to think of him. He is seen walking aimlessly in the desert, somewhere in the southern part of Texas. It's not clear as to where he is or why is he there, but he is still our hero. The mystique of his character really had me interested in the first half of the movie. No matter how much his estranged brother tried to have him express himself, Travis refused to, that is until he loses his cool. It's never really explained why Travis is so quiet, but my opinion is, that thanks to the situation of the loss of his family, perhaps the shame of it all led him to believe that he owed nobody any words. That's just one theory. But over some time, Travis begins speaking to his brother, from small fragments to actual sentences. His progression continues when he returns to his brother's house, where he meets his long lost son, and he begins to further unravel back into his personality. Travis's silence seemed like a protective cocoon, and walking aimlessly into the desert seemed to be a way of escaping his personal life. In the scene where his brother tells him that he will be returning to Los Angeles, Travis quickly escapes the hotel room and returns to wandering. Wandering, to many people, helps clear the mind. Travis seemed to use it, much less as a detox, and more as his refuge. The uncivilized world of nature became his home. The remainder of the movie is his assimilation back to the civilized world, and his return to speaking with his family. The final 30 minutes of the film are what really entertain me, and what makes Paris, Texas a thoroughly fascinating experience. The shot that Wim Wenders holds on the character of Jane is the greatest shot in the film. As Travis says his soliloquy about the reason as to why he left, we see Jane slowly come to tears at the revelation of his words. Film is the one medium where photographing facial expressions is the most powerful, and the most effective at conveying emotions. I also really enjoyed that it took place inside a peep booth. What makes that so interesting to me is that the Peep Booth is an intimate setting, and Travis uses it as an intimate setting, but instead of getting off on a naked woman, he spills his soul out to her. This scene is the section of which I fell in love with the movie the most. It is the scene in which Travis's hero journey comes complete, as he reunited with his son, and reconciled with his wife. Paris, Texas is a western of forgiveness, and redemption. We even see our hero, Travis, ride off into the sunset, but instead of a horse, it's a car. He's off to be the loner again, but he's content in that he has finally accomplished something. He is no longer the reluctant, scared loner, but a loner that has done good. He corrected his mistakes, explained his guilt and decided honorably to make sure that his son is safe with Jane. Paris, Texas is a wonderful little movie that made such a huge noise back in 1984. It is a testament to the power of independent cinema, and has inspired countless independent filmmakers to this day. It's simplicity and emotion resonates with nearly every viewer. Even if you found the picture slow, you could easily cite what your favorite moment was. That was the case with me. There were moments where the picture could have been much more entertaining, and Travis's reuniting with his son seemed to not resonate with me too much. But once I saw the final scene in the peep booth, I knew what I saw was a great film. It's funny what peep booths can do.


                
My expectation of "Paris, Texas" was not high when I first read about it, but this movie really took me by surprise by becoming one of my absolute top movies ever. The story tells of a man who finally comes to terms with himself after a long time wandering without quest or reason. It is also about the significance of family and what it really means; how, even after a long time away from each other, the bond of kin holds strong.It is a slow, fascinating movie with beautiful cinematography capturing the unique and massive environments of Texas, recurrently accompanied by tranquil steel guitar music. The acting and directing is as excellent as you would guess with names like Harry Dean Stanton ("The Green mile"), Nastassja Kinski ("Tess") and Wim Wenders ("Wings of Desire", "The Salt of the Earth"). If you want to see a soft and intriguing movie that is going to leave a great impression on you, this is the one to chose.


                
From seeing the poster and the summary of this film I thought it wouldn't be great and maybe slightly boring. However, I was very much shocked by the movie. It had a great story and, I felt, maybe the audience go through many emotions. I had not heard of this movie before I watched it, but now I think that this film deserves to get out there and become a classic. Basically to some up everything, I really do think that you should watch this film. If you like dramas then you'll love this. I don't want to give the ending away, but there are some certain scenes that will move you in a way that you will love. So again, watch this film for definite.


                
Wim Wenders's Paris,Texas is a film that is narrated through road trips. An utterly lost man (in every sense of the word) is tracked down by his brother and reunited with his son. On discovering a part of his old self, the man takes on a journey to bring his son back with his estranged mother. What the viewer doesn't know till the very end of the movie is as to why this family had been separated in the first place. The film's pace is quite in contrast to that of the fast and frequent road trips on screen. Although the slowness and did get to my head at times, I found the film quite riveting on the whole. The barren roads of Texas contrasted against the busy highways of Houston is an interesting feature of this film. At heart, "Paris, Texas" is an intense film about human separation and more importantly, reunion.


                
Before you rush out and buy the "Paris, Texas" (1984) DVD based on the many glowing reviews and comments, you may want a bit of a reality check. The film is 145 minutes long, that's almost two and a half hours. And not much happens during this time. The pacing is about on the level of "The Straight Story" (1999), which was only 112 minutes; so if that film had you climbing the walls you should probably steer clear of this one. On the other hand "Paris, Texas" is a technical masterpiece with great photography, excellent directing, and solid performances from the entire cast (although that cast is small). And it's a lyrically told story about loss, loneliness, and eccentricity; a look America and American values from an outside perspective (in this case European). I'm not sure that the film's message(s) is gotten across (unless you listen to the commentary feature on the DVD and maybe not even then) but it is certainly more coherent than when Michelangelo Antonioni tried to do the same thing in the early 1970's. The film opens with a wanderer walking alone in the desert. You eventually learn that this is not Howard Hughes but Travis Henderson (Harry Dean Stanton), that he has been missing the past four years, has semi-amnesia (a lot is made of this but the condition is never adequately explained), has a seven year-old son name Hunter (Hunter Carson), and a wife named Jane (Nastassia Kinski). Kinski fans will be somewhat disappointed as she does not even appear until the last third of the film (except briefly in some grainy home movies). The film could actually be classified as a "buddy picture-road movie" or two buddy picture- road movies. The first third features Travis and his brother's (Dean Stockwell) journey from Texas to LA, the final third Travis and his son's journey back to Texas. The weakest part is the middle third which serves little purpose other than providing some background details and linking the two journey segments. Because "Paris, Texas" is not your standard pre-sold commercial product, most of its suspense comes from the viewers themselves, who have little idea just where the film is headed. So if you watch a lot of films and are jaded because everything is so predictable, this movie viewing experience should be a nice change of pace. Because you haven't met these characters in other films, it takes a lot of storytelling to flesh them out, which is probably the biggest reason for the film's extended running length. Sam Shepard's script is not so much elliptical as it is evasive, somehow the characters tell us their most basic beliefs and deepest fears without really revealing anything about themselves (insert "Two Lane Blacktop" here). German New Wave director Wenders gets an astonishingly unaffected performance from young Hunter Carson, as convincing as any you are likely to find. Carson never did much after this amazing debut. The most intriguing sequences take place between Stanton and Kinski. The actors are never face-to-face as their characters speak to each other from opposite sides of one-way mirror. Travis has found Jane working in a seedy shop where lonely men pay to talk to women on the telephone.? The DP fills the screen with images of people dwarfed by vast, distant, and impersonal land/ cityscapes. The most effective and original is a sequence of Travis walking along a bridge over a LA interstate with the audio supplied by an unseen (until the end) and rambling derelict addressing the bumper to bumper traffic rushing by below. Then again, what do I know? I'm only a child.


                
The opening sets the mood for this unusual story. A man is wandering along a highway in the middle of the desert. When picked up by people trying to help him, he is incoherent, even catatonic.This is a well thought-out character study of human emotions, and how even a person who has his heart's desire can be destroyed like a parasite from within when those emotions are not held under control. As we learn the back story of this despondent man, we soon realize he is suffering mentally, but he's not insane, as you were led to believe initially. He is cared for by his brother and sister-in-law (who have also been raising his son), and once he has recovered, takes custody of his son, and searches for his estranged wife.The reunion scene of the man and the ex-wife is one of the strangest put on screen in a while. Nothing you would expect happens in this sequence, but the off beat nature of what transpires is strikingly rich in symbolism and immensely emotional. Much is learned about both individuals, in an intelligent "art house" approach where a few gaps are left for you to fill in, but the clues are given to explain what is really happening and why. The altruistic outcome is deeply touching.The acting by everyone, especially the child actor, is superior, and the characters are interesting and the story is absorbing. It's not a fast-moving film, but it will stay in your memory for a long time.


                
One of the greatest film titles ever, one of the greatest opening sequences ever, Paris, Texas is just that-a clash of opposites, of cultures and concepts. German director Wim Wenders, facing an American cinematic idiom: the road movie. An opening sequence where a man in a suit appears in the Texan desert(later the desert is contrasted with the city, LA). The man is lost. He is searching for his wife and child. He could be a cowboy at odds with the modernity. Great acting, great soundtrack. He finds his son and slowly he is saved. He finds his wife in a Houston strip joint and, separated by a one-way mirror(what a metaphor!), they save each other. And then off again into the desert.


                
Greetings from Lithuania.Although "Paris, Texas" (1984) is a very slowly paced drama, which at running time 2 h 24 min basically tells a simple and slowly paced story, not for a minute did i lost my interest into witnessing it. This is a one rare movie gem. Amazingly acted and directed its a first rate character study movie at its core. And its not only about the characters past - it shows a persons transformation during the journey, from a person running from himself and everyone, to a one which eventually tries to reconnect his family as well reconnect with his family.Overall, the late and great character actor Harry Dean Stanton probably gave his one of the very best performances of his rich and kinda legendary carrier. You must not skip on this movie if you haven't seen it yet.


                
An unpredictable movie that opens with stunning cinematography and gives no hint as to where it's headed, "Paris, Texas" is the most unique movie I can remember. I think it's easier to describe feelings to someone rather than an actual plot; the need to reunite family at all cost, both with brothers and a man's household. I kept watching because the destination was truly a mystery, and it's one that just slams into you. No shocks, no violence, just an embrace. It's as hopeful as it is painful. It'd be an understatement to say that Harry Dean Stanton made this movie his own. And it's a clear reminder of the legend we've so recently lost. Here's to you, sir. 8/10


                
The depictions of America that most fascinate me have been carried out by Europeans. What stories we find in these ventures never really probe deep into actual life, which is often a facsimile concocted from outside knowledge, but they are a suitable excuse for the journey that transports out of the safe, familiar reaches. It's probably best if we don't use for example Zabriskie Point as a faithful blueprint for its turbulent era, but once it sets out for the desert? For Leone it was about the world (mirrored in the rugged faces) as the blank slate upon which a tapestry of fictions are enacted; myths presaging the passing of that world. With Melville – in Magnet of Doom - it was the road trip through the Deep South where we get to know little but see a lot. Herzog in Stroszek, where chickens confound us. Polanski made the most American film of all, working from a script by Robert Towne, but his Chinatown extends a little beyond the familiar reaches of neo-noir into the untravelled; dusty orange groves and acquifers late at night.Each in their peculiar way reveal a little of the fabric of the larger world. And it's always tied up to the landscape, always the landscape that draws us in, big and small. The endless stretch of asphalt through sunbaked desert, the motel's neon sign flashing against purpleorange horizons. A gas station in the middle of nowhere.I understand that these are the familiar sights of everyday commute for a sizeable portion of Americans, or a short drive away from home, but for us on the other side they are the source of endless allure - aptly, a world most of us Europeans have known through movies.It's not about the gas station then, but about the 'middle of nowhere' – a valuable space of contemplation missing from the Old Europe dissicated under so much time and history. Having sampled the familiar moviescapes of Los Angeles or Texas, these films often take to the desert, a further retreat towards the hermitage where a clear vision is possible.Wenders's film is true to all these things. He begins from the desert and emerges back into the known world, meaning whatever communion with the vastness took place is already behind us. Tellingly, the rugged protagonist emerges mute.The very title is about two worlds (of which there are many in the film), and the attempt to bridge the endless inbetween. The 'slice of life' is about familiar contrivance, like out of daytime soap. But something tells me the film didn't sweep the French at Cannes for its moral dilemmas, the French who so valued the escape into the dream world of noir and western 50 years ago.The moviescapes, again as perceived from the other side; rural America bathed in luminous phantasmagoria, a gas station filmed in bright reds and lime greens. Or a suburban landscape so amazingly bland, as it unfolds from behind the windshield of a moving car. That amazing cat house, itself a mysterious house of fictions where two worlds are brought together in disguise.It could have been quite something if Wenders understood how a frame functions. He knows how to set them up, but not quite what they do. Inside the cat house, for example, the corridor lined-up with curtains each granting passage – one of the most inspired codas of cinematic self-reference. Wenders instead gives us long monologues, he explains too much that we don't need to know. I understand that he values emotional consonance - where I differ, is that I'm drawn towards films that operate or dismantle at the level of perception rather than feeling.It's good though, as artifice breathing life into cinematic space. As a piece of abstract soul, seen through the road darkly.


                
Wim Wenders was one of the filmmakers who formed new German cinema in 1970's and his film Im lauf der zeit (In the Course of Time) ,alongside with Volker Schlöndorff The Tin Drum, is often seen as one of the finest representatives of the movement. In 1984 after becoming quite famous in Europe Wim Wenders went to America to produce his first film outside of Germany. Paris, Texas is a masterful road-movie, which was Wenders' favorite genre; he even made a road-movie trilogy in 1970's (Alice in the Cities, False Movement and In the Course of Time). This slow-paced, mature, one of the director's most acclaimed films and his most accessible film, requires heart, certain maturity and patience from its viewer.A quiet man, lost for four years walks in the desert, due to dehydration a man picks him up and takes him to a hospital. Soon the quiet man is taken in by his brother. Later on the man tries to put his life back together and remember what happened between him, his wife and, his 8-year-old son.Paris, Texas could easily be a film which makes one to die for a ticket to the States. The landscapes, the gorgeous images reinforced by sentimental and honest music make us see into the true soul of America. 1980's and Americanism can be seen everywhere in the film, it is cleverly and precisely created: cokes, sodas, American cars, country music, clothes and landscapes. The construction of state in Paris, Texas is incredibly well handled and the contrasts Wenders has created are astonishing.This profound film about a quiet man, lost woman and the unification of a disintegrated family really drills down to pure emotion. Difficulty of communication and losing one's identity have both been very important themes for Wim Wenders already in Im lauf der zeit (1976). In Im lauf der zeit the two men don't know how to talk to each other, how to talk about your worries, memories and past. But in Paris, Texas the theme of difficulty of communication was taken to a new level: what can you say to the people you once left behind? How can you ever make up the mistakes once made? It's about the impossibility of understanding others, how can you relate to a person with completely different emotions. The change of identity is a scary thing and this theme culminates in the scene where Travis (the quiet man) tries different kind of outfits, trying to find the right suit for his new identity.Alongside with the themes of identity and communication, Paris, Texas is an emotional film about loneliness. The difficulty of understanding and empathy. Perhaps Travis can't make up the mistakes he once made and he is alone. He finds his long lost son and his wife, but understands that he's unable to live with them and is once again left alone, lonelier than ever before. Paris, Texas is a timeless film about loneliness and the later film by Wenders Wings of Desire (1987) can easily be seen as an antithesis for it; it has got certain eras, ages and a history. This profound theme of loneliness culminates in the unforgettable images of men sitting, standing and walking alone in Paris, Texas.In the end Paris, Texas grows out to be a mature film about family, the disintegration and the unification of it. It's a smooth and quality film in style, thematics and content. The delimitations and states are important and full of significance. After seeing the film twice I consider it as a very touching, melancholy road-movie about soul-searching, identity and family. It's a very good film, even if it's not Wenders' finest. I strongly recommend people to get to know his earlier and later German production. Wings of Desire (1987) and In the Course of Time (1976) are for instance two unforgettable masterpieces.
My Rating : 8/10If you're still watching after 20 minutes and haven't become bored, you're going to be happy to have watched the movie till the end. For those who can't stand the slow pace and minimalist story its best to leave it alone.I loved the movie, it's extremely slow pace was refreshing to be honest - you need to be in a certain mood I suppose - the cinematography is gorgeous to look at too.Some emotional moments towards the end make for perfect drama according to me.


                
Wow what a movie. Great storyline and just great life tale. Acting is phenomenal especially the young boy Hunter did great job. If you don't know what to watch check this movie.


                
There's a certain breed of actor that thrives on character roles and rarely gets the opportunity to excel as a leading player. Among my favorites are Dennis Hopper, Bruce Dern and this film's principal player, Harry Dean Stanton. Hopper's most acclaimed role was probably that of the alcoholic, assistant basketball coach in "Hoosiers"; Bruce Dern similarly turned in an Oscar nominated performance as a booze-addled old man on the trail of cashing in a million dollar sweepstakes ticket in "Nebraska". For Stanton, it's this film that will serve well as part of his legacy in a long and distinguished career. Interestingly, among all three actors I've watched dozens of TV and movie Westerns in which one or the other have appeared, usually as villains, and always acquitting themselves well before the end credits rolled.Stanton's character here begins as a mystery, wandering out of a desert in a fevered daze, and transformed into a mute for a good part of the movie until his past is slowly reawakened with the help of his brother (Dean Stockwell). Impatient viewers will have a problem with the pace of the movie because not much happens in the early going, and repeated attempts by Walt Henderson (Stockwell) to bring brother Travis (Stanton) out of his shell are unsuccessful. Through gradual exposition, we learn that Travis's past included a marriage and a young son, now being raised by Walt and his wife Anne (Aurore Clément). Where I have a little difficulty is the comparative ease in which Travis reestablishes a connection with seven year old son Hunter (Hunter Carson), and consequently, how easy it was for Hunter to decide that he wanted to traipse off with his biological father in a dubious search for his missing mother. Even more puzzling was the manner in which Travis and Hunter managed to track down Jane Henderson (Nastassja Kinski), happening to be in the right place at the right time to observe the woman making a bank deposit at a drive-in window. That sequence and the one that followed with Travis and Hunter giving chase seemed rather slapdash in execution, particularly since neither one of them had seen Jane in over four years, and the instant recognition (by Hunter no less) defied credibility in my estimation. What raises the bar for the film however occurs after Travis identifies his former wife as a peep show call girl, and anonymously identifies himself by virtue of relating their past history together to Jane, who initially identifies with his story in the abstract, but eventually realizes that she's speaking to Travis when details of the conversation can only relate to her own past life. The twist of the story meanwhile, is not one the viewer anticipates, as Travis doesn't desire to reconnect with Jane as a couple, but to satisfy a desire to reunite mother and son. Again, perhaps a dubious reconciliation given the circumstances of the family's break-up, but satisfying enough when we see the look of contented fulfillment on the face of Travis as he rides off after completing his mission. I can't say I really understand the entire dynamic of the family drama at the center of the story, but the picture makes a fascinating character study out of Travis and his search for reconciliation, even if he was working from a cold deck.
I recently watched this movie again for the first time in about 15 years, this time on 1080 HD.I have to say that I had forgotten the second half of the film almost entirely; it's that kind of film.But - the cinematography alone is worth watching/re-watching this film for - sumptuous colourful and beautiful. Fantastic to look at virtually every frame. The Music by Ry Cooder is one of the best movie soundtracks in the history of cinema; it's simply brilliant.The plot (or story, if you like) of this film is essentially very simple. You get to the end and you say to yourself "yes, of course". It's not about loss, separation, grieving, that would be too obvious. Remember - this film comes from a time before movies got clever with their audiences. In the end this film is what it seems; about a father who has to come to terms with, and do something about, the fact that he wasn't fitted for a relationship with the mother of his son. There aren't many other themes (although one would be the sub-story of Stantons brother and sister in law who have adopted the boy and see him pretty much as their son. The sister in law wonders what will become of their relationship if the boy goes away). The only possible outcome is the one arrived at in the final memorable and superb monologue.The thing for me about Paris, Texas is that; like Harry Dean Stantons' character - time changes a person. Since I first saw this movie in the cinema in 1985 my age has doubled and I now have a child of the same age as the boy in the film (also wonderfully acted). I see this film very differently now to the way I viewed it back then. Any father would see resonances from Stanton to their own life. I love this film for the way it makes me think about the way I relate to those who are close to me; Can I handle it? What would happen if I couldn't? Nevertheless - Paris, Texas is not for me one of the greatest films ever made, and it is not in my collection of DVD/BluRay. Why? Yes - its set in a decaying landscape both emotionally and physically. Yes - Stanton is wonderful as the lost guy coming out of the wilderness, BUT. Near the beginning of the film the doctor extorts money from Stantons brother - who is a long way from home and finds that he has to pay the doctor in order to complete his mission. The whole film is like this; there is feeling of moral and emotional blackmail running right through and all the adult characters have been afflicted, damaged if you like, by emotional blackmail to a lesser or greater degree. The only one who hasn't is the little boy. These tensions are revealed but not resolved. Even though its obvious that the issues cannot be resolved you get to the end and you feel irritated when indeed they are not. The question which you feel ought to be the central one - why Stanton walks out on his former life - turns out not to be - it's only the spark that sets the flame. The viewer is thus caught up in the emotional blackmail too; we want to see resolution - but.... However, I guess it is clever for that....I liked the film and I would highly recommend it. I haven't read any other reviews here on this movie (and I will be interested to do so as soon as I post this...). I would welcome too any comments made on my submission - as movies of this calibre are well worth observation and discussion.
The film begins with a man wandering around a desolate Texas landscape. He looks in a daze. We soon discover that he has been missing for four years. His name is Travis. He manages to find a doctor's house, and get in touch with his brother in California. His brother then travels down to Texas. Travis doesn't speak a word in the first thirty minutes of the film; but Harry Dean Stanton's face tells the story.Travis wanders off down a rail track, while his brother is in town getting him some clothes. They meet up again, but still no words. The trip back to California takes a while because Travis is afraid of flying. Eventually, they arrive, and Travis meets his son for the first time in four years. His son, Hunter, is cautious of his father at first; getting a ride home from school in his friend's car, rather than walking with Travis. They watch a movie together of them on vacation, that was taken four years previously, and Travis finds it hard to watch. After a while Hunter trusts his dad again, and they set off in an old car to find his mother in Houston, Texas. They track her down to a seedy club, where she talks to clients through a mirrored window. Travis find this very hard to do, and talks with his back to her, while he tells her the story of a couple. This is the best scene in the film; two emotional people on each side of a screen opening up to each other. The film is memorable for me for Harry Dean Stanton as Travis, probably his best performance in his career; and also the little boy Hunter Carson deserves special mention too as Hunter. The cinematography is wonderful too. There are many shots that stand out, such as a Statue of Liberty painted on a wall, and other numerous images of Americana. A memorable film.


                
It is interesting that none of this movie was filmed in Paris, Texas, that quaint little town about 100 miles NE of Dallas, with the replica of the Eiffel Tower in its town square. All we see is a photo of a vacant lot, which looks nothing like the area Paris actually is in.Harry Dean Stanton, already 50-ish, is remarkable as Travis, who is aimlessly marching through a desert as the movie opens. Ragged, dirty, and hungry, he makes it to a small store where he collapses after one bite of crushed ice. The local doctor revives him, and somehow finds a way to contact Travis' brother Walt (Dean Stockwell) who through some difficulty retrieves him and brings him to California.Travis is initially mute, unable to explain what had caused him to disappear for 4 years, or even to know that he had been gone for that long. "Four years, is that a long time?" In that time his young wife had disappeared, leaving their young son Hunter (Hunter Carson) to be raised by Walt and his wife.This movie is long, has very little to no action, and will be boring to many. I was not bored. I was absorbed in this character Travis, and where he was going to re-claim his life. A good chunk of the second half of the movie was filmed in Houston, where I live and worked, and many of the downtown buildings and highways felt as if I was right there, watching them through a window. The cinematography is superb.SPOILERS: As Travis regains his reasoning, and gets to know his son, he decides to find his wife Jane (Nastassja Kinski as a Texan) after he gets a clue that every month on the 5th she deposits money in an account for her son at a bank in Houston. Hunter insists on going with Travis, and together they find Jane, working in a sex business where she and other girls role-play in booths where patrons see them through windows, and they have no contact with the patrons, can't even see them through the mirrored glass. Travis leaves Hunter in the hotel room, visits Jane as a patron, tells her the whole story, and watches from the top of a parking garage as he sees, through the hotel window, the reunion of Hunter and Jane. His mission is accomplished, he knows he can't be with Jane, but he has made it possible for his son to have his mother.
This visually striking movie has something about it that makes me fall asleep within the first fifteen or twenty minutes. I'm not sure why, because whenever I resume it I always enjoy the cinematography. The characters are boring, sure. But that's never been a problem with big budget movies that have little character development. These people are very developed, they're just not interesting at all.Wim Wenders' movie is either very overrated or extremely underrated as a work of art, a classic and Criterion worthy. I am fascinated by the idea of a man wandering into the world from the middle of nowhere, but where the story takes us is boring. The early eighties look of the movie along with the cars and clothing makes me resent it even more.


                
