The American Southwest and the suburbs of Los Angeles are the Beautiful backdrop of this Contemplation by acclaimed Director Wim Wenders. It's Minimalist Script and Story are rendered Masterfully. There isn't a False Note from the Actors and Ry Cooder's sliding Score is superb. The Cinematography is at times Breathtaking and Glows gloriously, awash in an amazing display of Soft toned Colors.The Film's Detractors are all over it because of its Length and Simple Story, Long Scenes of Dialog Pausing, and Pacing that is nothing less than long Stretches that are meant to be Thoughtful and Thrive on Gazing.It is Harry Dean Stanton's Film as He center Cuts the Story suffering from slight Dementia and OCD. But the support from Dean Stockwell and then Nastassja Kinski are Remarkable. Child Actor Hunter Carson in a Debut that is Intelligent and softly Underplayed. Aurore Clément as Stockwell's Wife has the least impact but manages a Small Heartfelt Part.Overall, it is an Art Film for sure. A European Eying America up Close and is Not a Movie that Everyone will Enjoy. It is Longer than most, Slower than most, and the Story is Less Extravagant than most. Patient Viewers are in for a Treat as the Movie Methodically unfolds an utterly Unique Experience in Movie-Going.


                
This is a movie that hosts a canyon of mordant themes. A beauty of it resides in the mastery of how simply they are cultivated and interconnected.Travis, now an all-time favourite movie character of mine, is a man that came to be able to take root in that wild, alone world at a late period of his life. Through, of course, love. Love of no hesitation, no limitation. Love, as a wholehearted presumption of infinity about something definitely finite. It grows so pervasive and intense to fill entirely up the old (and thirsty) and large soils of his existence. So much that its absence, the moment of the disroot, gradual and sudden at the same time, is enough to make a bone dry desert out of that terrain greened with love. Then, the inevitable drive (inveitable from being human) to take root whatever may come possesses his fresh and volumnious and decaying emptiness, and brings him to the actual desert that resembles his lost soul with the deep-down, unconscious beacon of hope to uncover (presumably) the authentic roots of himself: Paris, Texas. In what? In the lost history of his lost family. It seems thus much like a deep drilling to the depth of his existential roots as an odyssey rather than a journey. The curious thing is that Travis' having pinpointed that actual desert (by buying it) much before he lived the existential desert. It suggests more than it does outloud, I believe. If you think about it a bit more deeply, it is not a story about a strange, traumatised man but, through his moments, an invitation to take courage to reflect on the depth and breadth of our existential roots in that world.Another beauty of the movie, that strikes me, is its cinematographic economy (or fit-ness as one may like) and the feeling of "as it should be" that it leaves behind. The vibe I try to stress is, I guess, captured especially in or after the modest darkening passages between the scenes. It's not long, it's not fast. Not at all. It is at "that" measure so as to make you go caught the stream of the story.I don't even bother myself to mention the mastery of actings.This is a movie made me (a person who tries to see movies whenever possible) thought after: finally "a movie", after a considerable time! It contains everything what I come to seek in movies after years and more. That more was there to broaden my horizon in a way bestowed on the seventh art.I would suggest you to watch this masterpiece and rewatch it under a light that at least kept me if not already you hitherto.
American filmmaking in the 80s was rapidly changing. After the huge success of films like Star-Wars and Jaws, Hollywood was only concerned with making massive epic blockbusters. That's not necessarily a bad thing, several of these films are timeless masterpieces that redefined cinema like Raiders of the Lost Ark and Die Hard. But the popularity of large action films unfortunately resulted in smaller personal films essentially becoming nearly nonexistent. However all of this changed in 1984 when Wim Wenders film Paris Texas was released.It's funny how such an important American film was directed by a German. Paris Texas was the film that got Wenders noticed. It didn't receive any commercial success, (the film only barely broke even.) but it was a critical hit. Paris Texas is the story of a strange man that suddenly walks out of the desert in Texas one day, this man turns out to be someone called Travis Henderson, (played by Harry Dean Staton.) the people who found him call his brother, Walt Henderson, (played by Dean Stockwell.) who then flies in to go get him. Travis acts strange and antisocial, but we don't know why. Eventually we learn that Travis has been missing for 4 years, and Walt and his wife Anne have been taking care of Travis's son, Hunter. (played by Hunter Carson.) Hunter at first isn't very excited to meet Travis but they bond overtime. Anne and Walter tell Travis that they haven't heard from Travis's wife, Jane, (played by Nastassji Kinski, Klaus Kinski's daughter.) in long time, but she still deposits money for Hunter's future in a bank in Houston. Travis and his son then go on a journey to try and find Jane. The plot of Paris Texas is very simple, and yet it is universal and timeless. The audience can't help but get caught up in the story of Travis, Hunter, and Jane. We want to know what happened four years ago, and we want to know if they'll ever find her, and what happens if they will. Another thing that is pure genius about the plot is the pacing. The pacing of the film is very slow, and it is slow pacing used at its finest. The story unfolds in such a way that it allows the audience to follow along without getting lost, and keeping us interested. If the film had a shorter running time, it would just not be nearly as good as it is now. The actors in Paris Texas deserve special recognition, they all do amazing jobs but Nastassji Kinski and Harry Dean Staton are especially amazing. This is not to say that the other actors aren't great, but these two go above and beyond what anyone could have expected. The character ark of Travis is one of the best in any film ever. Paris Texas is at heart a redemption story about a man who has let his family done and now needs to make up for it. And it is one for the nicer redemption films out there. It's not a violent depressing blood-bath like Unforgiven or Irreversible, no Paris Texas takes a much lighter approach to the story. That's not to say that Unforgiven and Irreversible are bad or that Paris Texas won't make you cry, both of these are still true statements. The films slow pacing helps the actors out with their stunning performances. Since the film is so long, it allows us to spend a lot of time with them really getting to know them. We would not be able to fully understand the characters motivations if the film was any shorter.Paris Texas also has a distinct style and feel. One big way that the style is conveyed to us is through the cinematography which is wonderfully shot by Robby Müller, (Breaking the Waves, Dead Man, Mystery Train.) Müller is able to fully capture the empty vast landscape of Texas, in a way that was only topped by the Coen brothers No Country For Old Men. And anyone whose seem the film will tell you about the films amazing soundtrack. The soundtrack is a simple yet beautiful. (this phrase basically describes the entirety of Paris Texas.) It's able to perfectly set the tone for the film. The production design is also fantastic everything from the spray painted abandoned buildings in the beginning to the desolate peep show lib at the end. With a film as impressive as Paris Texas, it's hard to believe that Wim Wenders made it in only a 4-5 weeks. Paris Texas was unfortunately not a commercial hit, but it was a massive critical success. Paris Texas swept of all the top prizes at the Cannes Film Festival, including the Palme d'Or. It also won the BAFTA for best director and was nominated for best film. Roger Ebert's added it to his Great Movies list in 2002. And Kurt Cobain said that it was his favorite film of all time. Paris Texas reminds us of a time when films were simpler, when all you needed was a well written compelling story to be good. Oh and God damn what an ending.9.8/10


                
Paris, Texas is a slow-paced movie which does not have a lot of dialogue for much of the film. However, silence is a powerful tool. The cinematography by Robert Müller of the dry arid landscape and beautiful lighting combined with Ry Cooder's guitar playing really accentuate the emotions this film will draw out of you and the long static shots of scenery and scenes are very beautiful.Travis Henderson (Harry Dean Stanton) is found wandering the desert aimlessly. He is, at this point, a mute. Luckily, Harry Dean Stanton acts this out wonderfully, despite having very little dialogue, Stanton's face is a road map of emotions and dialogue is not needed to transmit these emotions to the viewer.His brother, Walt Henderson (Dean Stockwell) finds him and brings him to his home. Walt mentions to Travis that it has been four years since they last saw him. During this time, Walt and his wife, Anne (Aurore Clément), have raised Travis's son, Hunter (Hunter Carson), as their own. This is due to the disappearance of Travis, and Hunter's mother Jane (Nastassja Kinski).The relationships in this movie are very powerful. Love can be a wonderful thing. However, life also has its share of chores and duties. Which, unfortunately, sometimes can leave some relationships at the wayside until it is too late and you end up wondering "What happened?".That is why I believe this film resonates with so many. We have all had relationships, whether it's friends or lovers, where you can't pinpoint exactly where it went wrong - but that eventually you are left without them and in a state of minor amnesia as to what exactly happened. The signs of it failing were there, but you paid no heed. All you have are the nostalgic memories and things can never return to what they were.Maybe not to the extent of Travis Henderson, however, symbolically I think this is part of what makes this movie shine. Travis and Jane both needed closure, and to an extent, their son as well.I will not spoil the ending to the movie, however, it is a controversial one. I would have preferred a different ending, however, sometimes the ending you want to see is not the best ending for the movie.


                
Wenders, Müller, Shepard, Cooder, Stanton, Stockwell. Could there be a better combination – and concentration! – of talent?Film is indeed poetry, and this is one of the most beautiful poems of parenthood I've seen. Not explicit, preachy, but otherworldly, subtle, comic, bittersweet. The alienation from one's own self, all of this internal, has its visual counterpoint first in the concept of walkabout in the open space, the desert, the quiet; then in the urbanity of modern life, the closed space, the airplane, the noise. Change, both internal and external (appearance such as the rugged beard, mutism), reflected in the road movie. His self-discovery is actually our discovery, not only of him but of the movie. Travis has two beginnings: as explained by him, he was most likely conceived in Paris, Texas. It was his first beginning, the film his second.Stanton is sublime. His ability to convey meaning and emotion through the slightest gestures and expressions is unprecedented. And yet, at the same time, his ability to conceal meaning and emotion is just as evocatively effective – his face is a blank, his eyes devoid of anything one might connect to, finding meaning from. That lunch they're having together before hitting the road, father and son, somehow reifies the film's many narratives for me. There we have the walkabout/journey/highway and family/loss/past at an intersection. And it's a perfectly beautiful moment.
Wim Wenders' "Paris, Texas" is heartache put on screen.Harry Dean Stanton, in a quietly powerful performance, plays Travis, a man who emerges stunned from the Texas desert at the film's beginning and embarks on an odyssey that sees him reunited with his abandoned son and his estranged wife. The film plays out like a mystery -- we know that Travis's son has been living with Travis's brother and sister-in-law for the last four years, but we don't know why he was left behind by this mother and father. That mystery is eventually unraveled when Travis and his wife, Jane (played by Nastassja Kinski), meet again and we learn more about their sorrowful and bruising history."Paris, Texas" is largely about two people who are capable of extreme passion and emotion but who are unable to cope with what those passions and emotions bring out in them. Travis and Jane were overwhelmed by their responsibility to each other and their son -- a life voluntarily chosen became a grim trap from which one would literally kill the other to escape. This part of the story is only told to us, never shown. What we see are the regret, remorse and nostalgia felt by two people who will always have a strong connection -- both emotionally and literally through their boy -- but who know they can never again be together. At the end, Travis drives away into the night, and though his ultimate fate is ambiguous, we feel that he's leaving his wife and child for good. Whether to protect them, or himself (or maybe both) is for us to decide.Grade: A


                
The film is a deconstruction of the lies and fakes that human lives are built upon, functioning either as a compromise, or a compensation for their unresolved feeling of emptiness. There are several patterns of rehearsal and simulation in "Texas, Paris". To begin with, the very title gives the first hint and synthesis of imitation in the story. The original Paris, the idea and mirage the characters dream to live up to, confronted with the sadness and vacuum involved by the impossibility to recreate it. The characters are too absorbed in their incapacity to make their dramas intelligible to themselves and, therefore, too conflicted to be authentic in the hypostasis they are supposed to embrace. Consequently, they mime roles and concepts instead of accessing and revaluing their emotional potential within themselves. The fake family of Walt, Anne and Hunter, for instance. The two grown-ups are playing the parents instead of becoming biological parents themselves. Anne's despair in seeing Travis and Hunter, the real father and son, growing close, as well as her rhetorically articulated fear of what might happen to her marriage should Hunter join his real parents, could also be interpreted as a tentative of escapism from the problems and disconnections within the couple. A "borrowed" child and the picture of the dream-family living tranquilly in the suburbs might very well have worked as Prozac for the couple, since both of them seem to lack the inner instruments and resources to define themselves and their feelings in relation to each other in a marital context and build their marriage on real, solid grounds. When accusing her husband of "promoting the father and son business", she objectifies a highly humane, delicate and heart-felt subject approaching it in the cold terms of PR and soap-opera, which highlights the extent of her emotional numbness and self-alienation once more. She is more or less in the banner business together with her spouse. Certainly, Walt's particular line of work with banners is not an accident in the movie, but carries the same symbolical connotations of clichés unanimously accepted and imposed as reality. Travis buys a lot named Paris, hoping to settle down there with the woman he loves, but his real-life sentimental paraphrasing of the city of love ends up in a domestic ordeal, abandon and, eventually, loneliness. Having returned to his son, he doesn't know how to behave with him, wondering how a "Father" normally relates to his child. He tries on the "rich father" role, suit and hat involved, because he has no affective notion and practice of parenthood, at first. Then, when the father and son are walking on two parallel sides of the road on the way back home, Travis mocking his own clumsy father figure morgue and Hunter imitating him, we finally see the two of them in tune with each other, slowly growing out of the stern roles and pretense in their lives and coming to an emotional and authentic reconnection through game, humor and sound self-parody. From that point on, as the story progresses, Hunter undresses himself of his self-perception and experience as Walt's and Anne's surrogate son. The quick, amazing familiarization with each other leaves the viewer with the impression that there had always been a deep father and son complicity that was interrupted and now restored, put back in its rights, as Travis went back being his son's reference point on that street. Heart-broken after their romantic failure, Jane leaves her son in safer hands and reconstructs her particular connection with Travis in her imagination, since their relationship had become too self-destructive to be continued in real-life. Since her mind is no longer able to recreate her lost love's voice and features, she takes a job that consists of entertaining men whom she can't see behind a wall-mirror, identifying their voices with Travis's, and perhaps even hoping he was among them. She, too, elaborates her own substitute for her irreplaceable and impossible romance in a room that is essentially a pretense of intimacy and connection. The wall-mirror is a metaphorical separator of globular lives that can't find peace and a sense of fulfillment within themselves before opening up to one another, held captive within the tragic narcissism of their unhealed obsessions. Bottom line, the movie shows us a very realistic bunch of existentially disoriented people having their lives reduced to a void, striving to deny their sadness while manufacturing surrogates and more tolerable versions of their condition. Personally, I noticed some similarities between Wim Wenders and Jim Jarmusch as far as their theoretical approach on the human condition, loneliness and absurd are concerned. However, while Jarmusch leaves his characters in the uttermost meaninglessness and entropic alienation, this state is only the beginning of the characters' quest for truth and connection in Wenders's far more tender film, making the passage from fake and artificial postures to self-confrontation and blunt honesty, love and, eventually, some melancholic form of togetherness.
Greetings again from the darkness. It's been 30 years. The movie hasn't changed. I remember every scene. So that means it's ME that has changed. While I really liked the movie on its 1984 release, it's only now that I truly appreciate the brilliance of the script, the music, the direction, the photography and the acting <U+0085> much less the wide range of emotions.Director Wim Wenders has long been a favorite at Cannes Film Festival, and this one took home the prestigious Palme d'Or. Since then, the film has often been mentioned as one of the best movies of the 1980's, and after this most recent screening (courtesy of the Dallas Film Society), I wholeheartedly concur.Opening in a most unusual manner <U+0085> the lead character comes stumbling out of the Texas dessert and doesn't utter a word for the first 20-25 minutes <U+0085> this film immediately strikes you as something unique – definitely not cookie cutter. Trying to outguess the script is a waste of time. It's best to just watch it unfold in a believable and sometimes awkward way.In a rare lead role, long time character actor Harry Dean Stanton plays Travis. We soon enough learn that Travis disappeared four years ago leaving behind a wife and young son. We also learn that his brother Walt (Dean Stockwell) and Walt's wife Anne (Aurore Clement) have been taking care of the boy, and Hunter (Hunter Carson) considers them his parents (his mom ran off too).Walt and Anne invite Travis to stay with them and re-connect with his son, but they are caught off guard when the two really click and they take off to find Jane, the wife/mother. Their charming (but less-than-professional) stakeout leads to the discovery that Jane is working in a sex shop, spending her days talking to a 2 way mirror with lonely men she can't see. One of the most remarkable on screen soliloquies ever seen occurs on Travis' second trip to see Jane (Natassja Kinski). It's a heartfelt story that plays out as an explanation, an apology, and a plan for moving forward. It's his way of making reparations and finally doing the right thing (as he sees it).As with most classic films, the backstory offers some interesting tidbits and the players are fun to catch up with. This story was originally written by the great Sam Shepard. Mr. Shepard is a Pulitzer Prize winner, an award winning playwright, and well known actor (Oscar nominated for playing Chuck Yeager in The Right Stuff). Director Wenders then brought in L.M. "Kit" Carson to add and revise the script while on set. Carson's son (with actress Karen Black) Hunter plays the boy in the film, and he delivers one of the best, least affected, child performances of all time. Kit went on to write the screenplay for The Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2 (1986) and had a significant acting role in Running on Empty (1988). His son Hunter is still a working actor today. Mr. Wenders was one of the German New Wave of directors along with Herzog and Fassbinder, and his Wings of Desire (1987) would make a terrific double feature with this one. Mr. Stockwell was a very successful child actor in the 1940's and is best known for his work in Blue Velvet and TV's Quantum Leap. Ms. Kinski is the daughter of Klaus Kinski and is fondly remembered for her roles in Tess (1979) and Cat People (1982), though she still works today as well. Harry Dean Stanton is now 88 years old. He served in WWII and was present during the Battle of Okinawa. His acting career began in the 1950's and he still works periodically today. In addition to nearly 200 acting credits, he has had a pretty nice career as a musician. His band built a large cult following. Some of his most popular acting roles have been in Cool Hand Luke, The Godfather II, Alien, Repo Man, Escape From New York and Pretty in Pink. The music in the film is provided by Ry Cooder, who is a tremendous slide guitarist and has worked with some of the all-time greats in the music business – The Rolling Stones, Van Morrison and Neil Young, among others. Cooder is a multi-Grammy winner and re-teamed with Wenders for the Oscar nominated Buena Vista Social Club a few years later. The music is an exceptional compliment to the movie, as is the camera work of Robby Muller, who also works frequently with Wenders.This story of loss and loneliness is an easy one to overlook, but when a film holds up well for 30 years <U+0085> and affects you differently depending on your own lot in life <U+0085> its legacy is secure.


                
the film starts slowly, keeping pace with Travis, who is wandering the desert aimlessly on foot. Travis has been a lost drifter for 4 years in the Mojave Desert and now appears to be mute, probably from suffering severe mental trauma, until his brother eventually found him and convinced him to go back home in LA. upon his arrival, Travis is gonna try to get his life together, reconnect with his son and brother and maybe right some wrongs from the past. Travis seems to come out of nowhere, and heading nowhere and at the end of the film, he disappears into the night, to an unknown destination..since the beginning, there's a sentiment of coming back to the origins of cinema; i've read a review on the film that pointed out how Travis's journey responds to the evolution of American cinema (German director Wim Wenders's fascination for American cinema is obvious, as the very title of the film refers metaphorically to the Europe-USA rapport), and i can see how that's true seeing as Travis and the film go gradually from silence to speech, from open vast landscapes to more enclosed spaces defined by doors and walls, from desert to peep-show booths.Paris-Texas provides the possibility to see raw reality, uncategorized. Travis does not see the world as a coherent system that he's implicated to, but rather as a succession of moments and he's the spectator, which implies loneliness and alienation. the viewer follows with sincere emotion the journey of a father and a husband, lost in his past and searching for identity. the film is drenched in highly engaging, bittersweet atmosphere, arranged remarkably by the cinematography and the beautiful slide guitar score setting the mood.inducing touching scenes of characters communicating on an honest level, and one truly great scene in Travis's and Jane's conversation, the film represents the perfect balance between a good script, images of such beauty that they become paintings, actors that give life to their characters and music that goes so well that it becomes the shadow of the images. one of the most moving films i've seen.


                
By the end of this movie (no spoiler here), the plot kicker, the pain of love won and lost wrenches the soul. The title plays on this duality; Paris (France) and a plot of dirt in Paris, Texas. Hunter (the son of this ill conceived union) innocently asks if they were to live on the plot of dirt he sees in the picture Travis (Harry Dean Stanton) carries around. Texas vs France, get it? The players are excellent, with slow paced responses and steady acceptance unusual in intensity but consistent with the style of the movie. The realism style of cinematography balances well with the storyline. A nearly great movie, marred by a bit too much sentimentality and some inauthentic plot elements.


                
The beautifully-filmed "Paris, Texas" tells a story, and tells it in a way, that is both novel and hauntingly familiar. In its opening moments it seems almost to be a spaghetti Western. It has the dusty badlands and close-ups of the cracked, inscrutable face of a mysterious protagonist (Harry Dean Stanton). He says nothing, and when others speak it is often with a European accent, reminiscent of those that were poorly dubbed over in the old Italian and Spanish gunslinger films. A German-inflected townie in Terlingua—is he a doctor? law enforcement? just a drinker? probably all of the above—is straight out of a great noir or adventure film, channeling the untrustworthy gregariousness of Sidney Greenstreet in "Casablanca" and the old- timer expatriate look of Walter Huston in "Sierra Madre." But the mystery the movie introduces in its opening scenes feels new and exciting: a man who will not talk, who has a history but seems not to remember it, who has walked so long through the desert that his shoes are worn through.Director Wim Wenders tries out several different settings and speeds in the course of unraveling the story of Travis, this mysterious man, yet the information is so fragmented that for a long time each new piece only deepens the mystery. Slowly the plot proceeds, first as an almost comedic road buddy movie, then as a kind of "Kramer v Kramer" dramedy as the ragged Travis works to win the trust of a seven-year-old boy, Hunter. The character of Hunter is increasingly central to the film, and the child who plays him is uncommonly believable for an actor of his age. He has to deliver lines that resonate as both funny and poignant, as when he says "Goodnight, Dad" to two men in succession or struggles with a decision that causes pain to one of the two women he calls "Mom."The landscapes of Texas have probably never been more faithfully committed to film. The deserts of the southwest are the hook, but soon it's all highways and isolated gas stations and endless flatness. Later scenes set on and near the tangled highways of Houston are filmed in a point-of-view manner that is mesmerizing and builds tension, much like the long driving cuts in Andrei Tarkovsky's "Solaris." By this point in the movie, enough information has been revealed about Travis that the mystery has lost some of its urgency, and both Travis and the script seem on the verge of turning inward and abandoning us to their own private musings on the unknowability of others. A reveal about a mysterious "Jane" feels too stereotypical for a movie that had up to then been using assorted tropes but tell a fresh tale. But the movie does not end without bringing its threads and themes (especially the theme of the unbridgeable distances between people, and of the jealous desire to possess loved ones, first broached through the character of Anne) to a final fruition. Some of the camera-work in the penultimate scene, involving a one-way mirror, ingeniously underlines these ideas, and there is a satisfying balance and believability to the movie's last dialogue. Ry Cooder's guitar-based musical score has a strong, appropriate presence throughout the film, and like it is artful yet accessible.
From the decade of blockbusters and popcorn movies, Paris, Texas (1984), winner of the Palme d'Or, is something else. Slow, long, depending on emotion, dialogue and characters, it gradually emerges as something worthwhile. Starting off in the Texan desert with a man picking up his brother, Travis, lost for four years and mute, the beginning to me seemed not so much intriguing as stiff, the performances a little unconvincing. Travis begins to talk and is reunited with his son, Hunter, who's now 7 and lives with his uncle Walt and aunt Anne. Hunter's mom, Jane, is still missing. Travis and Hunter get to know each other, with Anne concerned she and Walt will lose Hunter. Things are picking up as a family drama unfolds, and one gets the impression something extraordinary has happened.Surprisingly, Walt and Anne drop out of the picture with a lot of the film still to go, as Travis and Hunter return to Texas with a lead on where Jane is. Travis finds Jane in a sleazy place, where she "talks" with men. He tells their story, one of a happy marriage giving way to money woes, alcoholism, postpartum depression and abuse. Maybe it's not such an extraordinary story after all- but it's told in an extraordinary way. The look of Jane in that room with the two-way mirror is nearly surreal; that surreal side is reflected in the title. When you hear Paris, you don't think of Texas. But Paris, Texas is a real place, and there's realism in this film, too. This film gradually develops a sense of awe to it, and leaves its own distinct footprint.
Four years after going missing Travis Henderson (Harry Dean Stanton) walks out of the vast South Texas desert. After collapsing in a saloon a doctor treats him and discovers his brother's business card in his wallet. Travis' brother Walt (Dean Stockwell) flies to Texas to meet his brother and has many questions for him. Travis appears to be mute however and doesn't eat, sleep or talk for days. When he finally opens his mouth it is revealed that he remembers little about the last four years. Dean takes Travis back to his L.A. home where he and his wife Anne (Aurore Clement) have been looking after Travis' seven year old son Hunter (Hunter Carson) since Travis' wife Jane (Nastassja Kinski) left him with them and disappeared herself. Travis has to try and re-assimilate himself back into every day life and reconnect with his young son before setting out to try and find his estranged wife.In many ways this film reminded me of director Wim Wenders 1976 film Kings of the Road. Both films take place mostly on the road in quiet, almost desolate places with two characters who barely know each other. This film is more about the family unit and loss but is equally as good. The film won the Palme d'Or at Cannes as well as numerous other prizes and it's fantastic.The story is tremendous. It was written by noted playwright/actor Sam Shepard and is a wonderful tale of isolation, loss and redemption. It unfolds at an incredibly slow pace by modern standards but is thoroughly gripping, divulging enough to keep you on tenterhooks but never telling you everything. I was completely gripped the whole way through. As well as a great plot the films other standout feature is its score which is performed on the slide guitar by Ry Cooper. It is haunting and repetitive but in a good way. It worked very well with the plot and the on screen visuals which were also exemplary. Frequent Wenders cinematographer Robby Muller creates some stunning sights of wide open, desolate vistas and intricate and interesting internal shots of bars, motels and houses. Some of the shots seem to last for minutes but that is part of what makes it so beautiful. The film is a joy to look at.On the acting side the film is once again terrific. Harry Dean Stanton is superb when playing the mute in early scenes but becomes more vocal as the film progresses. His performance overall was brilliant. His son, played by Hunter Carson was also excellent in his first film role, although he looked unnervingly like a young Jodie Foster. Supporting actors Dean Stockwell, Aurore Clement and especially Nastassja Kinski were also without fault.This is a film which might not appeal to everyone due to its slow nature but I loved it. I was mesmerised by the long, single camera shots in which the dialogue just went on and on and the cinematography was breathtaking. This isn't far off a perfect film and one that I'd recommend to anyone as long as their favourite film wasn't Transformers 2.www.attheback.blogspot.com


                
Wrap yourself into a cozy chair and pour yourself a hot chocolate as you enjoy this masterpiece.  Take the phone off the hook as well. Natasha Kinski with a Texas accent.  Dean Stockwell as a regular guy hero (sort of).  Harry Dean Stanton plays a role that only he could have played. Watch this.


                
Paris, Texas is tells the adventure of a wanderer named 'Travis' (Harry Dean Stanton) is found in the middle of nowhere by his brother who helps pull his memory back together; a memory that haunted him and started four years ago. Once his memory comes back, Travis starts to fix up his haunted past. Many reviewers say this film is 'near-perfect', but I strongly disagree... it is 'perfect'! The film is so beautiful, so sad and so haunting, especially the soundtrack by Ry Cooder. Some people may say that it dragged-on but I also have to disagree on that one because I thought the pacing was perfect, since it makes the viewer become more familiar with the story and the characters. Hary Dean Stanton's performance as the haunted Travis is Finally, the ending of the film is absolutely... well... left me speechless.Paris, Texas is a film that we rarely get these days, it's a film like no other.


                
I thought this was just an astounding character study, and it comes equipped with a group of excellent actors and a director who does not bow to commercial demands in terms of "dramatic structure".The film's story concerns a drifter named Travis (Harry Dean Stanton) who is re-united with his brother Walt (Dean Stockwell) who has been raising the drifter's son with his wife (Aurore Clement). There are some secrets in Travis' past, specifically what he has been doing for the past 4 years and how he and his wife (Natassja Kinski) ended up being separated. After heading on a journey to try to re-unite with her, bringing his 8 year old son (Hunter Carson) in tow, Travis must face the depths of evil within his own soul and try to discover if it's even possible to rebuild a life that was once destroyed.I think this is a marvelous film in terms of the execution.... it really keeps you interested even far beyond the point where the "secrets" are being revealed. In many ways the film plays on themes of voyeurism -- why are we interested in this story? Why do men go to Jane (Kinski) to talk about their issues? I think this film might mean something different to each person who sees it. The film is really sad in the sense in which it shows the consequences of some of our actions, how we destroy our own happiness. Jane tells Travis that she had to send Hunter away because she did not want to fill the void in her life with her son. Yet we know already that Travis cannot fill that void either. I think the film is not really "saying" anything -- it's more asking us to question the way we treat others and to realize that our relationships are the things that define us in many ways. I see this in Jane/Travis' relationship and also in the emerging father/son relationship between Travis and Hunter. For a few days Hunter is actually calling both Walt and Travis "dad" -- this awkward situation is something that work-a-day good guy Walt thinks is perfectly fine, but Travis I think realizes that the "void" cannot be filled with two dads.Wonderful film and I look forward to repeat viewings.
I've seen this film many times and I am continually dazzled by how fresh and pure the visuals are - thanks to the work of cinematographer Robby Müller, who provided German director Wim Wenders with one of his most beautiful films. The sense of scale and beauty invoked by Müller's lens deserves more praise than Wenders himself, because this is primarily a mood-film, one that subordinates its gentle human story to the luscious minimalist beauty of the desert. The slight story plays second fiddle to the brilliant camera-work and haunting music by Ry Cooder throughout until the last part. Here the film's visual beauty is undermined by an overlong and overbearing encounter between two main characters in a dark and dank setting. Sadly, this impacts the effectiveness of the film greatly, leaving the viewer alienated by the claustrophobic nature of this latter part in contrast with the breathtaking sense of space conveyed earlier. However, the acting is excellent, especially Harry Dean Stanton as Travis. A flawed masterpiece.


                
A wonderfully subtle tale of a man doing whatever it takes to find redemption for a life of causing pain to others. The most obvious genius of the film is Wenders' use of the color red. Traditionally red is a color of great importance and back in the days when artists mixed their own oil paints, red was only used to represent people of significance. Wenders uses the color in the same way. He highlights important features and characters (Travis, Jane, Anne's heels) with the color red. It's a very subtle way of letting the audience know what to focus on and what is important to the story. I thought the green was used to portray a new starting point in Travis' life since it shows up prominently when he is about to reunite Walt and at the end when he's ready to move on with his life, and I thought that was brilliant.Unfortunately, I read an interview with Wenders that said the green was just something he thought was cool that resulted from a technical problem that he decided to keep in. That was a pretty big letdown, but I'll put it past me. Keeping this brief, the last thing I want to mention is the performances. Aside from Hunter Carson, the entire cast is absolutely brilliant. Everyone is so natural and authentic in their roles that it felt like I was watching the characters instead of the actors. Harry Dean Stanton has the rare ability to say more in a facial expression than most actors can say in a ten minute monologue. Kinski displays such pain and heartache without raising her voice once. Just the stream of tears that quietly flow down her cheeks is more heartbreaking than any middle-aged, mistreated wife shouting at the top of her lungs. This all being said, Hunter Carson fell into the child curse of making it so blatantly clear that he was acting that it made me want to punch him. Overall though, a brilliant work.


                
Leave it to a European to best express the alienating attraction of the Great American West: the silence, the distance, the wanderlust of neon lights and lonely desert highways. Like most road films this one works best on the road, during Harry Dean Stanton's odyssey across the Southwest in search of estranged wife Nastassja Kinski (who affects a convincing southern twang). There's more than a few slow spots between his comatose emergence out of the sagebrush and the final, troubled reunion, anchored only by Stanton's weather-beaten face and the haunting strains of Ry Cooder's slide guitar. The film ends with one of director Wim Wenders' typically intense, extended dialogues, during which Stanton sacrifices his past to save his future. Kinski isn't offered the same luxury, but a bittersweet resonance still lingers long after the final credits.
'Paris, Texas' happens all in California and Texas, and uses some of the iconic landscapes in the American cinema like Los Angeles viewed from the heights, the Mojavi desert or the endless Texas plains. These are filmed in such a vibrant manner and combined with the original music by Ry Cooder that they became icons by themselves, in one of the most American films I have seen, made by a German director who we feel that he really loves America.Child-to-adults relationship movies are not really my preferred genre. I often find them exploiting the sentiments of the viewers and the ingenuous style of acting of children at the expense of real feelings. Here however the acting of Hunter Carson is really so direct and so true that I am almost happy to see that he did not develop a film actor career and will remain in memory for everybody with this role. Maybe he did have some conversations with Dean Stockwell, who also was a child actor who became a professional, one may just guess.Acting is really fabulous in the movie, beyond Carson and Stockwell we have Harry Dean Stanton with one of the best performances in his career. This story of lost memory and getting back and putting together a broken life is simple and moving, we are not told details that are not important for the relations between the characters, and even if the ending may be disputed from a social or moralistic point of view (is really the runaway girl working in a men's club the best mother for the kid?) it makes sense from an emotional point of view.This is one of the best films of director Wenders together with 'Himmel uber Berlin' and 'Buena Vista Social Club'. Three memorable movies, and so different one from the other. He is one of the best.
A mesmeric film from German director Wim Wenders, 'Paris, Texas' (1984) is both a poignant family tale and a grand portrait of America. The story, which follows the emergence of Travis Henderson from the Texas desert and his slow journey towards confronting his abandoned life, is a powerful rendering of wasted years, atoning for past mistakes and finding a way to move on.This is a long (150-minute), slow-moving film, as much observed as it is acted. The themes of rootlessness, the road and the redeeming power of children, together with the imagery of downtown America, recall Alice in the Cities, a Wenders film from ten years earlier, but where that film was shot in muted black and white, Paris, Texas is shot in glorious, vibrant colour, which reminded me of the Technicolour used in the early days of colour film.This is the perfect format in which to portray the breathtaking desert landscape of Texas, in which the first third of the film is set. The opening aerial shot, which swoops down to find Travis Henderson amidst the wilderness, is one of the most awe-inspiring film sequences that I have seen. The largely empty landscape and the mysterious silence of Travis recall the atmosphere of a Western, with empty roads and telephone wires pointing the way to an otherwise absent civilisation. Dusty small towns and abandoned junk reside in the middle of nowhere. When Travis's brother Walt is introduced in a baseball cap with 'stetson' printed across the top you feel a knowing nod to this general ambiance.When the setting changes to the streets of suburban Los Angeles and Houston the film focuses increasingly on the drama playing out in the Henderson family, whilst painting in many of the details which I relished in my visits to America as a child, from the bustling highways crammed with over-sized cars to the sometimes seedy side streets and enclosures off the main city routes. Wenders's grasp of the country as both tourist and biographer is remarkable and the film is certainly worth seeing on the quality of imagery alone. Even the simple act of pulling into a petrol station is perfectly observed and thus oddly engaging, with the car carrying the camera pulling over just a little down the road from the car on screen.The imagery is complemented by Ry Cooder's hugely atmospheric guitar soundtrack. Unfortunately but unavoidably, this now feels a little clichéd owing to the large number of imitations that followed in its wake; for a recent example, see the soundtrack to Into the Wild (2007).The sights and sounds of Paris, Texas do not overwhelm the story, which, although undoubtedly slow moving, remains engaging throughout the 150 minutes. The encounter between Travis and Jane, his estranged wife, is gripping for the way in which the hidden details of the story are slowly, almost painfully brought to the surface in the strangest of settings. I do not, however, want to spoil the details of this film so I will leave it to you to seek it out as soon as possible and see for yourself.


                
A man seemingly inexplicably has been wandering the desert in Texas for the past 4 years. He is finally found by his brother and takes him into his home. From that point, the man goes on a mission to confront his past and heal the wounds that lead him to become a wanderer.Paris, Texas is a slow moving character study about a psychologically wounded man. If you aren't already conditioned by Hollywood to crave non-stop action with sub-par scripts, and can enjoy a character study that takes its time to unfold the story, then this movie can be a real treat for you. Like most movies that I really enjoy, the cinematography and direction are great, and it really makes me care about the main character and hope for him to get everything worked out. The ending, which I won't spoil, is cinema at it's best, and leaves you both sad and happy at the same time. In my opinion, easily one of the best movies of the 80's.


                
To fully appreciate this film you need to be in the right state of mind. Yes, it's a very slow film, but "boring?" I don't know-- do you find your own life boring, and need to see car chases and explosions for enjoyment? Well, then maybe it's not for you. This film almost painfully digs into the psyches of its main characters: watch Harry Dean Stanton's little tics and self-realizations (the shot where he sees himself in the mirror for the first time in years, and immediately turns away, for example); if you find it boring you're not looking close enough, not paying attention. Like Hemmingway or a haiku the simplest lines of dialog are rife with inner meaning (Walt to Travis: "You mind telling me where you're headed, Trav? what's out there?. . . . There's NOTHING out there.") Is it "like watching paint dry"?-- I don't think so, more like watching someone come back from the dead; perhaps slow, but still amazing. I found it odd that some people feel it's "pretentious"; I've always thought of it as completely unpretentious-- it IS what it IS (what is more 'zen' than that?). It presents an honest story with a minimal of bells and whistles, special effects, odd camera angles, etc. Easily one of Wender's best, and one of my all time favorites.


                
I have seen this movie many times and its emotional impact never fades.In fact when I first saw it many years ago it completely blew me away. Wim Wenders is a master director.The central performances are first rate and the heart rending finale is handled with care and totally without any trace of slushy sentimentality. A story of a man who has lost everything including his wife and young son who makes the journey both physically and symbolically in his quest for redemption. There is one scene in the second meeting between Travis and Jane where the scene shifts from Travis to Jane that although subtle has huge dramatic impact.He can see her, she can only hear him through the telephone,something he says, she recognises.That flash of recognition with the change of perspective creates a sublime moment of drama. If you have no other reason for seeing this movie than watch it for Nastassja Kinski.The first time we really see her as she turns slowly from the bar is a moment of beauty.An iconic image of female perfection Go see you will be rewarded.


                
I find the scene where Travis talks with Jane through the one way mirror, very powerful and emotional. The dialogue is slow, tense, and the scene full of dramatic irony. The closest the two can get is hands separated by glass, as Travis negotiates his son back to his wife. Ry Cooder's stark spare music matches the whole beautiful painful film.One of my favourite films - and free too with the Sunday Times - a miracle! I saw this when it first came out, yet I could remember nearly every scene, and had a spooky experience on the 395 on the way to a skiing holiday sitting in the diner,which features early in the film! Slow, powerful film - stick with it - it will stick with you!


                
