First off, I am not reviewing the classic original which I would give 10 stars to, I am reviewing the horrible 2001 redux, and this is why there is 1 star.I don't care what Coppola says. He calls the REDUX/redo/re-edit that he put in theaters in 2001 the "definitive version" of Apocolypes Now. He's crazy. He hasn't made a decent film in a long, long time. He took a great and classic film and ruined it, and it's his own. Will he do this to the first two Godfather films? Robert Duvall's gung-ho character has turned into a buffoon, searching for a surfboard that Martin Sheen has stolen. Martin Sheen's character has turned into a warm-hearted guy who loves his crew, plays games with them like stealing surfboards, as opposed to a serious guy who has a very serious mission like in the original. Marlon Brando reads TIME magazine. And there is a scene with a French Plantation that destroys the entire flow to the movie, and plays like a corny dream sequence and is just horrible, with acting so bad it's more of a nightmare. The worst scene in the redux is when Chef and Lance (Fred Forrest and Sam Bottoms) party in a "parked" helicopter with some of the Playboy Playmates from the previous R&R scene. One of the playmates has a birdcage on her head, no joke. This is another scene that kills the entire flow of the movie, and makes Martin Sheen a nice guy, since he is the one who sets up his men with the girls in the first place. And also, Coppola takes the scene where Lance is water skiing (with the Stones "Satisfaction" playing) and moves it from the beginning of the film to the middle. This was, in the original, one of the best setup scenes of all time, letting you unwind and to get to know the laid-back situation of these men, and Coppola ruins it. Oh the horror, the horror, the horror of this redux. The Redux is a total travesty. Coppola has ruined his own masterpiece. Imagine Van Gogh, if he'd lived, taking "Starry Night" and adding to it, or DiVinci or Monet or anyone else. Coppola has lost it, completely. And so, the true "horror" isn't the Vietnam war, but the hands of a burnt-out has-been filmmaker mangling one of his best works. And by the way, here I am reviewing the redux only, which is why there is only one star.
IMDB needs seperate listings for the 1979 classic and the 2001 director's cut. The former is a classic while the latter is a bomb.
I don't recall ever seeing a film where the director's cut was so inferior to the original. The extra footage adds NOTHING to the film but does make the movie seem both endless and meaningless. Sometimes less is more (ie, the 1979 theatrical release). It's unfortunate that the DVD doesn't allow the viewer to select which version to watch.


                
After seeing the high rating I decided to take a look at this film, for the first hour and forty minutes I was bored to tears. After that point it looked like there might have been some slight hope things were going to pick up, but that was only for ten minutes then it went back to the boring drab and dullness until the end of the film.There's not a lot I can say as hardly anything interesting or worth watching is in this film, just seemed like the same thing happening over and over again just with different camera angles until they finally got to the island. Even then it doesn't live up to the expectations of what the characters in the film have been trying to imply all along.There was nothing insane about this film or the guy on the island, there was maybe a few minutes of very mild gore, nothing scary, no horror and no craziness.. just dull dull dull.I would find the beeping noise of a reversing truck more exciting than this film.


                
It's a pity to see a director put so much time and effort into a film and come back with something so awful.  This film is pretentious, chaotic, self-indulgent and ridiculously overrated.  The first half has its moments, even though Robert Duvall's character is a cartoon, but once Dennis Hopper and Marlon Brando show up and start chewing the scenery as if it's all you can eat at the diner and they've been on a three-day fast, the movie dies. The last twenty minutes or so look as if they were filmed by a three-year-old playing with his father's movie camera.  I'm sorry to be so harsh, but this was one of the most unpleasant experiences I've ever had watching a film.


                
Well, after watching Full Metal Jacket and seeing the high rating here on a movie on a similar topic, i decided to sit through AN: Redux. What a mistake i had made.I really expected to get my socks blown off with its rating here on IMDb, it even got to the point where I was making things out to be better than they really were...thinking- the people on IMDb must know what they are talking about! By the end of the movie seeing Sheen's blank expression for the billionith time...ugh! How can you guys say this guy nailed the role perfectly and compliment his acting, he doesn't have much to nail or act! There are other comments here which i disagree with. Such as, the opinions of time-less lines "I love the smell of napalm in the morning" Zomg! Classic! "The horror...the horror". Wow! The last parts bordering on Art? What the hell? Um. No. Bad movie guys. I really do want my time back on this one. How some users can call this the best movie of all time is beyond me. Each to their own i guess.


                
This movie was just plain bad. I have never reviewed a movie here in my four years of browsing the site, but never in my days of watching movies have I been so infuriated by a film. For starters, the movie just doesn't make any sense. There is no logical transition from scene to scene. As I was watching this movie, I found myself actually TRYING to convince myself that it was good, that at some point during this overdone, self-righteous piece of poo, that some semblance of a theme or motif would come into play. No: The movie continues to lead you down the linear path of the story. I now see where Charlie Sheen inheritted his blank stare acting prowess from that he so consistently displays on a weekly basis in his new sitcom. Well, I guess it is the apocalypse NOW because I've read that Two and a Half Men is the top viewed sitcom on network television. And guess what, this is the 36th ranked FREAKING movie on IMDb. I never thought that a single movie could cause me to never want to watch another movie of the same GENRE. THATS how bad this movie was. 3 hours and 20 minutes of my life, wasted So I thought that, although I normally don't review movies here, why not put in another 2 minutes so maybe, just MAYBE, I could have done some good by watching this movie. That good will be if I can manage to convince even one potential viewer to avoid this overdone pretentious Francis Ford Coppola bullshit. So as far as I'm concerned, IMDb and every movie critic out there has lost all credibility.


                
During the Vietnam era, you were either a "square" or "hip" -- with "hip" meaning pro-communist, anti-capitalist, pro-sexual-revolution, anti-mainstream American values. Hollywood directors generally chose to be "hip." The significance of this fact should become apparent in due course. Now, a little boring history for those who can stomach it: U.S. troops were present in large numbers in South Vietnam from roughly 1962 to 1972. U.S. troops came home in '72, having successfully strengthened the South Vietnamese army (ARVN) so that it could defend South Vietnam from invasion by the North Vietnamese communists and from subversion by the South Vietnamese communist Viet Cong. The ARVN did, in fact, successfully defend South Vietnam for almost three years. Then, a Democrat-controlled Congress cut off funding to the South Vietnamese in the wake of Republican President Nixon's resignation over the Watergate scandal. The North Vietnamese invaded, and South Vietnam fell. Soon thereafter, the Communist Khmer Rouge took over Cambodia and tortured and murdered some two million innocent men, women and children. This is the true tragedy of the Vietnam war -- something that no Hollywood director to my knowledge has touched ("The Killing Fields" is not accompanied by a political explanation of the Cambodian Holocaust.)Four years after the fall of South Vietnam, and seven years after U.S. troops left the country, Francis Ford Coppola made "Apocalypse Now." He was one of a slew of Hollywood directors who sought to capitalize on the deep well of anti-war sentiment in the United States. Well, let's examine such anti-war sentiment for a minute. Being anti-war is fine, but those who are against war are called upon to offer alternatives that work -- and they never do. Instead, they hold up the UN as some sort of ideal -- a UN made up mostly of undemocratic countries with no respect for human rights.In the end, the Vietnam War was but one of a series of proxy wars between the communist Soviet Union (at times allied with communist China) and the capitalist West. The Korean War was the first major battle in this rivalry, where both sides sought to extend their influence while bleeding and demoralizing the other side. These proxy wars were a substitute for all-out nuclear war. Terrible things were done by both sides in this conflict, but I believe that the U.S. cause was a noble one. And it largely succeeded, in that the Soviet Union collapsed and freedom and prosperity expanded into Eastern Europe. But the conduct of the Vietnam War by U.S. politicians was terrible at best. U.S. soldiers never lost a battle in Vietnam. But politicians in Washington would not allow them to keep the territory they had won. They refused to follow Barry Goldwater's advice, which was to "Win, or get the hell out!" They failed to mine Haiphong Harbor in North Vietnam to keep Soviet and communist Chinese supplies out of that country. They refused to invade Laos and Cambodia in order to close down the weapons supply line that ran along the Ho Chi Minh trail, ending only thirty miles from Saigon, the South Vietnamese capital.In the meantime, Vietnam was the first televised war, and the U.S. media were largely left-wing (as they are today) and anti-war. During the Tet Offensive (a major defeat for the communists, and a major victory for the Americans), Walter Cronkite declared that America had "failed" in Vietnam. This was just one of many distortions by the media. The American public stopped supporting the war. And some celebrities -- like Jane Fonda -- actually rooted for victory by the communists. What, then, do we see in "Apocalypse Now"? Nothing more than all the one-sidedly anti-American, anti-Vietnam-war stereotypes of the day: playing Wagner (subtle; I don't suppose that could be a suggestion that the Americans were the equivalent of Nazis?); showing a giggling soldier-moron in a helicopter randomly machine gunning innocent Vietnamese peasants (subtle; I don't suppose that could be a suggestion that the Americans were the equivalent of Nazis?); and so on and so forth. Of course, Coppola wasn't satisfied addressing such "substantive" issues. His movie had to be a "grand vision" -- not unlike his "The Godfather." So he threw everything except the kitchen sink into this movie: the pretentious linkage he tried to make between his magnum opus and Conrad's "The Heart of Darkness" -- "Wow, man! That's heavy! Copolla is our Conrad!"; the psychedelic/surreal affectations (a first!); the "ironic" and "clever" juxtapositions (a battle mixed up with surfing); the "revelation" of "Ugly American" insensitivity; and so on. Well, Copolla was preaching to the choir with this movie, and in this he was a great success. But there is no significance to this movie otherwise. If you really want to see enlightening scenes from Vietnam, rent the multi-disc documentary on the war (I forget the title; there are several.) One very moving scene shows U.S. soldiers singing "Silent Night" on the flare-lit battle-field on Christmas eve. Watching a documentary on the war might actually teach you something about that war -- a first! Otherwise, you're going to have to settle for Hollywood's version from the likes of Oliver Stone and Coppola. The true subject of Coppola's movie, in my opinion, is Coppola's giant ego. The main secondary subject is the dumbing down of an American public that would uncritically eat up his "vision"; the exact same thing is true of Oliver Stone's various movies. Hollywood thinks that "Epatez les bourgeois!" is the last word in creativity, even when its arrows fall far short of the target. That is the reason why most "serious" Hollywood movies, in my opinion, are overblown failures. And Coppola's "Apocalypse Now" surely stands at the very front of the line of those failures.
This movie was filled with melodramatic acting, bad humor, horrible character development, no action, sub-par editing, awful music, and oh yes the Redux version is over 3 hrs long! I loathe this film, and will never understand its appeal. Come to think of it I'll never understand the appeal for the Godfather either. Give me Goodfellas any day. I think Francis Coppola is the most over rated Writer/Director of all time. Give me Robert Zemickis or Steven Spielberg and I'll be a happy little boy. Whatever "it" is that people see in his movies I will never understand. You know what I think... It was the 70's and everyone was on drugs. That must be the reason why everything was so weird. I know people are gonna respond to this and say "You just didn't get it." I got it. I got the whole stupid movie. And I thought it stunk.


                
Francis Ford Coppolla, Harrison Ford, Marlon Brandoand any one else worth mentioning,cuz I don't really remember anyone, well its easy after 3 hours of FREAKING NOTHING........."The horror" "The horror" "The horror"This teaches me a lesson, all that glitters is not gold. Believe me I tried to like it (just the another guy who commented), I thought that maybe there was something that I missed, I tried it again, but couldn't go all the way cuz suddenly it stuck me............"The horror" "The horror" "The horror"I stood up then walked a bit, sat down for a while, called a friend of mine, then watched this movie a little bit more, "The horror" "The horror" "The horror"I suddenly remembered Seinfeld's one episode where Mr. J.Peterman goes to Burma and becomes crazy and then I understood why he said "The horror" "The horror" "The horror"did this review make any sense, well exactly like the movie it didn't..... Can Francis guess what's up my mind, hell no. Same here buddy..... Greatest film ever made my ass...... The only thing this movie is good for is PUNISHMENT............................One final time with feelings"The horror" "The horror" "The horror"


                
Beware, my friends.  Though bold and striking, this is not a movie that should show its face in the new millennium or any era of artistic expression evolved beyond adolescence.  Casual film-goers will probably be impressed at the scenery, the grandeur and the theatrics as I was when I was 16.  But years later, I've matured a bit, and I am absolutely horrified and sickened at how I was duped.  (It's not unlike the feeling of rummaging through your old 80s wardrobe and seeing those "cool" parachute pants, acid-washed jeans and Miami Vice sockless-loafers accusing you from beyond the grave!)Not all of you, but an (enlightened?) minority WILL BE OFFENDED by this movie.  Certainly the veterans of Vietnam will smell something rank about how Mr. Coppola made such a pretentious carnival out of that truly humbling and difficult time.  But what I found utterly damning of this film, despite the best efforts of performers, were the atrocities that Mr. Coppola committed for the sake of his magnum opus.  A bull was slaughtered live and on camera just for some added gore (of which there is no shortage in this movie).  Acres of beautiful, Filipino countryside were ignited with Hollywood napalm (gasoline).  And last but not least, an entire culture was slandered beyond belief to a degree from which they may not have yet recovered.A few years ago, a New York radio personality gained enormous popularity with his irreverent and vulgar on-air antics.  I admit that at the time I was amused by the novelty, but then I grew up.  It may be a few decades yet, but I have enough faith in human/artistic evolution that this movie will similarly be relegated to its proper place as a monumental but shameful part of our ever-growing history.My advice to those of you with unquenchable curiosity?  Before contributing to the popularity and profits of this production (as I foolishly did), borrow a copy of this movie from someone and watch it secretly, as you would a horrible car wreck on the side of the road.


                
I would have given this a 9/10 as it is a superb movie.But showing heartless animal snuff to visualize heartless human war is sarcasm at best. It would totally be fitting and OK if it were special FX, but it weren't. Mr. Coppola even "went overboard" with "a truckload of animals to slaughter". No sir. That's not OK.Special-FX would have been believable enough to "shock" and to show the similarity between the sacrifice of the buffalo and of Kurtz. The film would have not suffered an inch of credibility, nor a tiny fragment of it's impact. The contrary would have been more likely.And no, I'm no fighter for animal rights and omnivore myself, but this is USELESS. A heartless Mr. Coppola trying to convince me, the viewer, that war is senseless and what not. He didn't even understand his own vision himself as it seems by such a behavior.I'm stopping here, because no one is ever reading this. But if, here is the reason why I down voted this. And usually I won't do that just to express my opinion or hate of a genre or whatever.


                
I think a lot of people who think this film is a classic are stupid idiots, the only memorable scene in the film is when they drop exploding napalm exploding and the guy in the hat says "I love the smell of napalm in the morning", the rest of the film is a completely boring bombshell and it's like the film was high on drugs as there's this one part where people are butchering a cow in the most grotesque way possible... now I'm offended by this film.This film is just weird, the characters are not memorable at all not even Marlon Brando's character, the story is non-existent and the ending just sucks. Overall this film is absolutely terrible.


                
What a waste of my time! I DID like Apocalypse Now quite a lot, but I'm so absolutely disgusted by the "REDUX" that I'll never watch either again. It's one thing to act, it's quite another to show someone hacking at a water buffalo with a machete FOR REAL!!!!! Perhaps before the movie started, a comment that stated it contained the butchering of real animals would have been appropriate! An unacceptable rating from the humane society isn't enough, not by a long shot. For all those who would say it was a ritual that these people actually perform, I say this... I wasn't watching a documentary of fact, nor was I watching a movie that gave the slightest indication that it contained such nightmarish images! NASTY!


                
I remembered this film as one of my all-time favorite films, that is, until I saw it again recently on DVD in my stunning new home theater with terrific sound. What seemed to be evocative intrigue many years ago, seems now to be simply OVERDONE and self-indulgent on the part of a director struggling too hard for immortality through this film.  Sure, the visuals delight the eye with seductive color and convincing composition, but it's the storytelling that falls far short on this new viewing becoming nothing more than a murky "purple haze".  I understand the effort to give the film a feel of the drug-induced horror, but, it does so at the expense of everything else.Some of my favorite films are great heroic epics, such as The English Patient, Lawrence of Arabia, Saving Private Ryan, Deer Hunter,  even Gladiator, but Apocalypse Now, despite some excellent scenes (Duvall's character on the beach; the killing of the boat family; the death by arrow of the boat's "Chief"), seems on the whole to fall terribly short of masterpiece material.  The ending was completely disgusting to me, when the slaughter of the carribou parallels the killing of Kurtz.  Then to read in the credits or somewhere else on the DVD that they did actually slaughter a carribou ritually for this film, just put me over the edge as far as this film is concerned.  It's one thing to suggest violence in a film, but to actually use it in a film is just outrageous. I'll never waste my time on this film again!
What an awful movie. The worst thing of all is the amount of written material and other forms of mystification produced about it. The whole film is based on the terrible misreading of Joseph Conrads brilliant "Heart of Darknes". Coppola turned something which is genuinely a brilliant piece of written fiction into a 3 or more hours of visual disaster. A complex narrative turned into an ordinary kitsch. If there is nothing to understand, it doesn't mean it's masterpiece; it's just stupid. This film is just going nowhere from the beginning to the end. The final scenes, involving Hopper and Brando are the lamest thing I've ever seen. I mean, it's more lame than Troll2: totally bizarre and unmotivated. Read "Heart of Darkness" and you'll see what I'm talking about. From technical aspect film is really marvelous, but the whole concept is so pathetic that nothing can save it. Disaster. 1/10


                
Praise all that is holy that others hate this as much as I do. What a bunch of self-indulgent, bloated trash. It's one of those films people insist they love to appear cultured and intelligent. No, people, it isn't a fascinating insight into the mental scars that war leaves on the minds of men, or some other left-wing crap like that. It's a poncy director with an ego of such magnitude that it has it's own gravity spewing the usual "war is hell" crap.I almost survived this movie when Robert Duvall appeared, I thought "finally, a likable, insane character who will be funny to watch." then, after like 30 seconds of screen time, he is gone, and just becomes a sad old codger wanting his surfboard back. Like stealing an old man's teeth just so he ineffectually asks for them back.The politics of the US at the time obviously formed the film in part, and I'm with Cartman on this one, I HATE hippies, and this film is just a hippy with far too much money saying "we should all just get along man, and in the meantime, marvel at my depth, artistry and intelligence. Peace." A war gets televised, people eating their TV dinners see that people actually get killed when countries fall out, and suddenly you have a bunch of naive, pig ignorant celebrities siding with the opposition, an opposition that on winning the war, proceed to slaughter millions of men women and children in the Cambodian holocaust.Bunch of damn John Lennons. "Imagine there're no possessions. Oh, haven't seen the keys to my sports car and swish apartment in new york have you?"
Easily on the short list of most overrated films of all time.There were items of discussion brought up after this film so it wasn't a total loss but I didn't see how this is "the most honest account of the futility of war." A better description might be "The Most Schizophrenic Account of the Futility of War." This film was an ambiguous fantasy and people were free to read into it any way they wanted.Another word for it might be acid trip.This film reaffirmed my belief that Coppola is the most overrated director of all time, but man he can assemble a cast.


                
Raspberry awards that is.In short, this movie has an unforgettable title, unforgettable PR, yet highly forgettable story.This movie was suppose to be about the journey, and from that first step it got us lost.It only has 2, maybe 3 memorable scenes. Memorable being you actually remember it. The one is Martin Sheen's "I can't believe they want this man dead." And that was only memorable when it was parodied by Hot Shots: Part Deux.And there is the scene where Marlon Brando is washing his head. And that is only memorable during a dream sequence from an episode of Buffy the Vampire Slayer.And the infamous quote, "I love the smell of napalm in the morning," is hardly that inspiring. If at all.It's been said that Apocalypse Now is good, but just slow. There is no such thing as a good slow movie. Any movie that has the ability to grab your attention every step of the way is a good movie no matter how long it is. Apocalypse Now doesn't do that at all. Nothing to grab your attention condemning it a bad movie.All in all, this movie is boring and highly overrated. And you know it's bad, really bad if you only remember those scenes from parodies.


                
Francis Coppola made two good movies, and those both had "Godfather" in the title. "Bram Stoker's Dracula" was a miserable excuse for a film, and "Rumble Fish" was pretty loathsome. I'd rather see either again than another minute of Apocalypse. I realize this is a pretty trendy movie to like, but frankly backlighting Martin Sheen's ear for the last five hours of play was too pretentious for my taste. I realize this review won't change much, but it surprised me to see that nobody had given this so much as the mildest criticism. If you want a good war movie watch Full Metal Jacket, and if you want Joseph Conrad read the damn book. Finally, this is neither a movie about Vietnam, nor is it Vietnam, this is a movie about self gratification and little else.


                
Although this movie is considered to be one of the best ever, I think it is in fact one of the worst movies I have ever seen.  It is boring, convoluted, depressing, and much too long. (And that's only the original, I can't even imagine how much worse the Redux version is.)  I guess that if you are looking for something artsy and somewhat different and have a lot of time to waste, you may like this movie, but if you are looking to simply be entertained, I would highly advise watching something else other than this disappointing snoozer.


                
Films like "apocalypse now", "the godfather" and "the deer hunter" all have a somewhat similar feel to them. They are all boring as hell, too long and way overrated. In my opinion, they really need pulling down a peg or two. OK, so maybe I just don't get it, and we'll leave it at that. But I see there are plenty of others here who feel exactly the same as I do, thank god. It's very hard to comprehend how films that are regarded as the best appear to me as some of the worst I've ever seen.I honestly don't know what to say. It really was that much of a snooze-fest for me. The only feelings I can describe to you of me watching the film, was boredom and me thinking about cutting the hedges back at the farm I help out on tomorrow morning. I really did just start to think of other things and forgot about the movie I was watching. 2001: a space odyssey? yup, slow, but brilliant and captivating. But this? man, I...I just don't get it. A man sails up a river....All power to you if you like this. But not for me, thank you


                
Unfortunately, many people are naive enough to think that that this type of Hollywood venom and its gross mischaracterization of the Vietnam War and of the men who fought in it has some basis in reality.  It does not.  If it had been set in a ficticious war in Costa Rica or where ever else, it could be viewed as just another movie.  Instead, it is a only a vicious attack on the men who deserve great respect for how they conducted themselves in a nightmare situation.  I know - I was there.


                
I will probably get hanged for say in this, but I have to share my point of view on this movie, since I can't find any negative postings about it here.I saw Apocalypse Now Redux and I think it's pure crap and boring as hell. It was one of the worst movies I've ever seen (all categories) and I almost fell asleep multiple times. I thought it was ridiculus and it became more and more boring the longer it went on.


                
The movie is really weird. It is really hard to understand what the director is trying to project here. There is an extremely weak plot here. The movie does start with promise but losses its way pretty soon. All the craziness that has been depicted starts getting to you once the novelty wears off. The movie is totally undeserving of all the hype and so called critical acclaim that it seems to have received.The only saving grace are the fine performances by almost the entire cast, but the lack of a genuine plot lets the movie down big time. It is genuinely one of the most bizarre piece of bull crap ever created. You can really give it a miss.


                
This movie, picked a meaningless segment of the vietnam war and made a big deal out of it. The movie even depicts playboy entertaining soldiers in vietnam, which I felt had nothing to do with the film. The film might have had one or two good action scenes But on the contrary, the plot is generally a foolish one for a war movie. I was even surprised to see people calling this movie a war masterpiece. It had absolutely very little to tell about the vietnam war.


                
