My favourite movie of all time. This was a flawed piece of work by Coppola and seeing the documentary 'Heart of Darkness' made it even more compelling. Coppola at this point was king of Hollywood after making 'the Godfather' and 'GodfatherII' and had developed the ego necessary to even dare try to make a movie like 'Apocalypse Now'. Through sheer arrogance he went to the Phillipines with a partial script and thought he would know what he would do when he got there. Just as Captain Willard thought he would know what to do once he got to Col. Kurtz's compound. And just like Willard, he DIDN'T know what he was going to do once he got there. This is such a masterpiece of American cinema, beautifully photographed and the river is such a perfect metaphor and backdrop for the story. What I like most about 'Apocalypse Now' is that it offers no answers or conclusions. Consequently, because of this open-endedness, it infuriates some viewers who like their movies to be much more obvious. This movie defies categorization. Some call it a war movie which it isn't at all, really it is more of a personal study of man. The best pic about Vietnam is 'Platoon' in my opinion and if a viewer is seeking a retelling of the Vietnam War go there first for answers. Coppola should be commended for his take on the bureaucracy of war which he conveys quite effectively with the meeting with Gen.Corman and Lucas (Harrison Ford) and the Playmate review. The sheer audacity of Kilgore makes him an unforgettable character and the dawn attack will always be a Hollywood classic.It is an almost psychedelic cruise to a very surreal ending which makes it a movie not accessible to everyone. Very challenging to watch but rewarding as well. I could offer my explanations on each scene but that would be totally pointless. This movie is intended for interpretation and contemplation as opposed to immediate gratification.A little footnote, definitely if your a first-time viewer of Apocalypse Now, watch the original version first, the 'Redux' version is, I think, more intended for the hardcore fan and is more of a curiosity than a 'new and improved' version of the movie


                
Francis Ford Coppola's "Apocalypse Now" is not a Vietnam War film. Do not confuse it with one. It is set to the back drop of the war, but it is a metaphorical exposition on the deteriorating effects that war has on the human psyche. It is also one of the most audacious films ever made, produced, or even conceived (second to the Lord of the Rings trilogy. To call it a masterpiece would be an understatement of proportions as ambitious as the film's production levels.Opening with no credits and following a memorable first scene playing to the tune of the Doors "The End" as Martin Sheen's Captain Benjamin L. Willard hallucinates to images of helicopters and napalm, the plot is essentially laid out in the first 15 minutes. Willard's mission is to "terminate... with extreme prejudice" Colonel Kurtz (Marlon Brando) who has invariably gone AWOL in the far reaches of the Cambodian jungle and, as told by his general, is "out there operating without any decent restraint, totally beyond the pale of any acceptable human conduct. And he is still in the field commanding troops." Kurtz is a delusional Colonel now being worshipped by a large group of followers who have dubbed him a god. For Willard, this covert operation seems somewhat more manageable than actual combat, yet, the journey he is about to take will be a personal quest that will challenge the limits of his human behavior.Teaming up with a small crew, they embark down the vast reaches of the river in a rickety boat. Along the way, Willard educates himself on all things Kurtz. During Sheen's raspy voice over, he details his thoughts on the abundance of material he reads. Kurtz was a highly decorated and respected Green Beret. He was a normal man with a family, until a part of him succumbed to the horrors of human brutality and he led himself down the path that Willard is being led. The descent into the jungle is marked by a mesmerizing aura that echoes the battles being fought not to far away. Eventually the power of the experience weights on the group as drugs and a sort of solitary confinement attacks their senses. But Willard seems unfazed and desensitized in his quest to find Kurtz. As he reads about this mythic figure, he is drawn to the man's power and why he has become what he has become. We know that Willard's slow decay will parallel that of Kurtz's.Marlon Brando has been revered for decades. His presence: unmatchable. His genius: undeniable. But for those unacquainted with his acting prowess and unaccustomed to his physical nuance, Brando can be perceived, in the eyes of an uncompromising film-goer, as a hack. He is most certainly not. Brando was difficult to work with, hard to interpret and impossible to understand, but his talent for unintelligible rants and unparalleled monologues is irrefutable. The man obviously knew what he was doing even if we didn't. His Colonel Kurtz is a being of limitless delusions and continual profundity.If the film is any indication of the journeys into hell than Francis Ford Coppola's actual experience with making this masterpiece is a true life account of one man's fanatical struggle to produce a movie. It is reported that during the film's 200 plus day principle photography schedule, Coppola contemplated suicide. The film was not only an undeniable struggle to make; it is a grueling film to watch. Coppola's sweat and blood seep through the pores of the steamy locals and his dedication filters through the orifices of Martin Sheen's haunted soldier Willard.I can not help but feel a warm sense of nostalgia for this type of film. At the dawn of all that was original and unprecedented, films that challenged as well as stimulated were commonplace. Audacity aside, Apocalypse Now is pure film-making. My respect and admiration for Mr. Coppola is of the highest order. But I shudder at the return to what has become the norm for today's standards for film: a lack of innovation. It is not simply the unoriginality of the world of cinema today; it is the fact that nobody seems to care to tell a story anymore or to tell one with heart. But we still have the great ones like Coppola's masterpiece, a film which bathed in its ability to give us something deeper than that which we could comprehend.That depth in Apocalypse Now is the step into madness. The killing can disturb. The loss of innocence can unhinge. But it is the damage from within; the countless barrages of images that distress, unnerve and detach us from our everyday world and the memories that plague our deepest thoughts that eventually segregates us from humanity and propels us into the realm of the instinctual, the savage and the animalistic. If the thought of killing does not provide sustenance, the act of killing provides man with its fundamental catharsis.
Apocalypse now is not only the best war film ever made but it's also one of the best films of all time as it won the prestigious Palme d'Or at Cannes and it's constantly recognized as a benchmark in cinematic history. Based on the novel "Hearts of darkness" by Joseph Conrad this film is not so much about the Vietnam war, it is about war in general and serves as a deep study into the dark places of the human soul and how war can affect the individual. Apocalypse now depicts a timeless story about a universal human struggle, the duality of man, consisting of morality, the savage primordial instinct and what every person chooses to base his actions upon.The film has a simple premise, US Army Captain Benjamin Willard (Martin Sheen) is ordered on a dangerous mission into Cambodia through a river, to assassinate a renegade, Colonel Kurtz (Marlon Brando), who has gone insane and set himself up as a god among the local native tribe. It's an accessible premise, allowing for the film to be consumed by even the most casual movie watchers, and yet this film is anything but shallow. It's a journey into madness and hysteria, an observation into the darkness of humanity. I could write a book analysing this film, there's just so much to talk about. My interpretation is that the river is not only the passage to find Kurtz but also the descent into madness and a reflection to the character's inner journey towards evil that is accomplished through the main theme of the movie, dehumanization. The journey through the river is also reminiscent of Dante's perilous journey through unspeakable surroundings and horrors. There are three major stops before Kurtz and each stop on the river furthers the dehumanization that war has brought, as well as implanting a new type of evil to the characters.The first stop is with lieutenant Kilgore. That stop shows that Kilgore and his soldiers have been consumed by the love of war after they dehumanized the enemy. Their love of war has blinded them so much that they see no negative and can't comprehend the consequences the war will bring. In one scene of the movie, the "heroic" marching of the helicopters to lay wrath upon their enemies, Captain Kilgore uses Wagner's Ride of the Valkyries to pump his soldiers and scare his enemies and like the mythical creatures Valkyries, he is the decider of who lives and who dies on the battle. At this stage, although everyone has removed any shred of humanity from the enemy, they still understand the innocent.The second stop is the USO show where we see the loss of morality as well as the dehumanization of the innocent. At this stop we see that a soldier dehumanized everyone aside from himself, becoming very selfish and losing any compassion for anyone but themselves. The soldiers that have passed through this stop would be willing to put anyone at risk for their instant gratification. Now as the characters go deeper into the river metaphorically they go deeper into themselves to explore their own evils which are becoming more apparent.
The last stop before Kurtz is the Do-long Bridge and it's at this point that a soldier has gone too far, he's experienced so much trauma and so much evil that he lost grip with his own sanity and thus he dehumanized himself and can't return to a normal state of mind.The final stop on the journey is Kurtz, at this point only Willard and Kurtz have passed the madness stage and they are competing for the heart of darkness, the ultimate evil that we all have the capacity to have. Kurtz is in possession of the heart of darkness as he associates evil with strength. Bypassing the madness stage he's able to see the world for what it truly is, filled with hypocrites and he decides to bury his hatred and simply act on instinct. Willard at the end of the film rises from the river reborn as a new man ready to obtain the heart himself. He kills Kurtz and leaves the compound with his heart corrupted. In the end Willard has a choice, succumb to evil and stay in the compound having taken Kurtz's place as the leader of the savages or abandoning them into their fates...throwing his weapon, he emerges from the bottomless pit he had fallen through the heart of darkness and by saving Lance and choosing not to exterminate the tribe, he has completed his personal journey and tested his soul to the very limit. Both of them at any point could have just stopped but they didn't, they wanted to explore the depths of their souls and just how much further they could go.The film presents this study of the human psyche through Carmine Coppola's eerie score, hypnotic images, and some haunting scenes, essentially taking the viewer into the depths of hell. It's here where Coppola succeeds the most. His ability to create a living "hell" is so amazing, and it perfectly captures the mindset of the soldiers. It provides a commentary on war and religion, making the subtext even vaster. The film is weirdly beautiful and a true picture of the evil and hell from within ourselves.The cinematography by Vittorio Storaro is phenomenal and it provides a hallucinatory feeling throughout the film's runtime - from the faces of the losing minds covered in endless sweat, and the sight of figures within the shadows to a dark trenched riverbank - everything is captured in a stunning manner, conveying the hellish imagery and still taking the viewer's breath away. Coppola's direction transcends itself, the camerawork is at its absolute best when it comes to the use of lighting and shadows, most notable during Col. Kurtz's first appearance. The troubled production obviously didn't hurt the film at all, and most likely increased the dark quality it portrays. Apocalypse Now is beautifully haunting, utterly hellish, terrifyingly intelligent, and magnificently wrought, it slowly pushes you into the horror and absurdity of war, but also its meaningfulness and beauty. Not only is this one of the best films ever made, it's a psychoanalytical journey into places none of us would dare to venture to on our own. It is Francis Ford Coppola's magnum opus as he sacrificed everything to make it work. Rightfully deserving its place as one of the greatest on the cinematic pantheon, immortal for its contribution to cinema, and a truly unforgettable experience, Apocalypse Now is cinema at its most complete, crystalline and pure.
Top 20 war moviein Redux they added long scenes that changed tempo of movie.
The one at the plantation didn't work well in context.
What a great film!


                
I first saw APOCALYPSE NOW in 1985 when it was broadcast on British television for the first time . I was shell shocked after seeing this masterpiece and despite some close competition from the likes of FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING this movie still remains my all time favourite nearly 20 years after I first saw it This leads to the problem of how I can even begin to comment on the movie . I could praise the technical aspects especially the sound , editing and cinematography but everyone else seems to have praised ( Rightly too ) these achievements to high heaven while the performances in general and Robert Duvall in particular have also been noted , and everyone else has mentioned the stark imagery of the Dou Long bridge and the montage of the boat traveling upriver after passing through the border How about the script ? Francis Ford Coppola is best known as a director but he's everyway a genius as a screenwriter as he was as a director , I said " was " in the past tense because making this movie seems to have burned out every creative brain cell in his head , but his sacrifice was worth it . In John Milius original solo draft we have a script that's just as insane and disturbing as the one on screen , but Coppola's involvement in the screenplay has injected a narrative that exactly mirrors that of war . Check how the screenplay starts off all jingoistic and macho with a star turn by Bill Kilgore who wouldn't have looked out of place in THE GREEN BERETS but the more the story progresses the more shocking and insane everything becomes , so much so that by the time reaches Kurtz outpost the audience are watching another film in much the same way as the characters have sailed into another dimension . When Coppola states " This movie isn't about Vietnam - It is Vietnam " he's right . What started off as a patriotic war to defeat communist aggression in the mid 1960s had by the film's setting ( The Manson trial suggests it's 1970 ) had changed America's view of both the world and itself and of the world's view of America It's the insane beauty of APOCALYPSE NOW that makes it a masterwork of cinema and says more in its running time about the brutality of conflict and the hypocrisy of politicians ( What did you do in the Vietnam War Mr President ? ) than Michael Moore could hope to say in a lifetime . I've not seen the REDUX version but watching the original print I didn't feel there was anything missing from the story which like all truly great films is very basic . In fact the premise can lend itself to many other genres like a western where an army officer has to track down and kill a renegade colonel who's leading an injun war party , or a sci-fi movie where a UN assassin is to eliminate a fellow UN soldier who's leading a resistance movement on Mars , though this is probably down to Joseph Conrad's original source novelMy all time favourite movie and it's very fitting that I chose this movie to be my one thousandth review at the IMDb


                
As I peruse through the hundreds of comments that loyal readers of the IMDB have posted on this film, I find it very interesting how few ,"middle of the road" comments there are. Everyone either loves it, or they hate it. Having seen Apocalypse Now approximately 30 times, and having recently dissected it on DVD (how did we ever live without those magical digital machines?????), I can say without hesitation that I am one of those who have a very special place in my heart for this film. "Why would you like a film that's so confusing?" ask many of my associates. The answer is this: Forget the war, forget the brutality....This is a classic story of society protecting itself from those that refuse to fall in line with the status quo. Brando represents the individual that has his own way of getting the job done. They (Big Brother) sent him out to do the job, he does it too well, without adhering to the accepted "standards" of death and destruction (Am I the only one who's troubled by the fact that we have 'standards' for death and destruction????), so they send the "Conformity Police" out to eliminate the individual. Hmmmmmm....Draw any parallels between this and things you see every day? With the deepest respect to Mr. Coppola, whom I believe is one of the best directors of all time, I think he transcended his original intent of the movie, and probably didn't even realize it until after the movie was released. The subtle sub-text that permeates the entire movie has way too much to it to have been planned and portrayed; instead, it seems to have 'grown' itself, like some wild flower in the middle of a vegetable garden. Again I must reiterate: I think FF Coppola did a bang-up job on this entire production, as did the cast and crew, but the sum of the movie exceeds the individual efforts ten-fold. So if you haven't seen the movie, rent it, watch it, then watch it again, and maybe a few more times, and look for all the generic parallels to everyday life. Only then make a judgment on the quality of the film. Those of you that have seen it, watch it again with the mindset previously described. I think you may just have a whole new appreciation for the film. Or maybe not! No matter whether you love it or hate it, be sure and give credit to Coppola for his masterful story-telling style!


                
During the final throes of the Vitnam war, our central character, Capt. Willard (Martin Sheen) is dispatched by the CIA on an illegal one-man mission to assassinate a renegade US Marine commander, Colonel Kurtz (Marlon Brando), who has allegedly gone 'completely insane', but who is successfully waging a private cross-border war from his base in Cambodia, a neutral and therefore off-limits country.The entire narrated story of what Willard sees and does as he is ferried up the Da Nang river by an undisciplined and terrorised navy patrol boat crew to murder Kurtz is a grand metaphor for the excesses, decadence and ultimately the weakness of the Anglo-Saxon psyche: If we don't understand something, and we are unable to control it, exterminate it. Kurtz had eventually come to know this.Unless you pay complete attention to every emotional gesture, to every word of the dialogue between the protagonists, especially in the scene where the two of them are alone in Kurtz's darkened lair, you will miss one of the central themes of this incredible movie. Kurtz's subtle deal with his executioner, his unilateral 'surrender' in return for Willard agreeing (did he nod?) to tell Kurtz's 'son' (another metaphor for us, the next generation, the ones watching the movie) the truth about all the horrors that they had both seen in Vietnam, is mind-expanding stuff.The bonding between the two men whilst Kurtz cross-examines Willard,--interlaced with some of his own horror stories, is incredible, nay, genius, film. The closing (intercut)scene of the ritual slaughter of a sacrificial bull is the single most powerful of symbols. Coppolla has made, intentionally or not, the ultimate anti-war statement, one that should resonate through the ages.
This movie changed the art of film making, telling a complex story in a powerful new way. The film mixes brutal realism with fantasy, intercutting a modern war with strange scenes full of technicolour smoke. The film uses music not as a score laid in later, but as a practical part of the scene playing from speakers, radios etc. Coppola uses a classic piece of literature as inspiration, taking scenes and characters, and putting them into entirely different surroundings. That is a tricky and brave thing to do. Then he takes a superstar, Brando, pays him a fortune, and films him so that you can barely see his face. The pure guts that such a move requires is astounding, and it works beautifully. This movie belongs in the top ten.


                
From all of the Vietnam war movies this is probably the most frightening and disturbing and that is really saying a lot with so many spectacular ones that have come out. It has this freakish feel to it. Everything is so chaotic in the movie it scares you. It is not like it shows a lot of different things compared to the other Vietnam war movies. What does push to such a high level is the: The directing was spectacular here. Francis Ford Coppola shows of his talent in his last epic movie. Unlike other directors he makes you feel as if you are in the war. Most others just display and show you the horrors of war. Coppola though makes you feel confused, shocked and scared. These feelings of war are usually told to us from a movie or story. This is something that I have only experienced very few times while watching a film. The writing was of course amazing too. It brought you write into the middle of the movie. It never made me bored and this movie is three hours. The cinematography goes hand in hand with the directing which very much added to the freakish experience of watching this film showing all the chaos around you even when everything seems calm.The acting was bone-chilling. Just look at Marlon Brando also giving his last great performance playing a deluded, out of whack colonel. When ever I think of a crazy gone made soldier I think Marlon Brando in Apocalpyse Now. With Brando n this film you don't want to look into his eyes. Like the movie he was freakish. To me this performance is as memorable as the one he gave in The Godfather. Martin Sheen gave a very deep performance and probably the best one of his career making you see everything through his eyes all the craziness he is experiencing and yet wanting him to get to his goal. It is just a wonder why these two did not get Oscar nominations. Robert Duvall was able to show part of that craziness with his ludicrous battle strategies, among those playing music to tell the enemy he is coming. Also Duvall's character asking one of the soldiers to surf in the middle of a battle was just shocking but believable. Other great supporting performances were given by a young Laurence Fishburne, Sam Bottoms and Frederic Forest who all summed up the attitudes of many of the soldiers at that time without becoming a cliché. Also for once cameos were put into good use having Dennis Hopper and Harrison Ford who I both love.I would definitely recommend people to watch this movie. It has a message and everyone involved in the making of it is at their best. There is nothing more I could ask of this movie with its great acting, directing, writing, cinematography and great ending. Watch and you will see why it lives up to its title Apocalpyse Now.


                
Somewhere on IMDb there is a discussion about the greatest director of all times (Spielberg, Copolla and others are named there). The greatest argument was around Spielberg and whether he is or isn't a great director. The problem with Spielberg is that while he is a master technician, most of his films lack depth.Saving Ryan is really outstanding from a technical point of view, but its message is dull and while its very entertaining, it doesn't make you think about anything. AN is the best movie I ever saw because it combines great shooting with a deep philosophical perspective on so many things, starting from war in general, the clash of civilizations, the condition of soldier in wartimes (is a soldier a hero or an assassin? Brando says he is neither, the french lady says he is both ...) and many others. The problem with some people is that they try to argue about whether these points are true or false. But a great movie, and a great piece of art in general is supposed to spark arguments, not to solve them ... Maybe Coppola is right, or maybe he isn't, nobody holds the truth anyway. You can watch this movie for its outer beauty, amazing scenes, great acting and memorable quotes and you will be entirely satisfied. But what really make this movie a masterpiece is its inner quality. You can't help but make a comparison with the recent Fahrenheit documentary.Both Copolla and Moore tackle similar issues, but while Copolla presents matters from an outside , objective point of view, Moore takes a very partisan position that really compromises the whole point of a documentary ... It is really a shame that a film like Fahrenheit 9/11 won a prestigious award like Cannes. But anyway, if you want to start to understand a little of the Vietnam war, the Iraq war, the second World War and any war in general, you should definitely see this movie, and not the other one ...


                
Spoilers. This review has been edited due to word limit.`The horror. The horror.' Marlon Brando, Apocalypse Now (1979) and Apocalypse Now Redux (2001)The sentence which is as famous as `Here's looking at you, kid,' or `Are you talkin' to me?' or `May the Force be with you,' or `I'll be back,' means a little more than some one-liners. When it is spoken it lingers in the air with an importance and meaning that does not go unnoticed. What might drive some viewers nuts is that they may never find an answer to the horror unless they re-watch the film and try to pay close observation to every single frame.What, exactly, does this line of dialogue mean? The horror spoken of is the reality of war. The reality of moral men being so easily corrupted that they turn on their inborn instincts and kill fellow beings without any sign of guilt. When Capt. Willard (Martin Sheen) stands before the dying Col. Kurtz (Marlon Brando) at the end of the film, `The horror.the horror.' is the realization of Willard's corruptness. He has mercilessly killed a man in cold blood as part of his assignment. This isn't a typical Hollywood ending. In most cases a character gains something, whether it be emotionally, physically, mentally or all three. But Willard both gains and loses. He gains the knowledge that he has lost his morals. And that is a shocking ending.`Apocalypse Now' is Francis Ford Coppola's tribute to the artistic side of filmmaking. This film is wholly different from `The Godfather.' It is hallucinogenic, visually dazzling, and an ode to the guilty side of human nature. At first it seems realistic, and then it becomes strange, and then symbolic, and, by the end, original in its own unique perspective of the spiritual side of warfare. This is not as much a film about the Vietnam War as it is a film about the war within us.At first it does appear to be another war film. Captain Willard (Sheen) is assigned by an Army Lieutenant (a young Harrison Ford) to assassinate a renegade American Colonel named Kurtz (Brando), who is hiding out somewhere in Vietnam with a hoard of troops who more or less act as his slaves.Willard carries out his mission `with extreme prejudice,' heading out on a boat along with four soldiers, including the boat captain, Chief (Albert Hall), Chef (Frederic Forest), and a very young `Larry' Fishburne (who later went on to appear as Morpheus in `The Matrix')."Apocalypse Now" is in a many ways a modern update of Homer's Odyssey. As our main character, Willard, carries on his journey, he meets an array of original and strange characters, including Lt. Col. Kilgore (Robert Duvall), who has a strange fetish for surfing, and a stoned photographer (Dennis Hopper), whose lively gestures and mannerisms can be compared to those of the very much lesser Jeremy Davies in "The Million Dollar Hotel," one of the worst films I have ever seen. Davies failed to make any connection with an audience; Hopper does. He is like the poetic vibe between Willard and Kurtz; he is like an interpreter going back and forth and speaking in foreign languages. In this case, he is translating Kurtz to Willard, although I'm not so sure Kurtz needs a translation of Willard.Many films are lucky enough to have one or two memorable scenes or lines. "Apocalypse Now" has many. Kilgore descending upon a Vietnam village playing Wagner's "Ride of the Valkyries" remains one of the most remembered scenes in all of film history. There is sharpness to it, a brutality to it, an ironic tone to it, and also a sense of playfulness. When Kilgore kneels down on that beach and says, `I love the smell of napalm in the morning.it smells like victory,' we all crack a smile.I won't lie to you: `Apocalypse Now' is a strange film. It isn't exactly the easiest thing to analyze. The end may frustrate some viewers if they don't understand Marlon Brando's significant speeches. But what it all comes down to, what really matters, is that this film is about the dark nature of the human psyche. The horror is the realization of war and its effects, not the war itself. Kurtz says, `You have a right to kill me. But you have no right to judge me.' Brando's character, Kurtz, is left to the audience to judge. To many naïve viewers he may appear as a crazy loon whose power got to his head. But that isn't what Francis Ford Coppola is trying to get across. By fighting in Vietnam, Kurtz has realized just how great he had it, and how bad some others had it. By walking through devastated villages he eventually comes to realize that we are the naïve ones, living our lives in a fool's paradise. We are totally naïve to our surroundings and possible misfortunes until they hit. By seeing how unlucky some Vietnamese are, Kurtz realizes just how easily he could be struck by something. Just how easily he could end up like the people around him. And he also realizes that the people who did this are people who have abandoned their morals and left them at the door. Many people think the horror is one thing. It is two. For Kurtz, the horror is the reality of how naïve he was and the reality of the war's impact upon men. And after Willard murders Kurtz, and hears Kurtz's dying words, he realizes it too. He realizes the effects of war. To see so many soldiers with no sense of right or wrong makes him realize the horror of what war can do to a man. And what it has done to him. The horror.5/5 stars -
Apocalypse Now is not only my personal favorite work by Francis Ford Coppolla, it's also one of the great visions ever put onto cinema. It makes what was horrific, strange, and ironically exciting and mysterious about the Vietnam War into this mad tale of obsession, death, loss, and the dark side of humanity. While the stories behind the production of the film made it notorious and rather risky back in 1979, it works on its own terms and represents not just Coppola's genius but others in the Zoetrope team as well. It also paints a sometimes lurid, ultra-violent, bleak and curious view of what war does to people, both in the lower ranks, the big-guns, and those who go too far "up the river".Many have also been perplexed by Marlon Brando's performance in the film, but it's actually one of his very best turns on screen, albeit improvised and close to running off the rails. His few moments on screen (even in the somewhat unnecessary scene plopped into the Redux version) there's enough conviction in what he's saying- and what perhaps isn't said- that makes the trip down the river worthwhile on an intellectual and poetic level. And making up the bulk of the film are delirious turns by Robert Duvall (a Oscar nominated turn he should've won), Martin Sheen as the Captain with almost too much to ponder in an ever increasing state of everything but him being insane; character actors like Sam Bottoms, Frederic Forrest and 14 year-old Laurence Fishburne have some of the best work they've ever done. And it goes without saying that Dennis Hopper comes close to stealing any scene he's in, for better or worse, with the most to say in rambling, yet coherent words.Every time I watch this film (and mostly the original version which is what first drew me in completely as opposed to the very good if muddled Redux version) I am astounded with how operatic everything is, and how the variations on the madness and chaos of Vietnam is put together. Of course one can give adulation to Coppola for this as he completed it without totally going off the deep end or possibly dying, and his talents are pulled to their richest peaks here as a storyteller and director of actors. But it can't be said enough how much I can't get enough of Vittorio Storaro's cinematography, which has in part come close to perfect for this kind of epic film. The music is perfectly eerie and insidious, with the Doors song used for one of my favorite iconic scenes in the movies (both of them). Walter Murch's editing- which apparently was what saved the film from being a four-hour disaster- makes the action move when it needs to and for individual shots to get their due. And even the production design is remarkable and, to the extent it goes to, original in its partial translation of both Conrad's fiction and the unfortunate realities of life on the river.If you haven't seen it yet, in short, get off your ass and get a copy; it might cause a kind of shell-shock for a viewer after first taking it all in, but it has some of the purest, most rewarding bits of cinema ever to come out of that all-too-brief American new-wave of the 1970's.


                
There must be something inherent in man, something from long ago, that sits deep within us; a scary thing, frightening to those who would choose - or who are forced to - gaze at it.In making this movie, Coppola must have seen this thing that is not always visible. And if he did not see it in its entirety then in what must surely be a cliché by now, he saw enough of it to allow the heart of its darkness to pulse throughout this film.And just as Coppola was changed by his experience in the jungle, so too his most mysterious character. Something happened to Colonel Kurtz. Something he saw fractured his mind, the diamond bullet shattering his perceptions into a single struggle that he himself, deep within his heart, knew he was unable to comes to terms with. And this is the crux of this movie, that this journey into darkness can promise a truth so clear that it blinds you, a truth so powerful that is keeps a hold of you and does not let you go and traps you into staying exactly, exactly where you are.For the critics of this film, I wonder if they would ever admit to the existence of the dark place within. Admitting it, will they discover empathy? Art - and the film maker's craft is certainly that - surely requires the observer to join forces with the artist so as to see and to experience the world from the perspective of whatever the artist has discovered. Coppola, following the path of his own film making, ensures that his central character Captain Willard, journeying deep into the jungle, deep into his heart, has his own chance to discover the horrific artistry of the Colonel.


                
* Just to get it out of the way: I viewed the Redux version of this film, and that MAY be the cause of some of my negative statements. I cannot say for certain either way.If you've ever been a member of a message board and you've read the thread about the last movie you watched, you'll know that 99% of the replies have one word or less beside the official score. For a long time, I wondered how that could be. I used to think, "Don't these people have any more of an opinion other than 'good' or 'bad' or 'average'? They just wasted their lives watching a movie; couldn't they say more than just a score?" It took me a few months to figure the entire situation out, but when I did, it made perfect sense. Most movies<U+0097>even good movies<U+0097>are so predictable and unoriginal<U+0097>even if they're enjoyable<U+0097>people still lack any real, definitive feelings about them. They see a movie on a Friday night and by Saturday night they forgot they even watched it. As a writer myself, I know first-hand there is nothing worse than an indifferent audience, but it seems that sums up most of the American population. Why? Because of films like Apocalypse Now.Apocalypse Now opens up with a semi-interesting beginning. It misleads the viewer into thinking that it actually has some physiological depth, then completely drops all depth into the gutter by the 10-minute mark and never picks it up again. Despite what you were lead to believe, there is no plot here. Or let me rephrase that: there is a plot, but it drops it after the 20-minute mark and never picks it up again until the final 30 minutes. Everything between those two points is exactly what you expect for a clichéd war drama . . .Talking. It almost amuses me that an "epic" movie can have the flattest characters in cinema history, but the screenwriters always have them talk and talk as if they're actually interesting to listen to. In Apocalypse Now's case, the characters are ALL walking stereotypical war clichés with legs and<U+0097>unfortunately<U+0097> tongues. They're all simply nothing but dumb animals created to carry the pointless dialogue out. They talk so much it's downright nauseating. What are they talking about? I forgot, and I just finished the film 10 minutes ago. Their dialogue is all predictable copy/paste war dialogue; I do remember that much. Naked girls, guns, cliché monologues about life/death<U+0097>all the stuff you've heard thousands of times. I was never a soldier in the Vietnam War, but I can pretty much assure you the real soldiers talked about more than these unimaginative movies give them credit for.Besides talking, what do you get in Apocalypse Now? Well, there are only two main action scenes in the entire movie, so you can cross balls-to-the-wall war action off your list of expectations. No, this nearly 4-hour long film focuses on shots of boats going down the river with soldiers talking, and not much else. There is no emotional experience here. There is no "horror", as the tagline proclaims. The most "horror" you get is a bunch of PG-rated war scenes and some eerie music as the soldiers move through fog. If the director had focused on the true horror of realistic war, I wouldn't have to be sarcastic when I say: How terrifying! Instead, however, the director focuses things we've seen before. Hundreds of times. He focuses on the copy/paste Hollywood-style war, not the truly gritty, dirty war. He doesn't rub your nose in the true horror of war; he pats you on the back and gives you generic conversation scenes.My point here: Apocalypse Now is one of the most boring movies even filmed. It's also safe and predictable, adding nothing whatsoever to the overdone war genre. It doesn't leave you thinking, "My God, this is terrible!" It leaves you thinking, "My God, I could have done the laundry with that wasted time . . ." And that's all. That's all there is to say about this nearly 4-hour long movie. The entire synopsis of every major event from open to close could literally be told in two sentences of text. Sometimes you have to sit back and realize that most award-winning, critically acclaimed, "classic" films are nothing but hollow shells. They boast great acting and cinematography, but they have no story. No soul. No moral. No thrill. No point . . .This is why I blame films like Apocalypse Now for the indifference people have toward movies. These films are supposedly the best of the best, but at the same time they're completely forgettable to anyone who doesn't try their hardest to find pleasure in boredom in hopes of becoming an all-powerful FILM BUFF on some cheesy website. There is nothing wrong with being intellectual. There is something wrong with being pretentious and internally forcing yourself to love a film just because the critics do. And those are the only people who could give Apocalypse Now a perfect score. Or even a mildly positive score.0/10


                
Captain Willard (Martin Sheen) has been sent on a classified mission into Cambodia during the Vietnam War to assassinate Colonel Kurtz (Marlon Brando) as he has gone completely insane and is no longer taking orders. And since Kurtz is one of the most decorated men in the armed forces, it is hard for Capt. Willard to understand how Col. Kurtz could go off the deep end as he has, killing without clearance and taking the war into his own hands. What possibly could have pushed this great man over the top? Through Willard's long journey through the jungle to find his target, he tries with some success to understand why. But what will he decide to do once he finds him?Any movie that can start out with The Doors' "The End" is a great movie in my book, especially if it can flow with the mood and imagery shown with the song. Apocalypse Now does this perfectly. I can't think of anything better for it to be set to, the Vietnam War and the insanity in the soliders' minds that it created. AN is a dark and brutal story about a long journey through some of the hairiest jungle in Vietnam, the ultimate destination of which is murder. Through it's use of music and score alone, we are thrown into a dark world of mystery, violence, and insanity. A perfect example of how to set mood through music alone is this film right here.    An overall great cast, with the exception of Laurence Fishburne, of which Sheen and Brando give us more than enough acting skills to spread around on our movie desire bread. I just don't like Fishburne, ever since I found out he was Cowboy Curtis in PeeWee's playhouse my contempt and hatred for this man has increased ten fold. I realize the pettiness of this but I simply do not care. We need to sick Gary Oldman on him. Brando is excellent as Col. Kurtz and I can't think of any other actor that could have played the good man gone insane and hold such screen presence. Sheen is also fun to watch as Willard and we can identify with his questioning of his mission and the war in general. My favorite character in the movie has to be Robert Duvall's Lt. Colonel Kilgore. Before this film I never pictured Duvall as a wartime cowboy but honestly it's my favorite of his parts to date. He simply nailed his character, which is one of the best in the entire film, as the gung-ho Air Cavalry commander who loves to surf. Maybe a little over the top but still brilliant. I also love the smell of napalm in the morning.The plot is a fairly simple one and it doesn't take too much brainpower to figure out what's going on. Willard's mission is to kill Kurtz, plain and simple. But it's the journey of the film that is really it's heart and also the dire situations of war itself. In the Redux version we are forced to sit through the extended French plantation scene and the Playboy bunny scene which really adds nothing to the film's entirety other than it makes it a longer journey. I don't feel they take away anything though, it's just a matter of if you want to watch a three and a half hour movie or the original. Through this journey, the film points out the utter futility and irrelevance of the war to the Americans and the massive effect it had on the soldiers who fought in it...in fact, that's the entire point. On top of that, the troops were not supported by the public and that could very well have helped cause a character like Kurtz' to go completely mad.  
A big war movie lover, this one is up there with Platoon and The Deer Hunter, all of them classics. I sometimes try to compare films of the same genre to one another but it has gotten me in trouble in the past in my reviews as I have had to go back on what I've said. All three have their own strengths and add their own twist to the Vietnam War....so to really say one is better than the other is fairly pointless...even if after having most recently view AN I think it's a tad better. In the end, Apocalypse Now is a true classic in either version and worthy of the status it's been given. As a fellow reviewer has previously stated, AN is one of the most ambitious films ever made.


                
"Weeks away and hundreds of miles up a river that snaked through the war like a main circuit cable plugged straight into Kurtz" that piece of dialogue from Captain Willard, played by Martin Sheen, sets the psychedelic tone for what is widely considered Francis Ford Coppola's most ambitious project. Based loosely on Joseph Conrad's novela Heart of Darkness, 'Apocalypse Now' tells the tale of decorated soldier Walter E Kurtz, played by Marlon Brando, and the frightening journey of his assassin Captain Willard. Kurtz, who has abandoned his military obligation, has recruited an army of tribal locals deep in the heart of a war ravaged Cambodian jungle. He has in every sense of the word, gone insane. Just like Willard, we know very little of his enemy Colonel Kurtz, and as he descends further towards the Colonels compound, the more he learns about him, and most importantly, himself. As the two men collide, Kurtz's rants and confessions portray a ghost of somebody lost in time and space, reeling with pain and profound hurt, as we hear tales of a renegades life that put Willard's assumed past into some sort of moral perspective. Does Willard have the guts and instinct to carry out the responsibility placed upon him? One of the reason's why 'Apocalypse now' has a lasting legacy over other Vietnam war films is not only due to its cast, but it's director Francis Ford Coppola and his desire and will to defy modern convention and deliver one of motion pictures most analyzed and lorded movies from a near flawless and revolutionary period of cinema. To say Coppola had reached the peak of his creative and artistic powers would be a mere under statement, and to acknowledge the depth and underlying detail he has outlined can not only illustrate the brilliance of his film making psyche, but position the audience in the same chaotic realm as its cast and crew. We see the fanatic struggle of Captain Willard and we see the madness of Colonel Kurtz. The other essential character is the jungle itself, just like an actor, it transforms and evolves many times through out the movie. We first see it as a harmless estuary slowly bend into a tunnel toward hell. We also see a far more primitive tug of war between Willard and the jungle, a war that can only be won and lost in his own mind. 'Apocalypse now' is not a horror movie, but it is so much more frightening. The mark of a great film is it's power to defy categorization, and Coppola's 1979 masterpiece does just that.


                
Francis Coppola's descent into madness back in the late 1970's was all about APOCALYPSE NOW, one of the most incredible pieces of art ever placed on the screen.  It is violent, beautiful, ugly, and damn dark at times.  As a war film, APOCALYPSE NOW does not move me anywhere near the way PLATOON and SAVING PRIVATE RYAN did.  Those two pictures deal with war in a more combative, realistic way.  You grow and bond with the troupes in those flicks.  Here, you are engulfed in complete madness, something that seems apart from actual war.  It is more of a morality play into the soul and our "hearts of darkness" than a war film.Do I think Coppola made a mistake trying to base a story about the Vietnam War on Joseph Conrad's fictional "Heart of Darkness"?  Sure, and I think he feels that way too.  Vietnam and the U.S involvement in the war has nothing to do with what Coppola was trying to do.  He once said "My film IS Vietnam," referring to APOCALYPSE, but is it really? Not at all.  What results is unbelievably hard to assess except to say it is sheer brilliance. It transcends the horrors of war and seemed more of a personal film with Martin Sheen representing each of us as a complex human being on an impossible mission.  It is like traveling to Hell and back, many scars obtained, many feelings drowned out.Everyone who knows a dime about movies, knows the battle itself it was to make this ambitious film.  So many images burn into memory: nepalm explosions to the tune of the Door's "The End"; Wagner blaring from speakers placed on some U.S. helicopters about to blow up a Vietnamese village; a soldier surfing to the Stone's "Satisfaction"; the final ritualistic slaughter we witness during the film's dreary ending.  This is all fantasy. The war is nowhere to be found in these and multiple other sequences. Vietnam is merely a backdrop to display a truly insane trip up a river where one clearly defined character (Sheen as Willard) meets a fuzzy character (Brando as Kurtz) and no real resolutions are found.  It is the trip that does it for us.Wondrously eerie sights, sounds, and experiences pulsate throughout APOCALYPSE NOW and the first three quarters of the film are perfect.  Under the conditions Coppola and crew were working under, it is no wonder they had no ending.  Brando truly ruins what Sheen, in what is probably the most underrated performance of the 70's as "Willard", had done to the point of arrival at Kurtz' compound.  What the hell is Brando talking about?  At least Sheen comes through at the end giving us a hint as to what the journey meant to him.This film ranks way high on my list because of the mystery of it all and the absolute audacity with which Coppola paints his descent into madness.


                
Movies seem to fall into two categories: films that reinforce existing societal values and beliefs, and those that challenge them. This film is a 180-degree shift from the idealistic rhetoric portrayed in offerings like "The Longest Day" and "The Green Berets" which seem more like Disney fantasies by comparison. The "Apocalypse Now!" project, the production and resulting film, is "Heart of Darkness" updated into a psychological horror story of the late 20th century post-modernist variety. The cast and crew who worked on it probably could relate to the terrifying places the human mind can achieve. This is the plight of Joseph Conrad's original character Kurtz who came into literary being in 1901 and subsequently referenced in TS Eliot's "The Hollow Men" (Mistah Kurtz, he dead) of 1925. Although neither a straight telling of Conrad's "Heart of Darkness" (1901) nor a first-hand account of the Vietnam experience, "Apocalypse Now!" stands as a masterpiece which pushed on the envelope of cinematic potential. "Apocalypse" is not just about the "horrors" of war per se, like "Platoon" and "The Deer Hunter", but the darker sensibilities of human nature as revealed through the raw and demeaning confrontations of violent conflict on a mass scale. Apocalypse Now! is not so much seen as experienced.The bulk of the movie is the journey of a trained secret assassin, Captain Benjamin Willard (Martin Sheen in a tour-de-force performance), aboard a US military boat traversing an unnamed river into the heart of Vietnam and Cambodia where few westerners would ever tread. His mission is to terminate Colonel Kurtz (Marlon Brando), a career army Special Forces Division officer who was the darling of the US Military until he went AWOL and renegade in the deep uncharted jungles between Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia. The official classified report is that the colonel has gone insane but as events play out, something else has happened to him that is far more terrifying than simply insanity. Sheen's mission is to terminate the colonel with the American public none the wiser.The movie is rather episodic. The journey along the river is made up of several vignettes as Sheen and his crew meet different self-contained "aspects" of the war at the ground level. American audiences of the 1970's had probably never seen this kind of film-making before, with the possible exception of "The Deer Hunter" which was released in the previous year. The first, and one of the most notable, is an helicopter battalion led by Col Kilgore (Robert Duvall in an Oscar-nominated performance) who is a cross between General Robert E Lee and Richard Wagner. He loves to play "Ride of the Valkyries" from Wagner's "The Ring" when he bombards helpless villages. His line "I love the smell of Napalm in the morning" is one of those oft-quoted lines from the annals of cinema. Other encounters include an amphitheater where enlisted privates will be entertained by the likes of Hugh Heffner and Playboy bunnies.Despite all the production catastrophes that impeded getting this footage into the can, the remarkable aspect of this film is its pacing. The original release (not the later Redux version) does a fine of job of building until the viewer is emotionally prepared to deal with the climactic confrontation between Willard and Kurtz. The strange discourse between Willard and Kurtz is worth the price of admission alone. And some of the shots of both Sheen and Brando in certain places are some of the starkest and terrifying images ever produced on film. Not even the likes of Clive Barker, Wes Craven or David Cronenberg have anything on Coppola in terms of horrific imagery. Brando's Kurtz in one scene in particular is so utterly terrifying it makes most other horror movies seem tame by comparison, which comes from the recognition that the horror is not from without but from within.Without giving too much away, Coppola's solution to the climactic moment stands as one of the most innovative of cinematic revelations. According to the documentary "Hearts of Darkness", Coppola feared that the inevitable final scene would lapse into melodrama, and the atmosphere of the movie's darker hues would be compromised. He wasn't sure how he could make it work until his wife encouraged the director to witness the ceremonial sacrifice of an ox as practiced by the native people with whom Coppola was using as extras in the scenes with Kurtz at "his" village. After the viewing, Coppola had his ending, and it is one of the most simultaneously disturbing and beautiful sequences in the history of American film-making. Love it or hate it, no western viewer will be the same after seeing this scene.This film is not for all tastes just as Conrad's original novel is not the kind of book that will be read on airplanes. It's not just the violence and the pointlessness of violence that are difficult for most American viewers to absorb. It's the naked unveiling of aspects of the human condition that seem so removed from suburban American life that make this film difficult for the average movie-goer to handle, which is as it should be. Coppola did not make a family picture. However, if the viewer can understand its larger point, there is a lot to be gotten out of Apocalypse Now!. If you're looking for a film experience to reaffirm pre-existing attitudes about American sensibility and heroism, better stick with John Wayne. But if you're willing to be taken into places you've never been, even beyond "the evils of war" rhetoric, "Apocalypse Now" will take you into a world you thought you'd never visited before, and the disturbing part of it is that you may recognize it.


                
I really don't think the movie has much to do with insanity as it has to do with the fact that war is simply not civil. If it is fought in a non-committal way, it is a waste of time and victory cannot be sought. Those who would fight it brutally might be considered insane, but they are actually rational.The Darkness or "Horror" is not insanity, but a realism by Col Kurtz of what is required to win war: Total commitment by the US to wage total warfare resulting in total annihilation (recall his penciled notes in red ink, "Drop the bomb. Kill them all").When Coppola commented that the movie IS Vietnam, I think this is at least one point he was making: the futility of fighting a dedicated enemy with limited means. Recall Kurtz's comments of what he could accomplish with 10 divisions of troops of the likes that cut off the arms of innoculated children. He was referring to the brutality AND will required to win war. In contrast to his and Willard's will to accomplish their missions, there is ample evidence of those who are trying to escape Vietnam: Lance and LTC Kilgore's surfing obsession during supposed combat, the troops swimming in the river trying to escape the bridge outpost, the lack of officers present and in control, the high ranking general living a pampered existence in his comfortable airstream trailer, and Lance's escaping thru dropping acid.Those that advocate total war to seek victory (like Kurtz, and implicitly Captain Willard) are probably correct, but made out to be insane. This is not unlike previous history, when Gen MacArthur advocated invading Manchuria and bombing across the Yalu river, essentially fighting Red China and using nuclear weapons. Truman, Marshall, and Bradley agreed that the Korea conflict had to be limited, and MacArthur removed as the UN forces Commander. The same principle was applied in Vietnam, where limited war was micro-managed by Secretary MacNamara and the pentagon. Uncontrolled escalation by the Army could lead to conflict with China and the USSR. Loose cannons such as Col Kurtz were dangerous and could not be tolerated in the officer corps.I still wonder if the reason to eliminate Kurtz were his views, or his actions ?


                
As I stated above, I think that the 2000 version of the film ought to be treated separately. The Redux is not just a longer version. It contains two new and important scenes, and one of them, the "french" episode, adds a whole new touch to a classic movie, WITHOUT breaking the atmosphere or disturbing the overall picture. I remember as I saw the Redux for the first time, that my whole understanding of the war in Vietnam changed, and how I had to go to the library and get an update on a few things. Also it is interesting that Coppola chose the year 2000 for the longer Redux. My guess is that he feels that the movie is as important today as it was back in 1979. He even went to the trouble of making an excellent piece of art even better, in order to actually make all the old fans see the new stuff, and to present a whole new generation with a very controversial and strong comment on one of the most bloody wars in recorded history. The movie is thought-provoking indeed, but also it has a visually very beautifully composed screenplay. Capturing the madness and chaos of war the storyline is also filled with more or less obvious metaphors and philosophical or existential riddles. A friend of mine called it "the most philosophical of all movies" - perhaps an overstatement - in my opinion it is just a very good film about war and the politics of war. But I can see that there is plenty for everyone here. What I'm saying is that it's one of those movies that you are likely to hear distinctly different opinions about, and you are most probably going to think again and again about it. I've seen the Redux 5, 6 or 7 times, and it is always a puzzling experience. Highly recommended.


                
A stunning masterpiece from the director of the Godfather, Francis Ford Coppola. Apocalypse Now is set during the Vietnam War. It follows the quest of a man called Captain Willard who receives orders to travel up river and locate a renegade officer, the mysterious Colonel Kurtz. Once located Willard is ordered to 'terminate his command with extreme prejudice'. The only problem with this is that as the quest progresses Willard begins to see parts of himself in Kurtz and begins to identify with is intended victim.With an infamous reputation and a cast to match, I built Apocalypse Now up to be a life changing experience. One thing I can say about it is that it stands out among the bombardment of films that my brain has been subjected to over the years. It had a reputation as being a bit of a let down in Coppola's eyes as he spent far too much money for what the film eventually grossed at the box office. To be fair to Coppola, anything that follows a film as prolific and influential as the Godfather would be hard pushed to surpass its predecessor. I believe that Apocalypse Now does this and at the risk of making myself unpopular with all you film buffs out there I believe that Apocalypse Now is twice the film The Godfather is. It is a film that I attempted to watch numerous times but just couldn't concentrate on it, dare I say it I found it tedious. I just couldn't understand how it had the reputation it does. As a film man I very rarely switch a film off but I did this one, at least the first ten attempts. I then was sitting bored the other night and swore to myself that it was something I just had to do so I sat down, stuck the DVD on and started drinking a large cup of coffee. Two and a half hours later I was mesmerised. Some may say it was the coffee, I say it was the film, but never the less that night I just could not sleep with excitement. Apocalypse Now is one of the most disturbing and powerful films of all time, it reflects the true limits of the human mind and demonstrates ideally how our ideology changes in different situations. A true masterpiece of epic proportions, that if stuck with will make you a truly richer person.5/5


                
The original "Apocalypse Now" is an awe-inspiring masterpiece and is my all-time favorite film. Memorable scenes abound, starting with the mind-blowing opening with Willard (Martin Sheen) having a mental breakdown in his sweltering Saigon hotel room to the tune of The Doors' "The End."Speaking of Sheen, people overlook the fact that he expertly carries the film. His haunting narration is one of the most effective narrations in cinematic history and hooks the viewer into the nightmare-adventure.I could go on and on about the noteworthy scenes, but I'll resist, except to comment on Col. Kurtz: Was he really insane or actually an unrecognized genius? General Corman informs Willard: "He's out there operating without any decent restraint, totally beyond the pale of any acceptable human conduct. And he is still in the field commanding troops." And, yet, Kurtz was accomplishing what the US military couldn't or wouldn't do because of political complications and niceties. I bring this up because, as I've aged, I've come to see that I'M Col. Kurtz in some ways -- operating "out there" beyond the parameters and restrictions typically linked to my work.The script was written by John Milius with alterations by Coppola as he shot the film while the narration was written by Michael Herr. The meaning of the story is obvious: The trip up the river led by Capt. Willard exposes him to two extreme viewpoints of war represented by the two colonels he encounters on his long journey, both of whose names start with 'K,' which is no accident:COL. KILGORE (Duvall) is a romantic who embraces war as a lifestyle and even feeds off it, i.e. glorifies it. The fact that he's a romantic can be observed in the air-raid on the village where he literally plays Wagner as a prologue. He feeds off the war to the extent that he "loves the smell of napalm in the morning." War is just another day to him so why not go surfing? Since he lives off of the war there's no way it can kill him or even give him a scratch. Kilgore naturally has the support of the top brass because he's part of the system and plays the game of war.COL. KURTZ (Brando), by contrast, sees through this hypocrisy. He realizes that being in a state of war is humanity gone mad. It's horror itself and therefore must be ended through the quickest means possible at whatever cost. He refuses to play the game of war as he expertly takes out double agents, etc. Of course the brass can't have this so they put out a hit on Kurtz via Willard. The existential Kurtz becomes increasingly disillusioned -- even crazy -- after jumping ship from the system and now has no sanctuary. Death is the only way out. His consolation is that Willard will tell his son the truth.The "Redux" version was put together by Coppola and released in 2001 with the addition of 53 minutes of material that he originally cut. Very little of the added footage works. Most of it simply drags the film down; the rest is either boring and unnecessary or adds a dimension of silliness, not to mention being badly scripted and acted.The first let down of "Redux" is revealed when Captain Willard hooks up with the boat and crew who are to escort him up the river to find Colonel Kurtz. In the original there's a water-skiing scene on the river which dynamically introduces us to the absurdities of every-day life in the field in Nam (with the Rolling Stone's "Satisfaction" blaring). In "Redux" this part is cut-and-pasted to an hour LATER in the film, horribly muting the original's introduction to life-in-the-field. (I realize WHY Coppola did this -- because the scene was originally intended to be shown AFTER the boat crew steal Kilgore's surfboard -- but he made the right decision to omit the board-theft scene and place the water-skiing scene near the beginning).The introduction of Colonel Kilgore (Robert Duvall) in "Redux" is good. The charisma of this air cavalry colonel in all his swaggering glory is perfectly showcased in this brief snippet; but the scene's so brief it's unessential.Four main new sequences definitely DON'T work: The scenes involving the theft of Kilgore's surfboard are silly, badly scripted and unnecessary. In fact, they ruin Kilgore's perfect swan song in the original. Moreover these scenes reveal a goofy side to Willard that ruin his grim mystique in the original.The additional bunny sequence during the rain storm is also silly and unnecessary; it's a huge letdown even if your sole desire is to see some more skin.The longest added sequence involves the French plantation mentioned in the 1991 documentary "Hearts of Darkness - A Filmmaker's Apocalypse." Small bits of this piece work and enrich the film (like the ghostly discovery of the plantation), but on a whole it's too long & talky (where it's impossible to understand the heavily-accented dialogue without subtitles) and simply bogs the film down.The final added scene that is unnecessary and reduces the potency of the original film is the sequence involving Kurtz reading a couple Time magazine articles to the caged Willard. This is the FIRST and ONLY time in the picture that we get to see Kurtz CLEARLY in broad daylight, and it destroys the great mystique of the character that was so perfectly built up in the original. In this scene we plainly observe that Kurtz is just some fat dude suffering a mild case of jungle madness.So Coppola made the right decisions with his original 1979 edit of the film. The new footage of "Redux" should've simply been relegated to the "deleted scenes" section of the DVD. Not every idea that is birthed during the creative process is worthy of the final product and "Redux" proves it.GRADE: Original version: A+ ; Redux: C+


                
My rating is for the ORIGINAL 1979 theatrical movie. I would only give 8 stars for "redux". I live,eat, and breath this film. It embodies so much thought. My wife is tired of hearing the DVD played on our DVD/VCR entertainment center. I even like the end credits and the lack of clutter in relation to them. Platoon ("Spitoon"), Full Metal jacket (apologies to R. Lee), and even Saving Private Ryan ( "It's a Wonderful Life" set to WW2) cannot compete with this 1979 masterpiece of cinematography. The soundtrack alone is brilliant thanks to Carmine Coppolla and MOOG. So haunting and mysterious. Whenever I pass a tree line driving and see the tall trees in front of the red sunset I remember that film when they were on the river and that eerie music."...you're an errand boy, sent by the clerks to colelct the bill."


                
I'm a 16 yr old teenager and i gotta say that this movie straight out fried my brains. Someone told me that this movie was said to be the most realistic thing to the Vietnam War and i can understand why. The madness of it all just scars you, it makes you really think. The chaos is to much for the mind. After i watched this movie i just sat there in silence and thought "..........woah........". This is film-making outside the box. Martin Sheen is brilliant and takes us on the journey with him, the boat crew is great each of them is an individual, Marlon Brando is just mind-blowing, scared me to death, I was left in suspense every scene in case he had another outburst of rage.This isn't a movie where you say to yourself "i need to kill some time, so i'll watch it", this isn't a movie to watch with a bunch of friends (maybe if you're high). No. You really have to prepare yourself for this. Before you watch this movie, set up some snacks, drinks, sit back and observe the pure experience that is Apocalypse Now and watch as you experience a trip so intense that afterward's you won't be able to think straight for the next hour.Enjoy


                
