Disturbingly insane and boring, as it came highly rated, I forced myself to watch it till the end and ended up feeling I wasted 2.5 Hours of my life. Cinematography and lighting may be top notch only if you have the stomach to watch it till the end. there are better movies on war and violence if that's what you like.


                
this movie is the most overrated piece of crap i have ever seen. When it was made the director must have been on drugs to explain how he came up with this. The story is something that shouldn't even be told and the movie is terribly unrealistic. I think that people call this a classic just because they have been told for years that this is a great movie. The acting is pretty good in this movie but can't save it. Star-studded cast. Brando is not at his best here. Why anyone would think that this is an accurate movie is beyond me. This movie gets even dumber at the end, its like some big drug world. Sheen's character isn't sure if he should fulfill his mission but does.
Overblown, occasionally interesting, but mostly pretentious pastiche of Joseph Conrad's  *Heart of Darkness*.  The Vietnam conflict serves as the Ultimate Metaphor for Coppola, as he sends discharged Captain Willard (Martin Sheen)  up the Mekong Delta.  His assignment?  Dispatch a certain Colonel Kurtz, a Green Beret who has apparently gone stark raving mad in the jungle of Cambodia.  Along the way, Willard meets a middle-aged Robert Duvall who can talk about nothing but surfing  (and in a Southern drawl, too), and a small crew of your typical  'Nam grunts that accompany him on his boat ride.  The general point of the film seems to be that War is Hell, or that Man is a murderous savage at the very least.  Wow, man.Coppola throws so much at the screen that some of it is bound to stick and hold your attention.  The scene where the Hueys glide above the breaking surf with Wagner's  "Flight of the Valkyries"  blaring on rigged-up speakers on the copters is justly famous  (though nonsensical and over-the-top). Dennis Hopper in a brief appearance manages to steal the entire movie ("Did you know that  'if'  is in the middle of  'life', man?!", etc.). Coppola's setting-afire of an entire jungle with Jim Morrison intoning  "This is the end . . ."  on the soundtrack is an astonishing sight, though necessarily modified by the knowledge that this film continues to be condemned for creating some of the worst environmental damage in the history of movies. And there's a truly chilling sequence in which Willard stumbles upon a last outpost of GI's engaged in a chaotic, meaningless firefight with an unseen enemy.But most of the movie is merely the boat ride, accompanied by some truly dreadful faux-noir voice-over narration  ("Accusing someone of murder here was like handing out speeding tickets at the Indy 500" . . . you get the idea).  Willard mulls over the spectacularly banal history of Colonel Kurtz, while the crew gets on each other's nerves.  In the  *Redux*  version, there's an excruciating detour on a plantation that houses a group of snappily dressed French expatriates, a 30-minute digression that was edited out of the first cut for a very good reason:  it's sophomoric.  Anyway, on it goes, until Willard finally comes face-to-face with Ultimate Evil . . . which turns out to be just a middle-aged, overweight Marlon Brando, mumbling inaudibly, snacking on what appears to be macadamia nuts, and reading to Willard alternately between old issues of  "Time Magazine"  and T.S. Eliot's poetry.  "It smelled of death in there,"  narrates Willard, referring to Kurtz' lair, "Of malaria . . . nightmares . . ."  but we remain bemusedly unconvinced.  Perhaps it smelled simply of macadamia nuts.


                
Here's one of those movies that receives accolades solely because it deals with a weighty subject and has Pretensions of Profundity.Is it actually worth watching? I don't believe so. Wish i could get back the time i spent on this lemon of a film. There isn't enough story here to make it a great film and the whole climax is sorely botched. Without writing a spoiler i'll just say that Marlon Brando as Colonel Kurtz- for whose appearance you wait the entire film for- was a huge letdown. Although Brando is inarguably one of the greatest actors ever, he was miscast and given vacuous lines to deliver to boot. The movie ends as one big melodramatic farce.Additionally, the fact that this was a work of director Francis Ford Coppola who directed the inimitable Godfather films does not mean that you should watch this film too. It only means that you should go back and watch the Godfather again (and again). This is shameful compared to those films and it's hard to see any true artist wanting this sham attached to their name.The only part that was at all enjoyable and made me forget how that the movie was going nowhere, were the parts with Robert Duvall as the macho commander. Very funny stuff.


                
Apocalypse Now was late 60's propaganda presented a decade late. It presents a scenario that existed only in the microcosm and pretends that it represents the macrocosm. The film abounds with technical inaccuracies and improbable dialog. These are faults that it, curiously, shares with its antithesis, The Green Berets. Robert Duval does do an excellent job portraying a character possessed of all of the worst qualities an officer could have. There is absolutely no way anyone could reach the rank of colonel with such a personality. The sadness is that far too many think that those portrayed were typical of the US troops in Vietnam. In actuality such characters were infrequent aberrations. Even a far better Vietnam movie, Platoon, presented the same misconceptions.In summary, it's a shame that so much time and money was wasted on this movie.


                
If my spelling is bad, sorry. Now, what is the big fuzz about this awful piece of film? I heard so much good about it. So I decided to watch it, and I was completely bored throughout the entire film. I was, though, vaguely intrigued to see Marlon Brando and yet again I was completely disappointed? Everything about the scene was horrible? The light, the camera, the acting, the writing all of it just didn't match with the rest of the film, otherwise, decent look. And how can such a movie turn out bad? Francis, Sheen, Duvall and Brando should, by god, be an epic assemble, but this was just horrible? I do like no-brain action movies. I like war movies. But this was a very bad kind of no-brain war movie. The Asylum could have made this? And even the chemistry between the crew was bad. Brando was a d**k-head to Francis, even though they worked together before. Francis was f****d up throughout the whole process of the film. This was, truly, an apocalypse in movie history. Don't get me wrong, worse movies has been made. Lot's! But this is definitely not a good one. Far away from it. Try again Francis. You have made so many brilliant movies. Why this one? Why?


                
Apocalypse Now is the story of Captain Willard (Martin Sheen) who is sent back to the Vietnam War in order to kill General Kurtz (Marlon Brando) who has become the leader of a tribe in the Cambodian jungle and has turned into a murderer.To be honest, I can't understand why this movie is among the top 50 ranked movies of all-time. I had to stop midway through the movie and watch the rest on another day as it lasts for over 3 hours and the plot develops with a very slow pace and eventually tired me off, and this is something that hardly ever happens. It took 2 hours and 30 minutes in the movie to get to Cambodia and track General Kurtz. Although most movies concerning the Cold War era are of great interest to me, Apocalypse Now had me bored to tears. Big round of applauds though to Martin Sheen for an incredible acting performance.


                
"contains spoilers" i saw this film yesterday after so much hype from the other reviews.so i thought it would be worth spending my 3 hrs on it and my god i've never been disappointed by a film in my entire life.i saw some worse films than these but at least they didn't had any expectations on them.this has to be one of the most over hyped films of all time.it fails miserably.one couldn't understand the plot and some hopeless acting.baseless,hopeless.director has lost it.and godfather sucks..SCARFACE is the best film ever.so all the geeks writing about this worthless piece of work film can kiss my a!@.no wonder Francis went broke and mad after this.DON'T WASTE YOUR TIME.bad film.
