I saw this film once per decade in my first thirty years on Earth, and I've decided I don't need or want to see it again. It's a good film, and interesting from start to finish, but for me its I first saw this movie as a kid, and I was impressed (if rather confused). I had no idea it was supposed to be the best film ever, so it never occurred to me that anyone might think that.Next time I saw the film I was in my teens, and I'd read Joseph Conrad's novel Heart of Darkness - thus, I was less impressed. By this point I was a little more into movies, so I'd seen more critically acclaimed classics too - another contributing factor to the film's diminishment in my eyes.The last time I saw it was in my mid-to-late twenties, and I was honestly disappointed. When I next had the chance to watch the movie, a year or so ago, I passed.Fans of Coppola and lovers of this movie will be ready by now to condemn me as a moron or philistine, but I truly believe this to be an overrated Hollywood mess.It fails as an adaptation because of all the extraneous business: it's no longer about a man's journey to find Kurtz, it's about a seething mass of American national obsessions over Vietnam, war, race and imperialism.Also, unlike Conrad's spare, to-the-point writings, the film deals almost exclusively in hyperbole. There are quiet moments, but they ring false in amidst the craziness.As other reviews have pointed out, it's not really a war movie. However, its hard to see it as such since every scene is more or less obsessing over Vietnam.Other reviews have also pointed out that it's not meant to be realistic, but I question that perception. It looks to me as if it *is* intended to be realistic in many ways - and the fact that it isn't is another of the film's failings in my eyes.The racism of the film is also uncomfortable to me. Where Conrad's novel embodied the racism of its era (in which a white European did indeed have trouble viewing black Africans as human), this comparatively recent film embodies modern American racism by treating its nonwhite extras like so many cattle (no reference intended).None of them have personalities or recognisable aims and objectives - they're seen only as faceless savages, as dangerous enemies, a mindless force which can be harnesses either by clever Communists or manipulative madmen.The key performances are more interesting than actually good. Sheen isn't outstanding, certainly not at his best, and Fishburne is way underused. The big disappointment, however, is Marlon Brando. After such a long journey, so many death and traumas, its awful to realise that their objective is this old tubby loon who waddles around mumbling and being worshipped by unconvincing "savages".I've never been a fan of Brando, who for me is like an older, fatter Al Pacino. He knows no restraint, and while many film lovers rate him all his performances seem pretty much the same to me... in that these are actors whose personalities get in the way of their acting. They always seem like themselves, whether its appropriate or not.It's probably fair to point out that I'm not a Coppola fan, either. The phrase I used as a header here was originally something I said about The Godfather. Coppola's movies always come across bombastic and self-important, self-consciously "big" movies with heavy themes.I do understand the film, and I appreciate that it has many moments of inspired cinematography and several truly amazing scenes. But for me, it never connects emotionally.Too many characters and situations ring false. The structure is too messy, the use of pop music grates on my nerves, the plot-holes are increasingly apparent with every viewing, and to top it off I find the idea that this is adaptation of Conrad rather absurd. In many ways it's less true to the source than West Side Story is to Romeo and Juliet.It's not a bad film, as such, but a deeply flawed film... and, from a personal point of view, sententious and unnecessary.


                
I don't write many reviews, but after watching this so called "masterpiece" or "classic" last night for the first time i feel it warrants it, i need to warn people like myself about it. STAY AWAY!, it's 3 hours of your life you'll never get back. I like Martin Sheen, Brando, Larry Fishbourne, Harrison Ford, Dennis Hopper....heck i like all the cast. Francis Ford Coppola is a legendary director. I like war films. What i don't like....is Apocalypse Now. It drags on and on....and on, and then the ending is a complete anti-climax. Robert Duvall's surfing obsessed Lt. Colonel is the best part about this film, he's a breathe of fresh air in an otherwise over rated movie....


                
Let's talk about Francis Ford Coppola's masterpiece named Apocalypse Now.First of all it is important to have some information about the movie including the plot, the historical context, and the cast of course.The story unfolds in South Vietnam more exactly in Saigon in 1968. Captain Benjamin Willard is designated by Colonel Lucas to handle a mission whose aim is to 'terminate' the obscure and mysterious Colonel Walter Kurtz whose insane and atrocious missions had killed millions of Vietnamese. In spite of the multiple hardships and incidents Willard and his boat crew had coped with, indeed they will be killed one by one and Willard will remain the only survivor, he will reach his goal killing Kurtz which had gradually increased during the boat journey, becoming the strongest wish he ever wanted to achieve at all costs.The move deals with the Vietnam war. It was triggered by the will of some powerful countries like Vietnam (a French colony) to declare their independence in 1945. In 1954 was the battle of Dien Ben Fu and the French Army was defeated by Vietnamese, consequently Vietnam has been divided in two parts, the North being communist and the South being capitalist. Between 1963 and 1975, an increasing number of US troops were sent there in order to prevent a communist takeover in South Vietnam. Finally in April 1975 which was actually the end of the war, North Vietnamese troops entered the South and ousted American troops.The main characters of the movie are : Captain Benjamin Willard played by Martin Sheen. He is the US army special forces assassin and the protagonist of the film. He alludes to a certain kind of morality but he isn't really sympathetic and can even be ruthless. Colonel Walter Kurtz played by Marlon Brando. He is regarded as Willard's foe and the aim of the boat crew journey. He has invented himself a godlike figure judged by nobody, not even himself. He believes in death as well as he thinks that it's his only destiny.General R. Corman played by G.D. Spradlin. He is the military superior who outlines Willard's mission.Colonel Lucas played by Harrison Ford. He is Corman's junior officer. Apocalypse Now a quite complex movie.In my personal opinion war is worthless and has always been the major problem of human beings. It obviously goes along with a serious loss of innocent peoples' lives and that infuriates me. Why should ordinary people pay on their back the mistakes of others who quarrel and never agree?Insanity really disturbs me, especially the strange personality of Colonel Kurtz. A puzzling atmosphere is settled right at the beginning of the film because Kurtz is shown as a mysterious person that is to say, we don't see him but only hear his voice on a tape recorder when General Corman presents Willard's mission, I can even add that the sound of his voice conveys his hidden personality and his dark side which gets the upper hand on him. Why such an eerie personality and life style ? It's quite confusing because in the past General Corman acknowledges him as a very brilliant, outstanding and praiseworthy officer with wit and intelligence but his ideas were strange and something had occurred and turned him into a monster-looking man. Indeed I can suggest that his insanity is even leading his whole body and brain. He epitomizes the deepest and darkest side of humankind and he embodies the precise image of the devil. Furthermore darkness is a major element present in the film, it represents the complexity to understand the characters which darkens our thoughts.General Corman also lifts the fact of a confusing war, indeed there is a mix between rational and irrational but here the devil side triumphs over the good side.Before I end this I can add that soldiers are depicted in this film as clumsy. I had the impression they were on holiday instead of being in a fight. Their goal isn't patriotic but oriented towards home.
When it comes to films about the Vietnam war, I think that too many people are over-praising. Perhaps many from the generation that lived through that war feel a strong connection to any film about it. Perhaps the explicit horrors of war vindicates their stance at the time so therefore, it's more worthy of praise. Perhaps this is even a generational thing? In any case, the acting was nothing magical. Sheen looked more constipated than anything else throughout the film and his obsession with Kurtz is poorly scripted. The war sequences are not too bad, but hardly the best cinematic portrayal of war.Moreover, the film tends to bathe in its own views, themes and self-importance. After a while, it become tedious (even before REDUX) and interest levels plateau.Then there is the grand finale where we finally meet Kurtz and all is supposedly revealed. But while the quality of the scripting and performances lifts during this period, the actual plotting goes awry. While many will say that the conclusion places caps off an exploration of the dark side of the human psyche, I felt that it was more of a disjointed series of monologues that the viewer never really follows, nor connects totally with. The fact that Kurtz turned out to be a demigod leading a tribe stretched both credibility and sensibility.Cinematography was fairly good and there are enough engaging moments which compels me to give it a higher rating. But drastically overrated and the ending borders on absurd. Full Metal Jacket was the best of the lot in my view and many others get my vote before Apocalypse Now. However, I do give Platoon a lower rating than this as that was woeful.


                
I have seen many a film. I'm studying acting (woopie do, eh?) and I watched this movie because Marlon Brando was in it. The film started off interestingly enough and to be very fair to it, the first 30 to 40 minutes were good and fairly intriguing. there was some excellent camera work and wonderful images (e.g. the helicopters coming over the waves, brilliant).Then the film goes downhill. the character developments were appalling. I didn't feel an ounce of sadness when any of the main characters died. I was just intrigued to see the final showdown- Brando and Sheen. That was disappointing too, except for Brando's great monologue. it is a classic monologue, but for an actor of Brando's ability, he deserved more in the movie. i could watch him all day and he out-classed everyone as usual. However, Sheen was very good.There was too much sex and nudity and this ruined the movie. That kind of stuff is better off in a playboy magazine. I think any movie that uses sex and nudity is not a classic, because it relies on this to get people interested. Romantic movies could have good intimate scenes, but the directors NEVER manage to show true love between two actors. Most actors don't know what love is, so when they are told to do scenes of this nature, they always act bordering on pride, which is not love. the only film that ever did show real intimacy and beauty was Titanic i think. 9 songs was a disgusting joke. Any director who uses sex and nudity pointlessly to get people interested is disappointing to me and it was a shame because this director is excellent usually.I saw the redux version, but i have heard that the original is much better. Yet, i was so disappointed since this film was so hyped up i shall not be seeing the original.If you want to waste 191 minutes of your lives, watch this crap.


                
I am always as real as it gets and I'm first to say "the king is naked".The first hour of the movie is a good setup. You are anxious to see the lunatic general and what's so special about him. The second hour of the movie is soooo booorrring. They travel along the river for sooo loong. Here and there someone dies but it's still endless. That dinner part is also very long and kills the flow if the movie had it at all in the first place. I fell asleep couple of times. And then in the third hour you expect a final confrontation and suspense but instead you are given a totally anticlimactic ending. I again fell asleep couple of times during general's looooong and quiet speeches.So in short, the setup was good but there was no tension throughout the movie and it was killed even more by long pointless chaotic scenes. People on drugs rate this as a 10. It's not.


                
"Heart of Darkness", the novel for which this movie was based was no picnic. It was boring and quite uneventful until the very end.  The good thing about it was that it was short (the movie is not)  Some of the themes in it are good, but the novel itself is very lacking.  Apocalypse Now can't really decide what it really is. I saw it at film school, I along with many others was not impressed.  It is an action movie at sometimes, then it turns into some sort of half-brained morality pic.  Although some of the lines are good (namely Robert Duvall's Napalm Rant) and the cinematography is superb, the movie dabbles in too much other things to get to its point.  If one wants to really explore Vietnam in cinema, go see Platoon, for Apocalypse Now is too long to be enjoyable and too corny to be real.


                
When I hear people say that this was the best film about Vietnam ever, I have to puke, I mean laugh. This was a boring, unrealistic, slow ride to nowhere. I am aware that it is based on "Heart of Darkness", but you know what? That was a boring, pointless book as well. I know there are messages all over the movie and the expense of this film must have been incredible. And yes, Duval makes me laugh. But the bad just far outweighs the good here. This movie is a mess. From a movie I seek one of two things, interest or excitement. This had neither. Is that to say that there are no interesting or exciting scenes? No, there are, but the boring, pointless scenes just outweigh them by so much. For a realistic look at Vietnam, I would suggest "Platoon" or "Full Metal Jacket." For a far out movie that has interest, I would suggest "Easy Rider" or "A Clockwork Orange." However, if you want to be bored and see some of the silliest war scenes ever, try this one. A one word description of this film is OVERRATED!


                
Well, I saw Apocalypse Now Redux for the first time a day or two ago on DVD. I know we're all supposed to be impressed with the acting and the legendary filming troubles and the (apparent) anti-war message. Granted, there are flashes of brilliance, such as the juxtaposition of the water buffalo sacrifice (which was apparently real) with the killing of the colonel in a similar manner, and the trip up the river moving back through time (as it were), through French Colonialism, then the Stone Age with the arrows and spears, to something so primeval it defies comprehension.However, I fell asleep twice while attempting to get all the way through it. I finally got there, but to me a movie that puts me to sleep twice before I get to the end once can't be all that great.
Frankly, this film is quite over-rated.  I've not seen the original, so I may only comment on the Redux version.  Three and a half hours...I'm thinking the film was better without all the extra footage.  There's usually a reason some scenes end up on the editing room floor.  And I could see several that deserved it in this version.  This movie is just plain boring. Call it method film making, whatever, it's a snoozer.  This film is considered a classic, but not by me.  I waited 23 years to see it, and I wasn't missing much.


                
I saw this movie in 1979 and found it very slow, though bearable and "chic". I recognized back then that there was some symbolism that was understandable and some that was not, although I thought the viewer had to stretch his imagination a lot to catch a glimpse of the point of the movie. Now, because of the "Redux", the movie is again getting a lot of good press. I watched it again, both versions, with my children. We all agree that the film is just boring. The scenes are wayyyyy too long, the action moves at snail pace. The philosophy behind the film is very contorted, sometimes unclear or very plainly confusing. There is actually very little to praise about this movie, apart from the score (especially the Valkyries during the chopper flight) and Marlon Brando's very unique acting style. I do not recommend this movie as an example of good cinema. I really do not consider this movie, especially the current "Redux", to be up to Coppola. I really do not understand how the genius that filmed "Bram Stoker's Dracula", "Goodfellas" and the "Godfather" series could turn out this boring, overdone, overrated and barely comprehensible movie.


                
I realize that I'm in the minority on Coppola. His sensibility is melodramatic and his penchant for freakishness is annoyingly distracting. I am also bothered by his frequent resort to bizarre camera angles and extreme lighting effects. For example, Captain Willard (Martin Sheen) is introduced at the beginning of the film with his head upside down on the screen while a dream- scape of attack helicopters and napalm bombs rushes through his mind, frequently obscuring his face. Toward the end of the film, Colonel Kurtz (Marlon Brando), whom Willard has been pursuing under orders to assassinate him, is introduced in blackness and only gradually emerges into light in an overly l-o-n-g scene. Among the freaks in this film are Robert Duvall as a commander of a helicopter attack squadron who likes to wear a horse-cavalry cowboy hat and is obsessed with surfing and Dennis Hopper as a crazed cameraman whom Willard finds among Colonel Kurtz's devoted followers. Coppola's visual imagination, which served him well in the Godfather films, undermines Apocalypse Now in my estimation. It was a VIOLENTLY successful film but the moral which is supposed to be at the center of this film is deeply buried under costly (but ultimately cheap) directorial trickery.


                
After years of hearing how great this movie is, all I can say is that i am beyond disappointed. Initially it seemed like I was going to love the film. Everything just looked and sounded perfect. Then, the film seemed to get lost within itself. In fact, there's a specific point in the movie where you can see it start to fall apart and then just get worse and worse.Everything up to and including the scenes with Robert Duvall was interesting and almost gripping, then the movie just starts to slowly descend into pointless garbage. How the hell the movie gets as lost as it does I have no idea. It should have worked, everything was there to make it work...everything except the vision to keep it together I guess. Much of this movie leaves you feeling like your stuck in a bad trip or like your high and spacing out.Maybe you need to be high to make sense of this film but all I can say is that there are much better films about the Vietnam era than this one. Would I recommend this movie? No. Not at all. Watch Deer Hunter (1978) or Platoon (1986). Both are far better films with solid story lines that rip you apart the way a movie like this should. Apocalypse now is just a mess that's not at all worth wasting your time on. If I have anything good to say about this movie it's that at least the acting is solid, the directing is good and the cinematography is excellent. The problem is the story is a lost cause and the ending anti-climactic. Much of the movie is just a confused distorted mess full of scenes that serve no purpose and manage to go nowhere. To be honest, about half the film could have been left on the cutting room floor and the movie would have been better as a result. What else can I say except to end where I started. I am so incredibly disappointed with this movie.
I finally got to sit down and watch this iconic film (on TV I must admit) and was mightily disappointed. Maybe - almost certainly - it was more powerful when it was made in 1979 but I didn't feel it had anything new to say for today.Yes - the cinematography was great and the battle scenes were incredibly realistic for that time but that is not what makes a good film. The story line was pretty non-existent; the message (war is futile and dehumanising??) has been made many times before (and since) and I felt no empathy with any of the characters (with the exception, strangely, of the pilot of the boat). I really didn't care whether the Duvall character lived or died! The scene towards the end interspersing the sacrificial killing of a bullock(?) with the killing of the mad Kurtz was embarrassingly trite and the film in general - dragged....! Sorry - this film is over-hyped!!
I'm a middle aged, suburban bread, ordinary guy. Until yesterday I'd never seen Apocalypse Now. That makes me VERY UNORDINARY!I count many war movies among my favorites including Saving Private Ryan, Black Hawk Down and Band of Brothers and I really liked first two Godfather movies but somehow, I'd never seen Coppola's iconic Vietnam war movie. That makes me uniquely qualified (in my mind) to share my experience. Here goes:Stories have been told and movies made about the difficulty of making this movie. The lead actor was dumped, the script was trashed, the cast and crew was stoned and the director didn't know how to end the movie. It shows! The story is very uncomplicated, Captain Willad (Sheen), a grizzled military assassin is ordered to track down a rogue colonel (Brando) in the jungles of Vietnam and Cambodia.But really, this is an art movie! It is clear that Coppola wanted to show off his skills behind the camera. The entire film is an incredible contrast of color and darkness. Each and every scene is a piece of visual art and it's very distracting. It totally removes any sense of realism. It's the definition of "theatrical." Even more distracting is the non-stop synthesized 70's era soundtrack.The lack of a script is obvious in almost every scene. I'd imagine 90 percent of Sheen's EXTENSIVE voice over work was added during the editing process in an attempt to pull the disjointed story together. In the end, the one and only story line was resolved (as foreshadowed a dozen times) and the screen faded to black.This movie was probably a fraud dressed up like art in 1979. In 2013 it's just disappointing and dated!


                
I still don't understand what people are going on about. This, in my opinion is a boring, boring film. When a film is this boring, how can anyone enjoy it? The beginning is boring, all the middle bits are boring, and the ending is both boring and pointless. I'll not spoil it, but there's very little to spoil in this annoyingly boring film.Harrison Ford should have been given a larger part, then perhaps this film would have been better, but I doubt it.Basically, Martin Sheen is sent to kill Marlon Brando, and it takes hours for this pile of yawning dog-turd to end, and by the end, I was left thinking that most people on IMDb are either idiots, or sheep. I do not like this film at all.


                
Being in my twenties and never seen this movie, I decided it was time to do so since its high rating on IMDB. The pace starts good and soon the squad is on its way to take out a rogue soldier. They team up with another group that needs to help them out on the river. They do so and their journey continues. What follows are unnecessary scenes and slow pacing. Most shocking was that they arrive at some base with a huge show. At that moment I was thinking: What the heck was all that stuff about travelling with their boat and that big fight in that village when they could just have flown to that military base with the show??? Afterwards they came in some half deserted base where to those Miss july's etc. are holed up. What are such national celebrities doing in run down base that do not even have normal tents? More funny was that they apparently offer intercourse for oil. Like what? I guess I try that next time I go out as well.So far I did not continue with the movie yet but I do plan to do so. But people calling this the greatest movie is just nostalgia speaking (pink tainted goggles on their eyes while watching this average war movie) Some others talk about the horrors of war this movie shows. Yeah rights, the horrors of some cowboy walking untouched through explosions while talking about how much he wants to surf.Really guys this movie is average at best.
