After the success of the first two 'Godfather' films in 1972 and 1974 respectively, Francis Ford Coppola embarked on an ambitious attempt to bring home the reality of the war in Vietnam, which had concluded with the fall of Saigon to the Vietcong in 1975<U+0085> The plot was loosely based on the book 'Heart of Darkness,' a story by Joseph Conrad about Kurtz, a trading company agent in the African jungle who has acquired mysterious powers over the natives<U+0085>Coppola retains much of this, including such details as the severed heads outside Kurtz's headquarters and his final words, "The horror<U+0085> the horror<U+0085>" In the film, Sheen plays an army captain given the mission to penetrate into Cambodia, and eliminate, with "extreme prejudice," a decorated officer who has become an embarrassment to the authorities<U+0085> On his journey up the river to the renegade's camp he experiences the demoralization of the US forces, high on dope or drunk with power<U+0085> Although, as a result of cuts forced on Coppola, the film was accused of incoherence when first released, it was by the most serious attempt to get to grips with the experience of Vietnam and a victorious reinvention of the war film genre<U+0085> In 1980 the film won an Oscar for Best Cinematography and Best Sound<U+0085> "Apocalypse Now" was re-released in 2001 with fifty minutes restored<U+0085> As a result, the motion picture can now be seen as the epic masterpiece it is<U+0085>


                
Well, I've watched this movie for over 25 years now and it's still almost as interesting as when I first saw it. It is definitely one of the most unique films ever made.I still think Martin Sheen got "dissed" big-time in the billing, too. He dominates the film yet gets lesser billing than Marlon Brando, who only appears in the last 30 minutes of this 2 hours, 17 minutes film (theatrical version). How unfair is that?Sheen is fantastic in here, especially his narration, which runs throughout. It's one of the best narrations, if not THE best, I have ever heard in a movie. His voice is just haunting as he relates his thoughts on this incredible, nightmare-like adventure. I never fail to appreciate his work in this movie.The other thing that strikes me about the film over the years are the number of memorable scenes, ones I have never forgotten, such as......Sheen losing it in his hotel room in the movie's first scene; Robert Duvall and the totally out-of-place surfing scenes and then the ensuing attack with Wagner's dramatic classical music blaring out of the helicopters; The Playboy bunny entertaining the troops; Frederic Forrest being freaked out seeing a tiger close up in the jungle; the weird scenes on the long riverboat ride; the appearance of hippie journalist Dennis Hopper greeting the crew in Cambodia and then Brando's bizarre character. It goes on and on with strange scenes.That's not to say I enjoyed everything. No, there are a few very unpleasant scenes, such as the one in which an ox is sliced in half (can't watch that anymore), an innocent family is slaughtered on a small boat by Sheen's young stoned-out crew, and the crew is a little too goofy at times. Then, there is the huge amount of profanity, led by way too many f-words.So, there is a lot of good and a lot of bad things in this movie for almost anyone who watches this One thing for sure: it is a film you WILL remember!


                
Many of the added scenes explain certain parts of the older edit in a more natural and complete way.For Example in the Original the bit where for whatever reason, previously holing him aloof, the crew at least makes a formal attempt to include Willard by offering him marijuana. He, of course refuses and shuts the curtain so he can get drunk (emphasizing his SpecOps/Officer Status) Disassociating himself from the crew and perhaps alleviating an awkward situation, by not fraternizing to much with the men.It was exactly that the inclusion of Willard (by the crew) was unanticipated and unexplained that had always bugged me when I watched the original.Now in Redux the conditions above are preceded by the "Flight of the Surfboard". Kilgore's attitude just begs Willard to flashback to his cadet days, and "misappropriate" Kilgores board. (Juvenile Pranks being of the finest military traditions) In short, stealing the surfboard is not at all out of character for Willard and the scene adds a logical progression of slightly greater camaraderie leading up to the scene where he rebuffs them.Also the scene where they are all hiding under the trees with the helicopters overhead. All great stuff for male military type-bonding.The addition of the scenes gives the crew a reason to be more inclusive and more positive about Willard. They think mebbe hes not such a bad officer. But Willard remembers his position, and that the crew are expendable tools that he may have to use to accomplish his mission, and remains aloof and gets drunk alone.Best Vietnam movie of all time. Even if it has almost nothing to do with the war in specifics dealing almost exclusively with a single fictitious CovertOps mission and a few intersecting actions (both probable fiction(Kilgore) and potentially historically accurate(the Bridge)) As to the other extra scenes I found the Playboy scene's racist comments and connotations to be important enough to include. Also continues the classist regime. Chief, the middle-class black man wants a sista(Racist or Pride? Is there a difference?) Lance is lowerclass, but hes a cute white kid. Chef is lowerclass, but hes got a certain kind of charm. Clean, the lowerclass black man is shut out. Meanwhile, Willard is off in some private quarters with the third bunny as his right as officer and procurer (I think it was his deal)Best Line of the Film:the Roach "Yeah"
This is one of my favourite films. Long but you barely notice how much time has passed since the story is so easy to fall into. It's an almost dreamlike film, dealing with the Vietnam war. The opening scene itself is enough to draw you in, with the soundtrack by The Doors and the juxtaposition between the rising helicopters the steady turning of the blades of a fan in a hotel room. The colours really highlight moods and themes. Great film, I could go on all day about it.


                
It includes added footage that absolutely wreaks havoc with the original story line and, more crucially, character development. That said, the original (which I saw in 1979 in what was then a rare widescreen cinema,) is still the best Vietnam movie of all time. I've always considered the trip up river, and the way events get more and more surreal and insane the further up the river they go, as a metaphor for the the entire American experience in Southeast Asia. Every performance is a gem -- it's especially cool to see a very young Lawrence Fishburne in his debut role. Coppola was never this good again.


                
This movie is extremely odd. Looking at this movie makes it obvious that most of the cast and crew were on drugs during filming. The end movie result, is an unique one of a kind movie experience and quite possible the best Vietnam war movie ever made. It's not a movie for everyone though, guess true movie buffs are the only ones who can truly wholeheartedly appreciate this movie and the 'beauty' of all the ugliness in the movie.The movie makes a perfect statement as an anti-war movie. It shows the horror of war and what it does to men. I have to admit that my favorite parts of the movie were the ones with action in it. The chopper attack is truly splendid and a real classic moment of movie history. Still this is not really a movie about shooting and fighting. Its more a movie about the emotional struggles of men during war. The struggles of the main character Captain Benjamin L. Willard (Martin Sheen) are told in a most excellent, slow, compelling way. He becomes more and more obsessed and interested in the man he is supposed to 'terminate with extreme prejudice', during his journey over the river to Cambodia, where Colonel Walter E. Kurtz (Marlon Brando), the man he is supposed to kill, is located. Once the movie progresses it becomes obvious that the journey and the emotional struggles seem to be more difficult and dangerous than the killing of Kurtz.What makes the movie work are the good and realistically brought characters and the actors that portray them. All of the characters are stereotypes in a way, which works extremely well for the movie and its story. Brando is totally flipped in his role as 'crazy' mumbling Colonel Kurtz and even though his role isn't THAT big (ironic sentence, considering the fact that Brando was 40kg overweight, for his role), he still makes a lasting impression. Also totally crazy is Dennis Hopper in his role as American photojournalist that lives under Kurtz. Robert Duvall also gives a most excellent performance as Lieutenant Colonel Bill Kilgore. Rest of the cast consists out of big names as Harrison Ford, Scott Glenn, G.D. Spradlin and a 14-year old Laurence Fishburne, in one of his first movie roles.The movie has a fantastic and kind if surreal atmosphere, which makes this movie one of the most moody movies ever made, also thanks to the Oscar winning cinematography by Vittorio Storaro.Perhaps the whole story surrounding the making of this movie (Sheen's heart-attack, the difficult overweight Brando, the drug abuse, the 16 months of filming in the jungle, the three year editing process.) is more legendary than the movie itself, it still is a classic, one of a kind movie, that might very well be the best Vietnam-war movie (yet).9/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
Last year at school, everyone was talking about this movie and everyone was saying how good it was so I had to see it. My friend burnt me it and I hated it, I thought it was boring. I was some what disenchanted after watching it expecting a really action packed movie. The first hour didn't disappoint but after that it was boring. I was only 15 then and I never really got over what a let down it was.So, for English I picked this film as a related text. This time I knew what to expect and this time I was really impressed and touched by the film. I think it had something with me being an age older. This time I actually listened to what they said and it made the story much more fascinating and bearable to watch, in fact it even moved quickly.The storyline of this film is very simple. Based on on the book Heart of Darkness by Joseph Conrad. Captain Willard, played by Martin Sheen, who has lost all hope in humanity is given the unenviable mission of traveling up the Nang river in order to bring the wayward Kurtz (played by Marlon Brando) under control. As the film progresses the viewer is confronted with numerous scenes raging from insanity to chaos, which not only shock, but make you reflect and sometimes even disturb you. An example is when they come to an outpost, the soldiers jump in the water screaming to be taken away from their perspective of hell. Another scene, is when Lance puts war paint on. When questioned about it he says "they're everywhere", which is ludicrous when you think about it, because he is not in the jungle and could easy been picked off in the boat.Some of the films concepts are hard to be grasped and I wont go into them here. Suffice to say, it is better left for you to find out yourself. Apocalypse Now is sometimes said to be an inaccurate film about Vietnam and that films like Platoon are more accurate. That is not true though. The film accurately shows Vietnam, as a place literally gone mad. A war without any purpose other than the evil motivations of politics and the army. It is hard for the characters and the viewer to find hope in this film, because in Vietnam, there was none for the soldiers. This film is beautiful it really shows what the human mind is capable of, and if you can understand it, you will be changed forever by this powerful and moving film.Simply STUNNING


                
I saw the 1979 version first, and recently both this and the Redux version. The original is a much more powerful film so I'll address it first. First off, this is not a movie about the grunt experience. It's a sweeping overview of the entire war, filtered through the experience of one airborne Capt. Willard (Martin Sheen), assigned to a special mission to off a renegade Special Forces colonel (Marlon Brando). This film covers in short vignettes many of the contradictions of Vietnam: 1. The opening scenes deal obliquely with the difficulties of Vietnam vets in dealing with life back home. 2. The contradiction between bombing peasants out of their homes and relocating them while telling them that "we are here to help you!". 3. The distinction between the US forces bringing massive firepower onto positions against guerrillas that bring down expensive helicopters with suicide attacks with grenades. 4. The relative luxury of US soldiers in the field (with radio, tapes, dope, motorcycles, booze, flown-in steaks, surfboards, and Playboy centerfold shows) vs. the Viet Cong R&R consisting of "cold rice and rat meat". 5. The refusal of American military and political leadership to recognize that the conflict could only be settled by total war or political settlement, or that the Viet Cong movement was not linked seriously to either Soviet or Chinese Communism. "Apocalypse Now" delivers these messages in a series of powerful visual montages: the opening scene with the 'thwock-thwock' of chopper rotors melting into the sound of an overhead fan; quiet, peaceful looking rainforest exploding under a napalm attack; the exquisite charge of an airborne unit descending on a VC village in a hail of bullets and Wagner; a quiet boat ride upriver interrupted by hell breaking loose in gunfire, or the sight of the tail section of a downed B-52 rising up out of the fog. But the key line of the movie is the one delivered by Brando: "You're neither (an assassin or a soldier). You're an errand boy, sent by grocery clerks, to collect a bill." A brilliant summary of the US Army brass at that time. The movie leaves open the question of whether Kurtz was truly insane, or whether he simply went beyond his purview because he recognized that the only way to defeat the Viet Cong was to be as brutally committed as they were -- that is, total war and obliteration, which would have been politically unacceptable to the US public. The 1979 version is one of my favorite movies of all time.The Redux version is an excellent example of why movies are edited. It includes a couple of sexually-based episodes, one with the Playboy girls in an abandoned medevac unit, the other with a group of French colonists. I'm as much of a fan of seeing female nudity as the next guy, but neither scene advances the story, so it was wise to delete them. There is also an extended scene involving a funeral for 'Clean' and a dinner with a group of French plantationers expounding on the pre-history of the US involvement. I can see that it also would have been a distraction from the feel of the movie, which is a shame because I suspect even now that few Americans know about what happened prior to US entry and how the US supported the Viet Minh (later Viet Cong) to fight against the Japanese in WW II. (Sound familiar?)The one real mistake in the movie was including Dennis Hopper as the spaced-out photojournalist hanging out with Kurtz. I love Hopper, but his character was totally unnecessary here. Laurence Fishburne is remarkably unrecognizable as the skinny boat gunner Clean. And Robert Duvall chews up the scene as the AirCavalry colonel.
This film is arguably one of the most important cinematic achievements of the 20th century. Based on the book "Heart of Darkness" by Joseph Conrad this movie is a provocative display of the Vietnam War and the surreal, yet utterly human experiences of its combatants. In the story, Lieutenant Willard (Martin Sheen) travels down a river to seek and assassinate the crazed Colonel Kurtz (Marlon Brando), who has isolated himself from U.S. forces in a remote outpost. As Willard gets closer and closer to his prey though, he finds himself idolizing and obsessing over the invisible, god-like figure of Kurtz rather than preparing to kill him. What sets this movie apart from other war movies is not its "hell no, we won't go," theme that appears in films such as Stanley Kubrick's "Full Metal Jacket," nor its "no guts, no glory" theme that appears in movies such as "Patton." Instead, it is its dreamlike portrayal of war as an experience which brings out our most savage, yet undeniably, our most natural tendencies. Everything from the soundtrack, to the screenplay, to the acting furthers the notion that every person who spends time in a war begins to understand the most basic of human desires, and learns to eliminate their consciences. And this, evidently, is "the horror" that Willard refers to throughout the film. The sweeping scenes of the blazing jungle, and the incessant whir of helicopter blades, are mere supplements to the brilliant performances of Brando, Sheen, Robert Duvall, Laurence Fishburne, and Dennis Hopper among others. This movie in itself is a dangerous odyssey, for it takes more than a clever film critic to truly understand its importance. The message is hidden deep in the jungle and takes a keen eye to divulge and appreciate. This is a movie about escape from civility, "the end of our elaborate plan," and a descent into chaos and madness, the only question is, are you ready for the Apocalypse?


                
Apocalypse Now is a strange anomaly in the history of cinema. It's a complete disaster of a film, that ran into every catastrophe and hurdle imaginable, and failed on almost every level (just ask Francis Ford Coppola himself). And yet, it's also one of the best films ever made.Apocalypse Now's wild chaos stands in complete contrast with Coppola's three previous films - The Godfather parts 1 and 2, and The Conversation, all of which were precise, complete and, especially the first one, practically flawless. Apocalypse Now, on the other hand, is filled with flaws; it's messy, inconsistent, at times incoherent, and large parts of it appear (and often are) completely improvised. This is, of course, the one film on which Coppola, having financed most of it himself, had complete creative control. It's the film that brought the age of the auteur to its logical end, and it's also the beginning of the end for that period; one year later the auteur was finally killed by Michael Cimino's Heaven's Gate. But while Heaven's Gate is a pompous, pretentious, self-indulgent mess, out of the chaos of Apocalypse Now emerged one of the strongest creations in cinema history.No description of Apocalypse Now can really capture what it's about; it can be said to be a film about the Vietnam war, or a loose adaptation of Conrad's Heart of Darkness, but it's far beyond either one. It's an exploration of the human psyche when it's taken to the most extreme situations of stress and violence - the Vietnam war is used as the setting for that. But, as can be seen in the documentary "Hearts of Darkness: A Filmmaker's Apocalypse", the production itself qualifies as well. Both Coppola and the cast explored the full range of human emotions on the film, and that's what makes it more powerful and more timeless than war films like Platoon and The Deer Hunter. Apocalypse Now is the human condition. As Coppola himself said - it's not about the Vietnam war, it IS the Vietnam war. Every failing the film had during production only helps create the chaos and distress that make it so unforgettable and such a landmark in cinema history.


                
Between 1979 and 1987, three of the most poignant, relevant filmmakers of the time all left their stamp on different aspects of the Vietnam War. Oliver Stone addressed the duality of men in Platoon, Stanley Kubrick showcased breeding insanity versus the will to stay alive in Full Metal Jacket, and Francis Ford Coppola presented a mind-bending insight into war as an illusionary trip. And while my personal favourite among these films changes regularly, one thing I am sure of is that they are all masterpieces, and Apocalypse Now, for this week at least, may be the best of the lot.Martin Sheen is Captain Ben Willard, tasked with the covert mission of venturing deep into the jungles of Cambodia to locate and assassinate Colonel Walter Kurtz (Marlon Brando). Kurtz, a once-promising soldier, has since abandoned the needs of his country and gone completely insane, setting himself up as a god among a native tribe and ruling with dictatorial brutality. The movie is more road trip than firefight, but I don't mean to sound condescending at all. Most of the film consists of Willard and his small group of soldiers making the trek to Kurtz's stronghold, encountering bizarre characters and scenarios along the way. The most prominent of these is Lieutenant Kilgore (Robert Duvall, rounding up the Godfather reunion), a surfie soldier who'd be terrifying if he weren't so welcoming. It is from this point onwards that Apocalypse Now transcends the standard parameters of a war film and becomes a hallucinogenic cinematic experience. Many scenes convey such unique, unheard-of aspects of war that they leave you wondering whether what you just saw was real, or an alternate perception of reality seen through the eyes of the drug-taking soldiers. Visual bewilderment is on high supply during the set action pieces as well, with their abrupt ending having the effect of taking repeated blows to the head, then having to get back up as quickly as possible.But the otherworldly nature of the film is best reflected in the cinematography and sound. Deep shades of orange, gold and purple engulf almost every moment, and the sparing yet effective use of superimposed imagery compounds the eeriness. As for audio, it is easy to point to the excellent use of Ride of the Valkyries during Kilgore's air raid, but that is just scratching the surface. A haunting half-electronic, half-orchestral score dominates the rest of the film, while extracts of The End (by The Doors, a band that has always had a strange resonance with the Vietnam War) complete a flawless technical display.As Willard and Kurtz meet for the first time, Apocalypse Now goes into thematic overdrive. Most obvious is the old notion that absolute power corrupts absolutely. As the film progresses, we learn that Kurtz's desire to return home diminishes in contrast with his growing godly stature. But the film goes on to raise all sorts of questions regarding vanity and pride in the self, as well as the moral implications of death, and if it can accepted in certain circumstances.Finally, I feel obliged to mention an event towards the end of the movie, without giving away any major plot points. The climax is intercut with the infamous real-life slaughter of a water buffalo, which occurs in a most inhumane manner. Whether Coppola was justified in his actions (by simply filming an event that was going to be carried out by the natives anyway) depends on which sources you choose to believe. From a purely cinematic perspective, though, it compliments the climax in spectacular fashion. But just as concerning is the aftermath. As the characters that continue to live ponder their actions, the ending is ambiguous in the way that we, as the audience, can only imagine how the evils they have seen will torture them long after the film's events have ended. All the while the war rages on.*There's nothing I love more than a bit of feedback, good or bad. So drop me a line on jnatsis@iprimus.com.au and let me know what you thought of my review.*


                
Apocalypse Now is directed by Francis Ford Coppola who also co-adapts the screenplay with John Milius from Heart of Darkness written by Joseph Conrad. It stars Martin Sheen, Marlon Brando, Robert Duvall, Laurence Fishburne, Dennis Hopper, Harrison Ford, Frederic Forrest, Sam Bottoms and Albert Hall. Cinematography is by Vittorio Storaro and the music is primarily arranged by Carmine Coppola.The Vietnam War and Captain Benjamin L. Willard (Sheen) is approached by American intelligence to go on a secret assignment: he's to follow the Nung River into the remote Cambodian jungle to find and assassinate Colonel Walter E. Kurtz (Marlon Brando), a member of the US Army Special Forces who has gone insane.One of the most talked and written about films of all time, Apocalypse Now remains to this day a harrowing and haunting experience to first time viewers. With a production shoot that has in itself become legendary, Coppola's flawed masterpiece has been dissected and argued over to within an inch of its magnificent life. People will continue to write about it for ever more it seems, perhaps there might even be the odd new confrontational spin on what resides within? But ultimately it's what the individual takes away from the film that matters, our own interpretations key to the enjoyment of such a disturbing vision of war and violence.Many of the set-pieces, dialogue and characters have long since passed into folklore, and rightly so. The Ride of the Valkyries helicopter assault, Kurtz's surreal death camp, the boat people massacre, purple haze, the playmates, Kilgore, and of course the horror, the horror..indeed. The performances match the quality of Storaro's sumptuous Philippines photography, Sheen is fiercely committed and Duvall and Hopper in turn are powerhouse and edgy. While Brando, doing his own bizzaro thing in the last third, brings a little chaos unintentionally in keeping with the madness at the heart of this particular darkness.Personally that last draggy third does stop it from being a complete genius type whole, but everything up to it is so damn good it's arguably churlish to expect perfection? But as near perfection movies go, Apocalypse Now proudly sits with the best of them, sitting there with a harrowed look upon its face. 9/10


                
This is a classic war movie. One of the best, a stark image fest of flashing lights, harrowing dark backgrounds and helicopter blades morphing into ceiling fans. A star-studded spectacle of immense power.Martin Sheen is a mercenary sent up river to assassinate the general gone astray, a sadistic dictator played beyond belief by the great Marlon Brando. Also along for the ride are, Robert Duvall as an over the top DI with a penchant for "napalm in the morning" or at least the smell of it. Dennis Hopper is an edgy photojournalist with a view slanted views about the war and about his leader. Also in this amazing film you'll see up and coming stars such as Laurence Fishburne, R. Lee Ermey, Sam Bottoms, Albert Hall and keep an eye out for Harrison Ford too...Behind the lens is Francis Ford Coppolla delivering a film with maybe more intensity and drama than the acclaimed Godfather films, he highlights war in it's most basic form, which for the most part is something you can't see, you can only feel it, as the boat carries on up river the feeling of the war tightening in is quite unbearable. The feeling of this is a rather claustrophobic feeling and really makes for unusual moods from the viewers. Honestly no films has ever made me feel like that.Criticism is hard to find. The biggest qualm from some is that Brando earned tons of money for a ten minute role, but in all fairness this is unjustified. It was money well earned, a role that physically restricted him, being at the time an unwell man, and a role that he really made his own. I can't picture anyone better for the role. And if you get the Apocalypse Now Redux version, there's some extra bits of the great man, and I think the Redux does make the film miles better.Final impressions are that if you are lucky to get the Redux version then you will be blessed with a completely satisfying film with a cool 49 minutes extra footage. If not, then still you won't be disappointed, this film is up there with the best, and deserves some great recognition, and a firm place as one of the top 50 films ever made...
Whether you're viewing the original version of Coppola's <U+0091>Apocalypse Now', or the Redux version (which restored an hour of deleted footage from the 1979 release), there are certain things you remember:  the mad colonel shrouded in shadow (Marlon Brando in perhaps his last great movie role); the showy performances of the actors travelling through Vietnam (Harrison Ford, Dennis Hopper, and especially, Martin Sheen as Willard <U+0096> who replaced Harvey Keitel in the role and probably did it much better than he would have done); and the music <U+0096> not only Wagner's Ride of the Valkyries, but also one of the most effective uses of a single song (in this case, <U+0091>The End', by The Doors, which is just perfect).There are other images, too, of the war-torn province, the soldiers coming to terms with the ripping open of their souls <U+0096> this is a war movie, pure and simple, yet there is much more going on here than is instantly apparent. Much better than <U+0091>Platoon' or <U+0091>The Deer Hunter', perhaps because it takes more risks and ultimately has a more lasting point to make?


                
Well maybe not the best movie I have seen but it's in my Top 10 for sure. I think it's one of those rare films that is better then the book (Heart of Darkness which is of course different).  A lot of people debate whether it's a "war movie" I take the position that it's a war movie but that's only part of it.  I think calling it only a "war movie" is taking away from how great this movie is.  It doesn't just have the simple "war is hell" message that many war films have.  It asks more piercing questions about human nature and character.  It is drama, war, action, art, and manages to be entertaining as well as thought provoking.  Even if the ideas don't grab you there are 3 things you cannot deny of this movie. 1)the acting is all top-notch  2)the cinematography is some of the best ever 3)it is well written.  If you didn't like it or think you "got it" the first time, go back again it's well worth another trip up the river.  Afterall this film's quality pretty much terminates all others...with extreme prejudice.
Zoopansick


                
This was more diverse though times seem slow but more DISTURBING! Well,the movie based on Oscar award original added footage though not reallysignificant, still made more of a diverse dimension, thus more likely howrealistically disturbing bizarre, Vietnam war was. The complaints of the playboy bunnies added footage was typical of a USO Bob Hope Entertainment gavemore moral boost to an already downtrodden depressed US troops felt hung out to dry, by US Gov. since the USA was so divided over Vietnam, seemed more ofa political war at expense of American troops, lost the war to the communists anyway. Oddly, great cast  from excellent director Francis Ford Coppola to cast Martin Sheen( Capt. Willard lead his crew seek out Kurtz),Marlon ( went loony colonel role Kurtz) Brando among other prominent actors had difficultythroughout film making, based on reviews I read on the original 1979 version, like had their own mini bizarre Vietnam experience. All in all,  thissemidocumentary/ war film depicted the diverse yet dark side of humans whenhope seems light years away. 9/10 A Must see over again, WARNING! getplenty of rest & protein bars to hang in on longer version 203min. This WASVietnam NOT ABOUT Vietnam.


                
This film was incredibly well done, and the similarities to Conrad's Heart of Darkness were amazing, creating a similar message in the end. The first scene is everything: the cinematography was perfect, and The End by the Doors as the soundtrack worked eerily well. Lighting throughout the movie, especially surrounding the mysterious Kurtz (although it was needed) also worked well to establish the mood. Throughout the movie, we are encouraged to see that Kurtz' inhumanity likely stems from being put in a situation where he answers to (essentially) no one, where there are no rules, and where morals he thought he once had fell apart. Maybe, it is more the absence of "civilization" that leads to the "civilization" that encourages inhumane treatment. It is human nature that is at fault, not any individual or group. The encouragement of American society for Kurtz to act in this way also definitely had an effect on him, but this is also human nature in a way. Human nature includes the elite's love for power and their ability to send others off to do the dirty work as well as the quality of obedience in those "others". All of these are human biases, and it seems like only the people who have a great deal of self-awareness/control would be able to overcome them. Coppola's genius in Apocalypse Now encourages us to recognize that we all have darkness inside of us, but it is our ability to overcome this madness, even in the face of no authority or laws OR in the face of authority that is evidently incorrect, that is what matters. This movie, like Conrad's masterpiece, also raises the following questions: When to "shield" the truth? Who should do so? Does anyone have the right to do so? Should the public have full access to all knowledge? It makes sense to think that the general public is sometimes not in the position to make a good judgement call and that emotions would cloud our judgement. But this mindset is also dangerous for the people who ultimately make the call, as it places them on a pedestal that could then cloud their judgement. Hard question that we need to ask ourselves...There are also apparent differences between Apocalypse Now and Heart of Darkness. For example, in Heart of Darkness, the British Empire stands firm, with Conrad seeming to respect the British Empire endlessly. With such a positive view of the motherland, the implications in Heart of Darkness in terms of England seem to be that all is not yet lost and there is some hope for mankind after all. The film is entirely different; after watching it and learning of the Vietnam war, few people would dare to advocate for the US as a solution to any problem today. This then leads us to the opposite conclusion: that America has absolutely no right to put itself on a pedestal that creates 'good' in the world. And of course, in today's view, this idea is much more realistic and applicable. I appreciate that Coppola urges his audience to recognize that America is not some heaven and also to look back on history and our mistakes. This movie was very well done, with aspects like sound and editing coming together to create a masterpiece, and raises difficult questions that we must ask ourselves.


                
First of all, I believe that this movie is much more appreciated by viewers who have actually read Joseph Conrad's "Heart Of Darkness", the book that was the literary basis for the movie. With that said, I believe that this movie is astounding. It is an excellent war film that doesn't so much concentrate on the gore and brutality of the Vietnam Conflict, but more the psychological toll that it took on the young, inexperienced "kids" who were sent to fight it. Coppola showed real genius in the art of film-making, using many visuals to help tell the story. The acting I felt was definitely all-around up to par. Marlon Brando's part in the movie is what really got me as far as acting. His elucidation to Willard at the end of the film reels you in, and reveals the hollowness of a man that you've heard about and wanted to see throughout the movie. Those who would consider this just another war movie need to give a detailed look to all the literary elements that are entwined with this film, because there is a great amount of meaning behind it all. In my opinion, this is one of the most sculptured and best-made films of all time.


                
I have seen this movie 4 times in 5 months and i never get tired of it just because it is perfect. And it has also got the best film music ever and the best supporting roles ever written for a movie. I mean you just have to love Robert Duval , Marlon Brando , Martin Sheen and Lauerence Fishburne in this movie but specially Duval. I can not believe that Kramer vs. Kramer did win an Oscar in stead of this amazing war movie. So this is my conclusion if you take the director of the worlds greatest movie ( The Godfather ) and the best of Hollywood actors you can only succeed. Now I just have to writhe something to get this preview so do not read this except the last line. This movie rules !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Breathtaking at it's best, intriguing at it's worst, Francis Ford Coppala's groundbreaking epic 'Apocalypse Now' is one of the most iconic and celebrated motion pictures of the 20th century, and in my opinion, the greatest ever film depiction centered around America's involvement in Vietnam.What I like most about 'Apocalypse Now' is that it is uniquely different from any other films of the same genre. Growing up as movie buff, and with a particular interest in war films, I've seen many films, which have attempted to portray the 'images' and 'feelings' of Vietnam but have been unsuccessful in doing so. Films such as 'Hamburger Hill' and 'We were soldiers' fall into the category of trying to capture the atmosphere of Vietnam by depicting 'heroic battles' which are, more often than not, tainted by the zeal of Hollywood film production.In 'Apocalypse now' there are no battles, no heroes or villains, there is nothing in the film that suggests that it is intended to reflect the imagery of Vietnam through the physical aspects of war. Rather, it is a film, which powerfully investigates and explores the human psyche when it has been tormented by the absolute 'horror' of what was the darkest military conflict of the previous century.The sheer brilliance of the acting (in particular the interpretation of taciturn Captain Willard by Martin Sheen), along with the spectacular cinematography (filmed in the Phillipines), which provides crucial realism to the backdrop of the film, makes 'Apocalypse Now' an unforgettable epic.Evoking a myriad of emotions and leaving us with a maelstrom of mediation, 'Apocalypse now' is not for the light-hearted moviegoer. It is masterpiece that demands multiple viewings to be fully appreciated.


                
It is the height of the Vietnam war, and the burnt out Captain Willard finally has a new mission; a mission that "does not exist <U+0096> nor will it ever exist". He is to travel up the Nung River into Cambodia in a U.S. Navy patrol boat and assassinate, Colonel Kurtz, a renegade Green Beret operating independently and staging hit-and-run attacks against the Viet Cong who has set himself up as a God among the Cambodian natives. The U.S. Army believes Kurtz has gone completely insane, but Willard soon discovers the Colonel's bright past. As Willard and his crewmates slowly crawl up the river, with many horrific and strange encounters, more is revealed about Kurtz and Willard slowly becomes more and more like the man he was sent to eliminate.Martin Sheen puts up an incredible performance as Captain Willard, providing insights into the true nature of the film, but Marlon Brando (Colonel Kurtz) steals the show the minute he appears on screen. Brando is perfect for the role of the eccentric genius and is a foreboding image on the screen. Just as in The Godfather, Brando plays the ruthless patriarch figure very well.Apocalypse Now derives its artsy, abstract feel and look from the brilliant directing of Francis Ford Coppola and the eye of academy award winning cinematographer Vittorio Storaro. From the lengthy cross-fades and the strategic placement of scene changes to the long dialogue shots and extreme close-ups. Coppola is a master at using lighting to create a mood. In particular, the lighting within Kurtz's "palace" creates an incredibly eerie feeling.With the help of the money made from The Godfather and The Godfather: Part Two, Coppola was able to create some fantastic and horrifying scenes, the most prominent of which involved numerous helicopters, hundreds of extras and thousands of real explosions. It is during these scenes that the viewer becomes aware of the satirical nature of this film.Apocalypse Now is just as much a war movie as it is a film about society. This film examines how society treats people who operate outside of what is considered the norm. Kurtz was an extremely well respected soldier who simply began doing things his own way. The Army deemed his ways unacceptable and marked him for assassination. When you watch this film, perhaps not the first time but maybe on the second or third time, you will begin to draw the parallels between the surreal story of Captain Willard and Colonel Kurtz and the realities of modern society.
Apocalypse Now is a movie bordering on a masterpiece, created using a canvas even the most legendary painter would be envious of. The striking elements of the film are the exceptional usage of colour, the clever manipulation of lighting and the start contrast of each and every frame. Marvel at the picture postcard presentation of the jungles of Vietnam, before suddenly all hell breaks lose and it becomes a torrent of machine gun fire and blood. Apocalypse Now aims for the gut and skewers the viewer, assaulting the senses with a masterful display of cinematography, lighting and direction. Unlike so many "Hollywood" productions of today, "Now" is a labour of love, each frame expertly crafted by a man at the very pinnacle of his film-making career. Very few films would be right at home next to a Monet or a Van Gogh, yet this is one of the few exceptions, displaying some of the most beautiful photography ever seen on the silver screen.While the look may impress, "Now" is rendered complete by its phenomenally powerful story, based on Joseph Conrad's novel "Heart of Darkness". The full horror of war is explored to the depths, with the absurdities of war emphasised by the central plot of eliminating the enemy, not the Vietcong rebels, but an American Colonel with delusions of grandeur. The movie takes many unexpected twists and turns, always flirting with the bizarre and surreal, and always coming off as a fresh and invigorating slice of life behind enemy lines. Martin Sheen is superb as Captain Willard, a man who knows no other world, who lives and breathes war. Brando is suitably chilling as Kurtz, the object of his mission, and Dennis Hopper, as a hippy photojournalist, gives a typically neurotic turn, converted by Kurtz's seemingly infinite words of wisdom. And who could forget Robert Duvall, as the gung-ho Lieutenant Kilgore, lover of Wagner and napalm."Now" is a remarkable film, a breath of fresh air amidst PC modern day film-making. Even 26 years on, its impact is spellbinding and its message is timely. Coppola, as a filmmaker, should be applauded for having the courage to make a movie about the truth and not a fabricated Hollywood tale where the true horrors and inhumanities of war are neatly swept under the carpet. I doubt we'll see another war movie of its calibre for a very long time to come.


                
I had waited a long time to see this movie, and when I finally got my hands on the DVD, it was with bated breath that I began to watch it. I was kind of worried, though; I had been so excited to see it, I figured that disappointment from such high expectations was inevitable. However, I was wrong, and I've never been so happy at having been wrong in my life. From the moment "The End" began to play over the images of the jungle, napalm, and helicopters, the movie had my rapt attention, and did not let it go until it was done. This is a brilliant, well-acted, and masterful movie. The story is intriguing, the sound track haunting, the action sequences savage and intense, and the effects above what are in many of the movies nowadays. Most movies only have one or two memorable scenes. Apocalypse Now has dozens, but probably my personal favorite is where Colonel Kilgore attacks a village with his helicopter fleet to surf their water. About 20 choppers swoop in, blaring Wagner's "Ride of the Valkyries" (yes, you read that right) and all but level the village. It sounds vile, and it is, but one look will tell you why it is genius. Colonel Kilgore is without a doubt my favorite movie character of all time, and the other major characters such as Captain Willard, Colonel Kurtz, and others rank on my Top 20 at least. My one and only complaint about this movie is that in the Redux version, there is a scene with gratuitous nudity, that was completely unnecessary. In my opinion, Coppola should have simply left it out. Despite my fanatical praise, this is not a movie for children. There is over 90 f words in it, some very surreal and graphic violence, along with about 5 minutes of bare breasts in one scene. Additionally, the whole atmosphere of the movie is eerie and disturbing, and probably should not be for children. Regardless of objectionable content, however, this is a masterpiece, and, in my humble opinion, the best film of the '70s, easily. Go watch it- you'll have the time of your life!
Knowing little about Apocalypse Now bar it being set during the Vietnam conflict, I viewed the Redux version with a completely open mind.
Having journeyed through a 3 hour 15 minute epic I can only say this really is as breathtaking and brilliant a movie as I'd been led to believe.Martin Sheen is Captain Willard, a soldier stationed in Saigon after various missions in Vietnam. Holed up alone, he is picked to undertake an assassination mission of the reclusive Colonel Kutz, played by the ever-marvellous Marlon Brando. Getting to Kutz will not be easy, such is the isolation he's ended up in deep in Cambodia. The mission is based on the fact the American army believes Kutz to have become insane, and commanding armies on the wrong side of the war. 'His methods are unsound'. Willard must infiltrate Kutz' army and murder the man himself.However, to say it will be an epic journey is an understatement of some magnitude and summing it all up is practically impossible.The many strengths of this movie result in a level of depth which is quite flabbergasting. The acting is absolutely outstanding and incredibly convincing. We undoubtably care about the characters such is the warmth and affection with which they are portrayed. Even the lesser-featured characters are vastly significant in their own right, such as Robert Duvall's gung-ho Kilgore - he loves the smell of napalm in the morning. And then there's the spaced out but endearing photographer, played by the energetic Dennis Hopper. Similar character to who he was in Easy Rider, but more exaggerated here.Then there is the quite superb direction/cinematography. Each scene has an amazing amount of life within it, with camera work which has to be seen to be believed. Some of the shots are just astounding, either encompassing impressive scale battle, or more humble close ups. I don't quite know how Ford Coppola did it, but this was a masterstroke and a lesson in filmmaking.A review of Apocalypse Now would be empty without mention of the enigmatic Brando. Every scene he is in he steals just as he did in the Godfather. The man was the human embodiment of the brilliance of cinema, and while he's not on-screen for a massive amount, he still becomes by far and away the most important and intriguing character in the entire tale.To summise, Apocalypse Now is everything a movie needs to be; gripping, dramatic, intruiging, exciting and personable. One of the all time greats? Without doubt.


                
For years I have been annoying friends and family with the following question: Which famous movie quote is delivered by an unknown actor as the his only line in the movie and he never worked again? The best answer I could get was "I quit!" but the correct answer is "Terminate with extreme Prejuice" but until now I could never name the actor and was unsure about the last bit. Now thanks to IMDb I am able to see that it was in fact Jerry Ziesmer and see that it was in fact not his only movie. Thank you IMDb but now I am just left with one annoying question: "Who is Stroder Martin?" As for the movie it is one of those you either love or hate. I love it. At the time it was made Coppola was on top form and could get away with the excesses he did (like the character Kurtz who "is operating out there without any control) but the movie stands as a testiment to one of America's best ever film makers. It is a pity he has not been able to discover his best form since then (although I did enjoy Bram Stokers Dracula) but if you listen to his DVD commentary on one of his lesser known projects "The Godfather" you can hear that he doesn't have the heart for movie making anymore which is a shame. But he has left us with the two Godfather movies (the less said about the third the better) and this masterpiece which rates a 9 out of 10.


                
