The dialogue, the script, the chemistry of the characters. Amazing. The dynamic of the characters is broad. I feel invested. I actually feel like it's true life. I'm from Baltimore and it reminds me of conversations with friends when I was younger. Darius is seriously my favorite character... everything about the guy. I'm still laughing about the gun shop scene. (dont think that's considered a spoiler)That was my review but they are making me fill more space. Just know that this is my FIRST review.. I think they deserve it.Not many words here but I rave about this show to everyone.Here's my 10th line.


                
I have seen the first two episodes, when are the next ones coming?I watched each episode almost a week apart. Each time I hated it. Each time the show ended it was only like 5 minutes. They show one or two scenes and the show is over. They better have 50 episodes per season to make up for this feeling.Each time I checked & the runtime was just over 21 minutes so my computer is in on it too. I don't know how the director and producers of this show got my computer in on it but I know their plot. There is no way a show goes by this fast and is 21 minutes long!Oh and the "main" character, Glover something, what is the deal with him? Is he a comedian or something. What is he trying to prove. I find myself laughing at the strangest and most uncomfortable situations while thinking of the scene and story at the same time. Why is he making me feel and think about the horrible situation while at the same time being entertaining and funny.


                
Looks like FX has once again found another island in the rough with their new show "Atlanta". Creator, Writer and Actor Donald Glover (no relation to actor Danny Glover) is that guy who everything seems to happen to him and/or around him. Featuring a primarily cast of color, Brian Tyree Henry, Keith Stansfield and Zadie Beetz (each established actors) will surely become household names with this series. Like some of my other favorite FX shows (The Americans, AHS, FARGO, You're the Worst), "Atlanta" is gritty, in-your-face and realistically captures a slice of life rarely shown on TV. "Atlanta" is an adult show about climbing the ranks into the rap scene, and surviving the neighborhood, that shouldn't be missed.


                
A huge TV buff, I made an account just to start reviewing after I watched this show. It is all around perfect. It's a dry humor, with very witty writing- but has me laughing all the way through. It's a bit awkward when things get serious, but the serious parts are strongly acted and are very deep and moving. I go from laughing hysterically one minute to teary eyed the next. Atlanta is all around one of the best shows I've ever watched. Donald Glover strongly grasps the raw emotion of mental illness, family relationships, and what it's like living in Atlanta.This show can relate to all people, and is presented to show others the perspective of a young black man trying to make it in Atlantas rap scene.


                
As a fan of the rap/Hip hop culture, I've already been introduced to Donald Glover, aka Childish Gambino. Just seeing him in the preview for this show got me excited. The show is centered around a young man named Alfred 'paper boy' miles and his cousin Earn Marks. Alfred is an up and coming rapper from Atlanta that just released his first mix-tape and his cousin,earn, see's he has potential. Being in the financial crisis he is, and having his knowledge, Earn sees an opportunity to make himself some money as 'paper boy's' manager, all the while trying to get his cousin to the big leagues. As a show created by a rapper, about the rap scene, i don't see anywhere the show could go wrong.


                
As and Atlanta native I fell in love with the show's ability to depict Atlanta's youth and hip-hop culture with slang words like "Fye" "Fire" and "Lit" as well as the show's ability to comment on social issues in the city with a unique sense of humor.


                
It's the best half hour comedy/drama to come out in a long time. Great acting, directing and even better writing. Donald Glover is a force to be wreckened with.


                
Not so much a laugh out loud show, more of an intelligent social commentary made with a lot of humour. Having said that though, I accidentally ingested something green and edible and the B.A.N episode (aka Donaghue) was one of the funniest things that I have ever seen it my life. I'm still not sure what happened.100% recommended. Brilliant TV.


                
It's shockingly real, hilariously sad, terrifyingly and I can't get enough. Paper Boi, Darius, Van and Earn are so real it hurts. Season 2 has truly tested every boundary. Genius In every scene. I watch and rewatch, just gets better


                
Wow, just wow. This was one of the most amazing TV shows i've ever seen. Just the way it's written and the acting is absolutely top class. The show gives you this amazing vibe you just wish you could hold on to. And when your finished the whole season if leaves you wondering what you'll do now with your life . The characters were very well developed, and the idea was amazing. There are 10 episodes in the season, which are all around 25 minutes, so it's very short but each episode tells a very unique story. The first episode blew my mind away, it was like a scrambled riddle that you've been spending years trying to figure out only to realize that the answer has been right in front of you the whole time. One of the main reasons I love this show is because of the characters, each one brings something to the screen, without them it would be like missing a piece of your life. Together they construct this group that no other show has ever shown me. I'd love to thank the writer of Atlanta, cause you really just blew my mind away. You guys created your own world in your own way, but I got to admit after watching episode 7; B.A.N, I was really confused, I thought maybe I was high, but I realized that it was the creativity of Donald Glover/Childish Gambino (my favorite rapper of this century). I mean that guy is so freaking talented.This isn't a show about getting to the top of the rap game, even though that's what the trailer led me to believe. It's a very creative smart funny humorous series that your wishing it was your first time watching it again.Also I'm the 7000 person to rate this on IMDb :)


                
Kept seeing previews of this show while I watched something mindless like Real Housewives or similar. Finally put it on and didn't realize it was a whole season in. Currently binge watching and am almost through the first one....This show is amazing. I saw it listed as comedy, which it's not in the conventional sense. More of a spot on social commentary. Like a wink and nod to real situations. Most shows have a learning curve where the actors take a few episodes of getting into character. Pilots are normally awful. Not the case with this one. Everyone is so natural where you believe it from the get go. It just keeps getting better with each episode. The rating on the tv says MA on every episodes, but I have yet to see anything super offensive compared to half the stuff on tv.


                
If you already know who Donald Glover is than you already know this show is going to be funny, nuanced, intelligent and captivating. You also know he isn't Danny Glover's g0dd@mn son. This is a man who is, in real life, a writer, actor, singer, DJ, and creator and has combined all his best attributes, amalgamating them into the series "Atlanta." You may know the singer Childish Gambino", or heard him on the radio and didn't even know it, or just have seen Donald Glover on a number of shows, but to really understand him watch one of his stand-up specials on Netflix and I doubt he is not entertaining/hysterical/thought provoking to many people. He comes across with a realness and genuine quality that is hard to find in comedy and when you see his repertoire of talents it hard to see them, stand back and just wonder how many things will this man produce in my lifetime (I'm 34). This show is off to a great start and I will absolutely watch anything starring this gentleman. Do your thang (sic) Paper Boi (sic?), because you got the right stuff, wet.


                
Everything about this show is great. The acting, the storyline, and the music. The music in this show really brings a perfect vibe to this show.


                
I have to say that I found this show to be brilliant. Each episode was interesting and made me laugh a lot of times. The cast is amazing and made me love all the characters. The plot of the show was also really good. I had been looking for a show like this for a while now and I was really pleased when I discovered it. I was hooked and watched it in less than a week. It has fresh ideas and funny moments and characters. It's way different than all the other shows that are running. If you're looking for something that has comedy, sarcasm, drama but also somewhat criticizes some of our society's aspects, you'll love this show. I found it to be very original and I've recommended it to all of my friends. I'm really Looking forward to a second season.


                
The background and the form merge and harmonize musically. The music Is important for narrative history and narrative. The music speaks, Music is a character, an omniscient narrator. Characters In need, the ambiance the vehicle. I devour this series in Sweetening the passing time on the pretext that it is only another Song, another track, another episode another half hour.Funny, real, well-played and authentic this series is worth the detour! To listen! For example in the scene of episode 6 where the woman Of Earn (mother of her infant) is in the restaurant with her '' best '' Friends and their discussion inevitably leads to discomfort, music Which plays in background: (music) Are we really happy here with this Lonely game we play, looking for words to say ...Brilliant!Google translation might not be accurate, i was too lame and tired to traduce myself... Shame on IMDb Long Live FRENCH


                
Such a dope series...10/10 recommendation!!
The fact that its so neutral through out but entertaining is amazing, you don't really get that from any tv shows or movies, only time i think i watched something really neutral yet entertaining was that Adam Sandler movie "Men, Women and Children"


                
Loved this series. So good, the only bad thing I can say about it is, I will have a hard time finding the next series to binge on that can even hold a candle to it.I'm not going to go into a bunch of analytical BS about the plot or the characters. I don't give a F about that S. If you are like me and look for a series that will actually mean something, then you're not going to be disappointed.Great work to all involved with the making of Atlanta.


                
This is hands down the best TV show that I have seen in many years. So new, different, funny and you can relate to it. We at least need 5/6 seasons of this show! The cast is great. The style of humor is on point. The subject matter is new and different from any other TV show before. The combination of all of these things make this a great new show. I pray that the Directors allow this show to continue to be fresh and new and to not box the writers and actors into a box. The industry and TV viewers need more shows like this. The usual 'slapstick'style comedy has run its course. I am glad to see this show/cast get recognized for some awards. They are well deserved.


                
*Very minor inconsequential spoilersI am in stitches!!! Oh man! I just watched the 5th episode, "Nobody Beats the Biebs". I am in awe of the wit of this show - and the balls to showcase Justin this way. Actually, the best part of the episode was Darius' experience. How can we not love Darius? I sit eagerly waiting to see what crazy thing he will do or say next and he is so sincere about it all.The social commentary this episode sure put me in my place. I felt very uncomfortable to see Darius hang up a picture of a dog for his target practice at the shooting range. It was no surprise to have others around him become angry and insist he take the picture of the dog down. Brilliantly, Darius points out that the others are using pictures of people for their target practice and wonders how this is more appropriate. My words can't convey how cleverly this scene was done through the writing, the acting, and the filming. Atlanta is full of this kind of deftly maneuvered commentary. I also appreciate that it unabashedly shows life in poorer black communities.Another reviewer mentioned that this show gives us the full unleashing of Donald Glover and I wholeheartedly agree. He has a brilliant mind for understated humor. Everything is so seriously undertaken, but cleverly hilarious.


                
Love it. They really capture the feeling of living in Atlanta. It's a unique place and they really capture it. The show is so unpredictable, which is something comedy shows have a hard time pulling off. Can't wait for 3rd season.


                
The most unusual and best series ever. The narrative is disjointed but still makes it captivating. And a certain kind of maturity is present throughout the show.


                
THIS IS AMERICA .......Love this show grateful im caught up missed the penultimate episode of season and the marathons will never been unappreciated. It's just a show that s actually shows people speaking in real dialogue & is touching even warm in its sensitivity to the characters in the most womderful surprises. It funny its timely these are ambitiously fun mostly good young Americans trying to go mobile in the upward direction. I wonder why we havent seen these kind of men women and kids in a realistic portrayal on tv before. THANKS FX...i love all the characters Donald is so handsome cute and Val the most beautiful actress ive seen on tv. Until Ms.Angela Bassett is back for more AHS!! This is such good timing for me.I once cancelled my cable for 5 years. And was thinking if theres no more Thrones or any really great shows i wont pay 120$ for tv! But im betting on FX even better than HBO WESTWORLD included! I love to be transported by art. Good tv now is what storybased films were when studios didnt bank on 5 superhero 3D flicks to make up the big money. Its got to be why we get the director of Shawshank to start the Walking deads first season.they wont be inedible for long now, based on rumours, but i am gonna wanna watch paperboi learn those hard lessons with Earn and Darius& Val et al.....really great show to look for song selections...and to the folks who MAKE Atlanta..youre on the right network! I look forward to more cool shows...marathons are grest for temporary depression and look the tunnel is back fkr season 3!!!!!! YYEEAAHHH.....


                
Waited this long to watch this show. needs more audience. people will love this show. Donald Glover and his team are brilliant individuals.


                
The script keeps you guessing not just between episodes, but inside of each show. One minute you are laughing, the next trying to figure out where the characters are going next. Definetly sit down with a mind ready to be expanded. While I don't relate to the culture depicted, Donald Glover does an amazing job at placing you inside each characters mind.Don't know if it makes we want to travel to Atlanta (there is a Georgia tourism apple at the end of some shows I noticed), but wouldn't mind getting some of the food shipped. Theodore Perkins and the cut out of Drake marked my favorite guest stars. Paper Boi and Darrius are great complements to Earn. The dynamic feels real and just hoping they all aren't too famous and busy to give us a Season 3.


                
Dear Atlanta writers.If Paper Boy ever goes to Canada, Vancouver, British Columbia to be exact; or Austin, Texas maybe. Please, make sure you get a cameo from Nardwuar the Human Serviette, an interview should be hilarious.


                
