This is a very well written, well-acted show, and Donald Glover is absolutely phenomenal as its lead. It's a show with many great moments.It's not, however, a series I plan to keep watching. In part, it's because there's too much quality television nowadays, making me insanely choosy. In part, it's because as I age I become increasingly mindless and more and more spend my times watching action shows like The Strain over intelligent dramas like Rectify. In part, it's because it falls somewhere in between shows which reflect my experience and shows that are so far outside my experience that I find them intriguingly alien, so that it's neither familiar nor unfamiliar enough to hit that sweet spot.If I watched more, I could probably really get into this, but as I say, there's a lot of competition for my limited viewing time. But I'd say everyone should take a look at this one.


                
After just finishing the first season, that I almost binge watched since the episodes are so short, I can see the potential of this series to go for many more seasons. It's not hilarious but there are some subtle humorous passages that makes you want to watch more. Brian Tyree Henry as Paper Boi is to me the funniest character of this show, and I think the whole series should be more centered about his character. The rest of the cast is also good, and all contribute in a different way to the story. A story about people trying to make it in the rap scene and in their daily lifes. I'm going to start the second season and I expect to still be entertained by this easy to watch show. Perfect to finish an evening before going to sleep.


                
Atlanta is an American comedy-drama television series created by, directed by, executive music producer, written by, produced by, and starring Donald Glover (The Lazarus Effect, The Martian). The series is about two cousins navigating their way in the Atlanta rap music scene in an effort to improve their lives and the lives of their families. I know this show has been over for a while now, and most people who wanted to see it already did. However, I finally finished all the episodes and I was surprised by the first season. I know there is a majority of people who love this show. It is either one of those shows you want to check out or you simply don't. At first, I didn't really care to view this series. But, once people started talking about how good it is, I decided to take a look. On the other hand, I did enjoy it, but I did not enjoy it as other individuals. Currently, Atlanta has a 100% on Rotten Tomatoes, so obviously many people are really digging this series. For starters, I think the show is funny. It has that dry kind of humor that not too many people like. For me the humor worked most of the time. Especially the "Justin Bieber" and Montague episodes!The few episodes of the series feel like a lot of character development, and a slow tide slowly building up. They open on Earn Marks (Donald Glover), lost in his own life and struggling to find some sense of forward direction. With a need to tend to the beautiful, brittle yet sympathetic Vanessa (Zazie Beetz), the mother of his child and to his own deep sense of career dissatisfaction, Earn makes the spontaneous decision to head back to his home turf and play manager to troublesome cousin Alfred (Brian Tyree Henry), who's on the cusp of making it as rapper Paper Boi. Along with Alfred's strange friend Darius (Keith Stanfield). The cast was absolutely a knockout! All the characters get an equal amount of screen time, the feel like real people, and are very well rounded with depth, back-story, and values. My favorite part of the series is definitely the cast. At times characters are really fun, other times weird, and at times serious. The show is a comedy-drama, and believe me there is some serious drama. These characters come across drugs, violence, poverty, racism, sexism, and domestic strife. What's doubly interesting about its strikingly large scope, however, is that Atlanta doesn't feel like an "issue" show. Rather, it naturally folds all of these topics with a comedy twist.The story is a story we have seen many times, the story from rags to riches. Glover does great in the role, however, Glover doesn't hold a candle to his two co-stars Henry and Stanfield's singular performances stand as arguably the best part of Atlanta. With their fun energy, mumbling, slang, stoned comedic delivery, organic chemistry, and pitch- perfect timing on delivering dialogue. So these are my final B*tchin' Buddha thoughts on season one of Atlanta. It has a really good cast, excellence performances, the writing is great, and all the characters feel real. Sometimes the comedy works, sometimes it doesn't. It is a very easy, laid back, comedy drama, and I wouldn't mind seeing season 2. I believe the first season of Atlanta earns a<U+0085>7 out of 10!Thank you all for reading, and or viewing, and I hope you all have an amazing day as always. And remember don't just get down, but get Boogie :)


                
So I like weird stuff, I like intelligent stuff, I like well done stuff. This show is those things. I am white, I mention this not because I think skin color matters but culture does. I am white alternative culture. I am tool on hard days, iron and wine on soft days. I don't follow drake, nikki Minaj or "black" hip hop urban culture. The color of the skin doesn't matter but we associate the culture with a color. So this is not my world. But that doesnt matter, good is good as I say. And this is good or at least the first season was. The characters are great, I love Darius, the first season was terrific. Season 2 seems way more self indulgent. Which is cool, if you like it. Honestly I am not sure I do. Every story is sort of early Seinfeld (stories about nothing) mixed with artistic high brow comedy. I am no stranger to this, but the first season seemed to be a story line following the career paths of a rapper and his manager. Now it is just these stories, each one unique and weird and almost seems to place the characters in hell or in some great Greek odyssey for 30 minutes. The characters don't grow or experience their lives as rappers or managers but for a moment and them bam, Darius is in a house with deranged white skin michael Jackson and his brother crippled vampire boy trying to escape for 30 minutes. Its intelligent, it allows me to enjoy hip hop black culture, but I preferred season 1. I like the concept of season 2 but, it broke with the original concept and its bizarre stories just seem off track now. It seems like a different show, and not in a good way though what I am watching ironically is in fact good, just out of place. I don't know how to explain it any better, other than to say it is worth watching if for no other reason than it is all those things I started this review by saying. I think it just does a 180 and loses the audience in the process.


                
