A TV show can consist of 5 individuals sat in a room & as long as it's well written it can work. Atlanta isn't set in a room, but it does work because it is well written. The battle has already been won.The writing doesn't alienate or ask too much of the viewer, rather it effortlessly lulls you along. There is an intentional dream-like quality to the writing that elevates it from the world in which it is set, ergo adds a magic unseen which sets us up to believe.I realise I'm making a ballyhoo about the writing, but it really is that good. They've managed to hit the sweet-spot. Good writing is hard to come by these days & its lack of presence is often masked with visual or audio trickery. Well done to those involved.The acting is good, the characters have an authenticity that is relatable & I'm looking forward to watching the rest of the series.
I really enjoyed the show and the message it was trying to get through to the viewers


                
Enjoyed Season 1 of 'Atlanta' but didn't start really getting into it until 2. I'm middle-aged and white, so don't pretend to identify with the lives of these guys, but can see the comic (not to mention social) potential in a series like this and thought a lot of things were well-observed. If at any point 'Atlanta' did annoy me I'm pretty sure it was the writers' intention (eg Donald Glover aka Childish Gambino's character 'Earn' is clearly meant to be complicated and frustrating). Season 2 goes all over the place, literally, with some very dark and funny moments! The art of this kind of TV series is when you keep coming back to moments in your mind afterwards. Smoking weed under the confederate flag on the university campus, Darius (Lakeith Stanfield)'s visit to the rich crazy recluse to collect the piano, that weird episode when Earn and Van (Zazie Beetz) visit a German festival ... probably all topped off by the episode where 'Paper Boi' (Bryan Tyree Henry) gets dragged around by the crazy barber. Henry's bemused expressions are priceless, don't remember the last time I laughed so much (think that was the intention? :))


                
OverviewIt's the birth of a new series and strangely, it's a dramedy. Which is a good thing for it makes it feel like Atlanta is bridging the gap between the comedy star Donald Glover is expected to bring and the rare, non-soap opera styled depiction of not only Black people but issues which are part of the culture.Trigger Warning(s): Gun ViolenceTopic 1: Looking At The Border of Being a Deadbeat (Earnest }Donald Glover} and Van {Zazie Beetz})With a job paying $5.15 plus commission, having a child, and living with his girlfriend who is dating other people, Earn's life isn't at its best. To put it frankly, he is struggling. What makes things worse though is he seemingly had this Princeton education he let go and now everyone treats him like a mooch. {Commentary}The mystery that needs to be solved is what happened at Princeton? It seems three years ago things were going right for Earn and then something happened. Something his parents don't know the details of, I doubt Van knows, and even the situation with her makes you raise an eyebrow. How in the world are you going to live with the father of your child, seemingly still mess around with him, but be upfront you are dating other people? Granted, if she didn't give him a home it would be likely he would be homeless since Earn's parents won't take him in, but damn! Her just letting it out that she was going to be out till 11 on a date was sort of harsh. Yet, it was also weird since they were making out, less than 15 minutes before she revealed the date, and she asked him to say he loved her. Which, in retrospect, perhaps was the deciding factor in if she would still go on that date.Topic 2: Paper Boi (Earn, Darius, and Alfred)Earn's cousin Paper Boi, or Alfred, could potentially blow up. His mix-tape isn't universally respected but is seemingly doing well enough for Alfred to not be struggling like Earn. So, seeing an opportunity, Earn tries to be Alfred's manager. Problem is, while Earn went to college, Alfred wants a Malcolm X type as a manager. Earn's counter is Alfred is his own Malcolm X and he needs a Martin. After all, Alfred is the type to greet people at his door with a gun and his odd friend Darius will have a butcher knife to back him up. Yet, despite being initial rejection, Earn presses on to get Alfred's single "Paper Boi" played on the radio and while an old friend, possibly from college, is of no help, a janitor named Prince (Alan T. Coleman) opens a door. However, being that Alfred is a Malcolm X type, it seems just as things were possibly going well he ruins it. All over a dude who kicks off Alfred's side mirror.{Commentary}Though not talked a lot about in the summary, honestly I think one of the most memorable characters of this show might be Darius. He, basically, is some sort of comic relief. For example, he is the type of weird dude who would ask Earn's father Raleigh (Isiah Whitlock Jr.) if he could measure a tree on his lawn and then pout and whine like a kid when told: "Not right now." Mind you, he isn't into trees or plants, but he is just this random cat who just says and does random stuff. Which sort of leads you to wonder how he and Alfred became friends, if not roommates? Now, it could be possible Glover and company may have introduced a gay thug rapper. Yet, there is also the possibility that while everyone abandoned Alfred after his mom died, like Earn did, Darius was still there. So, even if he may not offer much besides company and making cookies, at least Alfred knows he is there for him and not the potential of fame.HighlightsTo me, this show presents a different view of Black people. Yes, Alfred is thuggish and Darius seems like he belongs in a sequel to Half Baked, but alongside that you got Earn who seems like a normal dude. Granted, that Princeton dropout makes it seem like there are likely issues he is hiding, but how many Black male characters are there really like Earn? Much less who are the star and not some token best friend?On top of that, I like the idea that the drama is Earn trying to figure out a way to take care of his daughter and not end up homeless, and the comedy is everything else. To me, there aren't enough dramedy type shows out there. Especially, not to beat a broken horse, predominately starring Black people. Often it is either Black comedies, with the occasional dramatic episode, like Black-Ish or else it is a straight rainbow coalition drama like what Shonda Rhimes puts out. Which, I should note, there is nothing wrong with. The reason I can even note those shows and what they offer is because I avidly watch them. However, I also have watched shows like The Big C and many others which were rooted in the misery of surviving but finding little silver linings which get you through it. And that is why in the overview I say Glover is bridging a gap because it often feels like we can't get both a funny show which is also consistently serious about each character's issues. Yet, Glover changes that.On The FenceWithout checking the previews, honestly, I think the only thing which could bug some people is that the rap music we hear from Alfred, it might not be considered that good. So considering Earn is trying to manage and promote him, you may have to get used to Alfred's rhymes.
Donald Glover has created one of the most interesting television shows this year, and this has been one spectacular year for television. Atlanta follows Earnest "Earn" Marks played by Glover as a college dropout who helps his cousin Alfred "Paper Boi" Miles (Brian Tyree Henry) to develop his rap career. The show doesn't follow any set plot with just the idea of promoting a rap career in the background as each episode follows different characters as they go through entertaining everyday trials and tribulations.Earn also tries to make money for his child and her mother Van (Zazie Beetz). Van gets her own hilarious episode where she tries to fool a drug test with baby urine to hilarious results. Each episode walks the line between humor and seriousness without being too goofy or preachy. The show explores issues but adds in jokes that always keeps it lighthearted when it threatens to go down a depressing trail. This show is a critical darling and should be set up to win several awards.Check out more of this review and others at swilliky.com
Season 1 was hilarious and made me so excited for season 2. Unfortunately season 2 was depressing and not funny. Not sure why they changed the shows formula because the had gold. I absolutely can not stand the baby mama in that show. Her character made me want to turn it off. I just hoped it would be funny again and it wasnt. If season 3 is anything like season 2 I wont make it past episode 2.


                
This series manages to be entertaining and meaningful. One of it's strongest qualities is how it riffs on life's absurdities. The casting is spot-on. Several episodes this season were quite poignant -- the scenarios reflected empathetic themes, and many viewers will be able to connect.


                
Very entertaining and original. I love how it stays with the same storyline but can veer off and still keep your attention. It's definitely in tune with today's youth and current events, while keeping old heads like myself in touch. Great show!


                
I'm only a couple episodes in but this is a pleasant surprise. I've hovered over the show a few times, considered watching it, but you never know with comedies. So far I would call it a bit of a dramedy as the comedy is pretty subtle so far. The acting is really good and I really like the storytelling and pacing. Excellent writing. Thus far I would say the show floats somewhere between and 8 and 9 for me. I really loved the scene with the main character in the jail processing area. You really felt for him. And seeing all the crazy characters around him and their banter. I also liked seeing the perspective of Paperboy and his early stages of finding attention from fans and the stress of being labeled an old school rapper. Just a very well done show.


                
It's a Comedy-Drama very unusual because, you think that it's going to show you the gueto with all the gangs issues and all the classic 50 cent though guys fighting each other and the protagonist trying to survive the poorness and other family-friends problems. 
 Well, it's like the upside-down of that haha, you can see a very irrevent parody of that reality with some little touches of drama behind.  It's an unusual comedy, and it worth it. I'm waiting for the Second season pretty excited.


                
