Was excited that Netflixed put "The Expanse" finally on air. But after watching four episodes I quit, I was bored to death. A summary; Weak story-line, weak plot, boring uninteresting characters, actors that play mediocre at best. That guy who played that captain on the spaceship and that detective are exceptional uninteresting. Further more, boring dialogues, hysterical soundtrack AND NO Suspense what so ever. Whith the budget they have spend is, this is the output? I still have not figured out what the story is about. Viewers who rated this junk 8 or 9 out of 10, What were they smoking?? Come on I'm curious what is it?
Everything about this should have been my type of TV series but I found it difficult to watch. Had four attempts at watching the first two episodes kept giving up. It's just dull, the acting is poor, dialogue is bland, directing and editing bizarre at times, seems to be trying to win awards for most camera angles in a single scene. Very amateurish almost b movie levels of quality. Shame the idea sounded great but executed badly. CGI was good seems all money was spent on that. Others will like it just not for me. The guy in the hat seemed to strut around like a model, his character just didn't sit right in the genre for me. The endless attempts in the ship scenes to create drama by characters shouting random sound bites came across as badly ad-lib. Not for me but for those that love it enjoy I wish you well. It's actually worse than the remake of total recall very similar failings.


                
I tried hard to like this show. It's not everyday such a glossy big budget TV science fiction series comes along, however - having not read the book first (thank you God) obviously disqualifies me from understanding the plot. Major flaws infest this non-nonsensical crud. * Apart from a 5 minute appearance from Jonathan Banks the acting is of a terrible "just read the lines" "give the extras a go" standard. * The scenes are disjointed and often nonsensical. * Many of the characters cannot be understood because of the mumbling quasi South African/Jamaican accent being used by "belters" and simply because English is not the first language of many of the cast. Needs subtitles. * The "cop" is so underwhelming that I couldn't care less about his story or his quest to find some woman. Clichéd, flat and boring. * None of the characters are likable. All "leads" are very weak. * The portrayal of the populace is child like - e.g. no one eats or uses a bathroom. People don't swear! There's no religion - except ... Mormons! Yes Mormons! The Church of the Latter Day Saints. For some reason Mormons are being persecuted on earth and must build a spaceship to escape. I am not making this up. No mention or sign of any other religion is apparent. Should be called - "Mormons In Space"! You can knock on my door politely but don't invade my Science fiction! Rubbish. Avoid. Will be canceled once SYFY (non-Mormon) accountants see the show.


                
I was so excited to see a new SciFi TV Series starting as my husband and I are both HUGE SciFi fans.....WELL WASN'T I DISAPPOINTED!!!!!! At the moment I have watched up to S1Ep7 under sufferance....as my husband is still watching it waiting for it to get good....This is not happening yet. The actors suck, the plot makes no sense, there is way too much dialogue that doesn't make any sense or have any relevance, and scenes that seem to have nothing to do with the story line. For the people that think that this is the 'best thing since sliced bread'....can I please have some of the drugs you are taking so that I too may think that this is a wonderful series..... IN SUMMARY.....DON'T WASTE YOUR TIME WATCHING THIS GARBAGE....as you will never get that time back


                
"SyFy" channel's space opera "The Expanse" is a fascinating study on how to do everything wrong. Never before have I seen a show consisting ONLY of background extras who are placed in front of the camera and allowed to speak - their dialogue just throwaway collection of words meant to be background noise, and yet inexplicably fed to the viewer.There are no lead character(s) to connect with in any sort of meaningful way.The episode is a sequence of disjointed scenes which do not start, end, or lead into each other properly. It's like watching men with ugly facial hair speak Simolean. There's no sense of continuity in the physical space, either, as the CGI sets do not gracefully connect to physical ones.Several recognizable actors who show up here, must've been lured by the writers' accolades. When they see what has been done to them, they will be trying to get their characters killed off in order to save their careers. Poor Thomas Jane, "Mike From Breaking Bad", and that actress who played a radical Muslim in "24".


                
Maybe i am a dinosaur but i did not understand the whole story i wonder why people rated that good about it if you wanna compare it with pacific rim, i would rather watch pacific rim at least i understand what on earth is gonna happened, 24 hours even better than this one, maybe you have some good actors there but why they act weird, and it seems the story is not so clear enough only actors and directing staff can understand it .. for me i am just an idiot who doesn't understand what is the stupid story is about LOL OK ... i don't like wasting my time on this series, they have to work harder on the second season, this kind of style won't be survived for a long time


                
Books are breath-taking and attention-grasping. These episodes have nothing in common with book masterpiece. total disaster. Too many unnecessary drama and pitiful pathetic, too many fantasies from untalented writers, dialogues are poor, acting is unconvincable, logic is absent.. the only bright thing are costumes of Avasarala. But pictures are enough to enjoy. Don't waste your time, better read books


                
Should I write this review as I've only watched episode one? Actually I've started writing it just before the first episode has ended. However it is so awful I can't see myself ever getting into this. I do like intelligent science fiction but this is so unintelligent.The truly abysmal script is barked out to us by lousy actors. Nobody is believable in this. One character says: "When people don't tell the truth it always ends badly" as if this is a great pearl of wisdom.It looks dreadful. There is a lot of CGI but its not very convincing. It doesn't seem to be connected to the non-CGI.It sounds like some very cheaply made thing with bad mics and a useless audio engineer. The voices sound a bit tinny. The music for the dramatic moments is ludicrously overblown. At other times there is this continuous music which is like bad copyright free music.It is dire.


                
Great idea, big budget, amazing settings, decors, perfect visuals, stunning animations but all wasted!!! Because of very bad plot, very bad direction, unpleasant characters, terrible 3rd even 5th class acting, long boring meaningless scenes, boring dialogues. Since you can not empathize with actors (that you can do with actors of even 5.0 rated movies) and because of the terrible script you dont get excited, you are not glad, you are not sorry, you dont expect anything, you dont wonder anything, you dont expect anything to happen or does not happen. You dont perceive the emotion that actors or scenes try to give you desperately. Very big waste of time. Dont be fooled with so many fake reviews and ratings which is something very usual with movies pushed by big marketing budgets. Also dont take into consideration reviews like "dont judge the wole series by only watching 1st or 2nd episodes or 1st season..." It's an overall piece of shit.


                
Given all the 10- and 9-star reviews, I was expecting something interesting (at least). After two episodes, I bailed. I'm old; life is too short; there are much better ways to spend my entertainment time.
Production value will never trump story. Eye candy (great production value) is not enough to sustain interest. Gotta have a compelling story (or, better, several conjoined stories that converge in a satisfying conclusion).
If it's any help, I thought "Firefly" was great scifi.


                
I tried. I really did. All these high reviews so I thought there's got to be something good about this show. I stopped at episode 3 when I realized I was still watching even though I hated this show with every fiber of my being. It's boring, confusing, lacking in character development, so very slow and just plain painful to watch.


                
Unfortunately, you could watch most episodes and not know what season they came from. The plot doesn't seem to progress beyond some people in a blue-lit space ship, rattling around, doing epic nothing. I started watching series 3 with my partner and she complained that she couldn't remember the show, let alone what happened in the previous series. When I started to watch season 1, to remind her, it occurred to me that I had watched it about 4 times already, trying to remember anything that happened. Flicking back to season 3, it just looked the same, and I couldn't remember what episode I had watched.last week.It's that unmemorable, I won't remember watching any of it, very soon.


                
Gave this show a season, just couldn't get going. Probably best it was cancelled, i can think of 10+ shows that deserved not to be cancelled so 3 seasons, i think they had a good run. Shame, could of had potential.


                
I am a sci-fi fan, and this is classic dead-white guy sci fi. I mean, woman in refrigerators becomes woman on ice-ship. A veneer of female roles and racial diversity doesn't fix the underlying structure and I'm just tired of attempts trying to fix/redeem these works instead of working with something without those problems to begin with. If it weren't roughly the millionth retelling of the same story, it wouldn't be so bad. But I am not seeing anything new, unexpected, or different. It is a decent version of the same old thing. But it is the same old thing still.


                
