After watching half of the first season, I can say that this is just a mix of dis-likable characters, and dark dark pointless violence with not much development to the plot or the characters. The mystery behind it could be interesting, and the acting is convincing, but the writing is really bad, and its basically just a mix of seeing bad things happen to dis-likable characters with no explanation or real outcome that affects the rest of the story. I really like the syfy channel, but this show was just depressing, and I kept watching hoping it would get better because of the great reviews, but it's just gotten unbearable and now I feel cheated and regret ever pressing play. I hope this review helps people because this show really has a lot of violence both psychological and visual and was hard watching even for adults. I don't recommend it.


                
I am a real science fiction buff and love most of the SF shows on TV. However, this show completely lost me. Many scenes are dark so you cannot see who is who. Many of the characters seem to look alike and they all blend together so I have no idea who is who. I have no idea what is happening and who are the bad guys. Perhaps I should have read the book first, but the series did not say that it was a prerequisite.I really did try and watched almost all the episodes but I finally gave up near the end of the run. I have just seen a promo fro series two so I went to IMDb to check it's rating and was dumbfounded to see a high rating!


                
There are two Expanses...the books and this show. The characters in this show only have the same names as the characters on the book. With the exception of Avasarala their personalities are wrong, the chemistry between the crew is wrong, and since when are Alex and Amos under 40 years old? Not to mention that the story very, very loosely based on the books. I could go on and on. I was excited when I heard this was going to be a show. However, the screen writers decided to go with what the marketing staff at the Sci Fy channel wanted rather than being true to the books. I was very disappointed with season one and thought maybe season two would redeem it. Nope. It got worse. Boring, no chemistry, and a story that could have been so much better.


                
I'm usually a sci-fi fan, although I must admit I've never been a Star Trek fan, or Battlestar Galactica or Firefly or Stargate. Just not my thing. But I am a fan of Star Wars and Alien for instance. I guess the TV format isn't my cup of tea. Anyway, about The Expanse... The characters are not likable at all, they just blurt out clichés and catchphrases and the dialogues are lazy, at best. The special effects are average, I guess... for a TV Show. The plot is a huge stretch! The "belters" speak some sort of English/Creole rigmarole, so I recommend subtitles. The technology is very advanced (sort of a Minority Report style) but they still use dollars as currency. And then there's the Mormons, who don't knock at people's doors anymore (Although they still use the same outfits as today), but they invite you to go watch them do stand-up comedy gigs, for some reason. Also, they're building a giant ship to take them to a remote planet where they'll be able to live their own religion, away from persecution and terrorists. Also there's some rich girl who disappeared and the cop with the ridiculous haircut tries to find her like his life depends on it. Oh and the cop is the usual kind of cop that we saw a billion times in shows and movies. Aloof, unconventional, unwilling to "play by the rules", with a Batman voice and five o'clock shadow and all that crap. So, that's my assessment. I watched 5 episodes and for now, I am not impressed. I don't know if I'll try to watch it further (I have lots of free time) but in my opinion nothing justifies the 8.2. I'll give it a 2 for now, because I wouldn't say it's awful. I do believe the people at Netflix are smart people! I'm a huge Daredevil fan, and Grace and Frankie, and Stranger Things, among others. So maybe it'll get better. Somehow.
So I watched the first episode and almost couldn't finish it. The premise sounds great but unfortunately the bad acting, bad CG and story line got me out. When I was about 30 minutes in I still couldn't figure out whats going on, sure there are people working on the asteroid rings, lacking of enough water and oxygen while working for the people of earth, i get that. But everything else with the bounty hunter? Whatever. Also it is so cliché for every new TV series too appeal to teens you have to have a couple where the guy must have a six pack, and when the girl died I felt nothing, I actually had to laugh a little bit.And can someone please fire the editor, the transitions are horrible, it's just always a L-cut when switching from person to person in a conversation or person to scene. I mean it's okay too use it but not ever single time. And also that color grading is way too much, of course to get that sci-fi feeling it eventually must be orange and blue but there is too much orange blue going on.Overall it didn't hook me therefore 2/10


                
I make that summary in the middle of an episode since I noticed I couldn't pay attention any longer. The first season and first 4 episodes of the second held my full attention which is rare. I binged the whole thing one after another, maybe this is part of the reason I'm having trouble at the moment. These deep ends I speak of have my mind wandering while I should be paying attention, then I lose focus and suddenly some giant mirror thing is blowing up and I'm not sure what's going on. I do appreciate the lack of romance/relationship/sex scenes, as I grow older I find these scenes to be a complete waste of time. I don't want to devote 5 minutes to watching people say "i like u a lot u like me a lot" and then rubbing their bodies together. I think the creators recognized this and I'm thankful for it.My biggest problem is the accents and mumbling in many of the scenes, specifically with the Iranian actress who plays Chrisjen the politician. Here we have an ESL woman with a heavy accent and a speech impediment doing a fake accent on top of it all. ewf I twyped in swe manneugh in viewtch she wspoke it world be ilredgible. If you can understand what I just typed, I guess it's not much of a problem for you but you are the 0.1% I'm sure. I'm Canadian and have had no shortage of conversations with people who could barely speak English, so for anyone without a strong grasp of the language much of this show is probably too difficult and frustrating to understand.I also have a huge problem with the show pushing diversity, that we're all one world peoples and that race is only skin deep. These "strong" female leads are detrimental to people's perception of reality as well. There's one martian woman who keeps trying to pick a fight with a black man from earth as if it were slightly possible in a million years for a 130 pound 37 year old woman to contend with a 200 pound black man with prime muscular structure and bone density. Ladies, do not let this get to your head, I've seen the real world repercussions of women believing that they're capable of defeating a man in physical combat. They get their heads hurt badly.I have plenty more to say, Thomas Jane is good, I expected him to be killed off sooner due to his higher-up celebrity status but was pleasantly surprised that he lasted into the second season. Amos' actor and character are a surprise too, the second season has some great improvements. Not a fan of Jimmy's character or acting, but it's alright. I also think that hundreds of years of blowing things up in space would probably result in far more debris destroying things and raining down on the worlds but it's fine if they pretend it wouldn't be an issue.
This Expanse series continues, like most other made for TV syfy productions, to fail basic middle school science. And it's hard to fail classes these days. Just to make money if you're going to dumb us down, don't dumb us down to the level of snails. Sorry snails. 1. Right off the bat we are given, as the space craft pass by, swooshing sounds in the vacuum of space. 2. Then you're given these hugely massive outlandish structures which any middle schooler would say - "Where & how were they built, and the cost for one space structure would bankrupt a whole planet?" Do the writers/directors, etc. have any idea of the distances they so freely presented, or the conditions of vacuum, temp, radiation, billions of space particles traveling at times close to light speed? Ahhh, details. 3. Two hundred years from now and they're still wearing late 1900s clothing accompanied by the same period dialogue/slang; still fighting the same way? Well, they do intersperse some ridiculous Hollywood costume designed synthetic wear made to look futuristic, but look comic bookish. 4. Storyline is a mix of 1900s westerns and war movies only it's Earth against Mars against whomever resulting in lots of boring redux fight scenes along with lots of talking heads scenes. There is an alien thrown in for good measure. 5. Usual CGI of the currently favorite, now seen in most syfy/horror films, of bluish light/electrical effects. Very copycat redundant. 6. Actors, as is normal for these productions is cost effective, keep it cheap to make producers more money, with resumes of D class movies you've never heard of and/or lots of TV daytime serials.


                
BBBOOOOOORRRRIIIINNNNNGGG. Watched the pilot episode. Special effects were top notch, but an actual story would have been good. More than enough for me, so bye for now, and don't come back. Probably might enjoy Snarknado more, but we'll never find out. No real need to go back. Keep trying with something else, you might just get a real hit.


                
So, after reading some of the raving reviews and checking at the vey high IMDB score, I thought I'd give this one a shot.I waited for something cool to happen for 8 epiisodes and simply got bored. Extreme dissapointment. The plot is complicated and uninteresting. Nearly zero speciial effects, cool aliens etc. It's a drama in space and a boring one at that.


                
Well, I gritted my teeth and watched three episodes before I gave up in disgust. Honestly, what is this waste of time and money - luckily there doesn't seem to be any talent to waste in either the actors or writers - trying to achieve? It's boring, predictable and clumsy: I have never seen such a disappointing mix of attempted pretentiousness and dumbed-down story in my life - and I've seen some real stinkers. My 2-star rating is probably overly generous but the cast clearly needs some money for acting school - or at least new agents.The search for something worth spending my precious time on continues - this certainly isn't it.


                
First episode was hard to get through or hold my attention. The storytelling was awful. What was happening to Julie Mao required I assume alot.


                
Failed middle school science then this show is for you. 
Like lots of cheap panning camera talking heads to fill film time, yep. 
Need baddies vs. goodies, of course. 
Need blue light luminescent human alien infestations; sorry been done countless times before. 
Impressed by lots of floating screen computer graphic simulations; doesn't take much to make you happy. 
Think the space ship designs are a no-brainer possibility; back to middle school for you. 
Think humans thriving on those other planets/bodies is as easy as is shown then you never outgrew thinking your toy models were real.


                
