Several reviews I read of The Expanse before it was officially released made the claim that it is SyFy channel's answer to The Game of Thrones--so, basically, it's "Game of Thrones in space." If that's what the creators of the show were intending (and it does seem that way), then it would appear they thought what made that other show great was the fact that there are many different factions fighting against one another . . . period. Apparently they didn't understand that what people like about that better show are the characters, the story and the exotic settings. All The Expanse has of any of the elements of The Game of Thrones is various factions vying for dominance over one another. There doesn't even seem to be a very compelling reason for this"war," either (I'm pretty sure it has something to do with water, but that fact quickly fell to the wayside in dialogue and setup). Most of the characters are thinly sketched out (owing to little screen time), the story seems disconnected (the show jumps around so much that I'm always left feeling like an episode was only 15 minutes long), and the settings . . . well, it's space, for the most part, which is just black and empty and not very interesting. The writers here could have put more effort into getting us viewers more invested in one faction and characters within that faction, but they've failed on that point as well. As other reviewers have pointed out, the show tends to shift focus quite often- -sometimes to develop a particular mini-story and characters within it only to drop them later--and you find out the whole thing was just to set up some story point. I'm trying not to spoil anything here, but it's hard to write about this using general terms. Mostly I feel the show lays out some very basic ideas and then jumps around way too much from one group/character to another; I've watched every episode so far (five I believe) and I have very little idea about what's going on. I predict The Expanse will not renew for a second season--and if it somehow makes it, that definitely won't get a third. SyFy has better, more successful shows already in the pipeline that will end up bumping The Expanse off the roster.


                
Really disappointed with the expanse. I've read all the books currently out and this show blows in comparison. I know it wouldn't be a very interesting TV show if it was just from miller's and Holden's perceptive like in the book but adding in characters from different books and unneeded plot points that do nothing to help the story is driving me nuts. The whole drama between Holden's crew is just crap. They were close to each other enough that they melded as a crew. They weren't fighting constantly with each other. And giving members of Holden's crew back story that has zero impact on the story is dumb. Not pleased either with the cast. Not at all what I imagined. I know there is nothing that says they have to make a word for word adaptation of the book but it seems like the book was just skimmed through and cherry picked what they wanted and added crap in for drama. I sure hope the authors didn't have much say in this for how bad it is. The books are amazing but this show stinks.
So this series is getting some great reviews, which makes sense, it's very nicely produced.Is it good though? I'm gonna compare it to McDonalds. Is the food good? does it taste good? No, it's crap. but People love it and by it in insane masses.This series caters to the same people. They are turned into such blind consumers, that they think every new Netflix series is super dope, when in reality it's just some more "fast-food" TV being shoved down their throat.But they love it! Everyone who likes really good Series, like Breaking Bad, Dr.House, Game of Thrones, The Wire etc. should stay far away from this. This is just some new wannabe mysterious Sci-fi series, like Battlestar Galactica, but with much worse acting, pacing and story. 70% Of the material is filler, that has no effect on the story at all. It does look pretty nice, and has some very cool inventions from the future, but those are pretty inconsistent. On the one hand you have basically cyborgs, on the other you have people still using Smartphones.


                
OK, i love science fiction(IMDb correction) adventures .. that being said this pisses me off . OK . it looks like a colorized 1940's movie, with 1970's colorization techniques .. OMFG what the hell? .. this is i only watched the first of the 4 scenes it has out , that being said .. within 10 ,minutes .. a flying arm? after it gets cut off .. as if its a major plot point? then right away after that 2 people have sex in zero gravity ? .. seriously?, all of a sudden the properties of physics are now changed ? .. OK, and now within 5 minutes , some crazy (IMDB cut expletive)has a gun, while he's stomping on a little plate of ground or earth dirt (whatever) and loses his mind and shoots a gun into the outer wall and through a TV set .. seriously? and the commander lets it go and walks away ,he has a gun on a space station !!!!!!!!!!.. like he slipped it through customs .. in the year 2033 or what ever it is?i know the acting crew is really working with this, the actors are actually very good with what they have to work with, and the special effects are not bad either, but the writing and direction are cringe worthy .. but seriously .. this is a total burn .. i was so (IMDB cut expletive)withing 15 minutes . i had to find a porn site to get relief.most of this will be edited because IMDb only wants pretty profiles for you to read ..as it is .. i have 3 more episodes and 30 minutes of the first to change my mind .. if it gets better .. i will definitely edit this ... how ever it will be an edit of following episodes ..out of the gate .. this series (IMDB cut expletive) .. just my opinion


                
Do you have hope for the future I mean real future not television.Our World is getting pretty disrespectful don't you think? Pretty sadistic and evil.agreed?Then welcome to modern TV which will produce for you a show that will be stunning, have amazing special effects but will do nothing but deteriorate our morality.Of course it shows the future in an evil eroded fashion. People are selfish using drugs and caring nothing for any of their contemporaries. It will leave you emotionally bankrupt but yet you will think you've just seen a hit sci-fi.you will see torture blood senseless blood so that's modern TV.So be prepared for elaborate sets great special effects and a very dark evil script and lots of visual negativity. How's this, an arm ripped off of a man and the cut scene instantly is sex. Your human mind can only respond ask yourself who is in control? I can not in good conscience recommend the show but I am sure you are all going to watch it anyway. You know the world's morality is ready to self-destruct.I can't really understand why producers of television are leading us into self-destructive black television unless of course there's an underlying plan. Anyway welcome to another socially bankrupt dark program. It will leave you with more than you expected.


                
Lot of things were better in the first season, but these are some major things and opportunities the show had going and didn't really work on.1. Aliens by the end of the first season were a big threat to everything in the solar system. Episode "Home" kind of breaks this down by itself, because just a few days after discovering the terrible scale of the protomolecule disease, the audience is already shown that it is easily controlled by the good guys. So why care about anything related to the chasing of its remnants down through the rest of the show? What should have at least happened already (and not until s3) is that some worse representatives of mankind should have taken the blue stuff and control of it for their smart purposes, but instead we spent episode after episode going after something that ends up being a lonely mindless alien guy. Even if some bad doctor had several of these to send down on people, it really isn't proportional to what audience could have expected (and is shown maybe briefly again by Miller's funny blues).2. Earth's shadowy conspirators basically vanished just as quick. During the whole 2nd season Avasarala is never threatened by anyone who could take her position or life away with real power, and all she does is just telling everyone what to do or how to fk off. Can't help but think that if conspiracy had been there then Miller might still have had some detection work to do in proving it.3. Another big plot in space is supposed to be the sore diplomacy between the three factions. You only get to see one silly incidence after another that don't really mean anything for the following up story. Why all of it is futile to watch, is because since there are no conspirators, there is actually no one who is trying to make a war happen here. Scientists behind protomolecule did not care about any of this stuff, and what we know about Mao is that he cares deeply about Earth and his family, and all of of those would be perfectly fine as far as we know, if UN would leave everyone else to be. In Season 3 it will be up to belters (Dawes who disappeared from the screen or somehow Johnson who got the weapon) to make all wars happen, which is opposite to the whole idea in s1 that the conspirators are just using belters as their cover up.Related to how interesting their fate is, is that the whole image and charisma that was built for martians in s1 is completely lost with the new characters who as marines are mostly teens fighting each other, and rest of them just as bland. I think it was a pretty big mistake to give the marine team a different type of helmet as well. I'm pretty sure it was also mentioned at some episode that MCRN too has stealth ships which was supposed to be a conspirator thing.--If everything about the war and handling of blue children is just skippable as a silly delay where no one had anything to gain or learn about either thing, then here are some issues that the ring episodes failed over with.1. Mao's daughter is supposedly more driven by her caring about her father than only going after one person whose involvement in every turn of events is never proven solid to her to be so significant over other possible characters. Even if she would want everyone to suffer (except every person she meets) her actions will be in conflict of this definition of her motive, if she starts another war in the system, and takes any kind of risk in doing it that would lead its framed start back to her family. Instead she could have just tried to get close to Holden by getting a job on Rocinante, because that ship was missing a person who can repair critical malfunctions, and must have been looking for one for the whole time like every other ship that would keep a good number of theese kind of people at hand.2. Conflict of nations was never carried far on one side of the ring anyway, and was only needed later to make for a finale. At this there could always be actual reasons for it, because if the characters and viewers both think that Miller is dead, and this is not all his game, then when there is a first encounter with a more powerful alien intelligence, different nations who come out of a nuclear war would try to make sure this alien is their ally or atleast not an ally to someone else. It did not occur to people before either that the same alien on Eros or Venus would not look upon their rampaging around the system with love, so when they see one of them going inside the alien house, they could always go after with guns even if the person has not been decleared as a bad guy, in a world with technology where every bad guy must be approved to be such by the president's old friend.3. Once so close to the aliens it might be bold to go do something to maybe study them, when no one in your ship had probably waited to get a message for authority to do so, before they entered the ring, and you are only limited to blowing things inside the alien place to pieces. However for martians I would say this is a bad justification, because for all the seasons I don't remember having seen any martian government, and they could just be a lie, when even martian planet destroying weapons can operate automaticly.4. As for belters, they should probably be in control of themselves for all above points. And if someone really has to go into shoot everything mode ask questions later, it might at the end after careful studying of the facts and workings of things inside/outside the cloud to be done for the next reason. Alien does seem to be all-powerful, and even if it did let some humans stay alive for a bit longer, whether as their beneficial gateway or a star freezer, if the humans just agree to go along with what Miller wants to bring upon them, they are only his slaves. Even if he was merciful and stopped messing with their lives, some people would react to a reality with him in many random ways leading to hysteria and even suicides. Anyone who tattoos their ship with anarchy symbols might want to go stop this, but not with tiny laser sprays but by overloading all the reactors now close to the center sphere. It has worked perfectly fine against most blue formations before, involves more massless particles than the laser, and is what the thing might seem to be worried about according to some sources.5. It would have been more interesting if Miller had actually been limited to talking through old references of himself, although this may not be very logical where if a being understands language, it should make its messages appear in target's brains pretty easily. Even if nothing suitable was ever written before, then it could have been added now and they could have spent more time in some puzzle solving, and even if nothing ever needed to be done as their result. Also If a brain penetrating alien knew Miller's last thoughts it shouldn't convince anyone that the alien is your friend.Season 1 was good because the bigger things were always distant, but almost certainly making a play on the characters. Who had smaller stories that had longevity and good development for becoming a little involved. Other seasons have worlds that are much smaller (around increased number of characters), predicting that there is nothing that can be hiding in them from (or behind) some event that a script usually has made up forcibly (with unrealisticly low number of characters, who then just need to be unstable) and needs to keep in full focus (by having a character experience something that is the entire turining point in a war, or the entire blue event).
Slow. Deadly slow. Many diversions, mostly pretty pointless. Take a scene that should run 10 seconds and expand it to five minutes. Rinse. Repeat. Draw out the dialog to pointlessness. Toss in random elements and BANG! you've got a tv series. Just like any other tv series.


                
After three seasons, it is about well time for me to call it quits.The story taken from the books is actually quite interesting, but they could not have chosen a more boring & annoying way to tell the story. Good visuals, granted, but that is it. The whole rest is utterly forgettable.No sense of humour present, at all. Character development went from cardboard to stencil in all these years. Acting not worth mentioning. It is beyond me how this show can get such high ratings on IMDB. Alas, to each their own I suppose...Bottom line:If this show were a car, then one could change the tyres whilst driving it!


                
