I've seen at least one episode of virtually every sci-fi TV show since 1987. I'm sure I've seen worse than The Expanse, but I cannot remember one. This show obviously "looks" good. Great special effects. But the actors and characters are terrible. The dialogue is terrible. I found myself rooting for the asteroids.I'm sure there is a market for a show based two hundred years from now featuring a bunch of meth-addicts/potheads, but I'd be shocked if this lasts more than one dreadful season.


                
This review is written after having seen the first five episodes on season one. I've never heard of the books, but I like science fiction so I had hopes for this show. But something about it feels underdeveloped. The story doesn't really go anywhere, it sort of meanders on. And a slow burn is fine as long as you feel that it's heading somewhere, but it feels like this show is spinning its wheels.However, the biggest problems are the characters (or lack thereof). It might be unfair, but I can't help comparing it to Battlestar Galactica (the new version). That show made a tremendous job setting up the universe, the story and characters within the first hours (or even hour, singular) of the show. I'm halfway into the first season of The Expanse and I still don't know who these characters are and what really motivates them. What do they want and why? You can always do the old film school 101 test: Describe the characters without saying what they look like or what their role or function is. Let's take two examples from BSG (there are plenty more) just to illustrate: Starbuck: A cocky hotshot pilot who has a problem with authority save for her commander/father figure Gaius Baltar: An arrogant yet charming genius racked with guilt, hiding a huge secret (I don't want to spoil anything for people who haven't seen BSG) Now try to do the same thing with two of the main characters in The Expanse, Thomas Jane's detective character and the dark haired guy who I guess is some sort of XO or captain (?) on the small ship investigating the distress beacon in episode 1 (I'm purposefully writing this review without looking at the cast list, and the fact that I can't remember any of their names after having watched the show for five hours says a lot). They have no character traits.The only things I can think of are "hat" and "not Thomas Jane".The characters on this show are so nondescript that I had a hard time telling them apart in the scenes with the crew on the small ship investigating the distress beacon. And it doesn't help that the acting (especially in that group) is pretty weak throughout.And something is definitely off in the directing of the show. There is no real sense of urgency. Like the big action set piece in episode four or five where the Martian (?) ship is attacked and boarded. There are two holes punched through the hull where the prisoners are being kept, I assume sucking all the air out of the room. Yet everyone act like they're out on a Sunday stroll in the park. There's no real sense of danger or threat. The same with the shootout scenes on the ship. They feel so amateurish.I might hang in for another couple of episodes, but I doubt I'll watch season two unless something spectacular happens in the end of this season. It's such a shame. The show looks pretty (although very derivative of other science fiction movies) and at times I hoped for another science fiction show battling political issues like class (the politics on BSG was my favorite part of the show), but so far it feels more invested in the mystery aspect which is less intriguing thus far.
In short, this is a low budget Sci-Fi series based on the novels by James S. A. Corey, apparently they're pretty faithful to the books which saves me the trouble of ever bothering to read them. The 'plot' is dull, the acting is mediocre, the dialogue is insipid, the characters are of no interest whatsoever and are extremely flat, at no point could I ever care less about any of them. It is extremely slow and unexciting, and fails to create any tension or hold any interest whatsoever, i'm amazed i managed to get midway through the eighth episode. It is however, a great aid to sleep. I think this show is best summed by my constant nodding off during it, which made me think I was really tired when I wasn't, because as soon as I put something else on, I was wide awake.Please don't make the mistake I did by sticking with it, it doesn't get any better.


                
This seems to have a massive cult following, and good luck to it. We desperately need Good sci fi movies and series. This is ok but it's definitely not brilliant and nowhere near as good as some of the reviews would have you believe.In order to trust a review/reviewer, it/they need some perspective of what's gone before and what's going on now as well as an understanding of exactly what 'sci fi' is.For example, knowingling risking the wrath of millions of Star Wars fans, Star Wars is not sci fi - it's Cowboys and Indians in space. Much of the 'science' is suspect, even allowing for our customary Suspension of Disbelief, and notwithstanding that the early episodes, at least, had a good plot and storyline.But enough of that.The Expanse has a good storyline but it's lost in poor plot and series development. Far, far, far too many episodes (only looking at Series 1 here) are drawn-out fillers with only a few minutes, if any, devoted to plot development. Such is the way with many America series these day, god knows why. Breaking Bad was one of the first - slow, slow, slow, slow with a crumb of plot in the last five minutes.And it's not really new. 200 years on, they're still using guns. Probably sponsored by the NRA! (Ironic note for our American readers).What happens is that the developers give some of the series' episodes to 'guest writers' who are told to include such-and-such a plot point so then they go off topic and do their own thing including only the bit they need to. Meh!Anyway, I watched the entire first series over a couple of days and such is the excitement that I couldn't remember certain characters or plot points when they reappeared. Partly because some characters appear so seldom. Yeah, it's probably me, but it was obviously so riveting. (Yeah, America, that's irony, too.)Now, it's not 'bad', it's just vastly drawn out and poorly developed. You'll find yourself shouting 'oh, get on with it!' many times.So it's not bad, it's not just as good as it thinks it is or as many reviewers, no doubt desperate for a good sci fi series, think it is, either. Of course, the series ends on a cliff-hanger - if taken from the book, it's probably the end of chapter 4! I won't lose any sleep if I don't watch series 2.It's a 1 1/2 hr movie expanded into 9 episodes. You may enjoy it but if you have a life or any sci fi history, you will not be overwhelmed.


                
In principle I love sci-fi. That said, I don't have much recent sci-fi to compare The Expanse to as I don't see much of it; largely brought up on Battlestar Galactica, Logans Run, Star Trek, Star Wars, Space 1999, UFO, and so forth. I really wanted to like The Expanse. So much so I struggled through the first two seasons, may yet try the third, and was captivated by it to a degree.But, damn, its hard work to watch! The acting, script and much of the story is awful. If you've played the Mass Effect games, then you've seen The Expanse. It is practically identical, complete with wooden acting, repetition, glitches, stilted conversation, and poorly-timed and awkward sequences. I say that as someone who really enjoyed ME I and II. Its all very well claiming technical accuracies in The Expanse. And there are some. But so long as you have sound in space, ridiculously implausible scenarios casually littered in each episode, any gems of sci-fi realism will be undone. Zero gravity scenes are great. Only to be ruined by the equally common "Brace yourself for a max-G burn!" scenes, where forces are so great to elicit bloody noses and barred teeth, yet barely push a hair or eye-lid out of place. Its all reminiscent of Captain Kirk and is crew throwing themselves from one side of the bridge to the other as Klingons attack.So, I'm glad some are enjoying it. But, its really not all that, I'm afraid. Sadly, I can see why it was cancelled, and has cheap TV stamped all over it :-(EDIT: ok, now half way through the 3rd season. Wow. Total change in gear. Script improves. Story depth improves. Self awareness in the story. Pity it took until now though.


                
The first season is pretty good, film noir with a unfortunately modest Humphrey Bogart replacement, critique of capitalism as it once was in the 1970s.
Following seasons are not so good, sometimes really trashy.


                
