This series is worth pure gold galore. It is British and that means the actors are absolutely excellent, the settings and the production are extremely fine and rich. The details are not neglected and that is a real pleasure. The best part is of course the work on the language, the speech patterns, and you can imagine the pleasure they take when the two characters move to New York. The contrast between the extreme aristocratic tone and intonation, the fascinating politeness of Jeeves, the Valet, and the American secular and even gross way of speaking with no affectation is a bag of diamonds on the screen. The action takes place in the 20s or 30s with some kind of fuzziness as for the time period. We seem to still be in the prohibition era, and at the same time not to be in the post 1929 depression. So we could be in the 1920s. That corresponds to the period Francis Scott Fitzgerald preferred for his rich idle young American men and women coming to Europe to enjoy their idleness in pure carelessness. But here these young aristocrats are constantly taken up in innumerable intrigues that have to do with their century old rivalries and jealousies, or their innumerable love affairs and hormonal capers. The main character is not so much Wooster, the aristocrat, but Jeeves, his valet, because he is the one who constantly builds the intrigues, thickens and even sickens the plots, in many ways manipulates his "master" into doing things he would like to do but can't do because he is a valet, a servant, and that would be too risky for him. He is also some kind of guardian angel for his "master" saving him quite often from total perdition at the very last minute. He is the champion of all escape makers and escape planners. But this series goes a lot further than that. We cannot say that the social content is that rich and that we could speak of social criticism. It is a comedy and does not intend to become a social drama or a social epic. That humor is English and only the British can produce it. It is both so elaborate and so extreme that it is hilarious from beginning to end. You thus have all the themes you need to really be humorous from a pure English point of view. You have them all, and even more. Old spinsters, old bachelors, plumbers, bobbies, Anglican priests, twins, old aunts and old uncles being fooled by young nieces and nephews, all kinds of grotesque characters, the fools and the crazies of this world, even some good Africans and judges. You cannot miss the all man's club and the impersonation of so many characters that we just wonder at times if we are not back in Shakespeare's Twelfth Night. Disguises, transvestites, foolish capers, you name it you have it. The rhythm of these parades is so diabolical that you can hardly follow them, even if they are predictable at times to the very second. But they are too funny for you not to play the game. The only missing character is the desert island and the marooned person there under his coconut tree eating ladyfingers. That is a must for those who like British humor, slightly black, definitely grinding to a crazy downfall, certainly not to a halt. I just wonder if we could not say it is a classic.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Paris 8 Saint Denis, University Paris 12 Créteil, CEGID
Anyone who has seen Hugh Laurie in TV's House won't recognize him as the bumbling Bertie in this series. What an incredible goofball! Of course, each episode has the same basic plot:1. Bertie encounters an uncomfortable social situation amongst his wealthy early 20th century British friends and relatives. 2. Bertie asks his butler Jeeves' advice. 3. Jeeves' advice gets him into much deeper trouble. 4. Bertie thrashs around to extricate himself but fails. 5. Jeeves comes to the rescue with a risky but brainy solution. 6. Bertie escapes by the skin of his teeth. 7. Jeeves quietly takes credit for the escape and escapes blame for creating the trouble.So, you probably wouldn't want to watch 5 or 6 of these in a row. But, in small doses, these are great!


                
This show is full of surprises and so much fun to watch. Brightens a bad mood every time. I had to go out and get a book and it's just as good. These actors are the very best to play Wooster and Jeeves. Jeeves seems to have been engaged to every girl that he has ever met. Jeeves has cousins all over the place that keep coming up in conversation. You would think that Jeeves would have been the millionaire and Wooster would be the butler. You know throughout the episodes that Jeeves is the one with the brains. Wooster lacks reasonable thinking and depends on Jeeves to think for him and help him out in every situation he gets himself into. This show gives me a warm innocent feeling of days gone past. The language, and the scenery alone is worth watching Wooster and Jeeves for. Jacqueline


                
I do not believe that Stephen Fry and Hugh Laurie played Reginald Jeeves and Bertie Wooster. The spirit of Wodehouse through the characters of Jeeves and Wooster infiltrated the living presences of Fry and Laurie and for 23 wonderful episodes walked the earth and brought us back to 1920's England. There is such a remarkable chemistry between Fry and Hugh that is magical and inexplicable.For those who don't know the story, Wooster is the stupid aristocrat who leaps into turbulent waters without looking and his valet, Jeeves, must rescue him from drowning in bad judgment. However, Jeeves is incapable of instilling any kind of good sense into his employer, although he always tries. In many ways Jeeves and Wooster is a modern day "Marriage of Figaro", however here the lower social class mentors the upper and even saves them for themselves.Bertie is not the only fool populated in Wodehouse's world. Much of the young male English upper-crust is portrayed as bumbling inept fools who have too much time on their idle hands, conniving and scheming in strange and frivolous exploits. And Bertie Wooster is the quintessential heir to not only stupidity but a large family fortune. In short, Bertie is a scatterbrain's scatterbrain who would bet (and lose) the entire family estate on the local sack race and then have to explain to his Aunt Agatha that it was a sure thing. But his plans do not end with monetary exploits. Bertie would push a young boy off a bridge in order that one of his colleagues would rescue him in order to impress a young woman, only to have it backfire. It is Jeeves who always comes to the rescue. Jeeves is far more worldly. His understanding of human nature is in direct proportion to Bertie's lack of good sense. Wooster and Jeeves go together in much the same way as Kirk and Spock.Some in the aristocracy apparently complained of Wodehouse's portrayals of the upper classes which is to be expected. The unspoken and yet apparent message of Jeeves and Wooster, aside from the entertaining comedy that monopolizes the forefront of the stories, is an interesting criticism of privilege. Whether or not this was Wodehouse's intention is debatable, but the underlying message appears quite apparent.Although harmlessly benign (except being his own worst enemy), Bertie Wooster is a cherry short of a fruitcake, and yet is bestowed with all the advantages of a young aristocrat. He studied at Eton and Oxford University, yet little of his studies remains with him, except for his aptitude at sophomoric pranks. Jeeves, on the contrary, has much practical knowledge to boot and can quote Shakespeare with ease. But Jeeves is from the working class. Jeeves might have excelled at a place like Oxford but would not be accepted because of the social status of his family. He can only secure a job as a valet to an idiotic aristocrat who was handed these things to him on a gold-rimmed platter and takes for granted the status given to him. And yet, with all the tom-foolery exhibited by Bertie Wooster, the Jeeves tales may have in fact re-enforced class distinction in Great Britain although it was often scorned by the upper classes. The lower classes needed Jeeves to remind them of the oft inferiority of the upper class. Jeeves gives them an outlet to express the unfairness of privilege and its inherit hypocrisies. I hope these stories not only entertained but have given the middle and lower classes reason to insist on changing the hierarchical landscape: a meritocracy instead of an aristocracy. Jeeves would have definitely approved.


                
This early 90's British comedy-drama promises to give you a new dilemma at the start of each episode and a happy ending at the closing of each episode. It illustrates British aristocracy of the late 1920's and early 1930's. The production value is magnificent with fantastic locations, a wonderful wardrobe and cars that befit the era.The casting of Stephen Fry and Hugh Laurie in the title characters was perfect; since they are friends and have done previous comedy together they play of each other with incredible ease. Mr Laurie is perfect as Bertie Wooster with his musical talent shining through and Mr Fry as Jeeves the valet (gentleman's gentleman) shows his intellectual acting abilities.At the end of series four you are sad to see the show end with its wonderful and foolish characters. You won't be able to see more of Wooster's crazy antics and Jeeves's ingenious plans and schemes. You also realize that with all the characters and their different relations or acquaintances to the title characters that the valet Jeeves and his gentleman Wooster had the best and closest partnership or friendship, a bond which you were invested in and wish you could witness longer.The show is an adaptation of stories written by P.G. Wodehouse, unfortunately this reviewer have not read any of his stories and therefore cannot give commentary on the relation between the television show and the short stories.Recommend this show to everyone who wants some lighthearted comedy with a fantastic English vocabulary.


                
The implausible to the improbable to the inevitable to the catastrophic and back again--all delightfully and whimsically portrayed. Perfect casting of Stephen Fry as Jeeves the Butler to Hugh Laurie as Bertie Wooster--inept gad about.Only the Brits know how to make television brilliant. Whether it is "Foyle's War" or "As Time Goes By" or "Jeeves and Wooster." Americans simply cannot make these living room dramas the way the Brits do; Americans put too much high gloss on their productions that ultimately detracts from the production.P. G. Wodehouse is the brilliant writer who first penned Jeeves and Wooster to paper--and as always, the books should be read for the sheer pleasure of reading how comedy works in prose. But even without knowing or reading P. G. Wodehouse, this series is truly a pleasure to watch. The dialogue, the situations, the dancing, the music, the production values. And yes--British or Canadian actors trying to mimic American accent, rhythms, slang and idiom is part of the charm of the production. Maybe that's what is meant by American gloss; an American production would get bona fide American actors to provide the 'correct' reading without realizing how much is lost with that quest for perfection--how glossy the perfection ends up giving the production.P.G. Wodehouse began the Jeeves series in 1919 and produced the last one in 1970; he was a prolific writer and collaborator of songs with Jerome Kerne and Cole Porter--he provide the story for Porter's musical "Anything Goes." He lived from 15 October 1881 to 14 February 1975."Jeeves and Wooster" is now available on line thanks to Youtube and worth every minute watching.
It took me about 2 episodes (I have the DVD set) to get used to the accents, the speed of speaking, etc., since I am American.  My DH (Chris) is British so he interprets the slang for me!  But anyway, just as I was getting into stride (around the 4th episode?), Madeline Bassett was played by a different actress from the earlier shows.  Then J. Washburn Stoker and his daughter were both played by different people in different episodes.  Madeline Bassett changed AGAIN!  Then Gussie Fink-Nottle (who was BRILLIANTLY played by Richard Garnett in the early episodes) was replaced by someone trying to play Richard Garnett playing Gussie.  I am so distracted by these cast changes that I lose a lot of the show while I am complaining to Chris about them.  (Joy of DVD, can go back and see what I missed.)  HOWEVER - despite all this casting nonsense - still an excellent bunch of stories each of which comes together quite nicely at the end.  Hugh Laurie is great (one wonders why he descended to the pencil-headed woodenness of Mr. Little in the "Stuart Little" movies).  If I were Stephen Fry I'd be bored with the limited development of Jeeves, who seems to mostly stand around saying "Very good, sir" with various degrees of facial expression.  I've seen him in Blackadder and he was much more dramatic and flamboyant.  Jeeves seems like a tight suit of clothes for the talented Mr. Fry.  But all in all the series is worth watching, if you don't mind taking the time to ponder the cast changes every time.


                
This is Steven Fry and Hugh Laurie at their very best. Season One sparkles with fantastic performances and writing, and season two continues that.BUT, and this is a big BUT, Season Three is misfires spectacularly, and Season Four unwatchable... it's that bad.A textbook example of how the studio suits can ruin a brilliant work of art.Get 1 and 2. If you're not hooked after Jeeves cleans Bertie's room, there is no hope for you.


                
