First off, I have to state that I, personally, love this show. Okay, then why the low rating? For the fact this show is so good and has such a positive message and the fact it has an heritage that was meant for children.Yet, the powers-that-be with this show ruined that.The sexual references and language ensure young viewers cannot enjoy this show. It is as simple as that. Just because Hollywood thinks it can dictate social behaviour, mores and norms does not mean it does nor does it mean it reflects real-life.While the portrayed language and behaviour certainly DOES exist for high school students, the fact remains it is totally inappropriate.As a psychologist I can professionally assure you these behaviours are those that define "at risk" learners and what you expose yourself (or others!) to is what affects them permanently. (Yes, it really does - innocence lost can never be regained and it truly affects not just behaviours but also thoughts (which can manifest in dreams).)As a practitioner of martial arts, I was hoping to show this to my children but I would not expose them to the trash intermixed in the show.The language edited out or dubbed would help. Yet, there are many other scenes that need to be deleted. I, honestly, am very disappointed with the actors to not stand up and let the makers know this goes beyond the line and is a serious "slap in the face" to the original movies. Pat Morita would not have lowered himself to this level.This stated, the show itself is wonderfully acted with Johnny (William Zabka) clearly stealing the show with his performance and character portrayal! Many of the situations in the show are wonderfully comedic (far more than the original movies)! The character development and backstory, especially of Johnny, adds a great depth of character. Sadly, this is a show that has awesome potential but is, literally, ruined by a few instances that go beyond what was necessary to relate exactly the same meaning, message and effect and would have allowed the series to be enjoyed by a FAR wider audience.I am sure an edited version will appear by fans so more can enjoy the show.I am sure many people may not like my rating (I know I do not) but if you read the review, you will know why I was forced to rate it as I did.


                
80s comedy, 80s writing, lots of 80s movie references, just .... lame and painful.


                
I am shocked to see why this utter garbage show is getting high reviews. It seems like a scam to get everyboady to rate this cheap crap so high. Can't beleive the original actors signed on for this.They could've done it better, instead we get soapy low budget, predicable cliched dialogue, predicatble plot and cheesy acting. This is an insult to the Karate Kid legacy.Very sad. It could've been really good but instead we get a bad show with very low production values.This made me want to watch the original Karate Kid again and I did, just to try and forget this pathetic excuse of a tv show.Avoid if you know what's good for you. Even Karate Kid 3 is better and that's saying a lot.


                
I only got through Episode 1 and half of Episode 2. I cannot believe people are praising this show, especially those who grew up with original Karate Kid. The profanity and sexual innuendos by the teenage characters is just absolutely deplorable. So sad, why does Hollywood think we need all that. The original is awesome and it is appropriate even for younger children. I wish this world would just leave well enough alone.


                
This show is cliche and predictable to the point that I don't think any humans with normal IQ can like it.


                
I had high hopes for this series. I counted the days until I could watch. As children of the 80's who practices their crane kicks and drum techniques, my wife and I sat down to watch these together. We stopped 10 minutes into episode 4.At first we noticed the increase in swearing. The original movies had your lighter swear words - forgivable for people like us that abstain from using bad language - but along with F-words were constant reference to sex and sexual acts amongst the high schoolers. Then came the scene that showed teenagers watching porn. And that was it for us.We'd like to congratulate the writers, producers and showrunners of this series for taking what could've been a great story line for a wide audience to enjoy and narrowing it down to a specific demographic.
I was an 80s kid. So I understand the time. And I certainly saw Karate Kid movies many times throughout the years. Even my kids have seen and love them today.The Cobra Kai series has some real nostalgia in it. But the problem I have is that it is NOT for children to watch. It is full of vulgar filth that would not have been in the Karate Kid movie. They did to this movie what Hollywood did to the Dukes of Hazzard. They trashed it up. The billboard incident was enough to rate this movie 1 star. But also thrown in the many sexual references coming from teenagers. Kids getting drunk on a beach. COME ON. How shallow can you be? Karate Kid had charm. This imposter show only has the actors in it. And Ralph Machio had none of the "balance" miagi taught him. He was the childish bully.I hope they learn from reviews and clean up season 2. Else we WILL trash it. And chalk it up as a case of the sellouts. We have the original tasteful timeless movies of the past. And they come WITHOUT the trash of today.
As a huge fan of the Karate Kid franchise, I do not like the Cobra Kai series. I really don't get the appear this is for a totally dumb down audience. It should be titled 'American Pie meets Karate Kid' with all the cheap sexual teenage jokes. Coincidentally one of the characters actually looks like Paul Finch from American Pie. The show deals with done to death concepts, such as a parent struggling to communication with their children, school bullying, corporate competition, there is nothing original to this show whatsoever. Daniels wife has absolutely no substance in the show, if she wasn't in it, you wouldn't notice. Think of it this way, if you took the original Karate Kid cast members out, would anyone watch it? This is capitalising on the nostalgia of that generation who just want to see the flashbacks as it reminds them of the olden days of the original movies.My final issue with this is it totally defeats the object of the original movie, at the end of Karate Kid, Johnny 'turned.' He realised the teachings of sensai Reese was immoral and that was his character arch, so to have him revert to the cobra kai teachings undoes everything that was achieved in the first movie. We really need to look beyond the nostalgia, I wouldn't have minded them bringing back these characters as long as they did it right.


                
So 16 years after pointless pretend fighting between young people who had no reason to fight in the first place, we get more pointless pretend fighting by people who still have nothing else to do. Sad.


                
Here I am, 38 years old, a huge fan of the Karate Kid movies. I've watched them countless times with my family growing up and again with my kids. When my husband and I heard about this series we were excited. I especially was excited to watch it as a family with my 16 and 14 year old who are also huge fans of the movies. We are by no means prudes at my home and my husband and I say the occasional curse words. Having said that, this series is completely unwatchable. The story line is okay and I can even tolerate the cheesiness of the whole thing. The language is HORRIBLE and there are several sexual references that cannot be unseen or overlooked. It is extremely lazy to think that people want to hear and see that crap especially when that was not at all in the movies. We had to stop after episode 4. IF YOU HAVE CHILDREN THAT YOU ARE PLANNING ON WATCHING THIS WITH.....DONT!!


                
Terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible program


                
