When I first saw a Cobra Kai trailer I thought, that's kind of neat but I bet it sucks. Boy was I wrong, it's is incredible. Johnny Lawernce (William Zabka) may have just become my favorite anti-hero EVER. He is so good at playing a down on his luck dirt bag looking for redemption. The episodes don't do anything to shock you to think "man that was silly" if anything they tell a great story. It takes the Karate Kid movie and spins it. I don't laugh at a lot of show, even shows I really like, but Johnny had me laughing out loud a few times with his dry mean humor. If your a Karate Kid fan this is a must watch. If your not a Karate Kid fan this is a must watch. It's such a good show, I can't believe it's done by youtube.


                
I was a teen in the 80's and enjoyed watching this film - as most guys my age did. I was a little skeptical when I saw that they were making a new series that takes place 30 years after the movie ended. But once I saw the trailers - I felt like they might be on to something. After watching several episodes - I can tell you that they nailed it. This is the best show out there - anywhere. It's not over acted (or under acted). It's not corny or stupid either. It's the perfect match up of seriousness with a few goofs or references from the 80's thrown in here & there. This revival could have been a disaster but it looks like they got the perfect combo of writers, directors & actors. It's funny, because as a kid - I wanted to punch Johnny in the throat as hard as I could. But as a 40-something year old - I'm kinda rooting for him. Great job to the people responsible for making this happen - and of course it couldn't have happened without Ralph & William. Thank you!


                
This series brought me back to my childhood and how much I loved the movies and characters growing up. It surprised how well the characters are brought up to date and now involve the younger generation. There's still a lot to be taught, and learned.


                
I remember watching the Karate Kid films as a kid, and I cannot express enough how impressed and surprised at the level of quality of this series. It successfully brings back the old "feel" of the films, while adding a new and complex storyline. It really embodies the legacy of the rivalry, and yet rebores the spirt of the films to a degree that is just unprecedented. I can't wait to see what they do in Season 2. Amazing job YouTube!


                
The skepticism of the announcement of this sequel to the Karate Kid saga is truly gone. It is clear there is a bit of a role reversal as we now see mainly through the eyes of Karate Kid bad boy Johnny Lawrence, who seeks redemption by taking in a student in the form of Miguel Diaz, which in turns inspires him to re-open the Cobra Kai dojo. As for Daniel LaRusso, it i clear that while he is a successful businessman, he is practically consumed with arrogance and does whatever he can to ensure Johnny doesn't succeed.It is interesting to see the major changes in students Miguel from bullied to the arrogant fighter with Robby going from juvenile delinquent to a fighter with honor. Their backstories truly come into play in the series as well as finally learning more Johnny and his upbringing.Like the original film, it is more than martial arts...it's about relationships and redemption. If you liked the Karate Kid saga, then no doubt, you must see this series ASAP!
I have just this moment finished episode 10. I am literally on a massive high right now. This is probably the best TV series I have seen since I first watched Game of Thrones. This is literally TV at its most epic best.The thing that makes this TV show is literally William Zabka. Why he has only been in Karate Kid and nothing much more is a mystery as this guy can act and has amazing screen presence and comedy timing.This TV show was so good it literally makes me want to go out tomorrow and sign up for karate classes and learn Cobra Kai style.I strongly recommend everyone watches this as this is way better than that stupid remake with Will Smiths son, better than all the sequels and to be honest better than the first Karate Kid movie was too. William Zabka needs to be cast in other TV roles too. He is up there with the best for TV/movie Anti-hero's; Snake Plisskan, Tyler Durdan and now after this Johnny Lawrence.


                
There have been numerous attempts at sequels and reboots and trying to recapture the magic the original Karate Kid created over thirty years ago... And they were not worthy of trophies. Cobra Kai, however, comes flying at us and hits all the right marks. The very first leaves us with a feeling that the Cobra Kai bully (Johnny) wasn't as mean as he was made out to be. He had moments that left us wondering all this time. Now, those questions are answered, and in the most satisfying of ways. This time around, the tables have been turned and the story is just as much Johnny's as it is Daniel's. The nostalgic call-backs to the original are worked in so precisely perfect, and the new additions to the cast reflect this generation and the world we currently are dealing with. The series is the very definition of Bad-ass. I honestly cannot think of how it could be improved upon. When it's funny, it's hilarious. When it's sad, it can be absolutely heartbreaking. It's made me want to go back and watch the original, and then return to the series for a second viewing. I couldn't recommend it enough, to older fans or to the newer generation. Honestly, I would have paid to see this on the big screen, it's that good!


                
I was a big KK fan back in the day and this ticks all the nostalgia boxes while managing to be awesome in it's own right. The acting is great, the story is great and it takes the plot in directions I never expected while making you feel for the characters.Great work, bring on the next season :D


                
Great show, surprised Netflix didn't pick it up. Can't wait for the next season.


                
Hm, youtube red exclusive? How good could it be? How about AMAZING? Probably the first (and only) youtube red series worth signing up for. Just grab the free trial, binge this show, then cancel. The acting is great.. but the nods to the original are done so well at times they bring me to tears.Great series, can't get enough. Wish I could watch it all over for the first time again, which is usually the key sign of a great show for me.


                
Without giving anything away i will say based on the episodes I've seen so far I'm rooting for Johnny in this story..While he is espousing the same philosophy that he was taught as a Cobra Kai he's not teaching the way Kreese did as his students are the ones getting bullied and in fact probably would've been picked on by Johnny in his high school days but now he seems to be teaching them how to stand up for themselves...in a weird way Johnny has almost become the Miyagi of the story although he's not spouting the same kind of mantra as Mr. Miyagi...I'm just hoping his students don't end up becoming like Johnny was in high school because I'm really rooting for them...


                
**Epic spoilers ahead! Read at your own risk!**First off, if you haven't already, I highly suggest watching the original Karate Kid movie first. The sequels (so far) don't have anything to do with the series but they are great to watch! :) The first movie will give you everything you need to watch Cobra Kai because it contains a lot of flashbacks.I haven't reviewed on IMDB in years but I had to to give Cobra Kai its due! I told people from the jump not to judge the characters from the trailer & I'm glad I was right! The acting is amazing but how they pay homage to the original movie & especially Pat Morita is what got me the most. I always knew Johnny Lawrence wasn't a bad person, just misguided. Cobra Kai is not exactly a Karate Kid sequel. The Karate Kid is about Daniel LaRusso, Cobra Kai is about Johnny Lawrence. Think of it as a continuation but from the antagonist point of view. He's still misjudged & wants to prove himself. I REALLY hope this gets a second season because there are SOOO many loose ends to wrap up & the twist ending had my jaw on the desk!!!If you don't have YouTube Red, you can watch the first two episodes free to get a taste but I truly believe this is well worth paying for. I never had it until now but I will keep it after my free trial month.
Barney Stinson is gonna love this!!!! Finally the real karate kid shows up!


                
It's corny, predictable, steeped in 1980's nostalgia, full of nods to the original... and those are just some of the reasons to LOVE it! Credit to everyone involved in the making of this series. If you are a fan of the original films then this is going to be exactly what you are looking for. John Avildsen and Pat Morita are definitely here in spirit. Perfect for binge-watching and for transporting yourself back 30 years! :)


                
The answer has finally come to the age old question of "How can you introduce nuance into a cut-and-dry good-vs-evil 80's classic" and it comes in the form of COBRA KAI.
While there are many a homage to the film(s) that spawned it, Cobra Kai makes its own name for itself by (gasp) being very well written, and introducing depth to the degree that neither Johnny nor Daniel-San is really "the good guy" or "the bad guy". They both make poor decisions, both are dealing with the traumas of their youth (which, in Danny's case, comes down to Johnny himself in many ways), and they both pass on the positive and negative experiences to their children and/or students in various ways. Danny is often motivated by petty revenge and unable to see any good in Johnny and his Cobras (and not entirely for no reason), and Johnny may be saving himself from....himself and his past and giving his students confidence, but also seems to be making them somewhat into monsters.
The show is able to balance all this thematically and do so with poignancy and humor. Unlike, say, an hour-and-a-half long movie, the show is able to burn much more slowly and spend time with its characters and their pasts to provide a tremendous amount of depth. This might even be the thing that makes Youtube Red worth paying for. I'm legitimately hyped for season 2, what the hell. (While I won't spoil the last-minute sting in the final episode, needless to say it's a biggie).Really watch it, you'll be suprised. Hawk is indeed ourguy


                
I grew up with Karate Kid and this new show is brilliant, I could not stop watching all 10 episodes. I am really excited for season 2, just hope they make the episodes a little longer or full length TV series....
It follows the original story very well, I like the new characters and its awesome keeping the original cast in...Would not of worked otherwise...
Keep up the good work! Make 10 series please....


                
Skeptical but excited I went into the show with an open mind. Figuring that they would turn this in to the common millennial drama that is strangling common TV and streaming services I was pleasantly surprised it wasn't. This show is well acted,well written and pays so much respect to the original heart and soul of the Karate Kid it should eclipse any and all sequels or remakes. Furthermore it should take their place abolishing them from movie history and setting itself alone as the sole heir to the Karate Kid. This is the story that we the original kids that were so moved by Karate Kid wanted told and are glad they told. Now I could continue to gush over this show and tell you how great and wonderful I think it is but Ralph Macchio and William Zabka can do that for you, watch them relive their past in this tale. This show will help Karate Kid become solidified as one of the greatest franchises of all time. Watch Now !


                
Fantastic refreshing show. Feels like a genuine continuation of the movies with Daniel and Johnny both been plucked out of the 80s and dropped into the 21st Century. The writers have not tried to make everything politically correct which really helps to keep it fresh (Unlike Star Wars - The Last Jedi). Johnny has some brilliant one-liners which whilst really offensive add to the comedic value.Daniel and Johnny have several layers of complexity and clearly are missing something from their lives which will be good to see develop. The new characters also add to the enjoyment. They are total opposites to the school kids in the movies. Within a few episodes you can see these develop as well.The writers have given fans what they want without giving the story away (Again something which Star Wars - The Last Jedi) couldn't get right.Living in the UK we don't get YouTube Red but was able to purchase each episode individually. Well worth the extra cost. Can't wait for the next season.


                
Cobra Kai is, hands down, the best series ever made. Perfectly crafted, inch by inch, to bring back the essence of the original film. This is how you do a sequel. I enjoyed every second of it.


                
Feels like a realistic portrayel of who these characters would be in today's society. Writing is great and clever.


                
I loved these movies as a kid and all of the memories just flooded back. I love the journey all of the characters go through and I binged the whole thing with a smile on my face the whole time.


                
This was unexpected. After seeing the commercial for this back in March, I was a little hesitant on watching this. But being a big fan of the first 2 movies (and just watching the 3rd), I knew I had to watch it. I wasn't expecting much. I was pleasantly rewarded.The story took liberties and it paid off. Yes, some (if not a lot) of these liberties might be considered a little cheesy, but that was the point. I found myself laughing out loud at most of them. Johnny had most these moments throughout the series, although Daniel had the biggest one (Episode 10, near the end...I won't spoil it). The flashbacks were important to story, and the story flowed better because of them. As for the acting... it was mainly good. There were a few over the top moments. But the main cast was, mostly, spot on. Ralph Macchio (Daniel) and William Zabke (Johnny) have both outdone themselves. I few moments here and there were bit too much for me, but all in all, they were both great. Courtney Henngeler (Amanda, Daniel's wife) and Mary Mouser (Sam, Daniel's daughter) were both flawless through out the series. The rest of the cast (mainly the younger members) all performed OK to me. There were really great moments from all, but also some really horrible moments from them too. In the end, it's a must see. I can't wait for Season 2


                
I can't say how much I dig this show! I grew up in the 80's and this show is directed towards my generation AND every one since then. It really hooks you in the first episode and you end up paying the $9.99 for YouTubeRED (FYI...WORTH IT!!!!). The show is well produced; not cheesy at all, i.e. it is professionally made. It is a pleasure (yeah, I'm using my 45 year old vocab) to see William Zabka and Ralph Macchio reprise the roles. No spoilers but you feel for both characters. I'm on episode 5 and not sure what I'm going to do after the 10 are over!


                
Unlike the resurrection of a lot of 80's era classics, this is a fantastic project that has lived up to the legacy and well done to all involved from the Showrunners, to the writers, actors who have all done a fantastic job. Seen the first two episodes free and had a smile on my face the whole time. In terms of the plot it actually feels like a logical continuation as Johnny was not fully explored following first his defeat and then his treatment in the Car Park in the Prologue of KK3 at the hands of Kreese. The Pilot itself nicely touches on how these issues from the loss of the Bedrock of his life (Instructor role in a Karate Dojo) to his High School sweetheart to the devestating impact his mentor and de facto Father figure (Sensei Kreese) abusing him so horrifically have had on him throughout his life. I like how they set up one episode from Johnny's perspective and the other from Daniel who still has demons to face concerning Kobra Kai.It is a great touch as well that the Showrunners have added the pressure both characters face in terms of family life. Lastly they have plenty of scope for future seasons which can be explored by characters such as Allie coming back on to the scene, plus Johhny's original pals as assistant Instructors perhaps and of course Johnny hasn't fully faced his Demons until Kreese reappears again. Daniel struggling without his mentor Mr Miyagi is tricky as Pat Morita passed away but I reckon some of the old characters like his Japanese GF from KK2 can perhaps be brought out to flesh out the philosophy of Sensei Daniel. Even the antagonist from KK3 who fought Daniel can be thrown in as a wild card!


                
Like most kids who grew up in the 80's, I was a fan of the karate kid. When I saw the trailer, I almost lost it. I was so excited for this series that I binge watched the whole season the day it came out! They did a great job of balancing between the nostalgia and a new story. This series was full of "holy crap" moments that take you right back to when you watched it. I haven't heard of anything about a second season, but with how they ended this and the hype that it was been getting, they have to have a second season. I would highly recommend watching this.


                
