I was blown away by how much this TV show exceeded my expectations. Every experience I had with sequels of this kind were suggesting that this one would follow all the generic rehashing and exploitation of loved characters from the past. Instead we got amazing writing, great casting and performances and overall very good cinematography.The creators chose to follow the aftermath of a legendary rivalry from our teenage years in a brilliant way. The dove in the essence of the characters and what made them the way the were, how the past affected them and they did it brilliantly.One of the most successful and entertaining things I noticed was the use of political incorrectness. I chuckled every time Johny spat out a seemingly offensive remark to showcase the naivety of his character and how the world has changed around him but also it demonstrated the freshness of the script and how ethics can be promoted without the sterilisation and sanitation we experience in today's movies and shows.And here comes the almost part. Suddenly the last two episodes malformed this amazing experience. The finale more so. The characters reverted for some reason to one dimensional caricatures, seemingly only to advance the plot. The teachings of Johny, for no apparent reason transformed his students from likeable, intelligent kids to obnoxious - no values thugs in mere minutes. The story woven so meticulously in all the episodes before them falling flat. I could go in detail but I prefer this review to be spoiler free. Overall, thumbs up to all that worked in order for us to have this exceptional TV sequel.


                
Why can't people realise the end was really biased? Or is it just me?
Yes, it refreshed all the old memories. We get a good start & the storyline is very well crafted... till the last episode. As expected from the first few episodes & the description of the show itself, it's all about redemption. How bad turns good, how everyone tries to better themselves. But as you approach the ending, you realise it's not about that; It's all about the makers rooting for one person!Yes, you read it right. You are extremely excited to expect the end this show deserved. But no! Not this time. It's crystal clear someone was really biased. Right from the beginning you KNOW what's going to happen & this fills you with the much needed enthusiasm but the end totally ruins all the excitement that was built from the start. It heartwrenching to watch it all tumble down, to root for someone & expect it to go the right way but it doesn't. The writer, the director & the producer, they all spoiled what could have been the most amazing & proud moment of the entire show!
This may seem like a lot of ranting, but you just can't relate to the frustration you experience after the show ends. And yeah, I can totally sacrifice 3 stars for it.


                
I really liked Sam and miguel together why did they have to twist the whole story and make same bad and miguel darth maul, they were good in the middle of the series and the writers just ruined it. They ruined the whole story they just made and alternate version of karate kid 1 where Daniel joins cobra kai. When Johnny made cobra kai it was actually good and he was very helpful but a little tough, maybe even too tough. I like the storyline where they made Johnny the good guy and Daniel as a bit of the bad. Just wish the feud would end and they would just join forces to form a dojo together where Johnny reconnects with ronny and Sam gets back with miguel and stops hiding her from her father and acting like cobra kai is bad and all. Why couldn't it just be a happy ending. They could've even joined forces to beat Kreese's new and bad cobra kai.
So I just binge-watched Cobra Kai and it was as good as I expected it to be. Not great, but good, at least slightly better than the original Karate Kid mainly because it added layers to the rivalry between Daniel LaRusso and Johnny Lawrence. The character arcs of the kids were also entertaining to watch.This could have been a great show if it was handled better. It was cheesy at times and the behavior and psychology of some students were primal. There are also things that don't make sense, for example, Daniel didn't ask or look up his most trusted employee's last name. Maybe he trusted him so much that he didn't need to know his last name (???)I'm still looking forward for next season though.


                
While this show is very entertaining to watch and if you grew up in 80s, extremely nostalgic, I would never in a million years consider it the 47th best show ever. Here are some amazing shows that is ranked hire than: Curb Your Enthusiasm, The Simpsons, Six Feet Under, Its Always Sunny(Just to name a few but look for yourself). I say that because it either intentionally or unintentionally still has that 80s "cheese" that was present in a lot of the music, movies and TV but I do admit if that was done intentionally it's pretty brilliant. Regardless I think when you allow the masses to dictate the rankings of TV shows you will have this happen but it definitely can be misleading to people who aren't familiar with any of those shows and expect brilliance when they start to watch it.


                
Well, okay. I really think its IMDb rating is too high. But yeah, it kinda deserves the 9.0 but I'm giving it 7. I'm loving it all but what happened to the season 1's last episode? The tournament is way too fast though it was okay but feels like they're were rushing. And the very ending wasn't really catchy.


                
This show was pretty much what you would expect it to be. Just like The Karate Kid, it was mostly fun and the actors and writers let it run that way. I really enjoyed Zabka's reprisal of Johnny. You end up liking the guy and even maybe rooting him on. When the series decided to have a finger-wagging, responsible Disney ending, that's where it went wrong for me. The rapid and dramatic changes in many of the characters that brought season one to its conclusion were disappointing and the direction suggested for a second season is predictable and boring. I enjoyed it, but I'm not sure it left me wanting more.


                
9.0 rating? Seriously? The show is smartly-written, has a fantastic performance by William Zabka and ends on a fantastic note. But is it a great show? Far from it. Just because it's a better show than expected doesn't make it one of the best shows ever. Disappointing that there's not even an ounce of objectivity in the reviews here.


                
My expectations were low.but I gave this a try on one of those nights when there wasn't much else on. To my surprise I actually enjoyed this series.It's pretty simple but it does offer some nice, light entertainment. It's definitely a little corny but for the most part manages to keep it's balance. I have a new appreciation for both William Zabka and Ralph Machio. I feel like they really "stayed in their lane", kept things simple and didn't try to do too much. I found their characters to be mostly likeable and I found myself laughing with them. It's not enlightening or life changing, just a basic story that is kind of fun in spots.


                
What initially seemed as another show about insecure teenagers, kept me glued to the screen till the season finale!We always see the bullied, the weak as innocent, victims, some'thing' to be sympathized with. But the underdogs can also be radicalized. The series is about a group of underdogs, turned aggressive through a style of Karate - "Cobra Kai". It is very opposite to "Miyagi-do", another style of karate which emphasizes balance, harmony etc.The series is sequel to the Karate Kid Movies, following a distraught Lawrence whose life and confidence is ruined after losing the karate competition to LaRusso during high school. While LaRusso becomes a successful car dealership owner, happily married with children, Lawrence is this unemployed (sort of), aggressive middle aged man (who are very well known in the post-recession Trump era in US). LaRusso, though better off than Lawrence, suffers in his own way in his business, in his family life, and being away from his passion.Lawrence opens up his own dojo, radicalizing bullied teenagers with his Cobra Kai style. Things seem fine at first, as the weak being equipped to defend themselves, but things start going wrong when his followers turn too aggressive by his ideology.
Casting is great. The storyline seems promising as of episode 2.The flashbacks to the movies are well placed and integrated.The dialog is a little predictable and the characters need more dimension.


                
I'm enjoying the spirit of this series, it's building up it's characters and stories well, and the writing is there, but the tone and direction really throw me off. I'm stuck somewhere in between wanting to see the story resolve and cringing painfully at the tone. Maybe it's trying to be some kind of pastiche sentimentality, but it feels contrived and almost lazy... maybe it's just very low budget. I'd keep watching for free but I won't be subscribing to Youtube Red just to watch this.


                
Lest go for the positive and negative things:Positive: - A lot of beutiful memories (pat morita,scenes from karate kid 1and his original soundtrack) and the original characters playing pretty good roles.
WILLIAM ZABKA! OMG, this guy really steals the show. Great acting and playing an incredible anti-hero with a pretty badass humor. I loved himSome secondary characters doing really great (courtney henggeler made me laugh a lot of times)The series offers a great entertainment and deals with very sensitive issues like bullying, idiotic fathers, alcoholism, etc but at the same time still maintaining the comedy. You can watch all the 10 episodes in a row without a problem-Negative: I think it gets really naive, cliche and stupid sometimes. As an example: johnny's son geting a job in one of the biggest car companies in a snap! Some nerds (like hawk) becoming master of the self-esteem in a blink of an eye, etc
Robby, Miguel, Aisha, Hawk, training for a year and defeating black belts and gettin into the semi-finals/ finals, making some pro movements...unnecessary Robby and miguel into the finals, really man?I SWEAR I WASNT EXPECTING THAT -.-Crane kick again? Really man? Cmon, you can do better than that.The police doesnt exist? I mean, a car is on fire, some underage boys drinking tons of alcohol on a public space, boys attacked by dogs in a junkyard...In summary: Is a 7 for me, very entertaining, a lot of memories and great acting, but i hope a second season with a little more realism or maybe they can keep playing with the fantasy and will be ok too, but please do not fall for the old cliches that we have already seen in so many teen series and movies
The trailers for this series had me concerned and I will confirm that the show is much better than expected, but I expected a F and got a solid C+. Cutting in B Roll from the original film is a nice tough, but not enough to elevate this very average production. For me, the tell tale sign is the fact that it ended up YouTube Red. Had this series had the punch we expected, it would be on Netflix or a pay cable network. The edgy take is welcome, but the direction, acting and casting could all use a major boost.


                
The plot is old but new, Bullying has been around since humans vied to look better than their peers. Scenes give you just enough that you think you know the direction the next episode is going to take, but you will be wrong. They pay homage to its roots with Easter Eggs laid in throughout season 1. 
 The Characters you will empathize with the downtrodden, live in the past because an identity is lost, go through the ever changing dynamic that is what relationships are about and how they shape our actions. Fresh set of eyes share an outsiders point of view. Young teenagers, of course grow into young adults. One unexpected return as the cliff hanger for season one.
 Now that we covered that positives here are a few of the negatives. Segues for scenes were a little rough. Timing between video and audio at certain points left you wondering who was talking. Unbelievable relationship between two of the main characters. Moving the plot along some scenes are misguided for example an air bag is in a car that predates them. Owning a car dealership wouldn't you drive that brand?
 In an era where television is trying to re capture some of cinema success stories and batting a 60% failure rate. Overbrook Entertainment and You Tube Have done well in continuing a story that remains some of cinema's best products. There is no doubt that as this series grows it will be a legend in it's own right Even if that is over projection it is worth 30 minutes of your time and you will be entertained.


                
The episode count is not enough. For a premium service 10 episodes is so lame. While the series started strong the ending was melodramatic. I did like the artistry involved in filming the Karate scene as the actors don't necessary need to know Karate you need a crew that can shoot the scenes to make it look like they do.I like the exploration of opposites and how what was good is now not so good and what was bad or misguided is look for more balance. I like the reminiscing about first loves. I like the young people. I like how touch on obesity and video game culture but I want more then just touching on these subjects I want stories that inspire us to see more to do more and how Karate can do that for us.Also with CGI you could bring back Mr Miagi as a ghost and have him instruct Daniel San. Or we could at the very least hear his voice. So much could be done with this series but it looks like it's going to sell the original movie out.Only time will tell but will hope for more. Enjoyable, but it let me down with the the lack of episodes and content in the finale.


                
Whilst the acting is not fantastic, sorry Daniel larusso you in particular the storyline is refreshing and definitely draws you in. For people who loved karate kid this is a must, and for people who didn't watch them after watching this you will want to watch them. Some great nods to the previous films and loved what they did for mr miyagi in episode 4 I think. Glad to hear it has been renewed and looking forward to more of the same.


                
