This series brought me back to my childhood and how much I loved the movies and characters growing up. It surprised how well the characters are brought up to date and now involve the younger generation. There's still a lot to be taught, and learned.


                
Without giving anything away i will say based on the episodes I've seen so far I'm rooting for Johnny in this story..While he is espousing the same philosophy that he was taught as a Cobra Kai he's not teaching the way Kreese did as his students are the ones getting bullied and in fact probably would've been picked on by Johnny in his high school days but now he seems to be teaching them how to stand up for themselves...in a weird way Johnny has almost become the Miyagi of the story although he's not spouting the same kind of mantra as Mr. Miyagi...I'm just hoping his students don't end up becoming like Johnny was in high school because I'm really rooting for them...


                
This was unexpected. After seeing the commercial for this back in March, I was a little hesitant on watching this. But being a big fan of the first 2 movies (and just watching the 3rd), I knew I had to watch it. I wasn't expecting much. I was pleasantly rewarded.The story took liberties and it paid off. Yes, some (if not a lot) of these liberties might be considered a little cheesy, but that was the point. I found myself laughing out loud at most of them. Johnny had most these moments throughout the series, although Daniel had the biggest one (Episode 10, near the end...I won't spoil it). The flashbacks were important to story, and the story flowed better because of them. As for the acting... it was mainly good. There were a few over the top moments. But the main cast was, mostly, spot on. Ralph Macchio (Daniel) and William Zabke (Johnny) have both outdone themselves. I few moments here and there were bit too much for me, but all in all, they were both great. Courtney Henngeler (Amanda, Daniel's wife) and Mary Mouser (Sam, Daniel's daughter) were both flawless through out the series. The rest of the cast (mainly the younger members) all performed OK to me. There were really great moments from all, but also some really horrible moments from them too. In the end, it's a must see. I can't wait for Season 2


                
The Karate Kid III and The Next Karate Kid were awful. I consider The first film and the second to stand on their own. Cobra kai, unlike the unworthy sequels, is definitely worthy of Its production. 
I really hope that the second season is given a green light quickly, it's such a great experience. I watched the entire series in one day, I would have watched it in one direct sitting if possible. The story line has already been laid out for everyone here by the trailers and others comments. I would just add that if you're a Karate Kid fan, even if only the first two films, I cannot see how you would be disappointed with this series. It's extremely well done, pays homage to the original film in many great ways and stands so well 34 years later! Highly recommended!!!!


                
I didn't have many expectations going into this show, or at least, I didn't have high expectations. The ones I did have were that of a fun low budget romp down memory lane. But this is so much more than that. The production values are great, the casting is great, the plot, the writing, the tone, pacing, soundtrack. It's all great start to finish and it has what Mr. Miyagi taught us, balance. It seems to hit so many right notes without pushing anything too far, the comedy is just right, the emotional moments, just right, the cheese, the action, just right. It also does a great job of leaving the viewer to decide who the real heroes and villains are because unlike the movies nothing here is black and white. If you've seen the films, you will really enjoy this. If you haven't, you'll probably really enjoy it anyway. It stands on its own and feels modern, but as a continuity, 30 years later, it does this masterfully and very respectfully to its past and its source without heavily relying on it. BANSAI!!!


                
Problem is he was typecast and never given a chance to shine. In, Cobra Kai it's his show and he shows a side of Johnny that is a true human experience.


                
There are many things to like about this series. Probably the best thing for me is its rejection of political correctness and victimhood culture. Actually, rejection is a strong word and this isn't a protest piece by any means but there is definitely a theme of taking responsibility for one's own fate and confronting adversity with resilience and even some agression. (The show is intelligent enough to portray overt agression or anger as counterproductive). There is one great scene during a karate tournament where a competitor starts pretentiously virtue signalling to the crowd. The reaction of Johnny Lawrence is priceless. Hopefully Hollywood takes note that virtue signalling is not a prerequisite for great entertainment. It's great to see a show that is intelligent with messages to tell but doesn't take itself too seriously.


                
This movie not only brings us back with their many Easter eggs, but it still has a fresh and realistic story.
The show takes place 30 years after the movie. It is just in time for the 50th anniversary of the Karate Tournaments.
William Zabka steals the show for sure. I love how this show portrays both sides of the movie.
I want to see this on actual TV... I saw the entire season in one day!


                
If you were a fan of the original you will love this. The series does a awesome job of flashing back and pushing the story forward. I can't begin to tell you how impressed and surprised I was at this series. William Zabka is the star of the series. As much as I want to like Macchio more it's impossible to not root for character Johnny Lawrence once you get a glimpse of why is was what he was and why he has become what he has. The problem will be that not many will get to see it because it's on YouTubes pay service YouTubeRed. I signed up for the 30 day free trial and will pay the 10 Bucks when they make more episodes. YouTubeRed is probably a great service for someone who uses it for music and other stuff. It doesn't have enough original content for me to justify paying the monthly fee.


                
William Zabka is very good actor its shame to see him very late. I wish in this sector they gave him more chance. Its funny like a hell, its natural funny, script, directing, dialogs are funny without forcing any thing. 80's against millenia generation mind:) Very very smart, well thinked idea and work. Good job Zapka and everyone who work on this show. I only didnt like karate kids wife cause she doesnt look like mother of those kids, she never drive them anywhere or making breakfast for the kids or dinner. I can ignore all of them but her acting is how terrible she lools like just walking in the house without showing any attantion to her family. How about her hair and clothes. No one hava that hair in the morning. I dont like when they dont look natural. Where did you find that hair dresser in the morning god sake. And how they shows 20 year marriage all that tv series like they just met at the the bar, kissing each other with same passion. Just make it beliveble please. Fake mother and fake wife i guess. For that reason number 9
As most are saying, a great nostalgia piece with a nice upgrade to the story. Great 80's soundtrack, and awesome to see Nero The Hero in the last Ep. Fans of the original Death Race 2000 know what I'm talking about. =) Looking forward to Season 2. Can we please get Elizabeth Shue back for a Season 2 episode?
This show is far, far better than it has a right to be. Nostalgia, pathos and Shakespearean nuance all play out with touches of action and humor.While Mr. Macchio is clearly enjoying himself and is a welcome presence, the show truly belongs to William Zabka. Hollywood is fickle, and maybe this guy payed the bully in one 80s flick too many and got pigeonholed into a quiet career onscreen, but DAMN is this man one fine actor; balancing the elements of comedy and tragedy in every shot (maybe the fact that he has branched out creatively as an writer and director has helped him learn to flex more than his muscles too?). His Johnny is like an injured lion....glorious, yet downtrodden...confident, yet tentative. And a complete jerk, yet a total charmer. And he is even more magnetic as a fifty-something than he was as a twenty-something 80s pin-up boy. I hope his agent's phone starts to ring...when I think of all the things Charlie Sheen and Tom Cruise have done over the decades when it could have been HIM all along...How long until Season 2?


                
I watched it for nostalgia but really enjoyed it . Worth the time and watch .


                
This series was written, acted and filmed with perfection as far as a remakes are concerned. From general story plot to small flashbacks it was just incredible! Loved it.I think we also might have witnessed something big: the birth of online video distribution. Time will show...Fantastic story. Well done!


                
When I first heard this was coming out I figured it would be a cash grab but honestly they actually invested some time and money in this nastalgia at its best really good story acting was on point!!


                
As a guy born in the 70's Karate Kid and the sequels where a big thing back in the day. So when I came over this by accident and got the two first episodes for free I just had to see what this was about.
Just to be clear, I started watching for nostalgic reason and where expecting this to be some pretty lame stuff with a lot of cliches.
When I saw the flashbacks in the first episode I was still pretty sure I was right. But since the production was good I kept watching, and somewhere in the start of episode two I was hooked.This show is actually just damn good, not only better then expected, but it manages to continue the story on it's own.I'm not used to reviewing shows and movies, but I can only say that give this one a chance if you ever watched the originals (or didn't)


                
As a huge and I mean huge fan of the original (I wore out two VHS tapes of this I watched it so much and lost count after 100 viewings), I was a bit skeptical about a series set 30 years after the original movie.I am happy to say the makers of this series did not let me down, I just finished binge watching all 10 epsiodes and expect there will be many repeated viewings. Very very well done and the flashbacks brought back so many memories, just brilliant.Good to see the original actors back in one place which must have been a bit of a task, but wow it was worth it.This is a must see for any fans of the original movie. Anyone who has not seen the original movie must see it before viewing this series, you will not be disappointed.I came very close to giving this a 10.


                
I love that they decided to revisit this story. Growing up I always had mixed feelings about Daniel and how he manipulated everyone. Not that it's his fault, his mother decided they had to move to Reseda and changed everyone's destiny. When watching Kobra Kai, the feelings of nostalgia kicks in and you get to see how one illegal kick to the face changed everyone's destiny 35 years later. The story revolves on the introduction of Johnny and his sad story of a politically incorrect loser who seemingly lost everything, while Daniel enjoys the luxury of his successes. The story seems the complete opposite of the movie where Johnny was the spoiled kid and Daniel was a poor kid. As the show continues we see Johnny develop a relationship with a kid named Miguel who from the start is a bullied kid. He takes him under his wing and reopens the Kobra Kai dojo. This show takes on bullying, entitled coddled children, broken families, and the softness of kids these days who win participation awards. All the actors do a remarkable job in portraying their characters and the ending leaves it open to another season and a surprise.


                
I had recently rewatched the original. What person in their 40's (or so) doesn't love this movie? I didn't think this sounded like a great idea for a show. Although I loved the movie, I wasn't necessarily a huge fan of the individual characters. They do a very good job with the characters, especially with Johnny. It even shows his perspective of how things went down during the original movie, pretty interesting.


                
OK. I saw the trailer. Thought it would be a cheap nostalgia fest, aimed at middle aged folks who loved the original movies and wanting to revisit their youth. Fair enough. I've fallen for things like that before. Gave the first episode a go, quite good fun, gave the second a go, then the third and... damn, did I start falling in love with it.Look. Johnny and Daniel have both turned into a-holes in their middle-aged years, for different reasons. Why do I identify with that, as someone who watched the original movie as a kid. Ahem... ;o) And their reignited rivalry throws all those around them into certain levels of turmoil. Any kids watching this show (who will be the same age as we were when we watched the original films) will get the same buzz out of it. Some talented young actors, BTW.My favourite new show of 2018, such a fun watch... funny and moving and with many throwbacks to the original movies that'll make long-term fans punch the air... and, heck, any show that finds the time to put in some cheesy montages set to 80's rock music is fine by me!
This has got to be the best thing I have seen all year, had to watch it all in one sitting!


                
First off: There are people spoiling the anime into disastorous movies and there is Cobra Kai which turned a good movie into a mind blowing show.
Cobra Kai has everything that any 90s Kid is looking forward to. The show leaps forward from the rivalary between Lawrence and LaRusso to their younger versions. I don't know from where they did the casting but they all were too good to be not seen off. The storyline was a follow up from the previous one yet it felt fresh. And the incentive from all this is that nostalgic feeling you get when the show honors Mr. Miyagi every once in a while. It could not be better than this. Cheers! Waiting for S2!


                
For so many reasons, I never felt that I was going to ever watch this series, let alone feel the need to review it, but did I ever eat my words when watching the first season of Cobra Kai. After the success of the original Karate Kid film, three lukewarm sequels were formed as a result of its success, and while they weren't ever known as abominations, I never needed anything more from this franchise. When the original film was reimagined and cast Jaden Smith and Jackie Chan in the lead roles, I really had no thoughts about ever seeing the original cast members again, but once again I've been proven wrong. Here's why this first season of Cobra Kai is better than anything that has come out since the original film that had any relevance to The Karate Kid.Decades later, Daniel LaRusso now owns a car company and lives a very wealthy and happy life with his wife and two children. Since his life has become that of a fairytale ending, the show is focussing far more on that of Johnny Lawrence. Fired from countless jobs and barely getting by, Lawrence finds himself reopening his old dojo in order to face his past demons. Gaining a new trainee in Miguel, this character fits the persona of Larusso from the original film pretty well, but there are definitely differences. Everyone has their share of arcs to go through from the time this show starts, until the very last shot of this season, but the most interesting character for myself was Robby Keene, played by Tanner Buchanan.This is a character that you start off hating, but then realize you may have to rethink your thoughts on the entire show after just a couple episodes. Yes, Ralph Macchio gives his all here and William Zabka impressed the hell out of me every time a comedic or dramatic moment would arise for his character, but I found myself emotionally invested in Robby the most. There are many subplots and callbacks that relate to past events, but they never feel forced. They are either done in a playful way or used as a tool to further this new story. I never once found myself annoyed when portions of the classic story were referenced.This brings me to my experience of this show in general. From the music choices to the call back with the very recognizable score, this is a show with a lot of energy when it needs to be exciting, while also being a show that displays no fear in slowing down for emotional or tender moments between characters. There were multiple occasions when it felt clear that the writers had kept a close eye on character details when weaving classic storylines into this television series. What also surprised me was the fact that footage is used from the original film every now and then in order to fill in the gaps for those who may not have seen the original movie from the 80s.In the end, Cobra Kai is a worthy successor to The Karate Kid legacy and I can't wait to see where they go next. I hope this show is renewed because many possibilities are left wide open at the end of this season. To put it bluntly, I never expected to love a show that I thought looked absolutely atrocious from its trailers, but I honestly can't recommend checking this out enough. Great nostalgia for people who grew up watching the original movies and also features great life lessons for young viewers who wish to start fresh with this show instead of catching up with previous installments. For everything this show sets out to accomplish, it does so in spades and always keeps you guessing. Yes, there are some very cheesy moments, but that's also what make the original movies such a joy to watch. Aside from cringing at a few lines of dialogue, I absolutely loved watching Cobra Kai. I can't wait for more.Now streaming on YouTube Red, this show is worth a subscription to their service alone. Definitely check this one out.


                
I'm a huge fan of the original Karate Kid. I watched it for the first time when I had taken my own karate lessons. Karate hasn't stuck with me, but the values I've learned from it have. Cobra Kai was an extremely nostalgic look back at the classic films. Johnny is portrayed as a human with many layers, and his motives are understandable. The writing team deserves an award for taking one of the most infamous childhood bullies that we all imagined beating the crap out of when we were little kids, and turning him into a character the audience can root for. And, making it a realistic turn the entire time. The gentle nods to the original films are subtle and tastefully done. And, if you're not a fan of the original movies, I'd still highly recommend this show. Enough context is given to lay out a brand new story that doesn't rely so heavily on the originals. There is also a lot of humor in this first season. Even more than the originals if I remember. This aspect, along with the rest of the series is pulled ff remarkably well. even the drama never felt pointless, and the movie deserves it's serious moments. This was surprisingly well done. It's rare to see reboots of classic movies from the 80's go over so well, but Cobra Kai should be praised for what it managed to pull off. It receives high marks from me.


                
I wasn't sure what to expect when I first heard of Cobra Kai. A spinoff of Karate Kid with protagonist and antagonist switching roles was immediately interesting, but also odd. It had been a while since I've seen the original Karate Kid, so I didn't know what to expect.Cobra Kai surprised me in its quality, thoughtful story and comedy, and some very well choreographed fight scenes to boot. It takes the very black and white original story, and adds a little more complexity to it. It's no longer about good vs evil, but about what drives people to improve, and how it differs from person to person.When we first meet Johnny, he's a washed up depressed alcoholic working odd jobs, but when he is inspired to take up Karate again, he reestablishes Cobra Kai, the studio that trained him in his youth, but also abused and traumatised many of its members. Daniel, now a successful car salesman, takes issue with this, and uses his influence over the community to make Cobra Kai's startup as difficult as possible, reigniting an old feud between the two.Neither Johnny or Daniel are entirely 100% morally just in their pursuits. Johnny is old fashioned and at first refused to take in female students until convinced by his first student Miguel, and makes a habit of perhaps being a little too aggressively insulting to his students. Daniel is more liberal in his approach, but his surprising antagonism within the story takes a more behind the scenes approach. He is driven by his old vendetta against Johnny and does some pretty scummy things because of this.Some might argue that Cobra Kai is making a political statement, especially surrounding PC culture, and while there are several jokes made at the expense of oversensitivity, the show does give this a fair amount of balance by also showing that being overly aggressive or offensive isn't good either, and the show more than makes up for this by having a very diverse and varied cast, both main characters and supporting roles.Overall, this is by far the best reason to get YouTube Red if you don't have it already. It's polished, fun, nostalgic and new at the same time. It's a great time that is well worth at least the free trial.
