After the excellent start made in episode one in the USA the trio came crashing to earth in episode two in South Africa. It was simply pathetic: motoring content was minor and almost coincidental, confined to one Clarkson review of the Aston Martin, the item on smoking tires was more relevant to a program on township culture (sic) and the 50% of the show on the SAS spoof in Jordan was far too long and self-indulgent. The opening banter was good and the jokes about Jacob Zuma very topical and clearly enjoyed by the South African audience. Who is the curmudgeonly version of Stig? He's very unfunny. There is also something significantly wrong with the test track which seems far too narrow and twisty to give the TV audience any impression of true speed. The trio really wasted the opportunity in South Africa: reviewing the huge range of vehicles in the game parks, racing the Blue Train in a hummer to avoid elephants etc. They made no real use of the location. If the next two episodes are as bad I'll be canceling my Prime subscription.
I wont waste much time reviewing this crap... To start i loved Top Gear back in the days, i was looking forward to seeing the TGT, but it came out stupid, childish & irritating as hell!Watched 3 episodes by now, every episode hoping for it to get better, it does NOT!To Start, That American aka the stig is utterly stupid, second : the humor is even lower than that of an 11 year old kid, And ALWAYS 1 of them must do something very annoying trough the entire episode, for example the muscle car Richard used in episode 3.conversation street is stupid as well.. that 'test track' or as i call it an old potato field is stupid and its not a real test track, i don't expect an air field but rather something decent "The star" in every episode dies, how funny... NOT! its the most stupid idea.And many other things i can talk about but like i said, ill keep it shortAlso i don't understand the 9.6/10 rating on here.. its maybe worth a 6/10 in total.my score is 1/10 because it irritates me. I wont pay to see another season of this!(Sorry for my badly written English, I'm a dutch guy :p)


                
I was a fan of the old show, I expected too much perhaps of Grand tour. Recycled jokes, forced bon Amie and the elephant in the room very little about cars. Episode three of Grand Tour a passing comment made about a British comedy 'last of the summer wine' three old bumbling gifts in their twilight years repeating lame punchlines in every one of the 10 million episodes to the delight of the senile audience, well I think it's hard to distinguish them apart as Clarkson, May and Hammond wryly smiled as I think they do too.Be honest with yourself and admit the show has hit rock bottom, let's hope like an alcoholic who does the same they'll seek help for this spluttering diatribe.


                
As a huge fan of the Clarkson, May and Hammond top gear, I was like many of us really looking forward to The Grand Tour, I'm afraid to say I am totally disappointed with this reincarnation. One of things I most enjoyed about TG was the specials the challenges and the guests, why didn't they spend the huge budget Amazon provided them with on producing these? instead we are untreated to overly long segments of what can only be described as filler television, in episode 2 they spend about 15 minutes basically just repeating the same not very funny joke in which James May gets killed trying to reach a get away car, it was like being in groundhog day, I actually felt embarrassed watching it. Terrible television.


                
Top Gear was always scripted. The hosts have always been petulant children. The acting has always been bad and obviously so.. they've managed to take that to a all-new level, a American one. Every single scene feels fake and as if it's the 3rd or 4th take of said scene we're seeing. Nothing feels genuine or natural, including the chemistry between the hosts, and so it ends up feeling like heavily scripted and instructed reality-TV (barf!).The show is now pandering to stupid people, children and Americans, all of whom shouldn't be allowed to drive anyway.One could say "Well, it isn't TopGear, it's the Grand Tour" - and you would be right. But that doesn't change the fact that it was exactly what they marketed it as, TopGear come-again.. and it's still fake, and honestly just horrid.


                
It is hard for me to believe that Amazon condones "The American" as representative of any motorsport driver in the United States or Grand Tour's fan base.I thought he was just a temporary joke in Episode 1, but I could not finish watching Episode 2 due to his insulting and vulgar performance.How could Amazon who has an outstanding record of being sensitive not to offer offensive products for sale, showcase such a negative stereotype as a typical NASCAR driver for their new show?If this continues in the next episode Amazon can count on me to immediately cancel my 18 year account with them.


                
I enjoyed the series although it is uneven but generally I think TG fans will continue to watch the show.....but a couple of bad gags about immigration ( one being a self driving car with a Romanian driving it ) while Jeremy lounges on top complicated how i felt about the show in general. As an Englishman and an immigrant myself- the sketch sat very badly for me...especially against the very homogeneous Whitby location. I grew up in Thatcher's Britain and people should feel lucky that they now live in country that people find desirable and want to move to- a country that immigrants have shaped and made desirable. Im sure Clarkson won't give a damn that i won't be watching any other seasons but I think i now know why his relationship with the BBC was so fraught.


                
But it goes like this: -prays for British cars. -make Americans feel good and bring also a muscle car. -make a stupid very ridiculous jokea bout a random nation. (I really didn't got what was that joke with the google car about) -Replace Stig with a boring American - well they really hope to sell in USA, isn't it? -make everything very unnatural and scripted. -Spend a big budget on nothing really...There is always a good moment to retire... well they just passed that moment....


                
Boring and Awful - in that order - it made me write this review.I loved Top Gear (well most of it) but after episode 3 of GT, it's the end of the line for me.Why: - Boring: 3 elderly Guys in the usual and very pricey cars, - Everything is very very scripted, though very boring - There's nothing new on this show, it's the same all over again, but with no "heart" in it. - Seems, like too much filling material, same images over again. - You should not have break down this house! it's plain profane to burn the trees around (no, i'm not a tree hugger, but you simply don't do those things anymore).Could go on and on, but GT is not worth it.Update. Had the occasion to watch one of season 3 episodes, but this has gone sideways down the bin. Sorry, guys, but you should have left top gear and stay off...
As a long time viewer and a fan of the old Top Gear trio I was expecting an interesting car show. Instead the result was one hour of boring talk, nonsense idiotic ideas like the famous guests, and a lot of non-car related stuff. It seems like all the chemistry has gone. This show might be interesting to someone who hasn't seen any Top Gear earlier, but otherwise it's dull, boring and just not worth watching. Four or five episodes brought only a couple of jokes that were actually funny. Besides that nothing.If BBC does a decent job with "Joey" and other guys, now when Chris Evans is not around anymore, they will easily do a better series as the original Top Gear.If you are a fan of Clarkson, Hammond and May you better watch or re-watch old Top Gear.


                
I honestly never review shows/films, but this has annoyed me enough to write this review. I have watched Top Gear for many years until 2 episodes into its appalling last season and have been eagerly anticipating The Grand Tour since it was announced. The first episode was funny, if a bit brash, but was okay. Episode 2 has kept the same jokes that weren't funny in episode 1 (Celebrities dying) and has added a lot more "acting" from the 3 presenters. Now, I understand this is a TV show and not everything is real but the greatest moments we have had with these three are genuine or appear to be genuine and aren't obviously "acted". I had high hopes for this show but people are going to start to turn off as it's lost it's realism, it's actual car reviews, it's connection to the audience and ultimately it's soul. Such a shame.


                
Top Gear had a nuance, a balance and a creative wit which allowed the jokes and adventures to retain some charm. The relationship between the presenters was light, and left you wanting a bit more.The grand tour is unrestrained both in editorial and in budget. The light banter between the presenters has become forced and is like being in the presence of an awkward argument between work colleagues. The budget has meant the sketches are bloated, over the top and neither impressive or entertaining. I'm just left thinking why am I watching this?At it's best the show is a travel show, Last of the summer wine in cars or lightweight chat show where cars are the guests.Now it's just a mess, the presenters limitations are all too plain to see. The forced banter is grating, the sketches are bland and unengaging and the time is nasty.


                
Are you serious? After watching 9 episodes, it is still the same misery. No challenges, no progress. They just do one thing, absolutely fail and the clip is over within 5 minutes achieving nothing. So called "special" was absolutely boring. Scripted scenarios, boring interpretations, nothing interested in there. Driving 39 through desert achieving nothing at all. Man this show is garbage. I liked the old top gear the way this guys got some challenge to achieve something and seeing theirs progress and why they did thing was funny. However, in GT there is no such thing at any way. It is just third class car show with scripted scenarios that was supposed to be funny but is not in any way. Also, so called "celebrity brain crash" stopped be funny after first part being released. Cmon GT, they are NOT actors, they are TV show presenters. Don't make they say quotes from your script, let them talk about things, let them improvise, be themselves.
U are all deluded ex top gear lovers,Evans top gear revival was better at least it was less cheesy than this crap. Regretting my Amazon prime subscription for this drivel. Hope the 160 million makes them Happy as I would be Embarrassed if I produced This quality of program for That money.Really amazed that Amazon signed of on this. I expected Benny hill or basil faulty to turn up at any moment.That's the level of humor this is aimed at.Thank God they decided the killing celebrities was to cheesy even for them.


                
Honestly, what the f*** is this show? 
Comedy ? Not funny
Cars ? You barely see cars, and it's never interesting... When one guy says something interesting the others laugh.
It's so much scripted, absolutlely terrible.Don't waste your time, this is terrible.


                
Oh my god I wasted my money on this crap I'm unsubscribing to amazon prime ill give U a couple reasons formula 1.Richard Hammond is totally annoying and childish 2. If U look closely at Jeremy Clarkson teeth its disgustingly revolting to the manner maximum 3 James may is like this nerdy supersaturated old bum 4. The jokes repeat and repeat and I nearly smashed the TV 5 Ep 5 is absolutely absurd and disgusting and is definitely not a family show anymore 5. Its not nice to watch that annoying boring American at the end driving at the retarded crape race trackAnd a lot of other stuff btw ban this crape show I'm the KKK


                
'member all those amazing Top Gear specials?
'member the emotion-filled tributes to Jags and Aston Martins?
'member the iconic celebrations of cars like Ferrari Daytona?
'member the ridiculous races?
'member the times when it was about the love of cars?That was BBC, those were three honest petrolheads enjoying themselves and not giving a flying toss what anyone else thought. They also had to deal with budgetary and administrative constraints, which only spurred creativity.This, however... This is a loud, very American commercial product that tries to compensate for the lack of inspiration with huge budgets. Like Hummer drivers.These guys are really talented, but all life has been sucked out of them, all joy is gone. They are like cocaine addicts, just snorting more and more, being more and more outrageous just to feel anything, yet they never do.Selling out to Amazon was a bad move. They should have gone back to basics and just had some fun, like they used to. But they made their choice, and that's the result. A very sad ending to an amazing trio.


                
I loved the old show and hoped for something at least half good. Even though I never payed to watch this (thep...bay) it feels like a waste of my time. Youtube hobbyists have better car channels than this crap is. The truth is like this: -comedy is cad and jokes are jut not funny without chemistry -too mach boring talking in that "tent" studio -i don't know how they did it but all 3 of them became such bad actors or at least they give impression that they are acting and not actually reviewing anything -even with their budget they seem like they don't know what their doing


                
Like a lot of people who have left reviews I used to like Top Gear and was looking forward to The Grand Tour. How disappointing was this load of rubbish. I do believe that most of the 9s and 10s was left by people who work for the programme because its impossible to give this more than a 5 in reality ( fans with blind faith ) The jokes are stale, the acting ridiculous ( I know their not meant to be serious ) Won't be watching anymore if they make any.


                
I'm honestly asking, it's like explosions, possibly a car, random people doing random things in a random setting. Appalling scripted scenes with people who are not actors, just why!? Jeremy Clarkson needs to go away, his arrogant demeanour rubs me totally the wrong way. Please cancel this abortion of a tv show.Had to update this review after a particularly offensive episode made fun of the LGBT community for wearing moisturiser and driving a particular car, Im sure it's easy to make fun of a group that already has to struggle in the world, imagine if this were directed at black people or women and the outcry that would ensue. Yet still this will be renewed for years to come no doubt, I hold Amazon responsible for allowing such offensive 'jokes' on a popular show.
Over worked tired old jokes. Show has gone downhill and is now at rock bottom.


                
Come on, why do people still watch this nonsense. It's not funny, the presenters are tedious and it's not got any originality.


                
Season 1 was riddled with problems(understandable), hoped for a better and polished season 2 but after watching 7 episodes of season 2 it is very disappointing.
 
Comparing this top top gear will be unfair but on entertainment value both are equal and similar failure. There is no flow within the bits and most bits fall flat. Even the adventure parts are getting repetitive. I know all bits were and are scripted but the fact you can tell it is scripted that means poor acting and direction/co-ordination. Poor script gets in the way of natural chemistry. There is nothing to enjoy really .


                
Who writes these episode? They are boring, and unfunny. We grew accustomed to the brilliant writing of Top Gear, as well as Top Gear's brilliant editing. The Grand Tour has none of what made Top Gear great.I feel bad for James and Richard, they still seem to care where obviously Clarkson is here to collect a paycheck.Never thought I'd get to this point but I'm done watching this disaster.


                
No more originality in this show. Jeremy's jokes are becoming more stupid and more offensive with each new episode. The direction is the same with each section: silent start with dimmed light then loud music with some shouting and some engine noise followed by a stupid review.


                
