Imagine what would happen if the famous three were told by Amazon to do what they want and spend as much as you like - because clearly that's what happened here and the end result is AWESOME!Everything is Hollywood in scale and execution. From the writing to the action set pieces, it almost has a slight Michael Bay feel to it.All three presenters are on top form but Clarkson is clearly still the star.'So is it basically just like Top Gear?'I hear you say. And the answer is 'yes', but imagine Top Gear better than it's ever been. The only negative is no Stig. There is Stig-like replacement but it's just not the same.Otherwise, this show is off to an AMAZING start. Highly recommended.


                
The brand was not so much the name of the previous show... The brand is this lot here making the best motoring show ever. Well done for Amazon who quickly managed to get them on board. Without any spoilers: It is exciting, it feels familiar - yet new. Thrilling might be right word, but again - even if you sit these three around a table and let them talk about cats for an hour - they'll surely deliver. I think what most viewers would be hoping for is a fair dose of craziness, but also exploring new heights. I am not being objective, but yet again, who is? If you loved TG then you'll love GT....Looking forward to seeing the trio do excitingly new challenges!


                
So there was nothing to worry about after all! After the kerfuffle surrounding the end of the three presenting TG at the Beeb, I honestly thought that wherever they went nothing would be the same again in the motor show universe. Well I am happy to report here that I was wrong, sorry let me write that again properly. I was WRONG! Yep it needed the capitals.Amazon threw a lot of money at GT, probably 10 times the budget that TG enjoyed and today there must be some very happy execs in that organisation. The show is at once familiar and different, Richard Hammond's boyish charm (my wife is happy), James May's nerdy appeal and Jezza's sardonic take on everything - all is as it was, but there is also an excitement to GT that TG lacked, a production value that exceeds anything that has gone before as far as a magazine show is concerned. I'm not going to go into any details, no spoilers here, but the whole show is spectacular, great cars, great music, great scenery and most importantly of all - great presenters. If you liked TG you are going to love GT!


                
It's amazing how well the trio slips right back into top form in the first episode of the Grand Tour. I loved the first episode, and I wish I could watch the rest of the season right now. This show is funnier than most of the comedies on TV, and it has to be one of the most gorgeous shows on TV, as they really spared no expense on the production values. They even have some excellent CGI showing how each hybrid engine works.The only things missing from Top Gear are the Stig, and the celebrity interviews. While this eliminates some of the excellent Stig jokes, they've replaced him with a named racer to perform time trials on their crazy new track. For the celebrities, they had a funny series of jokes about it, but honestly there's not much to miss.So overall, I'd recommend this show to everyone, but especially fans of humor, cars, and travel. I think I might have a new favorite TV show with The Grand Tour, and I can't wait to see the rest of the season.


                
From the first trailer we knew this was going to be something worth watching. And it sure was. Clarkson, Hammond and May come back with this refreshing look and take on a car show. The backdrops to each episode look stunning and the guys are on a better form then they ever have been. I'm glad they left the BBC because it gave them time to create something new that was not going to dry out and become dull and also gave us time to get ready for something that will change the way TV is made. Thank you Grand Tour.Is this the same as Top Gear? No and yes. The shows format is altered but their is still a track and a racing driver, The American, who takes over from The Stig and The News is now Conversation Street. If you are hesitant about buying Amazon, you won't be disappointed.


                
I just watched an impressive, thoughtful, provocative, memorable, perfect first episode of the first season. I was not sure what to expect with the trio's new take on what they love to do the most. Actually it was imaginative and provocative enough to show that these three can come come up with the most watchable car programme on earth.The cinematography was better than anything I have seen before. Even better than the show they left behind at the 'Baa Baa See'! :) The picture quality was astounding. Whatever cameras and jigs they have used to film the show are probably the best equipment available. The overall visuals look spectacular and 'grand'. Smooth Amazon Prime streaming in proper HD gets credit for that too. Vibrant colours, smooth camera work and not the shaky vibrating car mounted cameras of yore. - Even in this department, it appears as though BBC has been beaten! Even the sound recording felt better. Now, sound recording is something BBC (Baa Baa See) used to excel in. Now, with an iPlayer that does not appear to play full HD and with a sound that feels compressed, Baa Baa See has unwittingly given these three guys an edge over their own sorry show. The audio playback was really superlative in Amazon Prime for what I was expecting for a streaming playback. Something dreary like a motoring show becomes so exciting with these three. I was completely expecting a few laugh out loud moments. What was actually there exceeded all expectations. I would expect more fun and more laugh out loud moments. I am totally spoilt. Would imagine that eventually, there will be scenes and episodes that sets new heights and standards. Is this a stunt show? Is this a motoring show? Is this a sitcom? Who knows. It is superlative fun: - That is what it is . I cannot wait to watch the rest of the season, as it looks like each episode may have its own unique flavour, because of the changing locations. Wow! Brilliant!****Just this one show alone makes my Amazon Prime membership worth it****I have watched more episodes since this review and wanted to report back. Yes, this show is definitely mega fun and it looks like it has been a game changer for Amazon. I would now expect Amazon to throw even more money at not just Grand Tour, but to other potential programming. One the whole I am extremely pleased with Amazon streaming quality. After this, BBC's old version of Top Gear is probably dead. I still like BBC drama as they are more quintessentially British compared to current content on Amazon. I also think that Amazon should try stuff like Jools Holland doing takes on Songs, as an example. I do hope Amazon makes more strong stuff like this! :) Thanks for reading.


                
As a great fan of Top Gear, I was looking forward to the Grand Tour. Episode one showed great promise. Superb intro and great selection of cars promised well of the future. Disappointing new test track and the new test driver is horrible. If they must have an American driver, get one with some charisma. Episode two got off to a good start with the AM Vulcan, but the Desert Stumble really was well named and some of the other slots seemed to lack the spark that these three used to show. I just hope the program can pick itself back up. The old TG did stumble a few times, but I cannot remember anything as bad episode 2 of GT. Maybe this is the strategy so that Episode 3 appears better.--------------------------------------------------------The above was written after episode 2 when I scored this a lowly 2/10. Since then, things have turned around and the remaining episodes were as good as the best they did for the BBC. The only thing missing is getting celebrities back on the show, talking to the presenters and driving 'real world' cars on a track. Surely the BBC cannot have exclusive rights to this concept.
After the end of an era and a long period of uncertainty and waiting, 507 days to be exact, we are presented with what can only be described as utter brilliance and pure enjoyment, something that is truly worth the wait, welcome everyone...to The Grand Tour. A refreshing, semi-automotive program packed with action and excitement, introduced in the most magnificent way possible. After watching the first episode, you sense that you have just witnessed the beginning of a new era, one that stands on more than just the exceptional chemistry of the trio, but on the refined genius of the brand new show as well. The Grand Tour is truly everything one expects it to be; grand in every way.


                
Trust me, you can't stop smiling at the opening minutes. If you're fan of the old Top Gear trio than you'll absolutely love it. Just perfectly made. The good old taste of the old Top Gear combined with some new creative additions. Great pilot episode, great work with the camera and funny as usual for them. Probably you will want to watch the rest of the season immediately. Can't wait for the next week episode.I can see only high ratings and bright future! (I guess now BBC realize what huge mistake they made. I don't know what will going on with Top Gear after the great opening of The Grand Tour, but I can't see them making the show great again.


                
Always great fun. I thought I was a Top Gear fan. Turns out I am a jezzer, James and Richard fan , and of course the visionary director. Watch each programme with a smile. Great scripts awesome images. Everyone would love to be in their gang! Don't think "the American " is funny. Assume he is there to give Some American flavour. Thanks Amazon for giving them the platform from which to soar. The next series will I am sure be even better, so much better than Top Gear Light. A definite high spot of the week. Just this programme justifys the subscription. Although must admit that there are an awesome number of great programmes on Amazon Re The American there must be funnier and more talented American drivers. I have met a few and mostly they exude a love of life and have great one liners. Loved the steering wheel knob.


                
I liked all of jokes, all moments of the show. It worth a few hours to watch, moreover i recommend to you.One thing i didn't like at all... Celebrity brain crash, which was so boring after the first two episodes. I hope there will be some more creativity to change on this thing.


                
I love everything about this show . I can't believe so many people don't like it . All three of them are hilarious. I can't wait for the season 4 now. Bring it on ! People need to relax . Stupid jokes are funny because stupid is funny


                
Their connection with each other as they travelled across Mongolia was wonderful to watch. Hammond's attempts at driving were always great and perfectly timed. I have not laughed out loud during a TV show this much in a LONG time!P.S. Where can I get a "John"?


                
Addicted to these guys since 2002...An amazing thing to give them more money and see how far they take it.I can't believe they are all still alive
Keep on blowing it up ...we will keep worshiping at the alter of top g....I mean The Grand Tour....thank ya'll very much.


                
I LOVED Top Gear and was so bummed when it came to an end. I was a bit reserved in my hopes for The Grand Tour and am so very happy to say it feels like they're back without missing a beat and exceeded my expectations!Are some things different? YES, and that isn't necessarily a bad thing. Change can be good, and so far (5 episodes in) I am loving the show and the chance to spend an hour a week with three awesome, fun, and talented guys! Besides, based on how things ended with the BBC how could you not expect some changes?And are the boys being more than a little silly? Again: YES, that's what they do! I can't wait to see how the show evolves and what awesomeness they get up to next.Amazon did a wonderful thing here, God bless the Grand Tour!


                
Season 3 was brilliant, with every season and every episode the show became better and better, i will miss this format and probably I'm the only one that will say this, but i will miss conversation street as well.
I hope the new season will have movie length episodes and the documentary type segments will still be there.


                
Probably the show on earth? Love it, it's one of the only shows I laugh out loud at (every show), anyone giving a review less than 10 stars is probably a woman?


                
I'm sure everyone who enjoys the show is with me when I say this show has gotten so much better every season.First getting rid of that moron The American. Then, cutting the celebrity segment out. Amazon really does listen to the fans.Brilliant show, please keep it up! To all those who can't take a joke, beware. Haha.If I had one negative criticism, it's the fact that they always review Aston Martins. They literally all look like the same car since the DB7 came out. They're soooooo boring. Jeremy even didn't like the one he was driving in Season 3 Episode 11. I speculate that the three always request to review one because of they're British pride, however.


                
Amazing.
Destroys top gear.
Even better is that each season they tighten up the cast. Discard the American driver and celebrity brain crash. Not needed.
Please keep it going.


                
I created an account just time write this review. The china special and the American special are alone enough to restore hope for any doubters. These guys are the best and have chemistry that other presenters (top gear) lack.
Love these guys and keep it coming


                
This was never just about cars. This is to tour around the world with the three old dudes. Absolutely amazing.


                
Thanks goodness they are back. This show is an astonishing piece of work, everything regarding the show is great and as always the chemistry between these three is just brilliant. Best car show or should I say the best show overall right now. Hope for many more of the phenomenal episodes in future. Credit to the Amazon for letting them do their own thing instead of over controlling them and the end product is nicest ever. Watching it on prime has an advantage of watching it on your free time and commercial free! Their new race track is so exciting but it is also a bit dangerous so it will be interesting to watch drivers struggling for their life. I am so looking forward to see Hamster and Captain Slow burn Jezza's House down.
This was even better than expected. Not only amazing camera work throughout and some of the best cars around, the three were on top form. This is Top Gear unleashed and free from the BBC, and running amok. This is definitely a show for these great times. After all, if you can't laugh at killing Jeremy Renner and Carol Vorderman what can you laugh at? Ebola, I suppose. That was amusing too. Highly recommended for all fans of the previous show and for anyone who wants to see eccentric, non-PC British humour at its best. I recognised Ebolatrack as soon as I saw it. Fond memories. Can't wait for next week now. This will be a must-see. I've never been so glad of a punch, and I suspect JC is pretty relieved too. Freedom to do as he wants and create a genuinely brilliant and unique show.


                
Right from the breath taking beginning until the end, I never stopped smiling. The gorgeous visuals, the brilliant filming of the exquisite cars, sexy close up shots of matter flying out of the roaring exhausts and the usual entertaining comedy, all add up to shape a perfect modern car show. Being a Top Gear fan, I was expecting quite a lot and this show gave till it hurt. Right from the start my eyes were glued to the screen and I never looked away until the credits rolled. The perfect chemistry of our favorite hosts proudly carries on.Watch it to believe me.


                
We all get all mushy about remakes and sequels. The Nostalgia about the originals is always present. Just like the Star Wars, I like the new movies a lot, but many hate them to the core because the originals were so awesome.The Grand Tour Season 1 was not really great to be honest. They made a joke out of celebrity crashes, put too much into the Stig, all in all it didn't feel right replacement for the Top Gear millions loved.The Grand Tour Season 2 however is a thing of its own. The Stig is OKay, could have been done better but I'll take it. I love the celebrity face off even though I skip most of those, but most importantly, I absolutely love the comedy involved in the show. I don't care whether its all pre planned or scripted, I don't care if somebody gets offended (its not meant to be taken as offensive) I just need 3 old men with the mental age of 9 delivering me light comedy while talking about some exotic cars.One thing I will say needs improving is that TGT doesn't have as many 'awesome showcase videos' of cars like the Top Gear, and yet I still gave them 10 star because on numerous occasions during the second season I was tempted to open IMDB just so I could write a review here, but now after 10th incredible episode featuring a Tesla (in a hilarious review complete with lawyers) I thought its time I say that The Grand Tour has made its place in my heart.


                
