I rarely, ever write reviews for anything. But, having been a fan of Top Gear Since the 1990's I was just mortified at the sheer piece of bullshit that these people have created. I was fine till the first episode and gave the benefit of the doubt to the producers for not getting it right. But, the second one was just horrific. It was not about cars at all, it was about three old dudes trying desperately hard to act funny and failing at it miserably. The last half hour was just a pain. If any of the producers are reading this, then please, please, please do something about it. Otherwise this rating of 9+ won't stay there forever. To add to your woes, I believe the Top gear (new anchors) was far better in their first 2 episodes. The only thing carrying you guys was you fan following, thats it !!!


                
Seems Andy Wilman has tried to turn the trio into actors....and they simply are not. The brain crash scene is just ridiculous and not at all entertaining for a home viewer. Is this really not a car show anymore? It feels more like car crash TV at time as the staged gags are just not funny. Repeated scenes rewinding with subtle differences over and over and over again just feels like padding....not action packed content that viewers have paid a premium for. What happened to the kind of epics we used to love touring Vietnam or Africa or the poles? ....please tell me this show is not just setting up a tent in different places and presenting from it. Really disappointed so far...honestly think Matt le-blanc and Chris E did a better job on TG for a quarter of the budget.


                
I didn't want to write off the grand tour after the first episode, so I waited until the second one dropped at least. Unfortunately it changed nothing. The shows looks like as if the producers gave completely free reign to the three clowns. And we get a barely legal ripoff of Top Gear.Don't get me wrong I loved them in Top Gear, almost every episode was brilliant.But this one is completely off the rails, and not in a good way. I felt embarrassed for the bad jokes and awkward punchlines while watching it. The chemistry between the three can't lift this show off the ground. It seems that they couldn't turn the humongous budget into a consumable show. Like the mobile studio which adds no value whatsoever. The viewer just sees the same interior all the time. And the guest car builder stood out like a sore thumb from the show's structure. And they only really had a few awkward words with him either way. The cheesiest part of the show is definitely the "American" they're throwing out age old clichés that don't seem even remotely funny. It's bad even as self irony. As far as the format goes it's too much like Top Gear, but it's nothing like Top Gear at the same time. In it's current state the show is not working. It seems that they're having a lot of fun while filming, but the end result is disastrous even after what seems extensive time in the editing room.


                
I am sorry, but producers should be sorry too. The show is so scripted that it is unbelievable. Jokes on demand like in some sit-com, boring conversations and poor "acting", if you can call it like that. I simply was not fun! If someone gives this show 10 stars, than either you did not watch previous series and you do not know how they behave naturally or you are American and this is what you expect from television. I am so sorry... this could have been huge! It is not only about cars, places, story... It looks like they forgot what really built the show. Amazing places and stories, challenges and being real. Hopefully next episodes will be better, but it looks like BBC producers were simply better!


                
Having now watched 4 episodes of the grand tour I can honestly say that if things don't improve quickly I shall be cancelling my Amazon prime membership - It's been a very long wait for a disappointing mishmash of 'Last of the Summer Wine' and 'Live at the Apollo'.The first episode was quite watchable with touches of TG of old and although the obvious scripting and unfunny jokes jarred a little at times I thought this will improve as the show finds its feet. Sadly it has gone from good to, well, not so good.The bad scripting has made Clarkson and Co look obviously uncomfortable and awkward at times, only exaggerated as the series continues. The scripting and staging has totally squashed what natural empathy the hosts used to have in TG days when although still scripted, seemed more natural somehow. It is almost as though now they are being pushed to act rather than present.I am guessing the cast are in an uncomfortable position where Amazon is the big boss now and a 'we say, you do' policy is the order of the day. I'd be very surprised if Clarkson, Hammond and May actually think what they are doing is particularly funny, nor do I doubt whether they have much input into what is aired. (Did they honestly think driving a car made of bones and rotting meat in Ep.4 was funny?) I can also imagine them being very worried about what the public will have to say about their new venture and rightly so. They probably held out for top dollar salaries and a lengthy contract after the Clarkson fiasco with the BBC but I hope the marriage with Amazon will not have us screaming for a divorce following predicable love / hate viewing figures if this current format continues. Amazon in their glory appear have forgotten about cars, or even tours for that matter after the first episode concentrating instead on trying to push their new prodigies to the now forced, almost movie like heights of show business when in fact what transpires is a contrived soap opera with no real content. Most of us know how good the Chemistry can be with this cast of three but they are being robbed of their talent by childish and probably non petrol-head script writers. And why on earth are they taking time to film celebrities falling or crashing to their deaths without actually interviewing them, seems pretty pointless really when they might actually have something beneficial to add instead of the current mind-numbing, boring and time wasting big budget inserts.To be fair, I'm not the sort of guy that laughs at stand-up comedy but I'm not void of humour either, maybe that's why the the shows' humour goes completely over my head, but is the joke to see just how far JC can verbally push his luck now without the BBC on his back? Stick to brilliant car reviews Jeremy, not everybody shares your sense of humour.The new GT test track can only be described a quaint, and with a section called 'The Old Lady's House' how couldn't it be? I wonder if there actually is an old lady living there with her dentures being dislodged every five minuets as yet another thunderous car hurtles by her front door? And whats with the American test driver? Nothing against Americans of course but why is he there? He lacks charisma and has nothing of interest to say. I know the Stig character was a silent hero and OK a little dated but he had audience respect. How about another faceless character for time trials?In short, we have mixed reviews here, some are excellent, some are terrible. Factoring in the possibly dodgy ones, it would be nice to see a good to high average rating from everybody assuming Amazon takes on board what is being said and perhaps changes the shows' format a little and allows the presenters to be more themselves. If they don't I fear at the end of their contract we will have no more GT and a team that no TV company will have an interest in because whatever chemistry Clarkson, Hammond and May ever had will have been washed out, spun, and maybe left hanging on the line for good. Sad really.
So so so wanted The Grand Tour to work, desperate to see it succeed, but sadly it is going downhill with every episode. Where was the budget spent?Why is it following the same "here's a celebrity, oh no we've killed them on the way to the tent"?Where's the test/race drivers personality?There's one feature, with terribly scripted fillers in between each segment and awful ideas (self driving car, immigrant smuggling TT, etc.)Episode 1&2 showed such promise, 3&4 were woeful Not sure I'll even bother with episode 5 and beyond.
I watched every episode hoping they would get better, but it didn't. It really looked like they were given money and told to just make a show without any guidelines. The result was a fiasco. A lame attempt at trying to be funny that mostly failed or when it was funny, like the killing of a celebrity, they repeated it each episode and it became boring very quickly.The first season of Top Gear with Jezza as host wasn't nearly as good as later seasons, but it was much better than Grand Tour Season 1. I hope in season 2 they get a decent format and return to be a car fantasy show that is funny because of boys being boys, not a comedy show that is boring because the comedians are rubbish and the jokes don't work.One thing that really worked against them was the lack of available cars to play with, did the car makers say no? If this is the case and it continues there is little hope.Top Gear is awful too, so it may be best to just watch the top gear repeats.


                
Had the misfortune to watch the Columbia special with my son. We loved the top gear country specials, amusing, great adventures, insight into the country with just enough banter between the 3 to make it fun. Ie not too much and with a light touch.
Roll on a few years to Columbia and how sad. The banter seems to have become a major part at the expense of great scenery and motoring action. First 30 mins must rank as some of the dullest tv ever as they arrive in Columbia and wander around Cartagena taking photos of dogs. Almost constant chatter from the 3, with the same old (and now tired) jokes - seems like they now think they are each great raconteurs. Needed huge editing and is a timely reminder that every great show has a limited shelf life. BBC must be breathing a huge sigh of relief that it didn't happen on their watch.


                
It was a joy to see them back with surprises and testing top notch cars. The comedy was brilliant and a lovely way to spend time watching the trio (stooges) tongue in cheek bantering.However the show has become stupid and so phoney. Imagine showing James May spinning out of control over a cliff and yet within a few hours later, all is well. This ludicrous script gets repeated by the others in other episodes and then one realise the whole show is actually rigged. Virtually nothing is real and most of it is staged.It gets repeated and repeated with worn out antics like them stealing towels and items from a hotel. Also they raced useless beach buggies and other irrelevant vehicles testing the times when it became obvious the race were indeed not real and stages throughout. The Grand Tour has become a joke with these super rich men using their fame to draw old timers in. How sad it has become.


                
Two walking heart attacks and a teenage boy dressed as a middle-aged man present a show remotely connected with cars.This show is best enjoyed in SD, even though it's offered in 4K as well. The blotchiness and the puffy red faces of the two presenters is difficult to watch in normal resolution and it may cause harm when viewed in terrific 4K, thus the show should be best classified as a horror.Clarkson and May seem to be in their 48th trimester, defying modern medicine and putting the show somewhat into the science fiction category.At times the show is funny, but those are fleeting moments in a sea of arrogance that only the best of british presenters can manage. Sadly everything that was good about the trio in the old days is gone, and only the bitterness and arrogance is left, fueling an entirely unnecessary and unoriginal show.


                
The specials were always, you know, special. GT has gotten old really quickly with there only ever being about 10% of it that was not cringeworthy in the last few episodes, so bring on the 'special' and lets have one for the ages!Boring, I mean interminably boring. Really, you have millions at your disposal and the best you could come up with was this. The repartee was appalling, and repetitive, and not just in show but from previous shows in this same series let alone the refreshed stuff for the BBC, son't you have any script writers capable of new material.The show reminds me of Trump, those that loved him forgave him everything that would have buried any other politician. GT is riding the wave of similar people who will forgive them anything, even such paltry offerings as the lasses 'Special' which to be honest was no less than we deserved for putting up with the less than inspiring offerings from the series to date.


                
I only watched this because it had such a high score by others. I turned it off after only 8 minutes. I can see where this might appeal to boys in their teens, but not adults. Driving cars recklessly, and people doing stupid things is not entertainment; it's eye candy and irresponsible. I can't see how this would have mass audience appeal outside of Britain. It's slapstick with cars. I never could understand British humor.


                
3 man children review cars. Act like complete idiots, like Hammond in Italy with that ridiculous Dodge Hellcat, burning rubber in Piazza Michelangelo, Florence thinking that would be really funny and cool.WHAT as ASS. Cannot wait for the English to leave the EU after that performance. I can think of 3 Brits I would not grant a Visa to Italy.I think people are nice reviewing these 3 as they were fired from BBC. I can see why now.Stick to the car reviews and get rid of the absurd, humorless, juvenile side shows.Like The Simpsons, misery loves company and makes people feel smart about themselves - same with these 3. Probably why such a high score here. Insipid individuals to say the least.Motorweek at PBS is better than this drivel from the British.


                
Like most fans of their old show T.G
I was looking forward to the grand tour
It started ok and I wasn't to bothered that the odd show would be naff,
But it has gone downhill quite fast.
Sadly it's just not as good as it used to be and with J.C's constant jibes at trump through this 3rd series it's just boring to the point of painful to watch.
I'm short it was fun while it lasted but your flogging a dead horse.


                
Almost everyone I know watches The Grand Tour after Jeremy was axed from the BBC Top Gear. I think it is largely because we loved the trio and their wonderful British banters and the latest cars that were on the show.
What then happened in 2019? Except for their fascinating trip to China, almost all other episodes sucks! The only genuine new A Lister car this year was the Lamborghini Urus which was subjected to a ridiculous snowy road test! Other than that, almost every other vehicles featured and driven by the trio were old bombs probably worth no more than what most normal students at college could afford.
One have to ask where did the ample Amazon funded budget went to at the end of the day?
Showing old footage of other documentaries as part of many of this year episodes are cheap and largely uninteresting as they are freely available from the internet. Even on many of the rubbish cars they used in making the show were rigged as one can see steel wires helping it to go uphill if one watches it in slow mo. In the finale, a church was used to mourn a very very very old car that many younger generation have never heard of. Have Jeremy and the gang ran out of ideas or perhaps spent all the budget on themselves?
Many who watch the trio are loyalists like me. It doesn't take a genius to figure out that on the final episode, many sitting in the audience were staff members and their own families!! It is sad despite it all. It is rubbish now. Some say.


                
I hate "motor sports" with a passion. If it were up to me, I'd ban them all, except for "Sustainability Races" that push the envelope for fuel efficiency and/or alternatives to the fossil fuels we've been using. This show just promotes the racing and auto industry. It's product placement, pure and simple. I have only watched about a half of an episode, but that was enough to almost make me want to hurl. This show is for self-indulgent jerks who want to see the planet screwed up faster than we already are. I'd give this show a '1', but I've heard they aren't considered in the score calculations. I'd give it a score of negative 1000 if I could. Yeah, it's "big budget" and could be a boring "car show". They make it exciting, though... and for this stuff, that's actually worse. F*#^ cars!


                
