Ikiru ("to live")is a Kurosawa film devoid of samurai or Toshiro Mifune. It is an oddity in his canon, neither an adaptation, nor an epic, or even a detective story. Instead, it is the simple and touching story of the last months of the life of a man, Watanabbe, public official, who decides to give a meaning to his life by transcending the obtuse and stiff mind of government bureaucracy to get a small public children's park built. As a parable for the soulless workings of modern bureaucracy, the goal is set pretty high, and Kurosawa goes even further, giving this story a lot of character, frequent humor, life and, most of all, heart. And going beyond the strengths of the direction and script, is the central performance by Takashi Shimura (later Kambei in Seven Samurai). Shimura gives his character such a transparently good heart and such great pain that every second of Watanabe's plight and struggle tugs at your heart, not in an overwhelmingly sentimental manner, but in one than feels honest and pure. If even many hardened souls will be drawn to tears, it is not for pity, but, admirably, because of envy for Watanabe's beautiful human dignity in the end, and for a film to have such power is beyond pure accomplishment, as the need to see this and, more importantly, feel it, goes beyond pure necessity...


                
I can safely say that I have seen no finer film than Kurosawa's true masterpiece, Ikiru.  The story of a dying petty bureaucrat in 1950's Japan, Ikiru is as uncompromisingly honest and beautiful a film as has ever been made on the subject of life.  Kurosawa elevates a story that could have been simple melodrama to the level of masterwork with a genuine love of his characters, and with an incredible technical direction.  The film's structure accentuates and deepens its many, many lessons on life, and the performances, including a heartbreakingly earnest turn by Shimura are all flawless.In short, Ikiru is easily one of the greatest works committed to film, and no discerning film aficionado should avoid experiencing it.  Had Kurosawa directed only this film, it would still be enough to include him in the pantheon of the greatest storytellers who ever lived.  Fortunately for us, it is simply the pinnacle of a staggeringly amazing career.  It is the absolute definition of a 10/10 film.


                
Probably one of the most difficult aspects a film like "Ikiru" has to overcome is the very rough march of time. To actually find someone these days, let's say a crowd of regular movie-goers to sit down and watch a film about an old Japanese man dying of cancer would be too much to ask.Long held shots, hardly uplifting subject, to westerners very foreign. An array of reasons not to see it. And yet, once you actually start getting into the picture it doesn't let you go. Which is why it may be rightfully considered to be a classic.Of all of Kurosawas film this is probably the one movie that works perfectly on an universal level. Because at its core it is about one of the most basic desires of human existence...namely to be able to look back on your life and say "It was worth it."In its starch and unforgiving black-and-white form the movie records the time of one man's life in such a beautiful and yes, colorful way, that by the time the final moments of the film play out, it will be very hard for anybody not to be touched. A glorious moment in 20th century cinema, that will hopefully be preserved for decades to come.


                
This film touched me in a way no other film has. Filmed in black and white and gorgeous, both in the visuals and in how the story unfolds. Behold the clever manner of gradually unfolding the story as people jog each other's memories at his funeral (an obligation for them, that gradually turns into a real eulogy). Everything is told in flashbacks: the mourners' memories unfold naturally, as people remember what the man did and struggle to comprehend why.This film I would nominate for the golden five of the century!I first saw it in 1956 or so at a small theater in downtown Chicago. A second viewing, years later, confirmed my initial pleasure!


                
Akira Kurosawa knew how to get in touch with human nature through his art. With his visual expressiveness and storytelling, he could pierce through his subjects, even in his big and occasionally comical samurai films, and find the elemental things do work. What he probably learned off of Rashomon probably helped out with Ikiru (To Live), a story of an old man who finds out he will die within a year, as both stories deal with perceptions of the significance of a life spent and a life wasted. Though that was to a different degree in Rashomon, with Ikiru Kurosawa expands into full-on existentialism. The old man Kanji Watanabe (in a wholly believable and often heart-breaking performance by Takashi Shimura) knows his life hasn't amounted to much as a (chief) clerk for the city. He knows he hasn't had a great kinship with his son. He's accepting his fate with a heavy soul. One of the tenets of existentialism is that there's free-will, and the responsibility to accept what is done with one's life. Kurosawa might've (as I speculate, I don't entirely know) caught onto this for his lead, and it works, especially with the little details.Such little details, unforgettable ones, have been expounded upon by other reviewers and critics, such as the drunken, sullen singing of "Life is short, fall in love my maiden" in the bar. A scene like that almost speaks for itself and yet it's also subtle. But one scene that had me was one not too many talk about. It's when Watanabe is in the Deputy Mayor's office, asking for permission so that a park can be built. At first the Mayor ignores him, but then Watanabe begs, but not in a way that manipulates the audience for sympathy with the old man. The mayor must be sensing something in his eyes, desperate and weak, however determined, and it's something that probably most of the audience can identify with as well, even if they don't entirely identify with the character.But aside from the emotional impact Ikiru can have on a viewer, composition-wise (with the help of Asakazu Nakai, wonderful cinematographer on less than a dozen Kurosawa films) and editing-wise the film is ahead of its time and another example of Kurosawa's intuitive eye. There are some to-tomy shots sometimes (which could be called typical via master Ozu or other), but everything appears so precise on a first viewing, so descriptive. I think I almost can't go into all of them without a repeat viewing, but there were two that are still fresh in me. The first was right as Watanabe was about to sing in the bar, and there were these bead-strings looming in front of the camera. Perhaps mysterious, but definitely evocative. The other was when Watanabe and one of the other clerks are on a bridge during a dark part of the day. Both characters are in silhouette, and Watanabe gives an indication to the character that he will die soon. But for me, I wasn't even paying a terrible amount of attention to the words. The way the two are lit as they are, with the light in the background and darkness in the foreground, it could maybe give an indication of what Kurosawa's trying to say: we're all not in the light of life, but it doesn't have to be an entire down-ward spiral if the will is good. Whether you're into philosophy (ies) or not, Ikiru won't disappoint newcomers to Kurosawa via his action pictures. A+


                
Ikiru is a film about life. Constantly complex and thought-provoking, although simple at the same time; it tells a story about life's limits, how we perceive life and the fact that life is short and not to be wasted. Our hero is Kanji Watanabe, the most unlikely 'hero' of all time. He works in a dreary city office, where nothing happens and it's all very meaningless. Watanabe is particularly boring, which has lead to him being nicknamed 'The Mummy' by a fellow worker. He later learns that he is dying from stomach cancer and that he only has six months to live. But Watanabe has been dead for thirty years, and now that he's learned that his life has a limit; it's time for Watanabe to escape his dreary life and finally start living. What follows is probably the most thoughtful analysis of life ever filmed.Ikiru marks a departure for Akira Kurosawa, a man better known for his samurai films, but it's a welcome departure in my opinion. Kurosawa constantly refers to Watanabe as 'our hero' throughout the film, and at first this struck me as rather odd because, as I've mentioned, he's probably the least likely hero that Kurosawa has ever directed; but that's just it! This man is not a superhero samurai, but rather an ordinary guy that decides he doesn't want to be useless anymore. That's why he's 'our hero'. Kurosawa makes us feel for the character every moment he's on screen - we're sorry that he's wasted his life, and we're sorry that his wasted life is about to be cruelly cut short. However, despite the bleak and miserable facade that this movie gives out, there is a distinct beauty about it that shines through. The beauty emits from the way that Watanabe tries to redeem his life; because we feel for him and are with him every step of the way, it's easy to see why Watanabe acts in the way he does. Ikiru is a psychologically beautiful film.It could be said that the fantastic first hour and a half is let down by a more politically based final third - and this is true. The movie needs it's final third in order to finish telling the story, but it really doesn't work as well as the earlier parts did. However, Kurosawa still delights us with some brilliant imagery and the shot of Watanabe on a swing is the most poetically brilliant thing that Kurosawa ever filmed. Together with the music and the rest of the film that you've seen so far; that picture that Kurosawa gives us is as moving as it is brilliant.


                
Kanji Watanabi is a quiet, melancholy man who has spent all his life behind his office desk doing sweet eff-all. When he is diagnosed with stomach cancer he realizes that he has been petty much dead his whole life, and searches desperately for away to live again.This is Akira Kurosawa's masterpiece, yes, even better than Rashomon and The Seven Samauri. It is a perfect true story of everybody's life- how we don't even realize we have it until we know it will be over in a short while. Watanabi's quest for self-discovery is one of the greatest from any motion picture ever made. The all-too-true paradox is one to end all paradoxes- that Watanabi is dead, and had been all his life, until he realized he was sick, which is when he began living for the first time. Takashi Shimura, the actor best known for his role as the wise, bald-headed Samauri in The Seven Samauri, and the professor out of the early Godzilla films, plays Watanabi perfectly- in my mind, it's one of the greatest film performances of all time. Not everyone will love this movie. It was made a long time ago, the main character is an old fogey, it has subtitles, and it's pretty long. Many people today, especially young kids, would find it boring. Well, let 'em. There's no need to worry about them, they'll always have Pirates of the Carribbean, they'll always have The Matrix. Leave Ikiru and films like it to the true lovers of cinema.


                
A quiet, but very moving film. Kanji Watanabe (Takashi Shimura) is a clerk who has been living a dull, unsatisfying life working in the government's offices who is diagnosed with cancer and is given one year to live. He tries to enjoy his days by picking up a former co-worker (Miki Odagiri) and taking her out on the town. She finally convinces him that this is not the way to spend the rest of his life. He soon realizes that he has a strong desire to do something with his life so that it will not have been a total waste. Therefore he begins to work in cooperation with the people... accomplishing something that nobody in the office had the nerve to do before.I consider Ikiru to be Kurosawa's first truly excellent film. The story moves along very low-key and we gradually realize the power and emotion that is in this great film. Roger Ebert said of Ikiru that it is one of the few films that can actually change the way you look at life after watching it.


                
Being one of the Founding Fathers of Cinema, Kurosawa shines to all directions. In his diverse oeuvre it is hard, if not impossible, to find a weak work.Ikiru is the most humane film of this grand Humanist. Kurosawa's story telling skills are sublime, and he has surpassed himself with this movie.The slow pace and ditto camera movements (except in the night with 'Mephistofeles' where all is logically much more frantic) enhances the story superbly. What a pity some of the nowadays public can't find the tranquility and maybe serenity to watch a gorgeous film like that. That part of the movie lovers will miss a brilliant film, that would have lingered in the mind forever...


                
"Ikiru" is supposedly one of Steven Spielberg's favourite films, and one can see the influence it's had on him not only in the sentimentality and the ultimate "feelgood factor" (which may be a little too extreme for some viewers, although the script never condescends), but visually, especially in the virtuoso sequence in which a reprobate leads our hero, a respectable and dull civil servant, on a whirlwind tour of Tokyo's frenzied nightlife - a masterpiece of camera placement and editing. With images throughout that will stay with you for a long time, and a terrific supporting performance by Miki Odagiri as a vivacious young "office lady", "Ikiru" is still an absolute knockout more than 50 years on.


                
'Ikuru' (Japanese for 'To Live') was one of Kurosawa's personal favorites. Prominent film critics worldwide put it, along with "Seven Samurai" and "Rashomon", on their lists of the best films ever made by anyone. When first shown in the USA during the 1950's , all three quickly earned widespread critical acclaim and strong patronage. USA film enthusiasts by then had clearly grown weary of the tired formulas followed by Hollywood studios in the timid post-war years. They welcomed the more thoughtful and challenging films from Kurosawa and from other acclaimed film directors in Japan (Ozu and Misoguchi), Italy (Rosselini, De Sica), France (Troufault, Bresson), and England (Lean). All of these great film directors were also able to hold and move their audiences while developing somber themes. 'Ikuru', however, is even more deeply philosophical than any other film that I recall by asking what is needed for us 'to live' well.Takashi Shimura gives an absolutely convincing performance of a tired old man, numb and alone. After learning he has terminal cancer, he learns that dissipation offers no solution. Then he clings to a cute, vivacious girl, taking her to shops and restaurants. She wearies of his dreary, cringing manner but agrees to have one more dinner together. In the powerful climactic scene at the restaurant, he learns why she is happy in her new job packaging toys. 'I feel all the babies in Japan are my friends!!' This gives him an idea. He, too, can do something to help children. 'There's still time!!', he cries, and runs off while she stares in bewilderment. He keeps moving quickly towards his cheerful new life. Shimura reminded me of Albert Camus' essay 'The Myth of Sisyphus.' Sisyphus plods off to yet another day of struggle but has won over the gods, after all, because he is aware of his quest. 'We must imagine Sisyphus happy,' urges Camus. We must also feel the same for the old man in Ikuru when we see how he is reborn and truly alive for the first time.
This great film by Kurosawa is probably less well known than his Samurai tales, but is none the worse for that. The film is both long and slow-paced, but the impact is incredible.We begin with 'our hero' (as Kurosawa calls him) Watanabe's stomach x-ray, and we are told that he has cancer. We then see Watanabe sitting at his desk in the Tokyo city civil service, slowly marking a great pile of papers with his little rubber stamp. He sits at the head of a group of people doing much the same thing, shuffling papers from one place to another, and we are told that he has been doing this for 30 years! We see a group of ladies complaining about stagnant water directed from one office to another as the bureaucratic machinery churns mechanically onwards.Against this background, Watanabe goes to the doctor with his stomach complaint. He meets a strange man who precisely describes Watanabe's symptoms, and tells him that the doctors will lie to him, as the disease is terminal. This comes true and Watanabe realises that he is to die soon. The stunning waste of his life then becomes apparent to him, and in a really powerful scene he falls asleep, crying below a commendation from the office for 25 years of service. He isn't worried by dying, rather he's worried by never having lived. He stops going to work, he buys expensive sake and goes to the bright lights, but this fails to make him happy. He then spends time with a young girl from the office, and it is on an evening out with her that he realises what he must do. This realisation is combined with a roomful of people singing 'Happy Birthday' for a friend...but it is clear that they are singing for Watanabe's rebirth. Watanabe goes back to the office and picks up the file concerning the stagnant water...he is determined to do something about it after 30 years of doing nothing!The next section of the film is the real key to its impact. We are at Watanabe's funeral, with a number of the technocrats from the City Council. My expectation was that they would all be complimenting the memory of Watanabe and his achievement in clearing the stagnant water and building a park in record time...but they aren't! I was frustrated...I wanted them to recognise that he knew he was ill, and fought the established order so as to achieve something with his life.As they drink more and more, they begin to reflect on what Watanabe had achieved. They become emotional, realising that he knew he was ill, and realising that with determination, the system can be used to achieve things. The final scene, however, is of one of the men present at the funeral subsiding below a pile of papers, unable to change anything.The bitter ending is tempered by the powerful feelings stimulated by Kurosawa during the funeral scene. I reached the end feeling that one man can make a difference if he is determined, and that this can only be achieved by reflecting on your life and achievements, and then making a conscious decision to do something!
This 1952 film by Akira Kurosawa, about a civil servant learning he has terminal stomach cancer, and trying to do something socially meaningful in the last months of his life to redeem his boring and uneventful life, has become a bit overrated. Some people has even called this film a masterpiece. The material is certainly moving, but the movie is stilted and static, the performance of the main actor is of one note, and the dialogue explains often what is obvious to the viewer. Realistic movies were not Kurosawa's forte. One cannot help but notice that at about the same time Ikiru came out such directors as Ozu and Naruse were making much stronger, fluid and unmawkish movies dealing with the everyday life in postwar Japan.


                
Looking back at Akira Kurosawa's impressive fifty-year career in filmmaking, it's impossible to determine which film was his best. Fans of the late Japanese legend might cite The Seven Samurai or The Hidden Fortress, while critics believe that it should be Rashomon or Ran.A growing band of Kurosawa worshippers has recently named Ikiru as his indisputable masterpiece. Unfortunately, I don't see myself joining the latter soon. Yes, Ikiru is Kurosawa's most deepest and reflective film, though in my opinion it's far from the masterpiece that it's touted to be. Ikiru is a film best described as 'a game of two halves'. The first hour is vintage Kurosawa. It starts out with an X-ray image of a stomach diagnosed with cancer, and then introduces the film's pitiful lead character Kanji (Takashi Shimura) to the viewers. Kanji is a government official who has been loyally serving his department for many decades.Upon receiving news that he's suffering from terminal cancer, he decides to take an extended break from work (which he has never done before) to reflect about his life. After some inner soul searching, Kanji realized that he has been missing out on life since he began working. He sets himself on a quest to live out his final months with a motto, "I cannot die until I'm satisfied with my life".Cancer has taught people that life cannot be taken for granted. Kanji is a character that we can all relate to, from his humble personality to his simple outlook on life. Kurosawa cajoled out a magnificent performance from Shimura, not only was Shimura able to make us feel sympathetic toward his character, but his character was also able to earn our admiration by the end of the picture.However, Kurosawa is no Yasujiro Ozu (Tokyo Story, Late Spring). Those familiar with the works of these two Japanese legends will know that Ikiru is the kind of story that Ozu would have relished. Kurosawa is simply not as capable in handling intense dramatic material as Ozu. This is perhaps the reason the second hour of the film fails to capture the greatness of the first. Kurosawa focused too much on the bureaucratic aspects and its faceless officials during the long funeral sequence than Kanji's final farewell gift to the community after an immense struggle involving politics and red tape.Ikiru's lackluster second half dilutes the film's emotional value. Kurosawa did not have an off day; it's just that he was too ambitious to have attempted such a complex urban drama, though his ambitions have often led him to more successes than failures in life.GRADE: B- (www.filmnomenon.blogspot.com) All rights reserved.
There are good, very good, and even great movies. But among them there are just a few that go beyond great. They belong to the league of their own. Akira Kurosawa's "Ikiru" (To Live), 1952 is one of them. The film of rare humanity, profoundly moving and often funny "Ikiru" tells the story of a dying man's last crusade that turned out to be his triumph, the best thing he had ever done in his life; something he will be remembered for. The film reveals both absurdity of life and the ability of man to find meaning in it through selfless action.Two years before he played the tough lead in "Seven Samurai", Takashi Shimara gave even finer performance in a very different role as a government bureaucrat Kanji Watanabe who seemed to lead a life of quiet desperation at his job and at home. Then, he learns that he has terminal cancer and faced with the fact of death, he first tries to take from life as much as possible and spends the half of his savings on gambling, drinking and women. It leads him nowhere and gradually he determines to achieve one good thing before he dies, and settles on converting a junkyard into a playground for children. Rather than make a feel good movie with co-workers helping Kanji Watanabe in his quest and his family around him at his last moment, Kurosawa portrays him as a lonely crusader <U+0096> no one can understand why this park is so important to him. The answer is very simple <U+0096> he does not have time and he wants to live to see the park open. His family and co-workers don't even know how ill he is what makes some scenes even more powerful and poignant. His words, "I am not angry with anyone, I have no time for that"; the look at his face when asked by a mafia member if he did not care for his life - the film has many quiet but compelling moments like these.For me, watching "Ikiru" was as close to earth shattering experience as it goes. I think it is one of very few films that could really change one's life. I could not help comparing it to "Cries and Whispers" - how devastated I was by the theme of inevitable death, how ugly it is, and how helpless we all are while facing it. "Ikiru" is about a dying man, too but how hopeful and life affirming it is. The film did not tell or teach me something I had not known before but it confirmed once more that it is never too late to do something even if you have only few months to live.


                
In a Post-War Tokyo, when the bureaucratic chief of department of the City Hall Kanji Watanabe (Takashi Shimura) finds that he has a terminal cancer, he decides to intensively live his last months of life. While dying, he finds the meaning of life, and fights for the construction of a playground in a poor zone of the city and the legacy of his existence."Ikiru" is another beautiful movie of Master Akira Kurosawa. The story is very touching and shows the lifestyle of Japan in the 50's. The performance of Takashi Shimura is amazing and heartbreaking, in the role of a man that finds that he spent his life for nothing: his son, motive of his sacrifice, does not care for him and his unproductive job does nothing but useless paperwork and a pejorative nickname of "Mummy". In the end, a wonderful message that never is too late to live, watch the sunset and plant a seed of love. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil): "Viver" ("To Live")


                
I saw this movie 5 days ago and i cant stop thinking about this movie, for me its Kurosawas human masterpiece , and that swing scene ,brilliant brilliant ,i don't understand how so a short scene can be so powerful and touching. The acting is superb,Takeshi Shimura brings us a powerful performance as a weak men, without doubt Shimura belongs to the list of the greatest actors of all time.I truly mean that this is one of the greatest movies of all time. But i have a single problem with this movie.After i saw it , every other movie i see it looks for me a waste of time.Watch it !!!


                
I think that Ikiru is one of Akira Kurosawa's most personal films. This shows in the identification the viewer has with the main character of the movie. Every development in Watanabe's life is like a experience in the own viewers life. I have never been so touched and at the same time been amazed by a film.I just can't see why so many people have trouble appreciating this movie. Maybe because they aren't used to black and white pictures these days.Ikiru is a movie that can't be missed, so be sure to see it. 10/10


                
Akira Kurosawa's Ikiru has Takashi Shimura perfectly portray Kanji Watanabe, an aging bureacrat who has been diagnosed with stomach cancer. The movie is told in two parts, one showing Watanabe final days and the other showing flashbacks between guests at his funeral. Kurosawa tells the story by showing a man who has never lived and finds out he doesn't have much time to live. Kanji says this phrase many times in the movie. " I cant die,I've never lived"-Kanji Watanabe. Ikiru is a true masterpiece of international cinema. The greatest scene and most climatic scene in Ikiru (little spoilers ahead)is when Watanabe is swinging on the swing in tha park he saved and sings "Life is Breif, Fall in Love Dear Maidens" in the snow. I give Ikiru a 10 out of 10 and will always be one of my favorite movies.
The main character, so ably played in this movie, is an older bureaucrat whose life has little, if any, significance. After 30 years on the job, he has little to show for himself. This becomes very apparent once he finds out that he is dying from stomach cancer and has only months to live.Now, so far, this does NOT sound like a movie most people would want to see. However, instead of dwelling on death and the meaningless of life, Kurasawa goes beyond that. Much of the movie actually focuses on this man trying to find meaning in his life and ultimately deciding to devote his final days to fighting for the creation of a park in some godforsaken part of Tokyo. Despite a general atmosphere of apathy, he ultimately succeeds in getting the park created.About 2/3 of the way through the picture, the man dies. I thought the movie was over, but then it cuts to a scene at his funeral. A group of bureaucrats and the deputy mayor attend, but few others. What happens next is important, as the movie becomes very philosophical and those in attendance begin to ponder his life and their own as well.In many ways, this movie is both uplifting and cynical. I won't say much more but encourage you to see it for itself. I will say, though, that unlike Bergman's films (which often have talked about death or mental illness), Ikiru is unusual in that it seeks meaning and goes beyond "life is meaningless and then you die".
Ikiru is a beautiful film conceived by an incredible filmmaker at the peak of his talents.The film portrays a fatally ill Japanese bureaucrat, Kanji Watanabe (played by the brilliant Takashi Shimura), attempting to reinvigorate his life for the last few months that remain. The opening few scenes depict a group of empowered local women appealing to various bureaucratic departments to clean up a polluted residential playground in their neighbourhood. They are sent hither and thither to various departments to no avail until Watanabe decides to use his clout to see the park restored to its natural state.Several scenes stand out as memorable: In the early-going, Watanabe's son and young wife (or fiancée) come home only to see the ghastly figure of Watanabe staring blankly in the darkness of their room. The expression on his face conveys his emotional state so well.Later on, Watanabe is confronted by some threatening gangsters opposing his desire to clean up the park. One of them warns Watanabe that he is "risking his life." Watanabe could not be happier to hear this and smiles jubilantly at the gangster. The gangsters, up to this point very tough and menacing, are startled and confused at Watanabe's sheer disregard for his own life.Lastly (you should really just watch the movie) there is the scene of a drunken Watanabe tearfully singing a mournful song accompanied by a jazz pianist. This is perhaps one of the most beautiful scenes in all of Kurosawa.
I suppose it isn't truly a spoiler to say the main character, Watanabe, dies of cancer at the end of the film. For most directors, this probably would have been a overly sentimental death drama. Kurosawa is far to talented and sophisticated for such triteness. This is a rich, meaningful, touching story of a man's attempt to live. The themes of this film are so universal, we can access it even 50 years after its release. Several good films have been made along similar themes. "Wild Strawberries" is one of the best. I have not seen "Umberto D.", but I understand it is very similar. Bergman and Kirusawa are very similar filmmakers. Bergman seems to me to be more metaphorical and Kirusawa is more aesthetic. They are both superb writers/directors. "Ikiru" is a heavy layered film. After listening to the commentary on the Criterion Edition, you learn that this film makes many significant social comments on Japanese life. At the same time, as I said earlier, the emotions and themes of this film are ubiquitous. You don't have to possess a knowledge of 1950s Japanese politics to understand it. You simply have to be human and possess a desire to live a meaningful life. There are many images from the film that linger with you. Kirusawa, like Bergman and Hitchcock, was so good a composition. His films are so visually active that you can know everything you need to know without the dialogue. However, the dialogue is simple and very effective. The characters talk the way normal people talk, yet the say things normal people don't say. That to me is great dialogue. I was disappointed in the film stock from which the DVD came. It was not in good condition. That is a real shame. I am not sure why that is. Criterion does great work with the classics. They must not have been able to obtain anywhere near pristine stock. This is such a beautiful film. It would great to see it from the original negatives.
Incompetent Watanabe worked in a government organization. Although he was a manager, he could do nothing but affixed his seal on countless papers. He had been working like that for nearly 30 years. One day he learned that he got lung cancer and had half year to live. His peaceful life did not exist any more. How to deal with the rest days was an imminent task for pitiful Watanabe.Comparing with another similar movie My life without me, Ikiru was more uplifting and meaningful. Maybe what Watanabe did was too late. But in my eyes it is never too late to mend your way.Japanese master Akira Kurosawa brought us many excellent movies. For example Shichini no samurai, Rashomon, Ran etc. I think that Ikiru is his best work.An all time classic. 9/10
I first saw Ikiru during Japanese-my teacher would often have us watch movies to try and pick up on some of what was being said. I instantly fell in love with the film: it's symbolism and the way in which the subject matter was held. It really captures that government dead-end, run-around that see far to often when trying to get something very important done, while also dealing with the let-downs and triumphs that we sometimes see in our own lives. This movie was so wonderful that I borrowed it from my teacher to show all my friends, and even my parents (my dad needed to see in particular as he was a state worker vaguely resembling Wantanabe). I found this to be a very touching, very inspirational, yet also sad and cynical movie. I think that anyone who watches it would understand what I mean. I would definitely suggest everyone see it!


                
Can't say I agree with critical acclaim for Ikiru, all critics seem to be in perfect unison that it's a masterpiece. Perhaps, but also a very tedious one.Yes I can appreciate the message about finding your meaning of life and making a difference etc but a film having a serious message doesn't mean it has to drag; Ikiru was very slow and rather long as well. Not a good combination. What cheered up the film a bit was the female lead, the girl from the office... Ikiru, imo, has only one great scene; The girl showing her emotions at the restaurant, her sheer disgust/pity was quite fascinating to watch. Other than that it was the sad puppy face and slumped shoulders of the protagonist for almost couple hours which sure is memorable but also one note acting.The wake scene, which consisted of almost last hour of the film, was some sort of critical social commentary on Japanese culture, way of thinking and bureaucracy - but also rather poor storytelling since it was hard for the viewer to relate to arguments by characters that had not really been introduced properly earlier in the film. More emotionally effective would have been to actually witness the protagonist perform his life altering bureaucratic heroics himself. Well, to be fair, Kurosawa actually did show some of it using flashbacks...It seems that Kurosawa has a fetish for flashbacks, as seen in "Rashomon" as well. Yet those scenes in Ikiru were pretty much protagonist merely nodding and begging in apologetic manner. I found that less than convincing way to get the job done... or to achieve a legacy for that matter. Oh well, at least they played Pachinko and visited a strip tease show. But couple breaks from tedium and the life altering philosophy just couldn't save the film from its slow pace, predictability and dare I say rather mediocre cinematography. I'll give it 5/10.
