Ikiru is a film about life. Constantly complex and thought-provoking, although simple at the same time; it tells a story about life's limits, how we perceive life and the fact that life is short and not to be wasted. Our hero is Kanji Watanabe, the most unlikely 'hero' of all time. He works in a dreary city office, where nothing happens and it's all very meaningless. Watanabe is particularly boring, which has lead to him being nicknamed 'The Mummy' by a fellow worker. He later learns that he is dying from stomach cancer and that he only has six months to live. But Watanabe has been dead for thirty years, and now that he's learned that his life has a limit; it's time for Watanabe to escape his dreary life and finally start living. What follows is probably the most thoughtful analysis of life ever filmed.Ikiru marks a departure for Akira Kurosawa, a man better known for his samurai films, but it's a welcome departure in my opinion. Kurosawa constantly refers to Watanabe as 'our hero' throughout the film, and at first this struck me as rather odd because, as I've mentioned, he's probably the least likely hero that Kurosawa has ever directed; but that's just it! This man is not a superhero samurai, but rather an ordinary guy that decides he doesn't want to be useless anymore. That's why he's 'our hero'. Kurosawa makes us feel for the character every moment he's on screen - we're sorry that he's wasted his life, and we're sorry that his wasted life is about to be cruelly cut short. However, despite the bleak and miserable facade that this movie gives out, there is a distinct beauty about it that shines through. The beauty emits from the way that Watanabe tries to redeem his life; because we feel for him and are with him every step of the way, it's easy to see why Watanabe acts in the way he does. Ikiru is a psychologically beautiful film.It could be said that the fantastic first hour and a half is let down by a more politically based final third - and this is true. The movie needs it's final third in order to finish telling the story, but it really doesn't work as well as the earlier parts did. However, Kurosawa still delights us with some brilliant imagery and the shot of Watanabe on a swing is the most poetically brilliant thing that Kurosawa ever filmed. Together with the music and the rest of the film that you've seen so far; that picture that Kurosawa gives us is as moving as it is brilliant.


                
This film really captures real life, deep and a touching story that shows you how people really are and what a person should do with his life. An amazing performance by Takashi Shimura that he should've been recognized by major awards.


                
Oh what a curse to be a genius! Here we have a nearly perfect film, perfect in all the ordinarily engineered respects. It is rather haunting, and if you choose to watch it you will find it memorable. But Kurosawa is not merely a maker of well engineered films, together with perhaps a hundred others. No, he is an inventor, someone who imagines new ways of dreaming. He invents vision.So when we have a film that is merely excellent but inventive, we are saddened. Missing here is the deep layering, usually three deep with different movement. Missing is the explosive turn. Missing is the grand scope, connecting in selfaware fashion to powers beyond a mere human.We do have some complex storytelling: the last third is a matter of discussion and argument among the surviving bureaucrats about what happened in the fashion of "12 Angry Men." But it centers on the humanity, indeed the worth a life. Small stuff for normal Kurasawa adventures.You may want to see this if you are a casual watcher. Or if you are serious and want to see all this master's films. But otherwise, I'll steer you away from it. It is merely strong and compelling, not lifealtering.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.


                
This is a good film, though extremely slow. There are no real spoilers: the film is told in two parts and we understand that the protagonist is going to die within the first few minutes.Takeshi Shimura is pretty good as the reserved protagonist. Perhaps something of a character actor, his demeanor works well here. Kurosawa actually hired the same acting company for most of his well-known films from this period, so you'll see all the familiar faces from Seven Samurai, Rashomon, The Lower Depths, The Bad Sleep Well, etc.The film relies quite a bit upon the ability of the actors and actresses above all else. Much of the film takes place upon a couple of sets. The only problem here, as one reviewer pointed out, is that few people will be willing to sit through a long movie about an old man who gets stomach cancer. Especially when they already know the ending from the beginning! But still, this is classic polemic yet heart-warming Kurosawa. A little long-winded, but certainly relevant. Watch it if you got the time or are a bad guy with an icy heart.


                
It's no surprise that this is another beautiful film from legendary Akira Kurosawa. Only this time we move away from the samurai genre and move into modern (1952) times. Ikiru is about a bureaucrat in the city office named Kanji Watanabe. He has worked in the same building, at the same desk, with the same papers for over 30 years. And then one day he finds out he has terminal stomach cancer, left with only six months to live. Upon learning this, Watanabe reflects on his life, coming to the realization that he has no close ties to friends or family. His life is empty. In the six months he has left, Watanabe attempts to fill his life with the things he never experienced in his dull life. From the get-go we expect a strong centralized character development story, and Kurosawa delivers just such a thing in his own beautiful aesthetic.This film covers a lot of ground, and many ideas are presented. It's the story of a dying man, as well as a heartfelt study of life and death, and even a commentary on bureaucracy. There's a lot going on but Kurosawa masterfully organizes it so that it works wonders on the mind and heart. In the beginning we establish just how overcomplicated and heavily structured the bureaucratic system is. It's organized, rigid, and very, very dull. The character of Watanabe acts the same way. He is an empty shell of a man. The film quickly takes a turn down a sloping emotional path when Watanabe learns of his inescapable death. From here this character makes a dramatic switch to actual life. The tag line of the film is "Only when he learned he would die did he start to live." This is such a telling sentence that beautifully sums up the bulk of the emotion in this film. Watanabe begins to explore life and what he can make of it before he dies. Kurosawa's fantastic ability for storytelling provides a great narrative style that stays lively and interesting. Watanabe goes through multiple phases of coping with his inevitable death, each phase revealing more and more about his complex and wonderfully crafted character.The narrative changes it's style in the last act of the film after Watanabe dies. The last hour or so of the film is set at his wake, and what happened in the last couple of months of Watanabe's life is told through flashbacks. This was a fantastic storytelling decision that keeps the already compelling narrative all the more alive, especially when the film runs at two and a half hours. Kurosawa even manages to bring his bureaucratic message back around in the end, when Watanabe must battle the own system he worked for diligently for 30 years, in order to achieve his last great service to the world before he dies. Everything comes full circle to close nicely. The film comes to a beautifully tear jerking end that I'm sure, even after only one viewing, will be unforgettable. Kurosawa treats this smaller scale story of a dying man with such care and respect. It is a fantastic example of his range and ability to have an emotional impact, even out of his usual setting of feudal Japan.I could continue to regurgitate the brilliance of Kurosawa but there's not much need to. This man, in his career, established himself as one of the greatest artistic minds of his time. He could tell a story and then visualize it in such an immaculate and grand way. Ikiru is no different. It's another fantastic Kurosawa film that entertains and stirs emotionally. The man was a genius, and every film of his reflects it.


                
This is a wonderfully idealistic, sentimental meditation on what it means "to live". Are you missing your own life, and will you one day discover that you've never really experienced it? Will your discovery come just in time, or too late? Watch this movie and take the opportunity to reflect on how you may be running through your brief years with little to show for them...Though at times rather heavy handed and didactic, the vitality and generosity of this movie are a wonderful antidote to our cynical age, and the performances are quite good. My only complaint is that the last third of the film is largely told in flashback, which leads to jerky, abrupt breaks in the movie's flow. Even so, this is an excellent movie in which Kurosawa wears his heart on his sleeve. Bring your Kleenex!


                
I wonder if it's a coincidence that Yasujiro Ozu's 1953 "Tokyo Story" and this 1952 masterwork from Akira Kurosawa were released just months apart in Japan, as both deal with the disappointments between parents and children in similarly penetrating ways. It's likely that post-WWII Japan, especially after the Allied occupation ended in 1951, saw an overall deterioration of the family unit as Western influences took hold of the socioeconomic structure. This one goes even further in adding local government bureaucracy as a key factor in diminishing the self-worth of those who sacrificed their lives in meaningless jobs. A particularly effective sequence early in the film involves the local bureau's reaction to a proposal to build a park with each department representative claiming that its hands are tied and passing the buck to another department in ceaseless red tape.The focus here is on Kanji Watanabe, a stamp-wielding chief of affairs who routinely halts civic project proposals that come across his desk, which is covered with stacks of unread documents. At his job for thirty years, Watanabe earns the nickname of "The Mummy" for his catatonic manner, but when he learns he has stomach cancer and has six months to live, he takes stock of all he has left undone. Saddled with a son and daughter-in-law who hypocritically feel burdened by him (even though they live in his house), Watanabe embarks on an obsessive journey to find redemption. It takes him from Tokyo's seedy nightlife - some of the more vibrantly surreal scenes are contained here - through an oddly erratic and strictly platonic relationship with a young female colleague named Toyo, whose spirit inspires him to do something right before he dies. The last hour of the lengthy film suddenly becomes a flashback from Watanabe's wake, which retraces his monomaniacal effort to support a group of housewives to build a children's playground where a toxic cesspool exists. The switch in perspective is initially jarring, but it gradually makes sense as it is meant to show the effect of Watanabe's good deeds on others and questions whether they will have a lasting effect on them. As it turns out, the cancer liberates Watanabe from the futile life he led and makes him a greater man than anyone could have imagined with the park as his undeniable legacy.Truth be told, Kurosawa is not as subtle as Ozu when treading such sensitive subject matter, for instance, Kurosawa films actual flashback scenes to understand Watanabe's evolving relationship with his son, whereas Ozu would merely imply the distance between them. However, Kurosawa builds the appropriate gravitas as the story unfolds in a sometimes glacial manner. Takashi Shimura, a Kurosawa regular who would gain greater renown as the leader of "The Seven Samurai" two years later, is deeply affecting as Watanabe. With his frozen cow-eyes and slumping posture, he captures the discomforting nature of this hapless man who finds his purpose just before it's too late. He achieves a brutal poignancy with his nightclub-set singing of his theme song, "Life Is Brief", his lips hardly moving and his eyes cast in a downward stare toward oblivion. The last shot of him on the swing, magically framed by a jungle gym in a light snowfall as he sings his theme, is an utterly transcendent moment. I am on the fence about Miki Odagiri's performance as Toyo - on one hand, she fully embodies the free, uninhibited spirit of her downscale character, and yet, she can go overboard with her ebullience during key moments. I also feel the nightlife sequences go on a little too long as they appear to provide simply an opportunity for an indulgent novelist, played by Yunosuke Ito, to go on about the joys of the road not taken.Minor flaws aside, this is a moving film that encompasses the importance of bringing purpose to one's life even if you have little time left in this world. The two-disc Criterion Collection set contains plenty of extras - an informative commentary track provided by Stephen Prince, author of "The Warrior's Camera: The Cinema of Akira Kurosawa", as well as two documentaries. One is an 81-minute film, "A Message from Akira Kurosawa", about Kurosawa's late-career creative process around the filming of 1991's "Rhapsody in August", and the other is a more engrossing 41-minute film, which focuses exclusively on "Ikiru" and has a rare interview with Shimura.
So far I've mostly seen samurai period pieces from Akira Kurosawa. And the few non-period pieces I have seen, I have not particularly liked. They have been too slow, too Japanese in themes, for me to get into them. Until today.And don't get me wrong, Ikiru is very Japanese in themes, but those themes happen to be pretty universal. That of the meaning of life and why we live in the first place. Kanji Watanabe (Takashi Shimura) is a middle-aged bureaucrat, who has dedicated his entire life to the wheels and cogs of paperwork. Endless paperwork, with no clear goal or even function. Just paperwork. But then he learns that he's about to die of cancer. And this monumental discovery finally jolts him awake and forces him to take a look at what he has accomplished in his life. He doesn't like what he sees.Ikiru's strength is the same that has always been Kurosawa's forte. A really strong central character and a strong theme that is explored through him. And Watanabe just might be one of Kurosawa's best. Through him we explore Japanese society and work culture with quite a critical eye, but the themes and problems themselves are universal. Why do we live? On our deathbeds, can we say we wouldn't have done anything differently? Few of us can, I'd claim.Ikiru is a slow movie. It is also deep, provoking and quite sad. Not for everyone, but for fans of Kurosawa and great themes in general, it is quite worth it.


                
Greetings from Lithuania."Ikiru" (1952) tells a story about dying old man and his try to recapture a beauty of life and so something meaningful. I liked this movie for its universal story, great script, good acting and directing the great Akira Kurosawa). The last ~40 min. of this movie dragged a bit for me. Overall, "Ikiru" is a character study drama. The character in here could be related to almost every human in a world. Don't wait the end to recapture beauty of life, it can be to late. This is a good movie, not Kurosawa's best for me, but a very solid one.


                
"Ikiru" is the story of one man--Kanji Watanabe (Takashi Shimura), a government bureaucrat with a boring and meaningless job. He keeps his head down and never questions the status quo or his place as a cog in the machinery of local government.When he realizes he has little time left to live, he thinks of death, then the choices he has made in life. He is absent from work for the first time in thirty years, lost in reverie and unable to cope with what he sees as his failure to achieve anything of value.The viewer, guided by a voice over, knows Watanabe is having an existential meltdown, and wonders how this character can ever find redemption in his own eyes. He tries a variety of new experiences (shades of Ferris Bueller). But he still feels a failure. Eventually, he returns to his job and attempts a new strategy."Ikiru" is a tribute to those who get things done. Other films have celebrated the kind man ("It's a Wonderful Life"), the principled man ("12 Angry Men" or "To Kill a Mockingbird"); "Ikiru" celebrates the man with a vision and the determination to carry it out, especially in the face of bureaucracy.Director Kurosawa called "Ikiru" his greatest work, perhaps because he valued its universal themes. Shimura--a Kurosawa favorite--acts with minimal expression. Watanabe is a sponge soaking up his environment. He is a blank slate upon which we paint our own faces and confront our own truths.This is a film that deserves to be seen.


                
Without denying Akira Kurosawa's greatness as a director, I can't help feeling that he would have accomplished more by saying less. There were any number of points in the latter part of the story when it could have, maybe even should have ended, and it managed to drone on with one bureaucrat after another opining on Watanabe's (Takashi Shimura) role in establishing the children's park in Kuroe. At least the payoff there was cleverly done; when all the administrators fell well under the influence of their Saki, it was at that point they were able to think clearly, and admire Watanabe's ability to work outside the system where protecting one's turf was the primary objective.What struck me most about the story was Kurosawa's acknowledgment of the strangling bureaucracy in government more than a half century ago. Apparently the Japanese were as well experienced in the matter as we here in America. The frustrating aspect of viewing the film today is that it's certainly gotten worse, made even more egregious by the polarization of ideologies among opposing political parties. How that vicious cycle gets resolved is anyone's guess.Undoubtedly there are many who will find Kurosawa's message about being worn down in a meaningless job as striking very close to home. It's only when Kenji Watanabe learns that he's dying of cancer that he's up to the task of finding something more meaningful in his life to extend his legacy. It was striking to see his son lament the fact that his father never told him about his condition, when it was at that point when Mitsuo excoriated his father for dallying with Toyo (Miki Ogadiri). An errant judgment that would create yet another misunderstanding between father and son.So once again, another brilliant treatment of the human condition by Kurosawa done to exquisite but time consuming effect. Although I felt the same with "Seven Samurai" and "Rashomon", but felt more appreciation for both of those films upon a second viewing. Unfortunately, I don't feel I would be up to the same task with this one.
The real question of this story is: if you knew you were going to die, what would you do? Would you spend your last days doing everything you wanted to do<U+0085> any form of pleasure you can imagine, or would you do something importance, something that would actually mean something.An old man (Takashi Shimura) named Kenji is dying of cancer and feels his whole life has been wasted. For the past 30 years he's been working at Tokyo City Hall behind a desk accomplishing absolutely nothing, mainly just stamping papers with his rubber stamp and warming his chair.When he does find out he has cancer in the beginning of the film, he simply stops going to work and one day meets a stranger (who does a terrific job with his role) in a bar and in a conversation he says that he has money but doesn't know how to spend it for sheer entertainment. The stranger has pity on the man but at the same time envy since he doesn't just kill himself, but faces the facts of life and so of course he helps the old man have a good time but with his money as they go out on a night of night clubs, women and booze.Akira Kurosawa is one of my personal favorite directors and has many masterpieces but this doesn't exactly rank among those masterpieces like "Ran", "Throne of Blood", "Yojimbo" and the forgotten gem "The Bad Sleep Well". But that doesn't mean that this isn't a good film because in reality it's a great film, and the strongest point of this film is the simple but brilliant script as it tells us to appreciate life and the beauty of it, while we have it, hence the title of the film, "Ikiru" which means "To Live".One thing I didn't like about this film is the way the old man talks throughout the film; as if he can barley speak and you can barley make out what he is saying. But then again that is his role, moping around with this performance, you really believe that this man is dying of cancer and is truly upset with himself for not "living" his life all these years. One of his co-workers even tells to him over lunch that everyone has a nickname at the office and his was "The Mummy". He pauses for a minute and she thinks she has offended him but he reassures her that she hasn't in-fact; she has named him perfectly as he realizes that's what his life has been ever since his beloved wife has left him 30 years ago.Kenji feels that the worse part isn't dying; he feels that he has wasted his whole life and doesn't want to die before he does something of importance, meaning he wants to live his last days and not just exist as he has been doing all his life. He feels that he has been dead for a long time now but is just realizing it now when it's too late.There is a great moral to this story and a novelist in this film says it best with this beautiful and unforgettable quote: "How tragic that man can never realize how beautiful life is until he is face to face with death."


                
Akira Kurosawa, the Japanese director more famously known for his epic samurai stories, takes us into the depths of post-war Japan in this very human story of a government official who discovers he has terminal cancer and only six months to live. With this new found information, he decides to start living his life, something he neglected to do for the past thirty years when he never missed a day of work.As the story progresses, we learn more as to why our protagonist is in such a conservative state of mind. This, in turn, propels him to take up a crusade for the people of the city and help them and change their life for the better. This goes to show the most human side of Kurosawa we have ever seen. The character of Watanabe is handled very delicately, never condescending or preaching. He is simply a man who struggles with meaning and definition of his own life but wants to change that forever.It is in this context that Ikiru also has its failures. The final third act of this film is mostly a group of men sitting around talking about Watanabe while drinking plenty of sake and getting very drunk. TO me, this scene dragged on for way to long and was in fact mostly unnecessary. There were also some other scenes that didn't fit too well with the narrative, but they were far and few in between.So, to be honest, this is a real underrated treasure from Kurosawa. And even though it doesn't have the sheer willpower or amazement from his other works, this is definitely a testament to humans and the remarkable changes we can make by putting our mind to something.


                
Over the years I think I've devoted nearly half a day of my valuable time watching and re-watching this multi-layered masterpiece. One of its main messages to me is : what would I do in a similar position to the protagonist of the story? Most of us belong to the wage slave class and are in work roles utterly useless to the greater humanity, what would we do if told we had a few months to live (disregarding the fact that even 100 years/1200 months is an infinitesimal fraction of a geological eye-blink)?Watanabe-san is the buck-passing rubber-stamping Section Chief of the Public Affairs Dept. in City Hall, never having had a day off in 30 years until told (in a roundabout way) that he has terminal stomach cancer. He goes AWOL, does a little drinking and flirting and finally comes to the conclusion that he needs to leave something constructive behind him. It all unfolds in Kurosawa's usual inimitable fluid story-telling style <U+0096> he left behind a beautiful b&w Japanese film languidly but constructively dealing with terminal illness that can still hook people in to this day. Favourite bits: In the bar where Watanabe-san mournfully groans out his requested song Life Is Brief to the suddenly electrified patrons <U+0096> and us; the stark contrast between him and his confused state and the young and healthy flibbertigibbet he spends a few days with; the flashbacks of him doggedly pursuing his pet project at City Hall; the culmination of everything on the playground swing at 11:00 pm on a snowy night. No good doing that here <U+0096> the park would be full of losers instead of winners like him.To the impatient I suppose it would be pretty slow at times, but in the hands of this particular Master I wouldn't have minded it lasting another hour. Beautiful, poignant, elegant, thoughtful, wistful, powerful <U+0096> and imho not Kurosawa's best either! In other words, a film other directors would die for.


                
"Ikiru" is interesting and effective, and quite a change of pace from Kurosawa's action movies.  (Of course, most of his samurai films were made later than this one, but it's almost impossible not to think of them whenever you watch one of his other movies.)  It's long, and sometimes quite slow, but there isn't a minute of it that doesn't have a purpose.Takashi Shimura is memorable as the seriously ill Watanabe.  His distinctive performance might take a short while to get used to, but he has many effective ways of getting across what is going on inside as Watanabe searches desperately for something worthwhile.  It nicely combines the natural need for a meaning in life with the common frustrations that we all have with bureaucracy ("in some districts, just to empty a trash bin requires enough forms to fill the bin") and other tedious aspects of life. Kurosawa himself gives the story plenty of good touches, most of all in his interesting approach to the last half, with everyone debating what Watanabe has done.  It brings out a lot of interesting things in the characters that are worth thinking about.Just a thought: it's interesting to compare this with Bergman's "Wild Strawberries".  They are very different, of course, both in approach and content.  But in both cases a great director gives us a thoughtful look at a leading character as he tries to figure out what his life has been about. In any case, "Ikiru" is an effective and memorable look at a life.  It also shows that Kurosawa's skills work just as well in something quite different from his more action-oriented movies.


                
At the centre of "Ikiru" are the massive issue of mortality and the thoughtful, poignant performance by Takashi Shimura, but Kurosawa's direction also managed to find moments of humour in the oddest places. The wake sequence is brilliant in the way it gets laughs both sad and pure out of drunkenness and bad logic, satirises bureaucracy and its servants, and also lets us think about the meaning of life, whether a wasted life can secure a legacy by attempting to redeem itself near the end, and whether those attempts at redemption, if successful, actually qualify a life as meaningful.The film could perhaps do without so much of the voice-over, which at times explains things a little too much, but that's a small complaint.


                
Sometimes films released more than 50 years ago don't have the same impact they once did. Well, that's not the case at all for Ikiru, one of Akira Kurosawa's first universally praised hits.Ikiru tells the story of a man out of time. A bureaucratic man who has worked the same job for decades and can't seem to find any purpose in his work or life in general. That is, until he finds out he has terminal stomach cancer. What follows is a coming of age story for a middle aged man who does his best to leave an impact on the world he will inevitably leave. With one of these types of stories, it all comes down to execution. The only way to make a film like this leave you with a particularly effective message is to have a filmmaker like Kurosawa. For the most part, I did go through the emotions the film wanted me to. It's also a story that lends itself to being more relatable the older you get. It's not easy for a 23-year-old guy like me to understand what Watanabe goes through in Ikiru, but it may be something that I relate to more as I get older.I found this film to be especially inspiring from his co-workers perspective. No one at the office does anything of value it seems, and it's only until after Watanabe takes a leave of absence and goes on a journey of self-discovery that they feel like they need to do something as well. The film shifts from Watanabe's story to his friends & families' story about half way through. I found each part to be interesting in its own right, but watching the people he cares about look back on his life and the impact he seemed to have made was some powerful stuff. The lessons and themes in the film are important ones. Pleasure is not living. Don't always do things for others or to please others, make sure you're taken care of as well. And most importantly, life is brief, make of it as you wish.+Poignant+Kurosawa's direction (duh)-Two separate parts feel jarring at first8.4/10


                
Ikiru, another strong work by master Akira Kurosawa (the samurai guy), is not without its weaknesses. There is some over-acting, particularly with Toyo, the young government employee with whom our protagonist Kanji Watanabe, played by Takashi Shimura, is infatuated. I also do not see a reason why the film requires the flashback narrative, but alas.The real enjoyment of the film comes in the form of the bureaucrats who debate the merits of Watanabe's accomplishments, starting with defensive rationalization for their own failures and morphing into humanistic realization of this fact, all the while placing the viewer in their shoes. These scenes have the feeling of Sidney Lumet's version of 12 Angry Men, which was originally written around the same time and released in theaters several years later. Much like the defendant in 12 Angry Men, I got the feeling the bureaucrats have put Watanabe on trial in a way. It is worth nothing that Lumet referred to Kurosawa as "the Beethoven of movie directors." Again, the comparisons between these two films are uncanny.While the movie is imperfect as noted, it gets 3.5 out of 4 stars.
Kanji Watanabe is a widowed bureaucrat as the city's public affairs section chief. The bureaucratic machine has ground any ambition out of him. He has slowly climbed up the ladder by doing nothing and therefore doing nothing wrong. He discovers that he has stomach cancer and probably only six months to live. He is lost. He doesn't go to work and takes out his life savings. His son is shocked. He spends a wild night with a writer but he feels empty. He spends some time with a young exuberant female staffer. Eventually he decides to make a difference through his work.This is a movie that makes one think about one's own life. It is a compelling everyman movie. The last third isn't quite as compelling without Kanji. That part does have a point to make but it could have been done in a shorter way. This is a Kurosawa classic and an important one.


                
A bureaucrat (Takashi Shimura) tries to find a meaning in his life after he discovers he has terminal cancer.The script was partly inspired by Leo Tolstoy's 1886 novella "The Death of Ivan Ilyich", although the plots are not similar beyond the common theme of a bureaucrat struggling with a terminal illness. Though it is an important message, that it is important to reflect. In some ways, this film is the precursor for Ingmar Bergman's "Wild Strawberries" (1957).Roger Ebert believed this was Kurosawa's greatest film. "Over the years I have seen Ikiru every five years or so, and each time it has moved me, and made me think. And the older I get, the less Watanabe seems like a pathetic old man, and the more he seems like every one of us." Indeed.


                
From director Akira Kurosawa (Seven Samurai), I read a short description about this film after seeing it being featured in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, it certainly sounded like a worthwhile watch. Basically set in post-war Tokyo, Japan, longtime bureaucrat Kanji Watanabe (BAFTA nominated Takashi Shimura) works in a city and spends his whole working life doing nothing at all, just like his other office colleagues. Then one day he goes to the doctors who tell him has a tumour, and after hearing about the consequences of terminal cancer, he is sure this is what he has, stomach cancer, and he is slowly dying. With this looming over him Watanabe wants to find some meaning in the time has left, less than a year, but he is unable to talk to his family, and is unfulfilled spending a night with a novelist. Next has a chance encounter with one of his female fellow office workers, and this encourages him to make a change in the office work ethic, but actually doing something and doing it efficiently. After having some happiness with this woman and making some difference to the bureaucracy, Watanabe does indeed die, and his fellow workers debate about what he did before his death and why, but they resolve to be like him. Also starring Nobuo Kaneko as Mitsuo Watanabe - Kanji's Son, Kyôko Seki as Kazue Watanabe - Mitsuo's Wife, Makoto Kobori as Kiichi Watanabe - Kanji's Brother and Kumeko Urabe as Tatsu Watanabe - Kiichi's Wife. Shimura gives a credible performance as the old man struggling to go on with any kind of regular life with the thought of death, but finding some resolution, and the story in many parts is indeed moving and certainly doesn't disappoint you with you how you feel for the lead character, certainly a must see foreign language drama. Very good!
