Very rarely can you find a movie that can make a person shed tears of sorrow one minute, then laugh out loud the next. This is a heart wrenching tale that will make people look at themselves and how they can better their own family units. Viewers will find that they will relate to one of the many stories within the movie. It's been a long time since a movie has made me feel this type of sadness and sorrow, followed by a warm fuzzy feeling right in my chest. An amazing film, with amazing people. The supporting actors complete what is truly an inspirational film. It has inspired me to be a better father and a better son. Watch this movie.


                
As I watched that movie, I saw the Turkish relationships in the best way that it could be shown. A very good choice of cast is the most powerful criterion of the success of the movie. Humeyra, the grandmother is a very talented woman in acting. Emotional scenes become more frequent while we see the movie to get to the end. Unfortunate events make the Turkish people get closer to each other. The movie shows that perfectly. Hospitality, love, grief, laughs... Everything is included in this movie. An emotional breakthrough. The movie also points on the elderly reality -now an impossibility- the torture, made by the cops.Better to be watched by fathers and sons. Also, crying may occur, don't worry; too many people who watched the movie had the same.


                
I have never seen a movie ever before, that brings a tear to anybody who sees it, at the sound of a violin, or a single word uttered.Babam Ve Oglum.Director: Cagan ImrakLead Characters: Ege Tanman ... Deniz Çetin Tekindor ... Hüseyin Fikret Kuskan ... Sadik Hümeyra ... Babanne Serif Sezer ... Teyze Yetkin Dikinciler ... SalimI Salute them all. I have always despised the entertainment industry, most of all the Film industry, at the back of my mind, though I fancy a career there. I have always thought that half the money that goes into movie production or theatres or things like that could feed so many people out there or give them a job, get a living for them.If someone's going to bring to the screen a movie like Babam ve Oglum, I'd never ever utter a single word against the industry. You won't believe that one movie can affect you so much for the moment that you, even if you haven't cried since 5th grade, would be overwhelmed so much that you'd cry more than the characters on screen. Especially when you watch it alone, without anyone to distract you from the scenes. I have never felt the urge to cry for a long time. This movie reminded me of a lot of things that were hidden in me, that I strongly urge everyone who has had even a glance of this page to watch it at any cost. A must watch movie.Apart from the Director, who deserves to be recognized at the highest level, I must mention a few words about the background score. NO other BGM I have heard has ever got even close to this. . Out of this World.Finally, Coming to the story, this movie is about a father, who, after the loss of his wife, takes his little son back to his hometown (from where he had run away, defying his dad) because he suffers from a lung disorder. He wants to ensure that his child has a home when he's gone, and decides to confront his father and tell him about his condition and reconcile one final time before the final goodbye. And the characters portray the situations and experiences so convincingly that I couldn't help but put their names on top of this post.I am sure that this will remain my most favourite movie of all time for a long time to come.Bravo.
A masterpiece that must be seen by everyone!It's the better film I have seen so far. It's not only about the relationships between fathers and sons, or the sequences from a coup d' etat, especially against leftist people. There are a lot of things and ideas included. For example the attitude of a former lover, wounded, married to another man, but still carrying. Its an insight to the human relationships as a whole, the role of the family in Mediterranean countries. This does not mean that people from the North for example will not understand or will not be moved. But the situations depicted, fit especially to Turks, or Greeks (like me), or perhaps Italians. The director is really one of the highest class. I had previously watched his later film Issiz Adam (Always alone), and I was so impressed that I looked for another of his movies, so I found this film. I found very good the actor who played the young boy. I was really shocked from the scene of the father regretting for his behavior, it looked very much like a Greek ancient tragedy. Also the music of the film was excellent. Everyone must see this film. Not only he will like it, but I am sure that he will be moved.
**** 10 out of 10 for this movie **** One of the best movies ever made worldwide.I write this review right after seeing this movie because I want to put down the emotions that stir me this second. I must admit that before watching this masterpiece I was a bit skeptical about it being a drama because most dramas I have seen evolve around irrelevant topics - but this movie will change the way you think.The story is so heartwarming and real that it will move you far beyond anything you have probably ever experienced before. The actors do such an amazing job that you will sympathize with them and might indulge in some crying even if you are a male.Even if you don't cry this movie will touch you and will make you think about your own life.Movies that are able to and make you REFLECT and THINK about yourself, for my taste, are part of the best movies of all time because their messages are delivered in a way so that you will never forget them.Go see this movie and vote because this is not only the best Turkish movie ever, but one of the best movies ever made.


                
A simple story becomes a sad and poignant movie about ordinary people.. Every person I know who had the chance to watch this wonderful movie have cried -especially during the second half.. I applause everyone involved in the production of this magnificent piece of work.. Really brilliant work, presenting some top-notch performances (esp by Humeyra and Cetin Tekindor) and a clever collection of spectacular moments. No special effects, no superhuman strengths no fantastic landscapes.. Just human and the ordinary feelings. I felt some rush to call my mom and dad just after the movie to be sure that they are OK and to make them know once again that I really care about them. This movie makes you think deeper on values that make us human and also etches itself irreversibly to your memory by touching the deepest possible regions of your soul.. Highly recommended; a must-see! Do not forget your tissue papers because you probably will not be able to keep your tears from flowing...Thanks Cagan Irmak, and continue to blow our minds away..


                
I am always in search of great foreign movies.I had never seen a Turkish movie and then I decided to watch The Bandit(1996) and loved it! Without any effort i was able to find this masterpiece. I laughed, cried, loved every single minute of it! I first watched it in 2013 and today decided to watch it again. I have recommended this movie to many friends and each one of them liked it and each one also cried. I have always loved drama movies but this movie is more than that.Great performances from everyone.Simple and Remarkable,a must-see! I will recommend everybody to watch this movie.These type of movies are the victory of Cinema.


                
I think,this movie is very special for Turkish cinematography.Cagan Irmak(If I were you,I would be careful with him.He is great man) told us dying for opinions and the importance of the family.While I had watched the movie,I perceive that I want to believe my imaginations in my childhood and never want to grow up.Congratulations Cagan Irmak!Because of you touched our hearts in a very beautiful way.In addition,I should thank Çetin Tekindor( If he was born in an other country,he will certainly be an actor such as Anthony Hopkins),Fikret Kuskan(no comment),Hümeyra,Serif Sezer,Ege Tanman(Sadik's son)..Please don't be prejudiced against Turkish movies and watch this movie.You won't certainly be regretful.I think,everybody should watch this movie.


                
Having seen a lot of Turkish films, I do agree with someone writing in this site that this is perhaps the best Turkish movie ever and one that can hold proudly its place amongst the best worldwide. Everything is perfect, direction, photography, acting, you cannot help but feel for its characters and identify with them, especially if you share the same location in the map, similarities in history and personality traits.I loved the child actor, he can make you smile and cry, but also the whole movie is about feelings, pain, sadness, anger, love, forgiveness and most important the joy of life.Another strong point is the music, made by the Greek composer Euanthia Reboutsika. Gave the movie wholeheartedly a 10 rating! I wish there were more of its kind.


                
Give him a room dad, he do not have any else place to go... Is the best and the most important Turkish movie written and directed by CAGAN IRMAK... He is a wonderful writer and director. Although his young age, he is more successful than other older directors. I recommend everybody to watch this perfect movie! Actors and actresses were wonderful, time was expressed very well. It is impossible not to be touched and cry after watching the movie.Developing Turkish movie sector will have a very important affect on European movies especially with the help of this movie.Cagan Irmak had proved his talent with his previous movie "Mustafa Hakkinda Hersey." I hope more these kind of movies will be created in Turkey and Turkish movie sector will be developed with the help of good quality moviesA PERFECT film surely not to be missed!


                
The director of Babam Ve Oglum is Cagan Irmak.Cagan is the best and the youngest director of Turkey.I believe that one day,all people will notice his ability.Before Mustafa Hakkinda Hersey and than Babam Ve Oglum... I don't remember crying like that before.Subject of the film is not only Turkey's problem,all families' problem. Subject is wonderful,music is wonderful,actors and actress are wonderful,director is wonderful so the film is wonderful! I hope most of people in the world saw that film and put in order their family's life.Picturegoers must saw that film....You LOVE this film like me!(don't forget to take with handkerchief to go to the cinema.)


                
This is the best Turkish Drama I have Ever Seen. In fact this is the best movie of Turks. Story, Acting, Music etc. everything was perfect.It is about 3 generation. Father, Son n Grandpa. Most of the theatre cried many times and in the same scene we suddenly start smile sometimes they were more than smile. This is my reaction in a scene :) => :( => :(( => :('' => :)I would like to celebrate Cagan Irmak and all the actors even childrenTurkish Movies are commonly made for money but this is not one of them but this will be the most movie ever watched in Turkey this year. I think this is also better than Gonul Yaras&#305; which is a nominie for Oscar nominies.


                
Although that I am an Egyptian and I was not a fan of the Turkish movies until I watched this movie, I felt while watching the movie that I was in Egypt. The village life and the relations between the family members which are sometimes full of contradictions between the old and young generations of the same family. The role of the strong mother (Hümeyra) who is trying to do her best to retain the relation between her husband and her son into its normal course and how she is keen to get her family back together was brilliant that she make you cry and laugh in the same time. The father (Çetin Tekindor) whose sorrow when he lost his son made me cry although I tried to control myself. The oldest brother (Çetin Tekindor) his natural simplicity which he conducted in his role of a loving older brother whose ill youngest brother was being fed by his own hands while he is waiting for his destiny at the hospital. The little boy (Ege Tanman), no one can deny the ability of this young boy who is living in his dreams that his father is his hero even after his death, his maturity in acting is quite spectacular. Finally, I would like to that the brilliant director and the writer (Çagan Irmak), his control over his cameras and conducting the actors accordingly was above imagination. Sincerely, all the members who worked in this movies deserves our hats to be taken off for them. It will be a pity if that movie is not nominated for Oscars. Simply a spectacular movie which deserves to be seen all over the world.


                
What makes this film "exceptional" is the diversity of human state. It bares the drama, the comedy and the tragedy in every single frame. One of the only titles I can think of is the Korean make "Memories of murder" in same sort.It's not artificial, in fact I found it very humanistic in many senses. In todays cinema we are all bored of those genetically modified tomatoes and this is very important for especially Turkish cinema as it would hopefully be the first step of a new line.I hope you will all get a chance to see this title, but bare in mind that the amount of entertainment offered isn't as high but will teach you a lot.


                
This is a movie that has a crying guarantee on almost anyone who would watch it. It portrays a family in turkey in the early 70's mainly concentrating on the relationship between the dad and the son.It is by far the best Turkish movie i watched, and i really did not like most of them. This one is definitely in my top 10 best movies ever made.The drama and comedy genre is so perfectly mixed that many times one will get the feeling of laughing and crying all at once.If you have not watched this movie yet, get it. No matter what you will like it. Actors do a very good job and the director's is one which is not even one to mention, just EXCELLENT.This movie will relate to everyone and will give you an emotional vibe.Enjoy


                
Moms say it all what they feel for their children. but father-son love is always silent.once i read in a book that if you find two people sitting together and are not talking with each other, most probably they will be father and son."My father and my son" truly shows the intricacies of father-son relation, which is felt by most of us in an oriental society but this is how life is...............Perhaps sadik's father was right who doesn't dared to be radical when young which has kept him from being conservative when old.loved it..........


                
It's one of those films which really affect you deep. The movie somehow makes ordinary places, ordinary people and ordinary events become interesting. I think it's due to the way Cagan Irmak (writer and director) cleverly and carefully blends everything. The movie is definitely not like a Hollywood production, maybe more like a European film. The film has many enjoyable moments but it's mainly emotional. The actings are magnificent, the story is heart-breaking and the places are so real. All performances were remarkable, but I should say I was over impressed by Cetin Tekindor's (Huseyin Aga) acting. While the bitter truths about life and family relations are portrayed perfectly, the movie also reflects life from the innocent eyes of a child. Personally, the local rural village life took me back to my some good memories. There is no need to tell what happens in the film as enough is said in the plot summary. More would only spoil it. But, it should be noted that even though the plot may sound political, the film is actually not.The movie came out without much advertising, but in short time became very popular - won many awards in Turkey and some in Europe. Not much to say... brilliant work. If you haven't seen it, I advise you watch it whenever possible. If you don't feel like crying in this movie, you will feel sorry for yourself.


                
What can we say about Babam V Oglum... Tears and sometimes smiles narrate to us everything about movies. Thanks Çagan Irmak to present us what a great life story. By the way, Have you ever watch Tim Burton's movie of Big Fish??? If you watch to Babam V Oglum, You should see Big Fish. I mean both of the movies try to explicate father and son disagreement. Big Fish contains much more fantastical components then Babam V Oglum. If a foreign citizen watch the this movie, He or she can understand the real Turkish lifestyle and real warm-blooded society. We can not introduce ourself to foreign societies perhaps this movie introduce ourself more then us.


                
This movie is the most dramatic film I have ever seen, I advice you to see Babam and Oglum. Excellent actors were in this movie. There is another excellent point is that you can both cry and smile. Very interest emotion you can taste. The theme was very dramatic, There were a grandfather, a father and a son. I'm strongly advice you to see Babam and Oglum.This movie is the most dramatic film I have ever seen, I advice you to see Babam and Oglum.Excellent actors were in this movie. There is another excellent point is that you can both cry and smile.Very interest emotion you can taste.The theme was very dramatic, There were a grandfather, a father and a son.I'm strongly advice you to see Babam and Oglum.


                
The film is famous with its ability to make people cry from beginning to an end. Although it may not affect a foreigner in the same way, for people who lived the era described in the film are moved. The film focus on the coup d'etat of 1980, and how it ruined the lives of idealist people, especially leftist. However, there is more than that... The drama of the small family is based on a contradiction between the traditions of the Turkish rural families and the thoughts of the youngsters of these families. This contradiction is in the minds of these young people as much as it is in their relationship with their parents. Thus, the film both judges and defends the Turkish traditional family structure, first by showing how cruel they can be when a family member is against the "tradition", and secondly by showing how compassionate they are when the same member of the family is in trouble. Consequently, the film may not mean much for foreigners but I should mention the fact that I have cried first time watching a movie in my 28 year long life!


                
As a men that don't like dramas much, I really have been impressed so much. What a great film about a rebellious men, facing reality of life and his past. Maybe best style of expression cultural abyss between somebody and family. Almost all cast has strong background of theater of cinema. Huseyin (father of rebellious men) and his naive brother really acted worldwide quality. Especially naive brother was played so naturally. I wish, if it were nominee for Oscar as best film. In Turkey film awarded so many prizes in film festivals as best film, best actor, best actress, best supporting role ...etc. I think this film is really a milestone of a Turkish Film Industry. One of the best film ever seen without a doubt. I recommend everybody to watch.


                
In Turkey this film is still remembered and missed. And also hard to watch again because of its realistic scenario. People tried to hide their tears from others. Friends had gone together to cinemas but at the and of the film they left in a big silence.Of course you can say 'it's a local taste' but I said in that film there is a big universal issue for all people: family relation. I want to advice that film everybody that need to cry and thinking about the father, mother, brother, son, ...And absolutely this is the best Turkish movie ever. In Turkey that film never will be forgotten...


                
Such a great piece of work is not something usual for Turkey. It's a touching film and as said before nothing to do with super-human powers, fantasy or effects. There are some scenes, especially on the second half, which makes you burst into tears without you realizing. The relations between family members and the things happening are so pure and so human that everyone watching the film finds something familiar with his/her life. The music playing at the end takes you somewhere else.( The soundtrack from Evanthia Rempoytsika- One more chance) I strongly recommend this movie to everyone!


                
The story of how people can love without expecting a return, unconditionally and how sacrifices can be done for this aim. A story which is an ode to family bonds. The movie is a superb mixture of splendid acting, touching script, divine melodies and unspoiled landscapes. Although it is closely related to the last 20 years of Turkey's realities and Aegean culture of the country, the story is highly above any borders, a true universal praise of humanity. Both laughter and tears exist and are very deeply knitted in almost every scene, resembling real life: you can find something of yourself in every character of the movie, you can watch your childhood within the eyes of Denis and realize that you have lived similar pains, sorrows and joys. A must see for everyone who considers her/himself to be a humanist.


                
This is the best film I have ever seen. I watched 3 times in cinema, but still feeling bad and spirited as the first time..Sadik, and his father and all others are fascinating. This film should be in the first top 3 of the top list for drama. Pls. pay attention and watch this film. You must feel lucky when you watch this film.Also I have a few word about little Deniz.. I want a son who will be like this child.. Thank you to Cagan Irmak for this unique trace.We will wait for new projects of Cagan Irmak. Many thanks again, Rasim


                
