?..........But I love this new series. It's not a laugh out loud comedy, but it makes me smile throughout and the half hour episode is finished far too quickly. It's a gentle comedy based on the lives of a metal detectorist club and the characters in that club. There is a mad farmer with imaginary dogs who gives the two main characters permission to scan his fields, except the paddock. No one is ever to go near the paddock! I wonder why? His wife did disappear many years ago, but I have a feeling that will have nothing to do with his aversion to paddock diggers. The characters have been written so well and the direction, also by McKenzie Crook, are intriguingly watchable. Mr Crook is a talented man and after only two episodes I know this will be a favourite with me.


                
Mackenzie Crook's Detectorist's is not your average Sitcom, over the six episodes of the first series it delivers central characters who are desperately melancholy, yet intelligent. There are very few cliché's in this series. The story evolves, as do the characters with warmth and depth. The humour is dry and the belly laughs are few and far between, but what I found was a comedy of great sensitivity, with emotional depth and was ultimately deeply rewarding.I hope that if a second series is developed that it doesn't deviate from it's path because Detectorists (there's no apostrophe in Detectorists) really is gold. Detectorists is probably the most complete comedy sit com of all time, it's gentle humour really shines.


                
A gentle and brilliantly written show. Rarely laugh out loud funny, but so well acted and so many chuckles, absolutely love this show.Crook is, as always, immensely likable. The other characters are vital and so well performed. But perhaps it is Toby Jones who steals the show, a fantastic actor to watch, and such good lines delivered so well.A refreshing change to the unfunny, badly acted dross we are usually offered - Mrs Brown's Boys, stuff like that.I hope this runs a few series, as the characters are so good. But perhaps Crook has learned from the master that 2 series might be enough, and move on to the next project.Thoroughly recommend.


                
My faith is restored that there is still at least one person out there who can not only write but direct such an intelligent, unique, and endearing piece of workI don't know why but I was captured by the very first trailer that I saw and with much anticipation waited for the series to start...... and I was not disappointed.It has been such a long time since I have felt so totally engaged with a television series on British TV. The fact that it was tucked away on BBC4 is likely to mean that it will be missed by many, but then again if it was shown on the more mainstream channels then many may miss the point.Previous reviews have already mentioned the warmth and depth of the characters, the excellent writing and how you feel drawn into, and become part of, the world that has been created. But I want to add how stunning the filming has been throughout this series, with some of the shots being absolutely beautiful.It feels like something very special happened in the production of this series and I feel privileged that I caught it on its first showing.I only hope it gets the recognition it deserves........


                
Congratulations to Mr. Crook to have created something that I can only describe as love at first sight. The series takes a look at key situations that most adults have been through while putting them in a context that feels fresh. Mr. Crook may be guilty of a bit of viewer manipulation by depicting the main characters as meek and sometimes naive who face bullies and mocking. This is easily forgiven, though, because of the stellar cast that makes each and every persona feel real, believable and truly likable. Apart from that each character down to the smallest role has something unique that sets them apart. There is wisdom to be found here, and peace, if you have the patience. Sometimes life tosses you a gold coin and sometimes a ring pull - just go with it, it will balance out it in the end. A true dramedy gem. 9/10.


                
I have such high praise for this show. It is simple & heartfelt, beautifully delivered, devoid of pretence and PC twiddling (which is a near miracle to be seen on the BBC these days).I understand Mackenzie Crook of 'The Office' fame wrote/created this, if so, well done! This show has to be a career highlight for him because it's genuinely that good.Detectorists gives a lesson in good writing/storytelling, good casting & production. It is subtle and delicate in it's delivery & offers eccentricity but not wackiness (wackiness/quirkiness being rife in English TV comedy these days. The go to for so many Anglo middle class/upper middle class types who dominate UK television; in front & behind of camera).The cast is outstanding, as near perfect as you could hope for. Everything about this show looks effortless, which, once again, is an example of how good this show is.I final quick mention has to go to the music & location footage, both of which are simple & sweet, just like the show.Mackenzie Crook, well done lad!Uncluttered, precise & accessible storytelling at its best.
Andy and Lance live in a rural English backwater that on the surface seems boring and uneventful. Mackenzie Crook's genius is to show us the comic gold that lies beneath. I'm not talking of the Saxon gold that our two heroes are searching for, but the ups and downs they face on their journey through life. While gently making fun of our two under-achievers, the humour never belittles them. Their male obsessions are given a dry, melancholic and often wistful comic voice. Andy and Lance are well meaning, but they can also be naive and boring, loyal and selfish or just total dick heads. However, they are also strangely endearing.They are like us and we learn to love them despite their faults and eccentricities. Loved it!


                
I was looking forward to this show since I saw the trailers for it towards the end of the summer, and from the start of Episode 1 it has certainly exceeded my (rather high) expectations!I may be slightly biased as I used to be a Detectorist in my college days some 20 years ago now, and so I immediately picked up on a lot of the behaviours and in-jokes that Mackenzie has scattered throughout the shows ("Are you metal detectors?" 'No, THESE are the metal detectors, WE are the metal detector-ISTs..') to little quirks of behaviour that I myself was guilty of (agreeing a mutual "Detectors Off" time at the end of a days hunting, or indicating an important find by performing an impromptu dance).This is a comedy that everyone should enjoy though, not just detectorists, although you can tell Mackenzie does love the hobby. I've often thought one of the corner stones of a good comedy (or drama in general) is to have characters you can relate to, and that work well together on screen. Andy and Lance (Toby Jones) have this in bucket loads, and they do come across as being very close, old friends.There's plenty of side-stories woven into the main thread, that keep you guessing and asking questions as the shows progress (Will Andy get together with Sophie, what/who lies buried in the paddock, why does Lance still hold a candle for Maggie..) but not enough to distract from the main plot.All in all this is fantastically written/directed, original comedy with a great choice of actors (Simon Farnaby, Pearce Quigley..) and to top it all it features a brilliant soundtrack throughout by Johnny Flynn (or Johnny Piper if you're short sighted.) I find myself looking forward to Thursday Nights at 22:00, and if I'm honest I'm struggling to remember a show that I could last say that about, possibly Rev series 3, or Toast of London.


                
I found this series on Acorn.TV. I love British shows anyway, but this was exceptional. This is dead-pan humor at its finest. The two main characters were lovable, funny and real. The supporting cast was great as well. This is not your typical Hollywood "Aren't we funny" predictable comedy, where you can tell what is coming next and they have to point out the humor in case you are to dumb to get it. With this show, the humor is subtle and delivered ingeniously. The situation is very believable, but delightfully silly as well. I hope this comes out for a second year, but it is great as it is as well. Well done you!!


                
Having said that er indoors liked this series almost as much as I did. Utterly, totally and brilliantly observed and written , and if like me you're a lapsed detectorist, this will leave you wanting to get your kit out of the loft. It's the 'casual' details, eg: "What you got ? " .... pause.. " Bikky foil "pause... " Viscount mint " . Just so true. Only complaint is 30 minutes only so was over too soon. And the very last scene is sheer magic , don't miss any of it :0))) Oh and the reference to male hobbyists in the last episode, when did you last see a female trainspotter ? Never. I totally agree with above previous comments about the utter crap that poses as 'comedy', this series is in a completely different league.


                
There is one uncredited star in the Detectorists, its the British summer. It does exist, and somehow they managed to film the whole thing in glorious summer.I've just watched episode 3 of the second series, and its a bleak November day at the time of writing this review. Just seeing the warm sun & verdant greenery brings a smile of nice things remembered. Add in some brilliant writing, top notch acting, mild eccentricity and a dash of the absurd, and the result is something very special.A great example of the humour in the Detectorists is in the episode I've just watched. Without giving away anything, Lance tells Andy about the time his bed was cut in half by an ex girl friend who used a chainsaw to do the deed. After a pause Andy asks "Lengthways or sideways?". No expression of surprise, no mention of why Lance (a very mild mannered man) has ended up with his bed being cut in half. No questions about what sort of person the ex was nor how Lance could have ever provoked her to do such a thing. Lance and Andy acted like it was a perfectly normal thing that could have happened to anyone. I laughed out loud.


                
As this has been tucked away on BBC4 at 10.00 pm on a Thursday night I have been recommending it to plenty of people who might have missed it.It's very funny and it should be on BBC1 or BBC2 at prime time. The fact that it has no laughter track makes it even better and it's not required as we don't need to be told to laugh when there is a funny line.This comedy deserves to win several awards but it probably won't as it's not been "dumbed down" to appeal to the great unwashed. Everyone involved should be congratulated for bring this comedy gem to our screens. It's up there with Fawlty Towers and Only Fools and Horses.


                
Fittingly I suppose, I stumbled across this delightful, gentle comedy quite by accident, whilst browsing through iPlayer. A beautifully written, superbly acted piece that will sadly never be seen by as many people as it should, unless the second series gets a well-deserved promotion to BBC1 or 2.That said, 'The Detectorists' is like a private retreat, hidden in woodland, that you feel might be somehow diminished if everyone knows about it, all the more special because it's all yours.I'm also not sure if I even want to see a second series. The final scene was so wonderfully done, leaving a sense that the principal characters were just on the brink of something amazing, leaving the viewer happy for them, knowing that it was there. I'm not sure that seeing it happen could be quite as satisfying; seeing it not happen would be tragic.
The problem with shows like this is they take them off the air. No nudity, no violence, no laugh track. A person has to actually just sit and enjoy it. You smile, you laugh, you cry. You are not hit over the head by moronic jokes. The acting is superb. Not overacted but perfectly done. Quiet, subtle, honest. Please, someone out there take pity on the mature audience. Not everyone likes the 3 Stooges. Thank you for giving us this show. Don't take it away.


                
This is a pearler.Beautiful to look at, impeccably cast, with sweetly dry and sly humour, this is in the great British tradition.The human comedy at its most endearing.Every detail is appropriate - the sets, the music, the denouements and the characterisations.Love it, love Mackenzie Cook, love Racheal Stirling and love Toby.What a talented bunch.If you loved Jam and Jerusalem you'll take to this as well. Same wavelength, just gender POV shift.
Gentle, sweet, and warmly executed. From the writing to the acting, the photography to the music it is top notch in every respect. Perhaps my favorite television series!


                
Most people wouldn't even begin to watch this series due to the basic premise of this show. A couple of Brit buddies roaming around fields, looking for stuff with metal detectors. Truly, that is the LEAST of what this show is all about. The metal detector element, just enhances what is truly great TV.This is a brilliantly written, humorous, witty show that is actually about people. And how their lives, interactions and their humanity pedal on show after show. The casting is phenomenal! The scripts are fantastic! The cinematography is amazing considering the low budget. This is a comedy in large part, but the hook is in how the weave a fine tapestry of feelings, human nature and humor into each and every show. This a Masterpiece.Once you start, there is no turning back. I personally can't wait for a season 3....4.....5.....6......7.......8.....


                
The writing and the directing was excellent. I was surprised to learn that the main character, Andy, played by Mackenzie Crook, also directed and wrote the entire 6 episodes. I could not find anything else he wrote or directed, so I assumed this was his first. I hope we will see more from him in the future. Every character was perfectly cast. I felt fortunate to find this show on line, since I live in the US, where we have limited access to BBC shows unfortunately. It makes me want to move to England to find out what other great shows I am missing out on! The pacing is perfect and the original music adds another quality often lacking in US television. My only problem with the show is that there was only 6 episodes. I am looking forward to the Season 2


                
DETECTORISTS qualifies at once as a very dramatic Drama as well an as outstanding (and often slyly subtle) Comedy; not an easy blend, not at all. That the Star of the show is also both Writer and Director is truly amazing: one would think that, given the surprisingly superior QUALITY of the entire series, that there must've been many MORE hands involved in their production. Crook is indeed a Triple Threat. I must admit that I felt somewhat schizophrenic watching DETECTORISTS, laughing out loud at one moment and crying like a baby the next. Without a doubt, one of the finest shows I've ever happened across. I highly recommend it.


                
i watched this series in the time frame of 3 days. the acting was wonderful to watch....each character was real. i am a fan of many British productions...i rarely watch American, except for a few favorites. now that i have a roku instead of cable, i can explore my options. i was genuinely impressed by this series. the 2 male leads were so believable and i felt so much of their emotions....now that's good acting! each of the other actors' roles added to the series uniqueness / quirkiness. the setting sings in their homes, the countryside, the pub were all very enjoyable and done with great detail. i the storyline itself is so much deeper than meets the eye...as i could easily relate to many of the struggles portrayed. after watching the last episode, i just had so many random thoughts and feelings about life! i loved it! i hope there is more to come. bravo!!!
I have loved this show from the very first episode, which I happened upon quite by accident. I'm currently watching reruns of the first season, anxiously waiting for the next series to hit American television. The characters reel you in, the actors portrayal so perfectly on target. The scenery is breathtaking, and the theme song is beautiful. I cannot think of one even slightly negative thing to say about this lovely show...except that we have to wait so long in between series. The more I watch BBC, the more enamored I become with British television overall. The shows I love the most are much like "Detectorists"; quiet, uncomplicated, no in-your-face sexual content, just good writing, acting, technical......in other words, 'Talent' in its purest, truest form. Please keep this wonderful show going and please never adopt America's television format.


                
We loved this, streaming both seasons of episodes from Netflix. So sad they didn't pick it up for a 3rd season and beyond. It's a bit like an understated version of Andy of Mayberry for the Brits, a slice of English country life with adorable quirky characters. Toby Jones and the rest of the cast are spot on. It made me want to go visit the English countryside again. This time with a metal detector. Doing some research, I see that they filmed in Framlingham. Framlingham's most famous attraction is its Norman castle, where Mary Tudor was proclaimed Queen of England in 1553. But the first Detectorists landmark is next door: the Scout Hall where Danebury Metal Detecting Club meet, better known to locals as St Michaels Rooms, which are available for hire if you'd like to host your own meeting (I just might do that).


                
This is surely what truly entertaining television is meant to be.


                
This series is just an absolute joy. It should be compulsory viewing for all new British citizens, in order to help explain what being English really means. The pointless hobbies, the gentle banter, never saying what you really mean, and spending time just ambling about in beautiful countryside.It is slow-paced, and relaxed, and not much really happens - but that is the sheer genius of it. It is as comforting as a hot chocolate in front of a roaring fire, and the dry humour is perfectly judged. The scene where 'Simon & Garfunkel' make their appearance, and the banter that follows about metal detectors and hay fever, made me laugh out loud the first time, and I smile every time I think of it now.I loved it, my wife loved it, and my children loved the scenes which I let them see. Best not to show it to the kids in its entirety, as the language isn't appropriate.Watch it, and enjoy.


                
Without doubt this is the best thing I've watched on TV all year. A top quality cast who play their roles to perfection - even the minor characters are memorable and contribute something of worth. Orion Ben doesn't say anything at all for the whole series but her face still made me laugh, in particular her brief, admiring glance across at new member Sophie in the first episode, to the obvious annoyance of girlfriend Louise. Terry (Gerard Horan), the dedicated president of the Danebury Metal Detecting Club (DMDC) and his dotty, doting, lemonade-making wife Sheila (Sophie Thompson) also provide solid comic support. It would be interesting to discover if Mackenzie based these characters on a particular real life couple that he knows.Detectorists intricately and lovingly portrays the close friendship between metal detecting enthusiasts Andy (Mackenzie Crook) and Lance (Toby Jones). The sudden, unsettling arrival of new DMDC member, Sophie (Aimee-Ffion Edwards) arouses new passions in both of them and threatens to destroy not only their friendship, but their shared love for metal detecting. In tandem, Andy is also struggling to satisfy the competing needs at home of his partner, Becky, played by the irresistible, husky-voiced Rachel Stirling. Sophie also presents a real threat to the relationship between Andy and Becky. Watching the latter couple trying to navigate the various highs and lows of their romance is, for me, the best thing about Detectorists and it reaches its tender, moving climax in two scenes in the final episode. The first scene is played out in the not very romantic setting of the driveway of Becky's mum's house. The other takes place in a field at Bishop's Farm. I enjoyed the humour in the frequent verbal exchanges between Andy and Becky - the way she gently mocks his geeky obsession with metal detecting and his constant need to associate with the uncool Lance.Nevertheless Becky seems pragmatic enough to realise that if their love is ultimately to survive, she must grudgingly tolerate his frequent absences from the home on mundane metal detecting assignments and not completely dismiss his great dream of one day finding his own Saxon burial chamber full of treasure. Andy can't survive without Becky, a fact he is painfully reminded of by his total inability to work out how to switch the TV on whenever she's not home! By the final episode, we see how Becky ultimately resolves to deal with this inherent conflict between her own relationship with Andy on the one hand and Andy's relationships with fellow detectorists Lance and Sophie on the other. Will Andy and Becky's love for each other manage to co-exist with his competing obsession for his hobby or could he end up losing one or both of them?Aside from this, there is Lance's self-destructive infatuation with his ex-wife, the vacuous Maggie (Lucy Benjamin), who is utterly disinterested in him, both physically and emotionally. She can't even remember whether he has sugar in his tea, or more likely she just doesn't care whether he has it or not. To Lance's obvious annoyance, Tony (Adam Riches) - the man who stole Maggie away from Lance - never fails to appear at the most inconvenient moment, scuppering Lance's hopeless attempts to conjure up some sort of a romantic reconciliation with Maggie. It takes until the final episode before Lance finally seems to wake up to the reality of his relationship with Maggie and why she has continued to tolerate his presence in her life since she left him for Tony.I understand that a second series has been approved, which is joyous news, only tempered by my reasonable concerns that it may not be possible for Mackenzie Crook to craft anything more beautiful than the work of art that was series one. However I am willing to risk that disappointment...
