A gentle and brilliantly written show. Rarely laugh out loud funny, but so well acted and so many chuckles, absolutely love this show.Crook is, as always, immensely likable. The other characters are vital and so well performed. But perhaps it is Toby Jones who steals the show, a fantastic actor to watch, and such good lines delivered so well.A refreshing change to the unfunny, badly acted dross we are usually offered - Mrs Brown's Boys, stuff like that.I hope this runs a few series, as the characters are so good. But perhaps Crook has learned from the master that 2 series might be enough, and move on to the next project.Thoroughly recommend.


                
Congratulations to Mr. Crook to have created something that I can only describe as love at first sight. The series takes a look at key situations that most adults have been through while putting them in a context that feels fresh. Mr. Crook may be guilty of a bit of viewer manipulation by depicting the main characters as meek and sometimes naive who face bullies and mocking. This is easily forgiven, though, because of the stellar cast that makes each and every persona feel real, believable and truly likable. Apart from that each character down to the smallest role has something unique that sets them apart. There is wisdom to be found here, and peace, if you have the patience. Sometimes life tosses you a gold coin and sometimes a ring pull - just go with it, it will balance out it in the end. A true dramedy gem. 9/10.


                
Andy and Lance live in a rural English backwater that on the surface seems boring and uneventful. Mackenzie Crook's genius is to show us the comic gold that lies beneath. I'm not talking of the Saxon gold that our two heroes are searching for, but the ups and downs they face on their journey through life. While gently making fun of our two under-achievers, the humour never belittles them. Their male obsessions are given a dry, melancholic and often wistful comic voice. Andy and Lance are well meaning, but they can also be naive and boring, loyal and selfish or just total dick heads. However, they are also strangely endearing.They are like us and we learn to love them despite their faults and eccentricities. Loved it!


                
Have just finished watching Season One and have decided that this is one of the best shows we've ever seen. We'd give it many more than 10 stars if they'd just be clever and progressive enough to leave out the gungy vocabulary.The music is beautiful; would love to have the soundtrack. The scenery is gorgeous; wish we were there. The acting is spot on and doesn't rely on clownish behavior or yelling, which is rare these days. These are characters we find that we care about and would really enjoy knowing. The writing is full of our very favorite types of humor; extremely smart and witty. The story is both fun and dramatic without being stupid or soap opera-like.The whole thing was mesmerizing, poignant, beautiful, and almost perfect. If you can't tell, we loved it. Can't wait to see Season Two. We know it's a long shot, but we hope that someday soon, the gungy vocabulary in all shows will go the way of public smoking and highway littering and that this show and others will be more enjoyable and accessible to a larger audience.


                
Watched it as part of Acorn kickoff in US. Loved it down to the undisturbed dirt. Oddballs with intellect, Eccentrics that aren't lunes, Uneven personalities that are just doing the best they can. Great fun and sorry we won't see more.


                
The Detectorists is a gem of a television series featuring beautifully observed and well written characters. The interplay between mates Andy and Lance keeps each episode filled with wit and charm, helped along by well written supporting characters who all contribute to the unfolding events. The strength of the writing of the supports means that they can have their own stand alone segments such as when Russell and Hugh search for the mayor's gold chain in the dodgy car park. The series is a homage to metal detectoring and is careful to be respectful to a pastime almost universally considered naff by the outside observer. It still manages to poke gentle fun but never crosses the line into simply just being disrespectful. There is numerous swearing but spoken by characters you have come to appreciate so it becomes the type of swearing you hear your real- life friends say and do not take offence to. There is also pathos amongst the humour; witness Sheila's lament to Lance for the child she never knew. The series is beautifully photographed and the choice of medieval style music is inspired. There are also moments where characters just use facial expressions or glances to purvey how they are feeling which is a wonderfully observed feature of how English culture operates. Toby Jones in particular plays this aspect so well. The casting of Rachael Stirling and Diana Rigg as mother/daughter is inspired and is never played as though a series in-joke.By series 3 the proceedings start to stretch a bit and repetition does creep in, for example references to Varde's "chattiness". The decision to have Sophie's character air brushed from series 3 is also a shame given that she was a good foil for Andy & Lance in the first two series. Mackenzie Crook deserves all the plaudits available for the work he has put into this series. He has put his stamp over every aspect – acting, writing, direction, music, photography – and he clearly has a passion for history and for the preservation of artefacts left behind by those who came before us.We now live in an age where it is possible to be a TV star whilst possessing no talent for anything at all. So in a way we as viewers have now become detectorists in our own right; we search through the pages of our channel guide trying to find something which is neither utter dross or something repeated for the endless time. The moment anyone discovers The Detectorists in their TV guide is the moment when they know they have found their own gold.


                
I did not watch this for a year because whenever I saw the title, I assumed it was a reality show about metal detectors, or as I now know, they are not called that, they are actually called "Detectorists". They do have a reality show about this too on American TV, which I cannot imagine is fun to watch, but who knows? Finally I looked it up this show one day and read all these great reviews and watched it. I like it very much.It has a slower moving and quiet style. Yet packed with moments of insight and characters that grow on you and get more interesting as the series progresses. Also the scenery is quite lovely This adds to the languid and relaxed feeling the show captures while exploring the characters and their situations. I equally enjoyed Series One and Two. I hope they continue with the show. It is a nice change on my play-list and it is very well done.


                
They look for treasure but the treasure is all around them.It's like "Dumb & Dumber" but with more sweetness & higher IQ. Very watchable and refreshing after watching the blood & gore of the Netflix stable of angry, smirking, cynical Americans.I want to live in this British Village!...Pubs, goofy hobbies, true friends, good friends, green country lanes and they even have a place for average Blue Collar Joes.You don't have to show your Yuppie or Hipsters I.D card to get in for a laugh . The only fault...I just wanted to know more about the odd secondary characters ."hurrah hurrah hurrah!"


                
It's rare that I would award a 9 to a TV show but this show is an exception.Mackenzie Crook has created a little world that I would love to live in if I could. I can see myself as someone like Becky with a professional job through the week and detecting as my hobby during my free time. My circle of acquaintances are a little off-beat, like the lesbian couple, the cop who never retired, his wife and strange Russell.It looked like Becky was getting involved with Andy's detecting near the end of the second series. I wondered what kind of a relationship Becky and Andy had since they never appeared to spend much time together outside of late nite TV.The pace of the series seems just about right, they do enough each episode to make you think and whet your appetite for the next show.The BBC has confirmed a third series will air sometime in late 2017. I'm really happy about that because the second series didn't wind everything up and left so many loose ends only another series could resolve things.I hope though that the third series isn't really the last, this show could run for many more years what with the possibilities that surround metal detecting and artifact rich England with thousands upon thousands of sites to search.There's still so much development potential for all the characters, Andy, Becky, their kid, Lance, Maggie, the lesbians, all of them.


                
So dry. You cannot be in the mood for excitement, but you will build enthusiasm to watch it. Funny things happen. Watch for their references, they parallel movies and such. Its a story of normal people, with surprises. I like this show.


                
I don't know why, but this might be my favorite comedy. The awkwardness of the characters, the need to belong, the complete unconcern about being " the other - this is the best written and acted comedy series I can think of.The first episode was...not enthralling; will this be another "make fun of the nerds" show? By the second, I was intrigued - hooked by the third. By the end of the third series, I was desperate for more.


                
A work of quiet genius. The "slow food" of comedy. Understated and dry British humour at its best. Beautifully cinematic and delightfully cast.


                
As slow as you go! Mackenzie Crook has cooked up a beautiful slow moving series of which you feel the old charm of British Society. Impecable acting from all and well made by the Beeb. I certainly hope that this is not the last of this series. If it is I hope that Mackenzie pens another programme on a similar note with Toby Jones as they seem to have some real chemistry together to inspire 21st century comedy from the Brits.
Toby Jones & Mackenzie Crook make this show look effortless and inspiring. I am now considering getting a metal detector and keeping a look out for Magpies in trees.


                
What a fabulous piece of tv this is - it just makes you smile and feel better about the world - from each opening scene, through every adventure of Andy and Lance and to the closing credits and Johnny Flynn's soothing theme tune. Truly original comedy deftly penned and performed by Mackenzie Crook and the brilliant Toby Jones and a great performance from Rachael Sterling as Andy's long suffering partner.


                
This is a great series not just about metal detecting but every day life as well, series 1&2&3 are great also the Xmas special pure class and great script .


                
This the second time I have watched this and it hasn't lost any of its charm or wit. Laugh out loud it isn't but your tummy will ache from deep rumbling chortling.
Emma peals little girl is wonderful, changing her name didn't fool me.
Cant say which caricature is best as they are all fantastic.


                
