Fritz Lang's highly influential career as a film director began in post World War I Germany, where he was a leading figure in the German Expressionist film movement, and ended in the United States in 1953 with the production of The Big Heat, a film noir classic. Perhaps his greatest film, M (Germany, 1931) forms an historical bridge between expressionism and film noir. Like the former it uses strange and disturbing compositions of light and dark in order to symbolize the inner workings of the human mind; like the latter it more realistically sets its story in a modern urban setting and blends in sociological issues along with the psychological and moral ones. Even though M was Lang's (and Germany's) first sound film, many historians cite it as the initial masterpiece of cinema to appear following the introduction of sound into films in the late 1920's. While most early "talkies" return films to their static, visually monotonous, stage- imitative beginnings and thus limit rather than expand the artistic possibilities of the medium, M avoids the failing by skillfully balancing asynchronous, off-screen sounds with the more limiting use of synchronous dialogue. The film's editing, particularly its elaborate use of parallel cutting, also contributes kinetic energy and fluidity to the storytelling. Of course, many of the film's sound effects are also imaginative and memorable, none more so than the compulsive whistling of the film's central character, the stalker and serial killer of little girls Hans Beckert (magnificently played by Peter Lorre). Sound is also an important contributor to M's rich and influential use of off screen space. One famous example is the scene that introduces Beckert as a shadow against his own Wanted poster, creepily intoning to his next victim, Elsie Beckmann, "You have a very pretty ball." Not only is Beckert's shadow a bow toward Lang's expressionist artistic roots, but it ironically places the murderer in the implied space in front of the image - that is, among us, the human community of viewers of which he is an innocuous-appearing, albeit monstrous, member. Another example of Lang's use of off-screen space is the montage of shots whose common denominator is Elsie's absence from them: an empty chair at the Beckmann dinner table, the vertiginous stairwell down which Elsie's mother searches compulsively and futilely for signs of her daughter's arrival, the attic play area that awaits Elsie's return from school. Most memorable of all - and most often alluded to visually in other films - is the series of shots that indirectly record Beckert's assault and murder of the innocent child, representing these off screen events metonymically via the entry of Elsie's ball from bushes along on the right edge of the frame and the release of her balloon from telephone wires and off the left edge of the frame. Never in the history of cinema has something so terrible been communicated through such powerfully understated images.Beyond its technical brilliance, the keys to M's lasting impact are its psychologically convincing portrait of Hans Beckert's twisted compulsion and the still relevant ambivalence of his capture and "trial." Unlike contemporary cinematic examples of the serial killer, Beckert is not presented simply as a grotesque psychopath. Nor is the issue of how society should deal with him at all clear-cut. To be sure, the gut-reaction of most film audiences is to root on the underworld mobsters and petty thieves who, beating the established authorities to their mutual quarry, capture Beckert and bring him to a mock- formal trial whose conclusion is foregone. Like many in America today, Beckert's accusers are disinclined to listen to insanity pleas and would just as soon be rid of the "monster" in the surest way possible: a summary death penalty with as little fretting about legal rights as possible. Considering the heinousness of Beckert's crimes and the imperfections of a legal/medical system that could well turn him loose to kill again, this emotional response is hard to resist. Yet M is by no means an endorsement of vigilantism - quite the contrary. Through the unlikely rhetorical persuasions of Beckert's unkempt "court appointed" defense attorney and Beckert's own impassioned monologue, Lang strongly implies that impatience with democratic judicial procedure and a paranoid eagerness to scapegoat others (guilty or not) in the name of order are symptomatic of the social hysteria breeding Nazism in 1930s Germany. That the ruthless killer who heads the underworld looks, dresses, and gestures like a Gestapo officer is no accident. Moreover, the letter "M" chalked on Beckert's back by one of his pursuers not only stands for "murderer" but also alludes to God's marking of Cain. While the popular misconception holds that the mark of Cain symbolizes his evil, it in fact represents God's warning to Cain's flawed fellow creatures not to mete out wrathful vengeance, but to leave justice in God's hands. Translated into secular terms (and literally entering the shot from the top of the frame), God's hands in M belong to the legitimate authorities that intervene at the last moment to arrest and try Hans Beckert "in the name of the Law."


                
M / (1931) **** 	"M" is a cinematic masterpiece of visual drama. The stunning performances define the careers of exceptional actors such as Peter Lorre and Gustaf Grundgens. Director Fritz Lang gives depth and dimension to his production by distinctly capturing the ecstasy of the film's many characters and focusing accurately on individual situations. This is an intriguing journey into the mind of a psychotic child murderer, blending terror, complexity, and malignity in one amazing motion picture.	Screenwriters Paul Falkenburg and Adlof Jansen construct the characters of "M" with distinctive personalities and three dimensional emotions. Many lesser filmmakers give their characters no creativity outside the confines of the script. In this movie each individual character has a mind of their own; they are free to roam the landscape of a inviting atmosphere.	Fabricating such an impressive atmosphere is some of the best cinematography and lighting effects that I can remember watching. This resplendent component creates the film's terrific moody ambiance. Suspense is one thing "M" contains in full context. The movie's third act is sheer peak-high tension.	Shot in black and white, "M" stars Peter Lorre as Peter-Hans Beckert, an extremely disturbed child murderer in the process of wreaking havoc on a neighborhood. Parents everywhere are living in fear of their children being kidnapped and abruptly annihilated. 	This picture contains a brilliantly crafted setup. The visual setting creates a strongly developed opening. Every scene works to either complicate the initial problem or propels the story through a firm narrative through line.	The film captures the chaos of the town in terror perfectly. "M" is more about the results of a serial killer than an actual serial killer. Never do we directly witness a murder; the violent encounters are implied. This method of film making perhaps makes the movie's impact even greater. With an creative perspective through a third person point of view, the filmmakers repeatedly give us examples of a solid structure through characters and occurrences. 	"M" offers a unforgettable, challenging performance by Peter Lorre. This extraordinary actor is tormenting and disturbing without embracing in extreme violent conduct. He perspires with momentum and rapture. This productions closing scenes are so deeply penetrating they entirely captivate the viewer. Isn't this what movies are supposed to do?


                
M is a monumental film and seriously should be watched by all. For a film like this to be made in 1931 is just shocking. Even if the film was released today it would still be nothing like we have seen before. In our modern age of film making there has been a considerable rise in the production of films about serial killers, their complexities and particularly about pathological ones. Yet, M is the first movie that comes to my mind when I think of the themes that have been in Psycho, Silence of the Lambs, Seven and not to mention countless more.The film is lead by Peter Lorre in a transcending performance who plays the serial killer and rapist in which the film is centered around. In this performance Lorre is successful in something that at the very least is rare to see in any kind of film, compassion for a child killer and rapist. Lorre makes the viewer see, that he is not a criminal by choice but by a sickness of compulsion. Too often then not is our perception of a psychotic killer having that look that puts fear into his or hers victims' eyes. Lorre doesn't do that but rather displays a frightened man, a scared man. One in which his desperation leads to his hazardous behavior. His portrayal of a killer is not of a fearless one but of one consumed by fear. Something that even today we as a people cannot understand, let alone in 1931.The direction and writing of Fritz Lang is beyond comprehensible as he taps into the mind of a serial killer and his complexities. He does so in such that we get an empathetic and compassionate illustration of all sides of the story. This in which by then end of the film all points of view are more then well delivered to the audience. Fritz Lang here, has simply created here a timeless masterpiece. One that excels in its technical aspects and enlightens the audience on a topic that other films still have not yet to match M in.I highly recommend this film for many obvious reasons and conclusions. This film was created by one of the all time great directors in Fritz Lang, Lang's command for the screen is mesmerizing and a joy to witness and so on and so forth. Yet much of this is mostly superficial and a waste of time to continuously state. M, as I mentioned before takes a strong and original stance on an issue that we as a society yet have not fully resolved. This film may not give you THE answer on this issue but it may sway that moral compass of yours that lies inside of all of us.


                
The first time I saw M, by Fritz Lang, I almost didn't know what to make of it. I was overwhelmed by the power of the performances, the staging of the scenes, the locations, and the power that the simple story had with such complex circumstances. Then I saw it again, and a third time, and I know that this is one of the best films ever to come out of Germany- it's a powerful statement about protecting our children (if you're looking at it as a "message" movie), but in reality it is just a piece of cinema heaven. Thrillers today only wish they could draw a viewer into the mystery elements, and have such unconventionality of the times. Boiling down to this, M is about a child Killer - the legendary character actor Peter Lorre in his first major role - who snatches children when their parents don't watch, and continues on until an investigation goes underway. But as the police investigate overly thoroughly into the real criminal underworld, they know something is up, that this is someone far more gone than they could ever be, so they join in the hunt. This all leads to one of the supreme dramatic climaxes in any thriller.On the first viewing I just went straight for the story, which is able to suck one in enough to make you feel dizzy. But on the multiple viewings it becomes even more interesting as one can study the intricacy, and indeed full-on artistry, of Lang's camera. He puts it in unusual places at times, and adds for good measure shades of dark and gray in many of the night scene (this is, by the way, a precursor to 'film-noir', which Lang later became an important director in the 40's and 50's). On top of this, there is a very modern sense of style in the editing- I remember a couple of scenes that surprised me editing wise. One is where the cops (I think it was the cops) have an argument about the investigation- two of them get into a shouting match, and we get medium close-ups of them going back and forth. This is done quickly, with a kind of intensity that isn't even captured in today's thrillers. There is also the hunt for Lorre in the digging of the house, where Lang cuts around constantly, heightening the tension between the predators (the criminals) and the prey (Lorre), until it's almost too much to take.The disturbing aspects of the story, of child abduction and murder, have become benchmarks of a number of today's thrillers, where the cop is usually the subject and the killer left more in the shadows, in cat & mouse style. This doesn't happen here, and because of it by the time we get to the final scene, with Lorre being interrogated and giving his "I can't help it" speech, it becomes something poetic, tragic, frightening. Lang doesn't leave his "message" so simplistically, he makes sure we know Lorre's side too, however twisted it has become, and the antagonist is shown as human as opposed to these present-day thriller where the killers are barely given one dimension let alone two. There were reports that during filming Lang put Lorre through torture, ultimately causing the two to never work together again. But nevertheless, out of this comes a towering performance of a small, wild-eyed criminal in the midst of an extremely well-told and unpredictable mystery story. In short, if you don't know what you're in for when you hear that whistle, those several infamous notes, you may not at all.


                
The opening scene of this movie is the first clue to its near perfection <U+0096> A mother preparing dinner for her child, waiting anxiously for her to return from school.  Her hope, and then distress as she hears people pass outside her door.  While down in the streets of Berlin, her daughter is receiving a balloon from a strange man in a long black coat.  We know what's going to happen, but it's still horrific to watch.Fritz Lang, you cinematic god!  A simple story of the underworld, the police, and a single man holding an entire city hostage, and done with such precision and pre-noir darkness that is oozes creepy suspense from beginning to end.But this movie is not so simple as the police inspectors trying to catch a devious murderer <U+0096> it's about the mob, employing its network of beggars and petty thieves also trying to bring the killer to their own brand of justice. Apparently, the police crackdown caused by the murders is bad for business <U+0096> so the mob begins to track him down as well.It's not only a great crime story, and perhaps the first physiological thriller (the murderer is schizophrenic) but there's comments to be made here about the nature of justice, and who should best dispense it.In all, not only a trail-blazing classic, but THE trail-blazing classic.


                
This movie is definitely one of the scariest movies I've ever seen. It's about this childlike, pity evoking man (brilliantly played by Peter Lorre), who also happens to be a psychotic child killer. The city in which he lives is, of course, panicked by the mysterious child-killings, and both the criminals and the police starts to haunt the man down. I won't reveal more then this, but I will say this: Just because it's an old movie, don't let your guard down. This movie is one of those rare movies, which are so good that you'll never forget them.


                
This is one of those movies that will stay with you for the rest of your life.  The characters are ugly and disturbing, there is nothing "cute" in this movie.There are constant parallelisms drawn between the police and the underworld and the common way in which they operate.We also get to journey into the mind of the madman.  If you enjoyed "Silence of the Lambs", you should see this also.Of course you must be patient enough to deal with subtitles, and the fact that this is a very old movie - one of the first "talkies".  But most viewers will get something out of the dialogue even without knowing the German language.


                
In an eerie propagandist fashion, the phrase "in the name of the Law" is repeated over the last two scenes of Fritz Lang's "M" as a child killer is brought to justice. If "L" represents the State and the Law, then "M" is meant to represent the Individual (who in this case is a Murderer). Lang boldly asked us way back in 1931, whose rights come first: the State or the Individual? A master of his craft, Lang leaves the question open-ended and let's the audience decide."M" is shockingly contemporary in its psychological complexities. It explores the psychology of individualism vs. group think while showcasing how a state of fear can be inflicted upon a populace when a government fails to protect society from a single individual terrorizing the people. The story is fairly straightforward: An elusive citizen begins killing innocent children in a large nameless German city. The media fuels a paranoid frenzy that incites the public. The clueless police begin to raid "the underworld" after the populace is turned into a raving mob because of the failure to capture the killer. "The underworld" comes to a screeching halt as their business is ruined by the police and starts their own manhunt for the killer.Unlike a modern period piece that attempts to evoke a certain place and time, "M" WAS a certain place and time. Lang, in an almost prophetic sense, captured the state of mind of the German people in 1931 as the Weimar Republic was on the brink of collapse and the Nazi Regime was preparing to take over. When individuals live in a state of fear, as they do in "M", society collapses and the Individual is crushed. Only the State, it seems, can bring order."M" is a also a masterpiece for its technical aspects. The way in which Lang uses his camera to move through windows, capture shadows, reflections, empty spaces, and shift points-of-view is staggering even by today's standards. He also played with the new technology of recorded sound with extensive voice-over narration and dialogue used to overlap and transition between scenes. Didn't critics recently praise "Michael Clayton" for utilizing just such a technique as if it was something revolutionary? One can also see a protean style the would eventually birth the Film Noir movement with the creation of tension and suspense in the use of shadows and camera angles.Yet "M" is not perfect. It has some major flaws. There are no real "characters" in the film to speak of in the modern sense. The film is virtually all built around mood and plot. The only time Lang invites us to emotionally connect is in the opening and closing scenes with a mother of one of the victims, and in the classic scene of Peter Lorre giving his writhing and primal "I can't help it!" speech in front of the kangaroo court of criminals. The mother's grief and Lorre's madness are presented so sparsely and in such a raw form that it becomes too painful to want to connect with them. Another flaw that is often overstated about films from this time period is the slow pace of the early police procedural scenes. These inherent flaws combined with the inherent brilliance of Lang's vision make "M" one of the most challenging films a modern viewer could ever sit through.What impressed me most about "M" was the subtlety of the symbolism Lang created with his haunting images. As harrowing as the story is, none of the gruesomeness is shown on screen. It's all transmitted to the viewer through the power of suggestion. Is it any wonder Hitler wanted Fritz Lang for his propaganda machine, which thankfully led to Lang fleeing to America? I'll never forget the wide shots of the kangaroo court (and the looks on those people's faces as the killer is brought down the steps for trial) or the vast expanse of that empty warehouse. The scene of the ball rolling in the grass with no one to catch it, the balloon caught in the telephone wires, and the empty domestic spaces the mother has to inhabit after her child has been murdered are the types of scenes that tape into Jungian archetypes and shared fears. The look on Lorre's face as he confesses, the hand of the Law coming down to save Lorre from being lynched, and the ghastly plea from the mother in the final scene will stick with me for the rest of my life. "M" is a communal nightmare; one that from which we have yet to awake.
This movie is so intense and enthralling, it doesn't have to hide from even the most amazing Action-movies. But unlike the most action-movies, it really has a story to tell with a very interesting conclusion at the end.When people talk about Fritz Lang they always talk about Metropolis, but I think this is his masterpiece. This movie MUST HAVE inspired pretty much every police movie or show ever made. Rarely have I rated a movie a 10 with more confidence than this one.END OF REVIEW....... so I don't have anymore lines, but they make me write "10 lines" apparently, so Im writing this. I know a joke ...ehm, well, its not a good one, so I will quote GEORGE BEST:"I spent a lot of money on booze, birds and fast cars. The rest I just squandered"


                
Watching Fritz Lang's M is watching the history of cinema unfold before one's eyes. Made in the transition period between the silent and sound film, this 1931 masterpiece remains fascinating for several reasons.First of all, the use of sound is impeccable. Suffice to say the killer in the movie is caught is through identifying his trademark whistling. But the use of voice-over narration was also new at the time and is used here very well: first when a mother calls, in panic, for her missing child, and her name echoes across several empty walls. Next in a scene in which two detectives elaborate on what they've done to apprehend the killer and everything they say is matched by an image.Secondly, few times has a serial killer been treated with such complexity, compassion and straightforwardness in cinema. Peter Lorre plays a child murder, a man who acts by impulse, possibly a schizophrenic. He simultaneously evokes horror and pity, and he's too distant from the super-cool and erudite serial killers of today. Lorre plays one Hans Beckert, a lonely man with a history of mental illness, an ordinary man without any qualities or amazing traits.Thirdly, it's a powerful meditation on vigilantism and crime. The police is unable to capture the killer, so Berlin's underground decides to capture the criminal. The police raids are putting them out of business and they resent the fact that a child killer is being sought amidst their ranks. The absurdity of bank robbers and card cheaters with a sense of morals is not lost on the filmmakers. In a mock-trial at the end, these same criminals think they have the authority to sentence the child murder to death. But as he tells them, if they wanted, if they got jobs and worked honestly, they could leave their lives of crime; a man who's ordered by voices to kill can't just turn off him impulses.But above all, M is a fascinating, exciting thriller. It's an intelligent crime story, that shows police and criminals working on different sides and with different means to achieve the same purpose. If one can laugh at the idea of a criminal union (realism should never be a criterion for judging art), one can't laugh at the policemen in this movie. Inspector Lohmann, played by Otto Wernicke, is one of most intelligent detectives ever to grace cinema. He's fat, he's cranky, he's an unlikely hero, but he's shrewd, he can read a person's personality at a glance, he's patient. Lang must have liked him too because he used the character (and actor) in his following crime epic, The Testament of Dr. Mabuse, in which Lohmann shows even greater skills.I knew (or at least highly expected) that M would be an amazing movie. But I didn't imagine a 80-year-old movie would hold up so well in terms of cinematography, sound, pacing, acting, structure. Few movies achieve such a synthesis of qualities. There is no doubt on my mind that M deserves the recognition it continues to receive from film historians.
A serial killer who favors children (Peter Lorre) is on the loose in Berlin. He is wanted by the police. But, even worse for him, he is wanted by the Berlin underworld, who have been targeted falsely by the police for being involved. Watch out, child killer! There is nothing bad I can say about this film. The acting, the directing, the sound... all perfect. Many have praised Lang for his use of sound at a time when the practice was just coming into play. And rightfully so. Whereas other films have sound matching what is on the screen, Lang realized he could use the effect to signify what he was not showing, including the murderer (who has a distinctive whistle). Brilliant. Not to mention that one key role is a blind beggar... a man who cannot appreciate visuals, but only sounds... he is appropriately the man who can identify the killer! Basing the story loosely off of child-murderers of the day (Grossman, Haarman and Peter Kürten) this is one of the darkest tales set to film up to this point. There is no blood, and no children are actually seen killed. And the killer is relatively reserved compared to his real-life counterparts, who were also rapists and cannibals. He presents an interesting defense: his crimes are less wrong than the crimes of others because he cannot psychologically control himself. Or, in modern terms, not guilty by reason of mental defect. Is a child killer less evil than a pickpocket? Is he in some way also a victim?I enjoyed the idea of a unionized underworld. I do not know the reality of this, as it seemed sort of comic and anticipated such villainous team-ups as we might see in comic books. But crime was certainly not unheard of, and even "black market meat" existed... and I am not sure if I really want to know what that means.Many, including reviewer Stanley Kauffmann, have noticed the similarity between "M" and Bertolt Brecht's "Threepenny Opera". Sadly, I have not seen Brecht's work and cannot comment on the comparison. German philosopher Theodor Lessing, best known for his work on Jewish self-hatred, may even have been an inspiration, due to his work on Haarmann. But regardless of inspiration, Lang is the master here... his work stands the test of time and today, almost a century later, is widely recognized as one of the greatest achievements on film. At the least, many consider it the all-time greatest German film. And rightfully so.There are so many great shots, including the so-called "inventory" shot of the criminal underworld's wares. Lang also excelled with the camera angles, using knives as frames and getting more than one great mirror shot. (I should also give credit to cinematographer Fritz Arno Wagner, who previously worked on "Nosferatu" and many others -- his reputation should be second only to Karl Freund.)There is nothing that beats the Criterion release with commentary, short films and more. I watched the film this way on DVD. Perhaps a Blu-ray release has even more, but I would not even know what could be added. This disc is packed and a must-own for any film historian or Lang fan.


                
This movie has it all! This is one of my all-time favorite movies. Many people have criticized it because it's from 1931 and I say: Who cares when you have such a great movie? Peter Lorre gives a 4 star performance as the child murderer, and may I say he is very very haunting. Fritz Lang's direction is superb; the cinematography is superb! The kangaroo court scene at the end is my favorite part, and it's brilliantly done. The plot is very well crafted. Even more amazing is the plot focuses around catching the murderer, but it is not boring for one second. Each scene flows beautifully into the next with some amazing chases, raids, and facial expressions. This is also a movie ahead of its time. This is definitely one of the all-time best movies!


                
Fritz Lang's second absolute landmark (after the equally brilliant but completely different 'Metropolis') and also his first opportunity to work with the wonders of sound. And boy, did he ever deliver a great piece of work! Like the M (for murderer) is marked on Peter Lorre's coat, the film M (for masterpiece) is branded on cinema history annals for all eternity. Lang's film is a triumph in every possible viewpoint and it covers a lot more genres and elements than just simply the manhunt for a child-molester.*** SPOILERS ****The horrors 'M' handles about is timeless and of all cultures, but yet it'll always remain a taboo subject and for that reason alone Fritz Lang deserves extra praising. In an utterly astonishing way, Peter Lorre portrays Hans Beckert, a child murderer who single-handedly terrorizes four and half million people simply by his uncontrollable urge to kidnap and molest young schoolgirls. The grim and haunting atmosphere is terrifically built up by images of previous Beckert-victims and the disappearance a new unfortunate girl. Her toy rolling of a remote hills...a balloon drifting away on the wind. Really simple but extremely efficient methods to reflect the ominous actions that just took place. Other than to focus on the further actions of the killer, Lang turns to the effect this terror has on the city and how the manhunt for Beckert develops. Our director is obviously fascinated by how a police procedure is organized and he serves the viewer a detailed overview of all the steps taken by the investigators. Meanwhile, he grabs the opportunity to forcefully criticize the media's influence and the German law system with both hands. I'd really like to stress that Lang's subtle mockery was a really risky thing to do with the upcoming Nazi-reign, so you can't admire him enough. Due to the constant (and fruitless) raids the police are holding in the hope to capture the killer, the criminal underworld begins to lose its profits as well and they start their own manhunt for the killer, assisted by whores, beggars and petty thieves. With the carefully observing eyes all over town, it becomes practically impossible for Becker to satisfy his monstrous needs. The almighty Peter Lorre arrives late in the film every moment he's on screen is a moment worth treasuring. His sad appearance and cruel testimony are sequences that leave no human being unmoved. Lorre is a brilliant actor and this is inarguably one of the most impressive performances of all time. 'M' features constant tension, outstanding dialogue and stunning camera-work. As said before, Fritz Lang had the opportunity to work with sound for this film and he immediately makes the most out of this. This was the first 'big' German production that featured sound and it STILL ranks as the title that made best use of it...and that sure means something after more than 70 years. There's the chilling and legendary tune Lorre constantly whistles but also the absence of sound Lang uses to portray the besieged city. As you can tell from the above review, 'M' is absolute must-see and easily one of the most essential productions ever shot. It's light-years ahead of its time and still disturbing after all these years. This film is a mesmerizing portrait about the darkest, most alarming aspects of humanity and yet still it doesn't live up to real-life facts. As you probably know, the plot of 'M' is based on the whereabouts of the serial killer Peter Kürten who brutally murdered many victims in the city of Düsseldorf. I read a biography on Kürten recently and the true details of his crimes and animal-lusts go beyond every filmmaker's wildest imagination.
From the elongated opening scene of "M", you know you are in for more than a simple film could ever imagine. The elongated lunch scene as a mother waits for her daughter to return, as we, audience members watch the daughter stray from her journey home with a stranger with a sharpened whistle. It is foreboding, it is depressing, it is mesmerizing. It has been a very long time since a film, especially one made 78 years ago, seemed so delicate, so thought provoking, so timeless as "M" does. From these opening shots, Lang let's us know that this isn't going to be your happy utopia where criminals are caught the next day by the police and our world goes back to liquorish and lollipops, but instead a world where the locals collect like a mob and trust is thrown violently out of the window. With excellent cinematography and a strong balance between humor and honesty, Lang creates this visceral world where the line between truth and justice get blurred, where good and evil are similar, and a man defines his actions as "uncontrollable". This merely scratches the surface of "M", a masterful film that ranks amongst the best this world has offered.What makes "M" shoot ahead of anything modern, anything by cult directors, anything close to popular? It begins with the actors, goes to the man behind the camera, and finally the skillful craftsmanship of the story. Each of these elements never lack, never fall behind, and constantly build upon each other until that final breath that encourages you to repetitively rewatch. To begin, Peter Lorre. How could you not talk about "M" without mentioning this doe-eyed murderer. From the beginning, we know his role in this film, yet Lang pulls every emotion out of us as we follow his route. We feel sympathy for Lorre when he is tried, we feel scared when he is trapped in the attic, we feel hatred when he voyeuristically looks at the children - and yet, he isn't the only character in this film. Lang introduces us to other well placed personas throughout. The infamous Inspector Lohmann (not to mention that great floor-up shot) is the perfect example of Lang's impressions on the local German police. The fact that Lohmann whistles, counter productive to what Lorre represents, only solidifies that idea. To add to these already dynamic people, we have the background criminals that decide to take the matter into their own hands in hopes to eliminate the looming police presence. The "Safecracker" is idealistic of what Germany was to become, the classic SS look, with the idea of eliminating the opportunity to be tried in a true court of law. Each one of these characters provide humor, excitement, and full-blown emotion to the screen, adding to the overall impact to this film. With Lorre already bedazzling us with his range and taut emotion, it is up to Fritz Lang himself to ensure that edits, angles, and direction doesn't hinder the power of his actors. Lang steps up to the plate and delivers with his avant-garde film making. I use the words avant-garde because the techniques used in this film are far beyond 1931. Lang incorporates powerful close-ups, amazing track following, and shots nearly unseen at this time. The overhead shots, the ability to make the crowds look ravenous, the camera puns adds just as much as another lead would. If you were impressed by his ability in "Metropolis", "M" is only going to solidify that idea of Lang. A favorite is the raid on the office complex by a group of criminals. Every shot, every detail is directed with ease, but complexity. It is easy to be in awe of this film, but to take the time to see Lang's ability behind the camera will take "M" to a whole new level. Personally, it is my belief, that he announces himself with this film. A pioneer of the camera, a grandfather of what cinema is today - one cannot watch anything released today and not see Lang's influences. See Fincher's "Zodiac", a nearly identical film in themes to what Lang was trying to produce here.Finally, we have acting and direction, but one must also credit the story for being not just creative and unflinchingly original, but for supporting a strong message. The idea of being more careful was impressive to watch due to the time being 1931, a time well thought of that children could be anywhere without any worry. The story brings evil into an American thought that good guys always prevail, that suburbia is always safe, and that the police actually do keep the streets safe. The story of "M" challenges you as a viewer even today, one could argue even more so today than in 1931. With crimes continually on the rise in this country, with the idea that pleading insanity cures the disease of murder (or is an easy innocence) the idea of "M", especially that final dialogue seems more important today. The fascination also arises with the concept of the mob within this story - the horror that simple events, kindness even, could turn on anyone in a moment of panic. Police arresting anyone that even looks at children in a peculiar way - a fascinating concept that Lang is not afraid to develop. Imagine if this film were made two years later, what a different theme Lang would have tackled.A deeply enticing film, Fritz Lang proves that he was a ground breaker in his field. Not only could he handle Science Fiction, but nearly every other genre imaginable. "M" is no exception to his skill. If you have not seen this film, watch it - experience it - know what it means to be marked like Lorre. Grade: ***** out of *****


                
Even though it was made in the 1930s this film is actually very good. It is very exciting and even though some parts look rubbish and it is spoken in FOREIGN you will ignore that and enjoy it.I can say with conviction that this is a film all about the cops hunting for a child killer, which is where the film gets its short title. He is a man who kills children (which is horrible), not a killer who is a child. He is so mean that even the local criminals gang up on him and they want to catch him too. But you must feel no sadness for the man, even though he is hated by everyone. It's not that kind of film.This movie has some really cool parts that I didn't even know they could do back in those old times, like nice camera moves and cursing. The killer even screams like a pig at the end! This film is very good and if you see it you will like it without any nefarious reservations.


                
The interesting thing about M is not that it was Lang's first film with sound, but that he was able to use sound so effectively with no prior experience with it. Rather than just adding another layer to the visuals, sound is often completely divorced from the visuals, creating two distinct elements working in concert. Another thing that marks M is its' subject matter, which was many years ahead of it's time and influenced countless other films while making Fritz Lang an enemy of the Nazi party.From the very beginning of the film, characters are heard before they are ever seen. We hear children playing and singing a violent nursery rhyme as they camera tilts down to reveal them on an eerie downward angle. Hearing the voices off screen, and without music makes for a haunting, almost ghostly screen presence that Lang will use again and again throughout the film, particularly with the killer Beckert.Borrowing a technique from opera known as Leitmotif, Lang first introduces Beckert by having us hear his whistling "Hall of the Mountain King" off screen, then representing him as a shadow on a wanted poster. From this moment on we understand that when we hear this tune, the killer is prowling. In fact, this is how the blind balloon seller recognizes Beckert in the end.One particularly memorable scene occurs shortly after the first child is abducted, when the child's frantic mother calls out for her repeatedly, with increased panic as we are shown several dark, empty scenes culminating in a small, childlike balloon figure caught in power lines before coming free and silently floating away.Almost as important as the technique used in this film is it's content. While much of our entertainment today involves psychotics and dark, violent stories, it goes without saying that in the late 20's and early 30's, the subject matter of film was somewhat tamer. M received heavy criticism from the Nazi party not for this however, but for the scenes in which the narrative switches back and forth between the police and the criminal element as they both discuss ways in which to catch the dangerous serial killer. This, along with the fact that the criminals beat the police to Beckert, supposedly degrades law enforcement by showing it as incompetent, although this is debatable, as the police would have caught Beckert soon anyway.There are also undercurrents of socialism in the film, which undoubtedly made the Nazis a little nervous. The criminals talk of pooling their money and using it to support the families of members temporarily incarcerated. At one point a policeman even says, "each individual is responsible for what happens to the poorest child on the streets". At another time someone is heard to lament the effects of fear on a desperate population, " there's no privacy anymore". For a government built on fear after the Reichstag fire, this might have been seen as sly criticism.Impressive films wisely use new technology in ways that push the boundaries of film. Classic films use bedrock principals of good storytelling to keep our interest and stay relevant even many years after their creations. While it's not often that a film can combine both of these elements to create a truly great film, Fritz Lang's M definitely qualifies. This is a groundbreaking film with a potent message that touches on debates about the nature of criminality and the ultimate responsibilities for actions. Debates that are still occurring more than 70 years after this films release.
I have heard about M for a long time, but had never gotten around to viewing it.  I am glad I finally did.  Although the cinematography is very unlike modern cinema it is quite gripping.  The sense of paranoia that Lang was able to create was incredible.  People turning on strangers in the street, the police performing constant raids to try to find the murderer.  This movie will leave its mark on your memory.


                
In Germany, Hans Beckert (Peter Lorre) is an unknown killer of girls. He whistles Edvard Grieg's 'In The Hall of the Mountain King', from the 'Peer Gynt' Suite I Op. 46 while attracting the little girls for death. The police force pressed by the Minister gives its best effort trying unsuccessfully to arrest the serial killer. The organized crime has great losses due to the intense search of the police and decides to chase the murderer, with the support of the beggars association. They catch Hans and judge him, in an impressive scene. This movie is another spectacular masterpiece of Fritz Lang. The story is timeless: I saw it today for the first time, and although being a 1931 movie, the theme is very updated. Peter Lorre has an outstanding performance in the role of a man who can not control his dark impulses of killing. I just regret the quality of the VHS released in Brazil. I tried to see this movie in an expensive VHS released by the Brazilian distributor Continental, but it is a shame. In many scenes, it is almost impossible to read the white subtitles in Portuguese. In the end, I saw it in a VHS released in Brazil by Altaya, which had English subtitles, and a large stripe with the yellow subtitles in a terrible and full of mistakes Portuguese and covering a great part of the screen over the English subtitles. Unfortunately this type of lack of respect of some distributors happens in my country with movie lovers. The greatest problem is that we do not have other alternative. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil): 'M., O Vampiro de Düsseldorf' ('M., The Vampire of Düsseldorf')


                
Probably the first sound masterpiece. Though it's one of the first to use the new technology, it doesn't feel like it, as the camera is fluid and expressive and the sound effects are utilized perfectly and are even essential to the story. Lang's direction is superb, amping up the suspense and terror by using the cinematography, lighting, and sound together to create a very tense and distinctive atmosphere. Peter Lorre is fantastic in what is really the lead role of the film, making us feel sympathy and pity for a horrific child-murderer. The combination of German expressionism, film-noir tendencies, and social commentary that Lang injects into the film makes for a brilliant and gripping work. Simply a terrific film all-around.


                
The comments I've read here pretty much nail how important this film truly is...from subject matter to stark cinematography, this movie has been the source material for many future films. Fritz Lang was a master and his approach to this movie (well..all his work) was as avant garde as anything in its day (save maybe for the work of Luis Buñuel).But the thing the truly sends this picture to the upper echelon of great films is the finest performance of Lorre's great career.  Much has been said of the trail scene...I won't rehash those comments other than to say if you want to watch what is one of the single greatest performances ever committed to film, start right here!  Lorre is that good in this.One other note....the Criterion Collection DVD of "M" is simply wonderful, and one that belongs in the collection of any serious movie buff.


                
As riveting as it is intellectually demanding.  And that's just by 2001 standards-- Fritz Lang directed this film, his first with sound-- in 1931, when hardly anyone knew how to integrate dialogue into a previously silent art form, and in the midst of the Nazi uprising at the same time.The plot is taught and tense, waiting to find out what's going to happen next, or which side is going to make the next move.  Moreso when you realize that Lang was the first ever to do this-- previous IMDB comments such as "we've seen this all before" show ignorance, because in 1931, NO ONE had seen this before.  No one had DONE this before.The Nazi regime wanted to ban this film because they suspected-- correctly-- that the film was talking about them.  Seventy years later, its questions of good vs. evil are still equally as relevant, or else you weren't paying attention.Grieg's "In the Hall of the Mountain King" has never been more powerful.


                
A lot of people have said a lot about this film so I don't really know that I can add that much. However, this is a truly great film and without a doubt an influential classic.Although the basic story may seem rather tired and common now, people must remember that for 1931 this was a fresh and potent plot. It is thus even a fairly groundbreaking film on that point alone and viewers must keep this in mind when watching it. Moreover, it is handled so well that even today, the film remains very interesting, compelling, and entertaining. It is also fun to see how so many of the basic methods of police/investigative work seen in recent movies are essentially derivatives of the ideas and methods touched on in this much earlier film.The same is true about the whole idea of the serial killer and exploring his psyche, determining whether he is "insane" or just evil. The film addresses this issue well and one can feel the conflict and stress in Lorre's character even long before the finale in the abandoned brewery.The film wonderfully builds tension in the characters and their circumstances. Again, this is, naturally, particularly strong with Lorre, such as when he is hiding in the office building.In addition, the film does much more than deal with an effort to catch a killer, but explores society and the killer's impact on it. It is a brilliant, and even for today very unusual, idea to have the criminals organize to catch the killer. Their motive makes sense and their reaction in handling the situation in the office building and brewery is believable, very entertaining and dramatic, and allows significant commentary on society, how people should act, the meaning of the rule of law, and more. The same is true for the mob hysteria that seems to grip the city during the murders. Thus, this film is about much more than the need to catch the killer, making the story much more rich, meaningful, and enduring.The use of sound, lighting, and shadows, as well as using commonalities to tie scenes together, etc. is very artistic and effective, in addition to being imaginative, particularly for the time. Others have mentioned it before, but a great example that I love is the fact that we first see Lorre's shadow appear on his own wanted poster and hear him speak before we ever see him. This particularly helps build a sinister sense of foreboding about his appearance.Anyway, this is a true classic that is so beautifully handled, it is still highly entertaining and satisfying to watch even today.
what outstanding movie making!!! M is the most intelligent thriller about a serial killer that ive ever seen. the movie acts on so many levels, the suspense, the trauma, the questions of justice, morality, right and wrong.the light humour through which the story is woven to provide relief from the mounting tension is simply brilliant. fritz lang is on top of his art. he knows how much tension to weave before letting a bit go. the visualisation is simply awesome, the image of the ball rolling away and the balloon on the electric pole will stay with audience for a long time. the contrast of the still shots with the rapid action shots are another highlight. and its not just the visuals either, the use of Grieg's "In the hall of the Mountain King" is unbelievably eerie. the premise of how a hunt for a mad serial killer affects the underworlds business is brilliant.fritz lang cooks up a masterpiece here, one to be watched and enjoyed. and to imagine that all this was done 70 years back is unbelievable!!!! bound to rise up to one of my alltime favorite movies!!!a brilliant 10!!


                
Outstanding German expressionist film from Fritz Lang that follows first the police, then the underworld, as they search for a child killer in Berlin. The cinematography is moody and dramatic as the story moves through the poorer sections of the great city and the acting, while of a more melodramatic style than is currently popular, is very good*. Peter Lorre is outstanding as the killer who taunts the police as the noose slowly tightens around him. To some extent the film is an early 'procedural drama' as the police use (then) modern forensic techniques such as finger printing and graphology to try and find the killer. Tired of the increased police surveillance, the city's criminal element begins their own search, mobilising the numerous beggars to be 'eyes on the street'. The film touches on a number of issues that are as relevant now as in the 1930s including mob mentality (men are accused of being the killer simply for talking to a child), rights of the accused, the 'end justifies the means' use of torture, and the ever thorny issue of mental health and culpability. One of the great pre-WWII German films. *I watched a subtitled version on TCM.


                
'M' is brilliant! This film was so way ahead of its time that it still holds up today and doesn't feel dated one bit but rather modern. The only thing that seems a bit odd by today's standards is the complete lack of incidental music and the fact that many scenes don't include sound effects and are virtually silent. You have to remember, though, that this film was made right at the transition from silent film to sound film, so the concept of sound in films was still rather new and director Fritz Lang used the technology to its full potential in 'M.' Lang's direction is magnificent, especially if you take into consideration that this film was made in 1930. The camera angles, tracking shots and zoom shots Lang used here were groundbreaking back then and they are still marvelous today. The three main characters of the film are played by Peter Lorre, Otto Wernicke and Gustaf Gründgens and all three of them are fantastic in their respective roles. Lorre's acting is intense, especially in the finale. That performance is something else!


                
