The Sting, evoking a bygone era of gangsters and con men, was the deserved Best Picture of 1973. The Sting won that Oscar plus a whole flock of technical awards. One award it didn't win was for Robert Redford as Best Actor.That must have been tough for the Academy voters because to single out Redford as opposed to Paul Newman must have felt a bit unjust. For though Newman was nominated many times over his career and finally did win for The Color of Money, did not get a nomination for The Sting.Robert Redford is a small time grifter who while working a bait and switch street con takes off a numbers runner carrying the weekly take. The orders come down from the head man himself, Irish-American gangster Robert Shaw to kill those who did this as an example.Redford's mentor, Robert Earl Jones, is in fact killed, mainly because Redford starts spending a lot of that newly acquired loot that tips them off. Redford wants revenge so he looks up big time con man Paul Newman who himself is dodging law enforcement as is Redford also.They work the big con on Shaw and it's a beauty. The scheme they have is something to behold. They also have to do a couple of improvisations on the fly that lend a few twists to the scheme.The costumes and sets really do evoke Chicago of the Thirties and director George Roy Hill assembles a great cast to support Newman and Redford. My favorite in the whole group is Charles Durning, who plays the brutally corrupt, but essentially dumb cop from Joliet who nearly gums up the works and has to be dealt with.Special mention should also go to Robert Shaw. He's got a difficult part, maybe the most difficult in the film. He's not stupid, he would not have gotten to the top of the rackets if he was. But he also has to show that hint of human weakness that Newman, Redford, and the whole mob they assemble that makes him vulnerable to the con.During the sixties and seventies Robert Shaw was really coming into his own as a player, getting more and more acclaim for his work. His early death was a real tragedy, there was so much more he could have been doing.Can't also forget another co-star in this film, the ragtime music of Scott Joplin that was used to score The Sting. It probably is what most people remember about The Sting. Music from the Theodore Roosevelt era, scoring a film set in the Franklin Roosevelt era made while Nixon was president. Strange, but it actually works.The Sting still works wonders today.


                
A magical plot, dead on art direction, brilliant supporting roles (most notably Robert Shaw, ya falla?), and the guiding hand of Redford/Newman chemistry make this one of the Hollywood's great films.  "The Sting" is a hallmark of the "Golden Age" of American film, and has molded not only countless films, but numerous genres, few of which have met the challenge of its master.


                
Great comedy-crime caper with giants Newman and Redford rekindling their "Butch & Sundance" flame to take down crime lord Robert Shaw (his finest role). Marvin Hamlisch beautifully recreates Scott Joplin's great music, while director George Roy Hill and screenwriter David S. Ward keep the film moving with snappy dialogue, wonderful art direction and editing and an excellent supporting cast. Followed by a sequel ten years later with Jackie Gleason.


                
I agree 100 percent that this is a wonderful movie. I first saw it over 30 years ago, and it remains vivid in my mind while I can't remember zip about movies I saw last week which others have praised and I found wanting. I can't think of another film about double and triple crosses that deserves to be mentioned in the same sentence with "The Sting" (which doesn't mean that some of the others haven't been good). In addition to all the things that others have praised, one of the most memorable features of this film is the use of a Scott Joplin rag, which both lends a distinctive period touch and adds a sense of fast-paced motion to the action. I'm not much for ranking films -- top five, top ten, top 250 -- but this is one of the best. If you haven't already seen it, drop everything and find the DVD. As pure entertainment, it can't be beat.


                
Academy Award Winner Best Picture, Academy Award Winner Best Director-George Roy Hill, Academy Award Winner Best Screenplay-David S. Ward, Academy Award Winner Best Editing-William Reynolds, Academy Award Winner Best Song Score-Marvin Hamlisch, Academy Award Winner Best Art Direction/Set Decoration-Bumstead & Payne, Academy Award Winner Best Costume Design-Edith Head, Nominated for Best Actor (Redford), Best Cinematography, Best Sound.Few films can draw me in and indulge me on repeat viewings like The Sting does, it was barely 36 hours ago when I sat there talking to the screen offering advice like I was in the flipping film. I have seen it written that the film's success was only garnered because of the star appeal of the leads! Well for starters that is an insult to Robert Shaw who may be accused of overdoing it at times, but his portrayal of Lonnegan is a complete joy, witness the fury on his face during an on train poker game as the irrepressible Newman does comedy gold. Visually the film is a delight, and the story fuses together to culminate in an ending that not only stings with impact; but also floats like a cinematic butterfly. 10


                
This is one of the greatest films ever made, and my personal favorite. The reason why I would say this is my favorite is because it was the first film that I watched where I realized a movie could be more than just entertainment. It can literally be an art form. Before, all I had seen were just mediocre and ok movies. I mean, not bad movies, but nothing to this level. I can remember it clearly. I was 13 years old, it was a Sunday night, and my parents told me to watch this movie with them. I was blown away. I didn't fully understand the movie the first time I watched it, but something happened. My world was forever changed. It was then I realized what a movie could be. I loved every second of it. Obviously my review of this movie is biased, but I do think this movie is amazing. It's damn near perfect. As with any movie, you can nitpick it to death on it's flaws, but at the end of the day, it's just a good film. 
This movie has it all. Great acting, great cast (Robert Redford, Paul Newman, Robert Shaw), amazing score, one of the greatest stories ever told, and the list just goes on and on. If you haven't seen this movie, please do so. Not only does it hold up today, but it just may be one of the best movies you've ever seen. A perfect 10/10.


                
I remember seeing this movie during the mid 80s. Saw this few years back on a rented DVD. Enjoyed it. One of my fav movie. It is a perfectly paced movie. One of the best heist film. The film paid proper attention to details from the setting, to how characters talked, to what they wore. The music was good. It's a great balance between comedy and drama. The movie is exciting and very entertaining. The acting was simply perfect. Robert Redford and Paul Newman gave lovely performances. The cast is so rich with Redford, Newman, Shaw, Walston, Gould, Durning, Brennan... Direction by George Roy Hill was flawless. But I still love his previous work, Butch Cassidy.... Awesome job by David S. Ward as a writer. It has one of the best screenplay. The story has enough twists n the character development is superb. I was rooting for the gang to succeed in the heist. The villain was convincing in being nasty, smileless n a crooked fella who needed to be looted. The twist and turns is great and the film is almost perfect.
It's been decades since I've seen "The Sting" and I decided to try watching it again. As a result of having seen it a couple times, I have some impressions I might not have had the first time. First, the film is awfully pretty--with some of the nicest titles and intertitle cards I've seen. It also is well-constructed--with several plots being interwoven quite well--a tribute to the director, George Roy Hill. The acting is quite nice and it's interesting that the film won seven Oscars--and none of them for acting! And, just like the first time, the Scott Joplin tunes are terrific. The only real negative is that because I'd seen it before, there were no surprises--and surprises are what makes this such an enjoyable film. Without the surprise, the film lacks something the second time--something that isn't true for all films. "O Brother, Where Art Thou?", for example, seems to get better each time you see it--but "The Sting" does because the movie is so dependent of surprise plot twists.The bottom line is that for first-time viewers, the film is very hard to beat and it's easy to see how this $5.5 million dollar film brought in over $159,000,000 domestically--making this is mega-mega blockbuster. It's an exceptional film in every way.


                
This crime comedy is set in the late '30s and is captivating right through to the end. The viewer is held by the clever plot layout and several twists, which make the 1973 film worth watching today. Robert Redford and Paul Newman team up and make a great partnership in crime. The film is historically stylized and the images work together with the Scott Joplin's piano rags to make a fun and contiguous whole. The film is logical and linear and very easy to watch, which makes it all the more engaging. The viewer can then concentrate on the complete story and see exactly how `The Sting' takes place.  We enjoy the ride as we watch Doyle Lonnegan (Robert Shaw) get conned. I thoroughly enjoyed this movie for the simple fact that it was fun and entertaining. I love the brilliant twists. Watch it a couple times, it's worth it!


                
It is the 1930s and Johnny Hooker and his friend Luther Coleman are a pair of conmen running short cons in Joliet, Illinois<U+0085> until one day they target the wrong man. They think they were lucky to get away with several thousand dollars but it is mob money and mob boss Doyle Lonnegan wants to make an example of anybody who crosses his organisation. Soon Coleman is dead and it looks like Hooker will be next. Hooker isn't intending to run though; he wants to get revenge for his friend's death. To this end he teams up with Henry Gondorff, a specialist in the long con. Lonnegan won't be an easy mark though; his only known weakness is his enjoyment of high stakes poker<U+0085> but as he cheats he won't be easy to beat. The poker will just be the hook; to really hurt him they must persuade him to place a very large bet where he thinks he is the one cheating and when it is over he mustn't know that he has been conned<U+0085> it might not be easy but it will be worth it.This film is rightfully considered a classic and for numerous reasons. Robert Redford and Paul Newman are on top form as Hooker and Gondorff and Roberts Shaw impresses as the villainous Lonnegan; the rest of the cast were good too. The film nicely captures the feel of '30s Chigago, or at least how it looks in films of that era. Of course this would mean little without a good story and this has a great one; the 'good guys' may be criminals but they are likable and the 'bad guy' is clearly far worse; there are also some really good twists. These twists are neither too obvious nor are they too far-fetched. There is some action, some a bit surprising for a PG rated film. Also surprising for a PG is the use of some racist language; probably less than would have been expected in the '30s but still a bit surprising in 2017<U+0085> it doesn't detract from this great film but some patents might be uncomfortable with showing it to children. Overall a really good film that all film viewers should check out at least once.
What happens when you combine two first-class actors in their prime, an awesome supporting cast, a musical score arranged/written by one of the best ever, amazing period costumes, an engaging, complex (but not too complex) story, and meticulous directing?What happens is you get a movie like The Sting.I think a lot of people forget about this multi-award-winning film. From the initial "gotcha" to the last "Aha! Now I get it!" scene, The Sting hooks you and won't let you get up and get popcorn. You'll miss something amazing.We watched this recently with friends on a movie night, and everyone agreed that this is a great film. This is a group of folks who nearly always disagree on what a good picture is. So this is saying something.Take my advice, and watch this for the first time...or watch it again if it's been a while. You won't regret it.


                
This is the most awesome movie ever!!! I have watched it hundreds of times and will continue to do so. One of my very favorite ever made movies. I would love to have it on DVD as well. Don't miss viewing this....a must see. Paul Newman and Robert Redford the all time best team for movies. Sorry to say i have never had the privilege of meeting them though. The movie is exciting and very entertaining. It is one you want to watch over and over to get the plot understood in your mind. worth buying as well as watching. something the entire family can watch. Just because it was made years ago, it is timeless and it never goes out of date.


                
I remember being in Highschool Band and our director telling us time and again to watch "The Sting". I finally rented it a few years back and was very delighted by the film. It is a bit long, but interesting. With most movies I watch, I attempt to guess at the ending and more than not I am correct and disappointed that it was so clear. In this film I had no idea what was happening and the ending caught me totally off guard which makes it even better in my opinion. It also has some really great music in it. I think it is a great movie, with likable characters and an interesting plot. It is a film to watch if you have the time and want to see a great picture.
Without a doubt one of my favorite movies ever made - the relationship between Redford and Newman is just perfect, the tricks they play and the turning of the tables (without spoiling anything here), it is just a great movie. It deserves all of the praise that it gets, from the acting to the sets and costumes and music, it is just extremely well done. If you haven't seen this, you should spend the time to watch it, as it's clearly one of the best movies to ever come out of Hollywood, and if you're a fan of either Redford or Newman, it's not possible to be such without having seen this movie.


                
Possibly the best con-revenge film (that every con TV show tries to out do in an entire series), may also be one of the best films of its era. The acting is one thing to put all your love into, but the storyline is something more to be impressed about. It comes with so many surprises that by the end you begin to query if the storyline is as simple as it is made out to be. It's also full of enough humour to take the edge off what would be an over serious film. The Sting is a feel good film, by the end, but also one that questions mans greed and the way people end up getting what they want. When in power, you can never turn your back to those with a knife in both hands.


                
George Roy Hill's The Sting is a crime comedy set in the 1930's about a young con man named Johnny Hooker (played by Robert Redford)who is seeking revenge on the man who murdered his partner then teams up with a man big in the conning business named Henry Gondorff (played by Paul Newman). This movie is the best crime movie spoof because in real mob movies the directors make their mob films look so realistic, but with this film makes it look like a joke of which to me is hilarious. Newman and Redford do magnificent here, along with Robert Shaw (in his best performance since Jaws) as the man that Gondorff tries to compete with in a few poker games, but cheats and gets away with it as a joke but that really gets on Shaw's nerves and we all laugh about it. This is a movie worth watching again and again.
Four years after setting box office hit in Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid,Paul Newman,Robert Redford, and director George Roy Hill re-teamed with similar success for movie entitled,The Sting - one of the best films that I have ever seen in my life. The Sting is a caper film set in September 1936 that involves a complicated plot by two professional grifters to con a mob boss.It stars Newman and Redford together with Robert Shaw and Charles Durning.It was created by screenwriter David S. Ward based on the story that was inspired by real-life con games perpetrated by the brothers Fred and Charley Gondorff and documented by David Maurer in his book The Big Con: The Story of the Confidence Man. It was directed by Hill.The movie has Redford playing a Depression-era confidence trickster Johnny Hooker, whose friend and mentor Luther Coleman is murdered by a henchman of racketeer/gambler Doyle Lonnegan. Hoping to avenge Luther's death,Johnny begins planning a "sting" -- an elaborate scam -- to destroy Lonnegan. He enlists the aid of "the greatest con artist of them all," Henry Gondorff, who pulls himself out of a drunken stupor and rises to the occasion. Hooker and Gondorff gather together an impressive array of con men, all of whom despise Lonnegan and wish to settle accounts on behalf of Luther. The twists and surprises that follow are too complex to relate in detail -- suffice to say that you can't cheat an honest man, and that you shouldn't accept everything at face value. Added to that,it has a conclusion that will surprise each and every viewer.The Sting is proves that charm, humor, and a few surprising twists and ending can add up to a great film.This Depression-era comedy cashes in on the individual charm of Newman and Redford and the strong chemistry between them.Also,it has extremely handsome production values and a great supporting cast like Shaw and Durning that provide an excellent and outstanding film. And of course,who can forget music score that contained the selections most of which are Scott Joplin ragtime pieces like "The Entertainer" makes it really an unforgettable piece of cinema.This film is highly recommended for people who loves great films for The Sting is a classic.
The Reviewer : ElMaruecan82 ~~~~~~~~~The Entrance : ~~~~~~~~~The piano bar starts playing the first iconic notes <U+0085> like so many musical breezes whispering a cool and mysterious detachment ... and progressively, inviting itself in my pleasure, the melody draws a big smile in my face<U+0085> I quietly smile, letting myself absorbed by this nostalgic music rocking me comfortably <U+0085> as if I could let this cinematic jewel sleep in my memory for a few seconds ... that would feel like an eternity ... Then suddenly, the rhythm gets faster and more joyful<U+0085> well, it couldn't have had a more fitting name, it's 'The Entertainer', the unforgettable Scott Joplin's piano theme, embodying the 30's as a period I never lived, but strongly feel as if I did <U+0085> a music resurrected by the magic of a film to become immortal. One of the greatest cinematic scores for a classic among the classics: George Roy Hill's "The Sting".The Point : ~~~~~~~ You all know what it's about, two con men who set up one of the most elaborated schemes in order to avenge a mutual friend. The man to be conned is a ruthless gangster boss whose position can't allow him to be made to look ridiculous. And the con is the kind that you either make it or break it, at the key : half-million of dollars, with no second chance. You expect something clever, ingenuous, big and spectacular and believe me, you'll get it. The plot is so intricate, so brilliantly complicated that you don't necessarily get it the first time, but one thing for sure, you're eager to watch it again. The enjoyment of the film works on a peripheral level thanks to the music, the characters, the dialogs and of course the ending, so many encouraging elements for multiple viewings ... to let the film grow on you <U+0085> this is the fate of great classics.The Touch : ~~~~~~~And "The Sting" is one of these classics that plunge you in a universe that only belongs to them, the period setting, the characterization, the witty dialogs, the jazz, the style, the movie exudes a delightful uniqueness that has stood the test of time after almost 40 years. My comparison will surprise some fellow movie fans, but I think there's something oddly resembling between "The Sting" and another praised masterpiece: "City Lights". The two movies were deliberately dated in the style they opted for, but the audacious artistic touch revealed itself to work as an antidote against aging, the movie doesn't look 'thirties', nor 'seventies', it's just classic and modern in a splendid dosage. And this is what movies are about, creating endearing sensations that live forever <U+0085> "The Sting" has this 'Universal' appeal (no pun intended) thanks to a little something that makes it very charming on the surface, probably the fact that it's constructed as a stage<U+0085> The Fun : ~~~~~~We do have the feeling that the actors are playing, I don't mean acting, but playing in the real sense of the word, the one that tickles our inner child. They are adult men who play, lie, have fun, take risk and even "The Sting" is played for real, everything is staged, even the opening credits are original as they present the actors as the protagonists of a vast farce which will take us, viewers, as accomplices. We follow a wonderful gallery of colorful characters such as Johnny Hooker, Henry Gondorf, Twist Kid, the Erie Kid and many others, into a fantastic exploration of the world of grifters. Robert Redford and Paul Newman who paired in "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid" form a wonderful duo, with a priceless interaction between the apprentice and the mentor. Indeed, the kind of con they're going to pull is a whole artistic accomplishment with a quite pedagogic value, illustrated by all the chapters that structure the film like so many necessary steps to make the perfect sting. In fact, we're like children who admire men with a unique ability to fool their neighbor, and it looks so natural we almost envy this talent. And I think I know why <U+0085> The Text : ~~~~~~~The reason is, in my opinion, the script, it's complex and intelligent. It's intelligent in the literal meaning of the world as we really understand what it's about, and intelligent, as it honors men of intelligence. This is the appeal of "The Sting". Beyond the setting, the characters, the music, there's the pleasure of admiring how fooling someone can be an art that requires a perfect timing, many psychological talents, and I'm saying art and not science, because of the human factor. Of course, the movie's general mood is positive and cheerful as we forget these guys are 'criminal', but like the other movie that won the Best Picture Oscar one year before, it's 'good criminals vs. bad criminals'. It works despite Robert Shaw's sweet ability to portray Doyle Lonnegan and inspire us empathy, except in the beginning where he sentenced two men to death, without even knowing them. Apart from that, he's a poor man being fooled. Or maybe the empathetic process just works because we're also fooled by the story at one point? The Review: ~~~~~~~These questions don't really matter when the essential is elsewhere <U+0085> "The Sting" is a masterpiece in the brilliance of its script driven by an unforgettable supporting cast, with a honorable mention to Charles Durning as the poor Snyder, and the whole thing is disguised under a deliberate coolness and detachment because up there, the staging and these pieces of the puzzles were still hanging in a confident string hold by a film-maker who knows his business.


                
It is the cinematography, the music, the whole story and the performances of these two great actors (Newman, Redford) that makes this movie unique, one of it's kind! I must have seen it more than 15 times in less than 4 years and every time i feel great..


                
Perfect balance of humour, plot and the actual way of filming


                
I saw "The Sting" tonight for the first time in many years - I saw it several times in the theater when it opened in 1973. Great cast, perfect direction, fantastic script, excellent period setting, brilliant soundtrack - it's hard to ask for more.Seeing it again brought back so many memories, especially seeing young Robert Redford, who was THE matinée idol back then, and the Scott Joplin pieces could be heard everywhere you went.The plot is full of twists and turns - it has humor, sadness, and depth - something you don't run across as much nowadays. For those seeing it the first time, the surprises are many.Redford carries the film, as his is the bigger and more developed role. It's a relaxed performance with a lot of heart. Newman's role is smaller - his scenes with Robert Shaw during the card game are priceless, from his drunk act, mispronouncing Lonnegan's name, laughing and rubbing his hands when he wins, and blowing his nose on his tie - he's just great. Shaw is frightening as Lonnegan with his quiet, barely controlled anger dying to erupt and the determined look on his face.Newman and Redford are one of the great screen teams - it's a pity they didn't do more together, but they gave us two classics. It'll have to be good enough - just like the sting to take down Doyle Lonnegan in one of the great American films.


                
This is by far and away one of my favorite movies.  Aside from all of that top 100 ranking nonsense this is one of the richest, genuine forms of film. The casting is simply perfect.  Hill's direction along with the impact of a witty, thoughtful script make this a movie admirable throughout the ages. The poker scene on the train with the exchanges between Lonnegan and Gondorff is worth seeing by itself.  The soundtrack makes the movie as well, and one of my favorite parts is at the end when Redford and Newman exchange glances and head out after the con is played while "the entertainer" starts up slowly in the background.  In a way i think its unfair that Redford hasnt been more decorated by the academy or his peers.  I think because of the fact that he is so picky with his roles that critics to tend to over analyze him.  With that said I still think Redford should have one his best actor award that he was nominated for that year.  Redford absolutely nailed the Hooker character and his ability to convincingly play both sides between Lonnegan and Gondorff certainly had me fooled the first time i saw the movie.  But there is no question that Redford's character was made better by Paul Newman.  The two playing off each other is classic and i think Paul Newman was grossly overlooked for his role as Gondorff.  Unfortunatly Newman is so talented that i think we tend to take for granted his greatness. Robert Shaw as Doyle could argued as the best character in the movie.  His mannerisms and style make you want to see him get conned.  But its the subtle things about the character that Shaw hits perfectly.  Such as the way that if you look at his face during the poker scene you see the growing distaste for Gondorff.  Or the fact that he only smiles twice in the movie (when he boasts 4 nines and when he tells of putting the 1/2 million on lucky dan) both times he gets conned!  The rest of the cast rounds out well, my personal favorite being Kid Twist.  His scenes with Redford while they string Lonnegan along are believeable even though Doyle is skeptical of the operation.  A movie like this simply captures a persons attention and for that reason The Sting will always be a movie to admire...


                
I have a hard time believing that anyone can dislike this film, for the simple fact that it has become the quintessential gambling/caper film.  By calling this film "mediocre" is doing it a severe disservice. The acting is top notch (except for Dana Elcar, who is noticeably corny in everything), the direction is tight and the film's overall presentation is very cohesive. The music, as adapted from many of Scott Joplin's pieces (which were by no means popular when he wrote them) have been adapted for the film and helped fuel a resurging interest in his work that was definitely ahead of its time. It is hard to ignore both a work of art and commercial success, so if you haven't seen this film yet, please do yourself a favor and rent it tonight. However, if you wish to purchase the DVD, I would wait until the 30th Anniversary Edition is released this year (although I haven't dug up any information on it thus far), because the current edition out right now is a bare bones fullscreen presentation which is noticeably grainy and, because it is fullscreen, it just looks lame. Go get the widescreen VHS (25th Anniversary) Edition and you'll see the best copy out in the United States right now.This film is highly entertaining and masterfully done--you absolutely need to see it. -- John Cangany


                
It is the mid-1930s, the height of the Great Depression. Con men Henry Gondorff (Paul Newman) and Johnny Hooker (Robert Redford) team up to swindle crime lord Doyle Lonnegan (Robert Shaw), a man who wants Hooker dead. They assemble a team and hit upon a plan. What follows is complex and fraught with danger.Superb - the perfect crime-caper movie. Clever, engaging and entertaining. The sting itself is a sight to see, so complex and smart you can't stop concentrating for a moment. Some great sub-plots too. Even when you think they aren't going to go anywhere, ultimately they add a lot to the overall plot.Paul Newman and Robert Redford are perfectly cast in the lead roles. They had, four years earlier, teamed up for the excellent Butch Cassidy and The Sundance Kid and here they reproduce that confidence, swagger and camaraderie.The Sting won the 1974 Best Picture Oscar, plus six other Oscars, including Best Director for George Roy Hill and Best Screenplay for David S Ward.


                
At first I was only interested in this movie because of the prominence of Scott Joplin, but I soon found out that it had a lot more going for it than just the score.Highs: Let's start off with the obvious: the soundtrack. Even if the movie was unbelievably bad the music would still be good. I mean, it's Scott Joplin! I'm not going to give Marvin (may he rest in peace) too much credit here because all he did was adapt it a little, but kudos for using Scott Joplin in the first place. For a 1930s-style movie the script is on point. Not only is it witty but it just sounds like what would be expected of the era. Very entertaining in and of itself; the same thing could be said of the soundtrack.We can't leave off the plot; this movie is in fact so plot-centric that it would probably be considered a failure if George Roy Hill somehow managed to not pull it off smoothly. Of course, it all works out like clockwork, and it's a fantastically entertaining series of events to watch.The acting is impeccable. I've seen better but really it can't get that much better than this. Redford and Newman work together just as well as in their previous masterwork "Cassidy and the Kid", or, rather, have the audience fooled otherwise. Seems a little clichéd but remember this is a 70s movies; it's only a cliché now BECAUSE of this movie. The plot twist was in no way dated in the time period in which it was shown. I'm not going to spoil it; to do that would be an injustice to any first-time watchers.Despite the seeming anachronism, the Sting still retains a strangely timeless quality.Lows: Any Joplin purist (which I often will be) will oppose to the orchestral adaption of the pieces. I actually have no problem with these adaptations, they don't really feel out of place or anything. Which leads me to the next point: Joplin's music SHOULD be out of place. He was already a forgotten figure for at least 15 years when the movie took place. With that being said though, the soundtrack still fits swimmingly with the rest of the work. It's actually incredible how well the song selection fits with the plot. If you know Joplin and can name the tunes as soon as they float from the screen (as can I) then you really have to give Marvin credit for placing them where they are. "The Entertainer", of course, is during the opening and the title selection; where the audience requires a little...entertainment. "Easy Winners" is played right after Luther and Hooker walk away loaded after a con...easy money. And Solace is, of course, played during Hooker's search for love...or solace. I can't find anything to say about the "Pineapple Rag", for obvious reasons (this movie doesn't mention or show fruit very much at all) but the others are pretty genius.The only real con here is that Marvin is given a little bit too much credit. Many people will remember him as the "composer" of the brilliant tunes while it is in fact the one and only Scott Joplin who originated them. That is probably the only legitimate low I can find here.
