While the Sting was entertaining it is also astoundingly over-rated.The music, while setting a fun mood, is incorrect as ragtime had fallen out of favor 20-25 years before the film is set. Likewise the costuming and set design are cartoony and create a sense of time and place that never existed and will only be recalled by viewer who have little to no experience with the actual time and place and simply view it as "old-timey". The sets in particular stand out as being obvious studio backlots and the requisite editing to make chases and the like seem seamless are glaringly obvious.Most films based on cons tend to share the characteristic of keeping something back from the audience in order to keep a level of suspense up that would otherwise be lacking (afterall, the viewer is in on the con already). There are a couple of such cases in this film, but they're all pretty obviously telegraphed and the ending feels a bit hollow as everything simply plays out before you just the way you thought it would. Even without knowing the details of some of the cons used they're all presented simply and obviously enough that it's no feat to tell what's going on. At times it feels like the film has intentionally set the bar a bit low so that the audience will feel special and clever for picking up on the supposed "twists".Redford and Newman both do a decent job, but (especially in Redford's case) neither seems to really inhabit their role. Instead it's just Redford playing the guy who's a conman rather than a legitimate character.At the same time it's still a fun and enjoyable film. A good way to waste away a lazy weekend afternoon. It's cotton candy though, once you bite in there's nothing there and it's not going to stick with you for long.
I never did get to see this film when it first came out, but I remember it was the talk of everybody everywhere. Every kid at our school that could play the piano had to play that theme song. Time went on and I had forgotten about the film, but I've subsequently become a big fan of 60's and 70's films and I finally wanted to see 'The Sting' and looked forward to it when I got Netflix.I thought to myself, this is gonna' be great. Is it going to be like a harder edged 'Paper Moon', a 1930's version of 'The French Connection'? A film noir made in the 70's, done right? Alas no. I thought it very cheesy overall. Overdone cartoonish costumes and props, very fake looking back lot sets, forced stilted dialog. Not unwatchable you understand, but I sure groaned and rolled my eyes enough at its sloppiness.


                
I thought this movie was quite boring. It was an interesting story and I like the theme music (now made familiar through music played by the neighborhood Good Humor man), but there was not enough action. I found myself sitting around waiting for something interesting to happen but nothing ever did. It wasn't that the plot was weak. It's just that things that happened in the plot were NOT INTERESTING! I don't quite understand why this movie is considered a classic. Maybe it just wasn't my kind of movie. If anything, this movie is for cinema fanatics only. It's too much art and not enough substance. Not for the excitement and intrigue seeker.


                
The academy awards doled out to this modestly diverting caper movie probably are residue left over for the popular "Butch Cassidy", as well as a backlash to the darker, more ambitious and relevant product that Hollywood was producing around 73. Hey, it's just a good old fashioned Hollywood entertainment! And it passed that test for most people. But laid along side "The Conversation" "Lenny" "The Godfather PII" "Chinatown" and others, it's pretty slim pickings. It's probably right up there with "The Greatest Show on Earth" and "Chariots of Fire" as all time pedestrian Best Picture winners. Paul Newman may have rebelled against this mainstream fare with some of his more daring choices in the years that followed.


                
