The DVD cost $1, and had three other Newman movies, none of which feature in any article about Paul, but which I rated higher! ("Winning" gets a 9), I do remember seeing "The Sting" on TV some decades ago, and knew the reputation, and so was so disappointed in seeing such a boring and confusing mess.1. So many men in suits, with hats that have a black band? Who is who, and what are they doing? I couldn't follow.2. The story? Something about the underworld of whatever era it is set in. Shady, unpleasant, devious. And we are supposed to applaud? Na. Does the FBI feature? Or is that part of the multiple deceptions?3. Acting? Nothing special here, yet so many BIG names? Robert Shaw's character is very lightly explained.4. Any really good scenes, with memorable dialogue? Na, but I did like it when Redford hops on a passing street sweeping machine.5. Near-zero for the ladies. Does the female audience approve? 6. Two (at least) unlikely events, ie, the skint Redford blowing $3,000 of stung money, at a time when Marge 'really needs $5' and then much later, the big shot calmly putting $500,000 on a horse race? Na. Does anyone anywhere really believe that? 7. In spite of watching a couple of times, I still don't understand the first little sting with Luther, and an uncredited passing thief?8. The DVD said "amazing surprise ending", so I stuck it out just to see what happens. No spoiling, just more unbelievable disappointment. Big phoney shoot-outs do not appeal.


                
George Roy Hill's'The Sting' is an over-rated classic, wait, is this even a classic? For ME, this is an over-sized burger, that has a few crumbs here and there, but is eventually long & spicy.Set in September 1936 that involves a complicated plot by two professional grifters to con a mob boss, after a mutual friend is murdered.'The Sting' begins tepidly, gathers momentum in the middle, but the culmination comes out half-baked. A Super-Hit at the box office, won Academy-Awards, including Best Picture. However, this Unabashed Cinema Fan is a majorly disappointed.George Roy Hill's direction is able. David S. Ward's Screenplay holds minor appeal. Robert Surtees's Camera-Work is good. William Reynolds's Editing is fair.In the acting department, Newman impresses, as always. Robert Redford plays his part nicely. Robert Shaw is below average. Charles Durning hardly gets 4-5 scenes. Ray Walston is passable. Sally Kirkland is effective.On the whole, this 1970's attempt didn't work for me. Watch it if you must!


                
Is it just me ? I watched this again lately and I guess the previous time must have been in the 80's and 70's. Reflecting on this , this movie is not that great. Compare this to nowadays series in the likes of The sopranos or Boardwalk empire and this movie falls flat on acting, pacing.As for the directing : its too much directed, you feel that all the scenes are so carefully chosen and that the characters are mainly there to fill the screen. Now, we have today also directors such as Tarantino where you know that every single scene is already played in his head before someone hits the record button, but it doesn't feel that way in most cases ( at least not in this time , maybe in 20 years it does ). I must admit that I do not like Redford. His acting- skills are as bad as Bruce Willis and let's keep it friendly and call it overacting or trying to act. The music is nice though and fits. The sets are OK, but so so visible as done in studio. I liked this movie in the 70's , less liked it in the 80's , and by now I don't like it anymore. It's a typical movie of its time and fortunate there are other older movies which stand the time-test better.


                
The roster of best picture nominees for 1973 must have been very weak for Elizabeth Taylor to have opened the envelope and announced "The Sting" as the winner of the coveted best picture of the year. Equally ridiculous was the nomination of Robert Redford for his good looks as best actor. At least, he didn't win, but neither did Al Pacino for "Serpico."Eileen Brennan was given little to do here and the contrived plot deals with con artists and plenty of twists and turns in-between.Robert Shaw steals the film as the main heavy who Redford and Paul Newman take on for killing their friend. There is plenty of action, but the constant twists could really throw you. The best part of the film is definitely the musical score as well as Edith Head's wonderful costumes for this period piece of gangsters in Chicago of the 1930s.
