What you get to see here is a one-of-a-kind mini-series: this is as close to a documentary as it gets. The realities of modern warfare are shown honestly with no political agenda and you are left to draw your own conclusions. When I watched this series I remembered a quote from another film, 'The Siege' from 1998, where Bruce Willis' character, a high ranking army official, says something along the lines of: "The army is a broad sword - not a scalpel. So trust me, you do not want to call the army, unless you have absolutely no other option". From an artistic point of view what stands out the most is the ensemble of actors. Not once during the entire seven episodes did I not believe I was watching the actual characters - the performances and the direction in this production are flawless. I've never seen a series that felt as real as this. This goes beyond mere entertainment - this is simply the best contemporary television has to offer. 10 out of 10.Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite Low-Budget and B-Movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/


                
As a former Marine who was deployed to the same place at the same time, I think this show did an excellent job of capturing the 'essence' of what the invasion of Iraq was like to the men who were there. This show comes closer to accurately portraying wartime Marines than any other show I've ever seen. I think this is as close as Hollywood can get short of being there and filming it live. Sometimes the special effects are a little over the top, but the dress, demeanor and dialog of the characters are very accurate.The attitudes, bearing, and language of the Marines portrayed are spot on, as well as the day to day problems and trials they encounter. I guess what I really like about this show is the lack of cheesy moto propaganda. The films are light on pro- or anti- war propaganda and heavy on truth. I'm sure some people think that the 'get some' attitude of the Marines glorifies the war while others think that pulling no punches in the collateral damage department is anti-war, but that isn't the case. These films boldly show the invasion of Iraq for what it was, for better or worse. The Marines have 'get some' attitudes in this show because Marines really have that attitude. Collateral damage, chaos and confusion among U.S. forces are in the show because it really happens in warfighting.


                
I had heard of "Generation Kill" when it premiered in 2008, but was unable to view since I do not have HBO. So I forgot about it for a while until some time ago I was looking around at the local library when I just happened to sight this little, television masterpiece, and decided, especially in light of what the result of our adventure in Iraq has been in the last few years, to give it a chance. And though I can't say "Generation Kill" was necessarily my favorite viewing experience, I'm glad I did. Based off of the memoirs of a Rolling Stone reporter embedded with the 1st Marine Recon Unit during the first days of the US invasion of Iraq, it begins on the eve of that faithful event by introducing the viewer to the men of 1st Marine Recon (many of whom are based off of real life Marines), their code, standards, and every day experience. When they learn that the invasion is going ahead, they also learn that a reporter from Rolling Stone will be coming with them. Initially reluctant to having a greenhorn tag along with them, they warm up to the young writer when they learn he used to write for Penthouse, a magazine many of these young, red blooded males are familiar with! Through the production, we see the course of events through the eyes of the Marines and their "hang around" in a the most unsugar coated method possible, and we come away with no illusions about what war is really like.What makes "Generation Kill" so different from other war productions is the fact that it strips away the unnecessary fluff and puff and presents the story in an almost character ensemble/documentary style. In "Generation Kill" there is no music score or opening theme, only the crackle and chatter of voices over the radio greets us at the beginning and end credits of each episode, multiple units and men sounding off into the dead of night, which truth be told, is far more effective than any music theme could be (That being said, the final scenes of the last episode feature a most appropriate use of Johnny Cash's "The Man Comes Around", the only recorded song used in the entire series). There is also not much in the way of heroics or glory for the simple reason that in war, there is none to be found. There are no eagles soaring, or glory sounding tunes, or any other BS like that; only following the orders of your superiors (Even if they're complete fools or incompetent), hurrying up and waiting, and of course, death and destruction. And that last part is especially evident in "Generation", as the series pulls no punches in regards to the civilian "collateral damage" that occurred in Iraq during our invasion, and thus shows the cost civilians pay when armies, even with the best of intentions, come charging into their environment in a combat role (To those who think US troops patrolling troubled neighborhoods would be a good idea, I challenge them to watch this and then try to argue for that idea!). All of this is effectively shown through the tremendous efforts of the directors, producers, show runners, writers, and actors such as Jon Huertas, Alexander Skarsgard, Lee Tergesen, Stark Sands, Neal Jones, Michael Kelly, Chance Kelly, former real life 1st Marine Rudy Reyes, James Ransone, and many, many more who I don't have the space for. To round it up, "Generation Kill" is a mini-series that leaves nothing to the imagination when it comes to the chaos and absurd nature of conflict, be it Iraq or anywhere else. As one former Marine commented here, this is the closet thing to war short of going there and actually filming it. For a former service member to say that, you know they did something right here. If you want to see what the reality of conflict without actually being there, then check out "Generation Kill". Stay frosty.


                
Brilliant war drama.The story of 1st Marine Reconnaissance Battalion's participation in the second Allied invasion of Iraq, in 2003. Seen through the eyes of Rolling Stone reporter Evan Wright, who was embedded with the Battalion and upon whose book the series is based.Though dramatized, this is pretty much a warts-and-all account of a military unit in combat. Hardly glamorous, it shows well the problems they face, both external and internal. Not all drama and explosions - there are many great comedic moments, especially in the dialogue.Accurate, engrossing and entertaining.


                
I'm also glad there is no music. Music (though moving) would have taken away the grit to this story and given it a more artificial feel. It's amazing how much of the dialog and situations are straight from the book, and how perfectly spot on they are showing Recon Marine culture.I'm glad Rudy and Kocher got to play themselves. Though I only personally know Pappy out of these characters, it's obvious they are working as hard as they can (within Hollywood's tradition) to portray it as it happened. I hope they continue this series at least until the end of the invasion. I can't wait to see the action at the bridge and the other ambushes.Oh, and the Sgtmaj. harping on grooming standards during combat operations is so hilarious because it's so true!


                
Honest look at what went on in America's war for "Iraqi Freedom". The series is from the point of view of First Recon Marines. It gives us a realistic look of modern warfare, the combat is the most authentic i have come across, it doesn't hype the action for cinematic values. Be warned you won't get to see much of action but when it happens it's tense. As in real life so in series the Marines are made up of unique characters, there are capable as well as dumb officers. The soldiers come from different background and races, there are Mexicans, South Americans, Blacks, Rednecks, some are educated, some joined out of patriotism, some were given choice between jail term or marine school. Everyone's brain tuned in differently, the only thing common between them are the unity of brotherhood and them being highly trained killers.For me the best part and the highlight of the series are the humors and sarcastic banter among the soldiers. After watching the series I did some research and found out most of the names and designation are from real people and actual facts.In fact two of guys played themselves.The series is pretty much controversy free which is surprising considering it shows some stuff which the Government would have liked kept out of limelight.Do watch it, it's fun as well as education.


                
Before some one comments on this mini-series they have to understand that is based entirely in truth. I first picked up the book while I was traveling home on leave shortly after returning from Iraq and read it in one sitting on the plane. One of the things that I find to be the most outstanding about the book and the series so far is that it is true to the people. I don't mean that it gives us something new and authentic to ponder. I can't think of any instance where the book or show goes into the political aspect of Iraq. And you know why. Because Marines don't make policy. They enforce it, regardless of there personal feelings towards it.I am personally tired of hearing the comments about the show being cliché' If they spend anytime around the military they will find that most of characters portrayed are just like the young men serving. Marines are a different breed. They are asked to do different things that most of society would not understand. Enjoy the show and try not to get your mind wrapped around it to much.


                
I enjoyed this immensely, and without revealing my views on the war on Iraq, I must say that I fail to see where these anti-war propaganda/war mongering commentaries are relevant.Understandingly the Iraqi war has deep-set emotions with the American Public, but I did not feel that this in any way glorified, nor vilified the US troops. Nor did it so for the Iraqis. How anyone can regard this as left-wing anti-war propaganda is beyond me, as it seemed most of the characters had very human and sympathetic traits. As all of us who have served in the military know, there are often extreme personalities(i.e racist, militant, fundamental religious beliefs etc), by the sheer fact that the armed forces are a cross-section of any country's inhabitants, but they all showed camaraderie and discipline more than hostility towards humanity in my point of view.although I said I wouldn't reveal my views regarding, I now feel compelled to do so. I am a huge opposer of the war in Iraq, and I feel great resentment towards many of the US foreign policies, but that does not mean that I do not enjoy the story on a personal level, nor that I can not sympathize with a country in war. By entertainment standards, this is some of the best television I've seen in a long while, and I can't WAIT for the next episode.


                
Proof that "Generation Kill", the miniseries produced by HBO films and written by David Simon and Ed Burns, their first project after the end of their television landmark "The Wire", a series which is completely incomparable in quality and scope to anything which has come before or since, is too intelligent to be concerned with simplistic political sloganeering, blind patriotism, or taking an anti-militaristic stance is the reaction which the political extremes have had to it. Any person with far right views I've spoken to or read on the internet has said similar things: this movie emasculates the marines and turns them into bleeding heart liberals (presumably because the film, and I will be referring to this as a film from this point onwards because it's definitely as much a film as "Berlin Alexanderplatz" is, has the guts to portray them as having compassion for wounded or killed civilians), and any person with far left views I've spoken to has apparently found the film to be immoral, presumably because it portrays men who spew violent, racist, homophobic, and misogynist invective as human beings.In fact, "Generation Kill" is the farthest thing from either celebrating the military or being anti-militaristic. Like on "The Wire", David Simon and Ed Burns are on the side of the working class, as Kent Jones in Film Comment points out, and they have no interest in making a moral judgment on the nature of the work they're portraying, whether it's teaching, politics, drug dealing, or invading a country. Like Simon went beyond portraying drug dealers on "The Wire" to transporting us to their world and showing us their own problems, their own moral standards, their own worries and concerns, and introduced us to their own vernacular, he does the same with the marine corps in "Generation Kill". Like "The Wire", this is cunning and clever drama: it is political without taking sides, concerned with the inefficiency and bad planning coming 'from above' but without putting the blame on any individuals. It portrays people, some less likable and morally or politically correct than others, but people. The only thing keeping "Generation Kill" from truly being a military version of "The Wire" is that its comparatively limited scope- it takes place within the first, 'triumphant' week of the invasion, and focuses pretty much only on one group of people. I'm entirely convinced that Simon could have written a thoroughly engrossing and fascinating drama about the Iraq war which extended past these five days, one which would have taken us past the marine corps into the lives of the other military units involved in the invasion, and the higher-ups as well, as he did starting in season 3 in "The Wire". As it stands, this is not a limitation of the power which "Generation Kill" holds, but a masterstroke in its success of making its point: every element which has made the situation in Iraq so chaotic was present in a latent form from the beginning. The film is not even really making a moral judgment of the war in Iraq, if anything it supports a well-executed version of it: most of the Iraqis we see, nearly 90% of them, are incredibly grateful, at least at this early stage, for being relieved of Saddam's rule. Moreover, no American marine or any Iraqi is portrayed simplistically as a 'bad guy' or 'good guy', not even the bloodthirstiest of the Americans, and this writing is brought to life admirably well by the mostly perfect cast and the excellent direction and production value (it is obviously not a big-budget Hollywood film, but it still achieves real authenticity in almost every regard- the closest I came to disbelieving it was when a few Iraqis were portrayed as darker-skinned than any I've seen). The closest thing to a villain in the film is Saddam himself, who makes no literal appearance outside of posters on the streets, but then again he is pretty much the closest thing to a movie 'bad guy' in reality."Generation Kill" is, like "The Wire", ultimately a workplace drama about workplace politics. That the stakes are higher and that the innocent are killed even more often than they are on "The Wire" is irrelevant to the writers. This may make "Generation Kill" boring to those accustomed to and expecting a more standard war film, one which attempts an anti-war or pro-war statement. Like "The Wire" again, what the viewer is left with in the end is only a dislike of unnecessary violence and casualties, and a portrayal of the toll they take on those involved in either perpetrating the violence or those related to the victims. Both "The Wire" and "Generation Kill" are dramatically built on disappointment and disillusionment with the system in place itself, and like "The Wire" it is all about bad decisions, mistakes, and the rare good decision. The film ends with a montage and a song, much like every season of "The Wire", and with its subtle summation of the hours gone by and its emotional impact it cements David Simon's status as one of the greatest and most important writers of our time.


                
Saw the first three episodes of this on cable whilst on holiday, and hope it comes to the UK very soon so that I can see the rest. I also saw part of the 'Making of...' documentary, and many of the production team where a) female and b)British. They've done a really excellent job of portraying the atmosphere of war-torn Iraq, and have not compromised the performances by trying to tone down the language and jingoistic views of many of the characters. Heart pounding action whilst transiting the first town when the convoy comes under fire for the first time, and euphoria when they emerge at the far side largely unscathed. Brilliant. Well done. A really fine piece of work. Snap it up BBC.......please!


                
"Generation Kill" is a really good miniseries even though i have only seen the first four episodes so far. I've seen about half of the series and every week all I'm waiting for is 9:00 on Sunday so that i can watch the next episode. what i really like about this movie is it isn't a bunch of BS like some other war movies are. in other war movies they don't even act like what real marines act like. in this movie its just a bunch of normal people fighting for their country.My favorite character is Cpl. Josh Ray Person. He is the driver of team 1 alpha and he has a great sense of humor and by far the funniest character in the movie. He has a really good actor and I honestly think that is is impossible to watch this miniseries without laughing at something he does or says.The miniseries keeps you watching all the way through the whole episode. i completely enjoy this series and anyone could like it even if they are not interested in war movies at all and i am looking forward to seeing the rest of the series.If you like the series Band of Brothers, you will probably like this series even though there isn't as much action as in BOB.


                
This show is simply worth watching. It takes a creative and well written show with good actors to hold my attention; this show does it for me! It's very raw and shows everything you need to believe the story being told. If you are into military and suspenseful shows with no regard to political correctness- you should watch it. It is done well! The acting is on point. The characters are diverse. There is blood, there are tears, there is laughing, and there is drama. It is very believable. I enjoy seeing a group of diverse characters, as opposed to a bunch of angry bloodthirsty soldiers. They all fall somewhere in between being patriotic and understanding their place in the war and just seriously wanting to kill someone.There is interesting insight into the dynamic of the Marines vs the Army. It appears (based on other reviews by Marines) that it is pretty accurate. WATCH IT!


                
When i first saw the trailer to this show, i got excited seeing marines in full battle gear in armored vehicles, ready to get into action. It looked awesome and spectacular though the vulgarity and some of the characters' insensitive and racist comments rubbed me the wrong way. I half expected it to be a show that was as cliché as other 'iraq war' shows or something that was vulgar and depicted the U.S troops as superior and uncaring. When i watched the show however, it was totally different from what i expected. Generation Kill is based off a book written by Rolling Stone journalist Evan wright who is played by Lee Tergesen; and it chronicles his experiences during his time with the Marine Corps 1st Reconnaissance Battalion unit. To be honest, the show spews out technical jargons like a busted pipe. Terms like 'Oscar Mike', SITREP or ROE. Though you'd understand what they mean when you link the term to the event unfolding. Corporal Ray Pearson played by James Ransone from 'The Wire' is definitely the most charismatic and the comedic relief. People may think that Sgt Brad 'Iceman' Colbert's acting was dull and monotonous. Personally i feel that he was acting exactly as he should be. He's always cool and collected that's why he's iceman. He rarely lets emotions cloud his judgement though his empathy and caring for the civilians sometimes conflicts with his fellow marine's opinions. Also it gives his character depth which some may think is not conveyed in his acting. This isn't a 'band of brothers' in Iraq. It's about real U.S Marines fighting a war. The sooner you realize that, the sooner you will forget all expectations of this being as dramatic as 'Band of Brothers.' Its gritty and its vulgar and its so realistic in the way they respond to situations and engaging enemies like actual marines would do. I give them a 10/10 on realism.The acting for the rest of the cast were good even though i've never seen nor heard any of them before especially the real life Cpl Rudy who plays as himself in the show. They weren't overacting nor were they underacting. They looked and acted like marines and i believed it. The direction of the events especially the firefight was realistic and not over-the-top Hollywood style explosions and special effects galore.The depiction of the marines are so realistic and i don't think any of it is just made up. From their pre-deployment period in camp to real time mission realities. Myself having experience in the military as a combat medic, i give them a thumbs up on that because it brought back nostalgia for me. Everything they did in the show was exactly how it is in real life. Also, the way they grumble about the incompetency of their superiors and the poor planning and bad decisions is all TRUE! It happens in real life. There do exists commanders like Cpt Craig 'Encino Man'. The show isn't all about Iraq. It's about the marines and each of the character's reactions and interactions with each other about the war and being a marine. It's character driven; and each one of the characters are interesting. The show isn't filled with as much action as one would expect though it does have enough action to entertain. I know i've said 'real' a lot but that's how it is. It religiously tries to be as real as possible while still being entertaining and it definitely achieved it.The real gem are the dialogues. The marines sometimes make insensitive, racist and vulgar comments about pussies, iraqis which they call 'hajis' and some white, black and hispanic racism. Though it's not meant to be taken seriously and they later redeem themselves by commenting that that they won't shoot farmers and unarmed people. Their characters are fleshed out and they have depth. They're not simple not are they too complex. And each of them have their moments. You don't see them as U.S troops fighting against the bad guy Iraq. You see them as individual Marine soldiers who are just doing their job but having their own personal quirks and opinions.I might understand if regular people may not like the show or find it entertaining or maybe even politically correct. However, for people who're in the army or who've been in the army, this show is a must watch.


                
Wouldn't you have loved to have an embedded reporter along with Julius Ceasar's Legions on his battles in Gaul? Of course, we have his memoirs ("I came, I saw, I conquered") however, we know that formally written accounts leave much of the human drama out of the mix and it comes out dry and self-serving. Don't get me wrong, Evan Wright certainly had his lens of personal prejudices, and what he wrote about and took pictures of were selective. We have to keep that in mind. But what blows me away is that these are REAL PEOPLE and this is probably as unvarnished an account as you will find in the words of the people who lived it. I believe that every citizen should view GK multiple times and reflect on the pitiful nature of war both on all sides: the soldiers, the civilians. The messed-up catastrophe that all of us are responsible for. These kids we send out to implement our national policy will carry the nightmares with them forever. If I sound like a "bleeding heart" I guess I am. I can't but imagine my grandsons in the place of the soldiers and mourn for what is being done to their souls assuming they are not wounded or killed. However, we must always be prepared to do before we are done to. Sorry to end on a hawkish note but that is the way of the world. We live in it and did not invent it although I am sure there are those in the international audience who will take every negative stereotype from this film about Americans. I rate GK a solid "ten" for the portrayal of history.


                
This was the single best television show I have ever seen. It's extremely realistic and a wonderful story. It left me craving Sunday nights. The show takes you through the day in the life of Marine in battle in Iraq. This show has the power to put the viewer on the battle field. Whether it is taking a dump on the side of the road, using a Humvee tire as a pillow at night or riddling the enemy with bullets the viewer will feel like they are there. This show is the exact opposite of politically correct. It tells it as it is. This show has the same raw feel as Breaking Bad. It gave me a whole new respect for the men and women in the military.


                
HBO has used its experience from former TV-series such as "Band of Brothers" to produce this fine seven-episode series about the war in Iraq. As in many HBO-productions it appears that the budget was near to infinite, which means that the viewer does not end up with bad special effects or a general feeling of "hey, why aren't there cool gadgets in it?".As it is based on the book written by a reporter from Rolling Stone, a not every day magazine to cover a war, it can be assumed that the vast majority of the scenes happened for real. However the producers have not limited themselves to show the war through the eyes of the reporter; instead, we get to see the invasion of Iraq through the eyes of the soldiers. The everyday American war hero finally gets a human face.A remarkable thing about this series is that there are no songs being played on the background; the only songs that occur are sang by the soldiers themselves. One could believe that this would make it boring to watch, but to be honest, I did not miss music for one second. In fact, I didn't even notice it, until the end of the series.If you have had the feeling while watching "Jarhead", though it being a very nice movie, that you missed some action, then you should certainly watch Generation Kill.


                
This mini-series was what the film The Hurt Locker should have, a interesting, well written series about the Iraqi war and the soldiers involved. This is an adaption of the fact based book by Evan Wright who was a reporter for Rolling Stone during the war.The focus of the series is on First Reconnaissance Battalion's Bravo Company of the Marines, a Battalion that leads the line for the invasion of Iraq in 2003. It starts of like Band of Brothers, where you get to know the characters before the invasion and are introduced to Evan Wright (Lee Tergesen), the reporter. When the invasion happens the main focus is on Second Platoon led by Sgt. Brad 'Iceman' Colbert (Alexander Skarsgård), an intelligence man who cares about men, and treats the Iraqis with respect. He is the most sympathetic character throughout the series. As the Americans invade the country it's clear there was no real military planning, with no plans, tactics or intelligence. There are also undersupplied throughout the invasion. It was lucky that the Iraqis were even worst. Colbert often has to question orders he has been given by officers who seem lack knowledge. Within the ranks some of the Marines are very trigger happy and gung-ho, who see the invasion as an adventure. They so no respect to the locals, calling them by racist terms which I don't like to replete. Some take weapons and helmets as trophies. They reminded me of some people at university in the Officer Training Corp (OTC), and they were basically dicks. After the Americans win the war the situation doesn't improve. They is no post war planning involving helping prevent basic services, non any understanding of the Iraqi people.There is a great team involved with Generation Kill, it had David Simon from the Wire as a writer and production, with Ed Burns from the Wire as a writer. The writing is excellent, no just with plots or stories (which they have to stick to the facts), but all brilliant dialogue and ideas about why America was in Iraq and the ethics of war. It also tries to show a mix picture within the military where people are good and bad, whilst the Iraqis are simply the enemy in the distances. There is an excellent cast, Alexander Skarsgård will be following his father's footsteps. As well the writing and acting there is fine direction throughout the film, giving you information about what is happening in the wider world, and there are decent action scenes.The series itself reminded me of the excellent Band of Brothers, and if you like then you will love Generation Kill.


                
I thought that this show was out of this world. The writing is unbelievably good. The characters are so distinct, so diversified, and so believable, I felt like I knew them intimately by the end of the series. Skarsgard's accent was a little difficult to get past, but I forgot about it after a couple episodes. All of the acting was phenomenal, especially James Ransone as Cpl. Ray Paterson.The cinematography was great too. Every episode contained a shot that took my breath away, usually of the backs of one or more marines looking out over an area of violence or destruction.I think this is the best portrayal of the Iraq war, without judgment or bias. It was sensitive to the particularities of the people whose story it was telling, and was careful to avoid generalities. I wanted more, I wanted to know what happened to these Marines, and now that it's over, I feel like I've lost brothers.


                
Unlike most war films or shows, this mini-series seemed a mixture of a documentary and a military recount. The best aspect of the story was it's realistic approach. Not much of drama, but instead being able to entertain the audience with mundane military activities is something of an art in itself. Lack of dramatic music makes this mini-series more pragmatic, something which describes the story with an unbiased judgement. Really entertaining and a must watch for War-film and adventure enthusiasts.


                
I got the same feeling watching this that I got when watching the first season of Band of Brothers: Fantastic! 
Superb acting, no big anti- or pro-war message being shoved down your throat, just a well-told story of men in combat. It's said that warriors (from day one of war one) fight not for country, religion or cause, but for their brethren. So any war movie or TV series that tries to portray more than that is implausible tripe. Even Saving Private Ryan had it's moments of preachiness that almost--almost--ruin that movie for me. This series does visit civilian casualties, conflicting ROEs, conscientious refusal of orders, and the banalities "why are we here?/what did we really accomplish?" that are ever-present in Hollywood war tales. But the above listed do not detract from the larger narrative: the intersection of the singular experience of combat and soldiers, mere ordinary men in extraordinary circumstances. This is exactly why this series works so well; the soldiers are relatable, the dialogue is natural, their relationships are human. This is why Band of Brothers and All Quiet Along the Western Front work. The side that the soldiers are fighting for or against is immaterial; we relate to their humanity, when portrayed correctly, and imagine ourselves in their shoes. Generation Kill succeeds where its contemporary The Hurt Locker failed miserably: it portrays grunts, officers, enemy and civilians with all the humanity and diversity that you would realistically get from a cross-section of people in the midst of unfathomable violence. In addition, humor is thrown into the mix to good effect. I found myself laughing along with the soldiers' inside jokes, and cursing along with them at their tribulations, making me feel part of their story -- a sign of a well-told story.
My only complaint about Generation Kill is that they only made one season. I wanted more!


                
I started to watch this series with very little expectations, disappointed by horribly naive "The Hurt Locker" and not so much better "Green Zone". Generation Kill, however, turned out to be the best war movie I have ever seen, blowing away both titles mentioned before, Band of Brothers, Full Metal Jacket, Apocalypse Now, Platoon... everything.Generation Kill is so encompassing, realistic and detailed it's almost a documentary - a documentary on Iraq, invasion of Iraq, Marines and the military in general. It goes even beyond that, analyzing war itself as the "ultimate trade" - ultimate in training, cost, organization and sheer adrenaline, but ultimate also in destruction, disappointment, foolishness and sheer chaos. Nothing is left untouched and everybody is affected by it - the victors, the defeated, the liberated and the liberators, the conquered and the conquerors, landscape, nature, spirituality, popular culture, mainstream media, everything. Generation Kill demonstrates all that far better than any other movie and is a must see for everyone who is even remotely interested in military history or in the military itself.There can be only one step above this: TV-series of the same scope and quality about the most intense armed conflict in the human history - Eastern Front 1941-45. Yet to be made.


                
Having loved The Wire I was interested to see how its producers would deal with the subject of war. Obviously this series is quite different, after all it is only eight episodes long rather than five seasons. It also has a much smaller cast as it follows a small group of US Marines from the desert of Saudi Arabia where they are waiting to go to war to the streets of Baghdad where they realise that even though they've won the war winning the peace will be another thing altogether.The series makes no concession to those who don't know military terminology which makes it all seem very real to the viewer. One might expect a series about war to be non-stop action with our heroic protagonists valiantly battling the enemy while saving women and children caught in the cross fire... not here though most of the time is spent driving or just sitting around and when there is action they are just as likely to be engaging some poor civilian who is in the wrong place at the wrong time as an enemy combatant. I know some people found the inaction boring but I was gripped from start to finish.The series managed to walk a fine line avoiding both the glorification of war and the demonisation of those involved in this unpopular war. Our heroes aren't depicted as angels, they each have their flaws but also they each have their charms.Surprisingly for a series about such a serious subject there are quite a few laugh out loud moments, I particularly laughed in an early episode when they were finding about what was going on by listening to the BBC News... complete with cricket commentary.


                
Like others who have commented, I watched this series strictly because I am a fan of Alexander Skarsgard, but from the very beginning I was hooked. I have watched it numerous times and have told countless others that it is a must see. I have read the book and the series stayed true to what Evan Wright wrote. The series has brought the war home to America. We are allowed a window into the life these Marines live. Whether you agree with the war or not, you can not NOT feel for these men. These men are doing the job that some of us cannot or will not do. I commend them for their efforts. It cannot be easy being them. The things that they are required to do without question. Regardless of personal feelings they must do their mission effectively and they do so with the best ability. I think for them to be able to find humor in the situations they have faced is the only way for them to sustain some sanity.
Generation Kill is a work of art that eclipses any military drama Hollywood has produced in decades, including the comparatively inferior "The Hurtlocker". Devoid of cheesy sentiment or political agenda this drama focus's on the men on the ground and as some of the characters are portrayed by their real life counterparts and was written by someone who was there, it's as real as you can get. You only have to see the testaments from ex-marines to see the credibility behind this show. Anyone who has been critical of Generation Kill has probably done it because they either like unrealistic shoot 'em ups like "Black Hawk Down" or are just uncomfortable with the subject matter.Another slice of brilliance from HBO and the team behind "The Wire" and yet more proof that some American television drama (particularly HBO) is far more groundbreaking than the unimaginative dross Hollywood churns out. In my opinion this a must see for everyone, if for no other reason than to get a brief glimpse into an invasion and the lives of men the general public have little understanding of.
Something that always sticks with me about Generation Kill is the that there is no musical score. Instead in the scenes where one would traditionally hear a song pop up, the cast end up singing it. I thought this was pretty cool.Although linear in storyline, GK is awesome in that it meanders along and not littered with plot devices. As a viewer you get a sense of sitting around waiting with the soldiers.I have never served in the military but the dialogue strikes me as being loyal to what soldiers in these situations would be talking about.The internal politics and power struggles constantly facing the characters add the element of drama which we face in our everyday lives, but in a war zone setting.The insertion of the journo is good writing because in effect since he is never named, I can assume that he is us, the viewer. He asks the questions we want to know.I have watched this entire series now twice and enjoyed it both times.
