HBO's latest series is not about fame and drama... it's about war. And war not as in the movies, but in the reality of modern combat on a war that is currently still happening. Placing this show on television, in my opinion, was a gutsy move by HBO because the war and talk of the American army and the marines can be a very controversial thing.Generation Kill is an HBO series based off of a book about the United States first years in the infamous "War Against Terrorism" campaign. The story revolves around a group of marines that are part of a certain military battalion sent on various missions to hunt down and take out peace hating terrorist. Generation Kill pulls off well, what is the real theme of modern combat, and how the countries (Afghanistan and Iraq) people are forced to live in the middle of combat right in their backyard. The show also features dialogue between the Islamic people and how difficult it is for the soldiers to figure out what they are saying with the lack of American translators in the army. The show itself is focused on giving people a view of what the war on terrorism is in reality, not based off the video clips you see on CNN. Generation Kill gives the viewer an understanding of how American soldiers in war live and how they are affected daily by the commands they are given and how they try to keep their sanity during the war.As real as the series is and how well it manages to give you an insight on the war itself and combat, the show is not a flawless masterpiece. Generation Kill constantly revolves around the same scenery, and although the soldiers may have to put up with this in the actual war, watching it on a TV show can get boring and sometimes you may get the annoying feeling that they are on a set and not in an actual war. In addition, many conversations and pieces of dialogue seemed to be painfully stretched on in what is, in my opinion, an attempt to make the show a nice hour and ten minutes long. Another problem that haunts the show is repetitiveness. Nearly every episode follows a basic theme; talk, argue, drive around, shoot, talk, and drive around some more. There are no major changes in the plot, nor in the war or the characters. The show lacks redeeming qualities that will keep a viewer hooked for more than a mere few weeks.Generation Kill is a great series and can be enjoyable when there has been a dry spell in television, especially with the lack of new content on HBO from the writers strike. But in the end, only the hardcore audience of war shows and movies are really going to stick with it.


                
This was very difficult to watch. It was frankly boring. Nor was it just boring between moments of intense fear. It was just boring. The story line just never caught hold and never really rose to a good understanding of what the war was or was not all about.The acting was very good. The reality of it also was incredible. Seems like it was filmed in Iraq and the most importantly the Iraqis were extremely realistic.I guess it was suppose to be a character study in part and a study of what this war started out like. But it just never made it.Overall it just should have been better.


                
As a believable portrait of what it was really like to fight in the last Iraq war, 'Generation Kill' hits the target; yet as devotee of writer David Simon's brilliant previous series, 'The Wire', I have to say that in contrast, it left me feeling a little underwhelmed. Partly it may just be that the Marines who comprise its leading characters are a little less varied (and therefore interesting) than the people of Baltimore; each one is individually cast, but there's a sense of a common mould which probably reflects real-life recruitment but which also gives the series a mono-tonal air. Another issue is that there isn't much of a story. Thankfully, the liberal Simon eschews a "glorious march to victory" narrative, but in its place, there are just a lot of scenes of marines advancing, sometimes bravely, sometimes boredly, sometimes badly, without a clear sight of the broader picture but with growing a growing sense of unease that it makes no sense. Again, this may be both accurate, and the specific point that Simon wanted to make; but it's hard to tell a story without a narrative of some sort, and even many of the specific incidents that could be told in complete form are instead sampled. Too often, we see men engaged in a threatening mission, then there's a clean cut to the next day, back at base, where they talk about their escape. This leaves the emphasis more on the macho male banter than the nominal action. It could just be that to this viewer (at least as liberal as Simon himself), there's simply no news here - the drama doesn't tells me much about the U.S. Marines, or the war in Iraq, that I didn't already suspect. Or at least, it doesn't quite tell me enough to justify over seven hours of TV, even though it's well-made and serious. 'The Wire' eventually justified its 60-odd hours; 'Generation Kill', however, might have been better as two than seven.


                
Do not go into this series expecting the explosion-fests seen in Band of Brothers and Black Hawk Down. Generation Kill instead centres its storyline around two main premises: the waiting involved in modern warfare, and the incompetency of those in positions of power. In this sense, Jarhead is a far more similar story - for example, a common theme throughout is the eagerness the marines have to finally see combat, and at least "Shoot their first Hajis".Generation Kill excels at this; deadpan acting from Skarsgard (before worldwide fame) and slightly crazed soldiers sprinkled throughout give a sense of the monotonous madness of war fare today. However, the real boon of this series is highlighting bad decision making. Throughout the episodes, constant backtracking, poor intel and superiors making selfish decisions hamper all efforts to make progress, whilst also reducing confidence in those higher up in command. As this continues, a growing sense builds that, not only is this war a losing battle, but that no progress is ever truly made.Generation Kill is thus a testament to strong, truthful filmmaking, lending itself strongly not just to the brief but hectic gunfights, but also to the lesser-explored emotional side of war, from the perspectives of the elite forces engaging


                
