I am a huge fan of True Detective, so when I heard that this show was "sort of" the 3rd Season of TD, I decided I wanted to watch it.OK, so I have sat through 5 episodes now, and have tried to be patient, but this is getting ridiculous . . . endless BS "character developments" that need not exist, such as John Stone's chronic psoriasis (tell me exactly HOW that is an important facet to this character!), the "Superstar" detective who doesn't even notice the fact that the alleged killer has no blood on him, yet the victim is covered in blood, the room is covered in blood, etc., the astonishingly poor acting of the person cast to portray the DA, the extended and unnecessary "Story components", like the continuing saga of what's going on in the prison (I thought this was a mystery, not a prison movie), the autopsy scene (the DA she lays the picture of his cut hand BELOW the nude man's crotch, just so we can get a clear view of his penis?!?!?!? FOR WHAT PURPOSE?!?!?); I'm sorry, but I've see enough. Not going to submit myself to any more of this crappy series.I can't believe that there are so many people who can't see this


                
Naz wakes up downstairs and he has no blood on his clothes. He goes upstairs and wears his black shirt again no blood on his shirt either. When you see the dead body there is blood all over the freaking place. On the light on the sheets everywhere it's pure gore. So I ask you this are these cops or lawyers too stupid to see this? Or even he himself can't think of this so he can defend himself? He could ask the police if you think I did it then where is the blood on my clothes? Sure they had some foreplay involving masochism but the amount of blood that can be found on Naz is not proportional anyway. Cops should be searching for other tools to point Naz as a murder suspect such as stretch films, gloves or any kind of protective clothes to be able to commit such a brutal murder yet splash not a single drop of blood on his clothes. Case dismissed from start.I don't even want to mention that writers are in conflict while portraying Naz as a clever hardworking kid yet he is so stupid to flee the scene even if he believed himself that he didn't commit the crime from the start. He could call the police and explain everything from scratch so easily. But nooooooooo that would be inconvenient for the writers right? For a kid supposedly believing his innocence he was completely silent entire episode 1 that was such a torture to watch too. When will writers start using their brains to come up with good stories I really wonder.
The first episode was a ten out of ten but then everyghing fell apart. Bad acting, lame characters, a really bad story and horrible script. It was like watching a parody of a crime serie. The story was just so unreal and the credibility was poor. I cannot believe how Night Of can be rated with a average of 8,6 that is ridiculous. I mean Breaking Bad, Sopranos, The Wire, Boardwalk Empire, Deadwood are all series that I would rate 8-10. Dont watch Night Of, waste of time.


                
I was very excited for this, having seen the reviews and thought I would give it a go. The acting to start with is some of the worst I've seen, the main girl gets on my nerve from the get go and is just annoying to watch. The main guy is portrayed as an intelligent man to start with, however has no back bone at all as anything the girls says he agrees to. Very slow to get going and tried to give it a chance but couldn't physically watch it as the character where actually getting on my nerves. Honestly I would say please do not waste your time watching it as it is some of the worst acting and the most cliché story line I've ever come across.


                
Whiles watching this series, I asked myself whether if the camera crew themselves viewed it after production. If they did they would have found a way to spare the viewer eye straining punishing scenes. The series itself started out great with a magnificent pilot. Then in came the unnecessary zooms and extremely dumb blurring of backgrounds.I felt the strain on my eye to focus on the screen every time there was a background blur. The blurring was so pointless that you think of what exactly the camera crew had in mind when they were filming. They blurred everything to the extent that even up close conversations were blurred out putting so much strain on your eyes.It is a shame how a camera crew can ruin such a masterpiece. This series started out great but turned into crap at the beginning of episode two. I had to call it quits when a blur at season one episode two 16:19 gave me a head ache.All in all this series is great if you do not mind eye straining back ground blurring of scenes or pointless zooming. But if you want to keep your eyesight to continue watching other quality series then I advise you stay away from this garbage until maybe they see the silliness in their camera works.


                
Just take my word for it as I don't want to invest a second more holding this awful, awful tv-series in mind - DO NOT WASTE YOUR TIME.


                
This show fails miserably on every topic/genre it attempts: detective, courtroom, treatment of Muslims after 9/11, and prison. For example, absurdly, a lawyer, infatuated by an otherwise boring defendant accused of a heinous rape/murder, smuggles drugs into prison for him. Guess where the lawyer hides the drugs? Yes, that happens. If taken seriously, every scene seems written by a C-student 8th grader. Or, it was meant to be a parody, but was written by a writer lacking even a modicum of humor. This was an exercise in absurdity as to those genres and a complete waste my time.
Wow. I'm absolutely blown away. Not only is this the worst thing ever filmed, but it won numerous awards. HOW!?
Take the most boring and pretentious Law and Order SVU episode you can think of (doesn't matter which, they're all the same),then just play it in such superslow motion that it lasts for ten hours instead of one; it would still be much better than this garbage.
Also, Bonus! The idiots at HBO apparently think their viewers worship grotesquerie so much that we'll enjoy staring at repeated close-ups of John Turturro's crusty feet. So THAT'S always a nice treat! Enjoy!
I have never paid for cable tv in my life and seeing crap like this makes me so glad I don't waste a dime on this garbage when I can get it for free from the library.
I feel like I paid exactly what this series was worth. Nothing well-spent!
The people who gave this awards are the same people who greenlight shows like Real Housewives; vapid idiots with crusty feet.


                
