This show has received mixed reviews. Some have loved it. Some have hated it. I don't often leave reviews however I do often read reviews when deciding whether to watch something. I decided to write this review based on the poor reviews because I felt very strongly about this that I just had to put my opinion across. This show is amazing. It's draws you in, puts you in the main characters position and never lets go. The acting is fantastic, the mood, the music the visuals are also great. I watch a lot of shows, most of them are entertaining enough but not very often do I come across a show like this that gets you completely enthralled and then has you screaming at the screen as the end credits role because you cant stand the thought of having to wait 7 days for the next episode. Like I said at the beginning. Some people are slamming this show for being "unoriginal" "boring" "stupid". My reply to these are as follows:Unoriginal? OK, so the premise is nothing new, its not earth shattering but trust me, you've never seen it told like this before! Boring? Absolutely not, this person must have the attention span of a 3 year old because I couldn't get enough of the suspense and drama. I just could not wait to find out what happens next and you genuinely care about the characters! And finally stupid? I'm sorry but this is very narrow minded. This is a naive young man who makes some pretty silly decisions under the influence of alcohol and drugs. We've all been there. Which is what makes this show so great. It resonates with us all. It's very real.In closing I would just like to say. Watch the first episode. I think you will absolutely love it.


                
What I like about this kind of series is that the story is good by itself but its by no means outstanding. The most important aspect is the storytelling, the presentation, the psychological tour of the characters, the portrayal of different cultures, and family, and relationships, and professions. That's the most impressive thing about this series.One of the most fascinating things about shows like this is the characters itself are so rich. I've seen very few TV shows that covers extremely sophisticated characters like Matthew on True Detective, and this girl on 'The Night of', and Naz himself. For me, just focusing on the story line for the sole purpose of entertainment is like just focusing on guitar sounds in a piece of music.This is the reason why I love the first season of True Detective, and this is the same reason why I love this series just after one episode.


                
If you were a fan of 'The Killing', especially the first three seasons, then 'The Night Of' will be right up your alley. Gripping, engaging, methodical story telling that is somehow simultaneously slow and fast paced. Even when not much is happening, you will find yourself bracing in anticipation. Sad it's a limited series. I hope HBO decides to produce more content like this. In the meantime, I'll be eagerly awaiting the next installment. The acting is superb but the pacing is the real gem. Long before the first installment gets to the meat of the plot, intense, ominous moments of foreshadowing are peppered at the perfect times to really keep you biting your nails without even knowing why. I sighed in bittersweet relief when the credits rolled. And this is only the first episode.


                
This show got me from the first episode. A great example of storytelling for mystery, crime and drama shows. It was slow in the beginning but after few minutes it gets exciting and tense with each second. You wonder what is next?A naive, Pakistani, Muslim young man in NYC suspected for murder for killing a girl he just met. He looks innocent but every clue shows otherwise and he's desperate and helpless. A veteran experienced detective sure of boys crime has a strong case against him. At the end of the episode help arrives from a low cost lawyer with little hope of salvation.Looks like another great chapter waits for us and I'm quite sure it's going to get better and better. I can't wait for the next episode.Pros -Nice storytelling. Very good acting. Good character development. Music fits for the drama and mystery. It gives you the feeling but you hardly notice it playing.Cons -None yet.
So I just watched the first episode of it on HBO GO, without knowing anything about the show, and I was surprised greatly. I thought that The Night Manager would be the best new series this year, but this has more than enough potential to beat it. The first episode goes in a lot of unexpected directions, giving me chills. It just drags everything out and gives you the same mystery that the main character is plagued with, as we know as much as he does, which isn't necessarily a good thing. You see every single mistake that he makes, every wrong choice, and you also know that this isn't what this kid is like. The main character is extremely likable, so as he is there making the wrong choices you just want to pull him out of the TV and scream at him "DO YOU REALIZE WHAT YOU ARE DOING RIGHT NOW???". The Lawyer has very limited screen time but does make an impact on you and seems likable. And the police chief, while you hate that he is the one torturing the main character, you really see why he is because the evidence points in this direction that you yourself disagree with yet can see how someone can agree with. This gave me more goosebumps than any horror film that I have ever watched, it is more suspenseful than any movie or TV show that I have watched. Think Gone Girl times ten pretty much. I can't wait to see the full series upon release.
Stunning, unpredictable, fresh, cynical. Perfect casting and sub plots. Scarily close to the bone on key social and religious tensions all around us. Authentic, gripping, binge-worthy


                
Yes, what you hear it's true: it's a story about a murder and it has been told a million times. But NEVER like this, let me assure you. This is pure art. This show tells you the details about the story, builts up fantastic characters, and invites you to follow the story in a very slow and fulfilling pace. You know what's going to happen from the first episode, but what they have created here makes you sit down in front of your TV for 8 episodes to see HOW they get there. It's raw, it's real, it's perfectly written and directed, with a cast that blew my mind. It's a true pleasure to see HBO creating shows like this, the only pity here it's that it's a limited series, and I won't get to see any more from them.


                
True Detective. GOT and The Wire just a few examples of great shows that HBO produce over the years. The Night Of only need 20 minutes to make you feel part of the story. Riz Ahmed is just so great in the personification of Nasir, and in some point I feel bad for that guy. The characters are amazing and the suspense presented along the show is outstanding.If you're a fan of thriller movies you don't want to miss this show. I think this is one of the best shows ever made and I found this by chance when I was looking for some new TV show to view. The problem is when probably the best TV shows are made, is hard to find new shows that can march the quality presented by GOT, The Wire, Breaking Bad, Luther, True Detective and some other shows. I don't want to say anymore, just view it, if you're capable of see deep, slow, suspense, but mesmerizing thriller.


                
Nasir "Naz" Khan is a 20-something University student living in New York. One night he takes his father's taxi to go to a party. Along the way he meets a beautiful young woman, Andrea, and his plans change. They go back to her place and after a night of drugs and passion, Naz wakes up to find Andrea dead, stabbed to death. Naz panics and flees the scene, only to be picked up by the police for a traffic offence. ULtimately Naz ends up at the police station, where the police then realise they have the prime suspect in a murder, and Naz is held for questioning. On the case is the methodical, perceptive Detective Sergeant Box. Box builds a compelling case against Naz and arrests him for Andrea's murder. Also on the scene is small-time lawyer Jack Stone who convinces Naz to hire him. However, the weight of evidence against Naz is massive and Jack Stone may be out of his depth.Incredibly compelling drama. Shows in detail how the justice system operates, its processes and flaws. Shows how innocence or guilt doesn't really matter to the police and prosecutor - chance of conviction is what matters. Also shows the conditions prisoners face while awaiting trial and how this imprisonment with criminals can affect them, potentially turning innocent citizens into criminals.Very engaging - you empathise with Naz and his family and what they are going through. Moreover, the situation is so plausible and could easily happen to many everyday, innocent people. Very solid plot.Quite gripping too - the final outcome is in doubt until the very end and there are many twists and turns along the way. The final few scenes are incredibly enthralling and ultimately quite emotional.Solid performance by Riz Ahmed in the lead role. Stand out performance goes to John Turturro as Jack Stone. His character is decidedly non-glamorous and Turturro thrives on those sorts of roles. Wonderful everyman down-troddeness-yet-resourcefulness to his performance.Great supporting cast too. Nobody puts a foot wrong.


                
A mild mannered, young man 'Naz' takes his father's cab to head to a House Party, en route he encounters a mysterious, attractive girl. Captivated by her, Has heads back to her place, where the two make out. Was!into up several hours later, Has discovers she's been killed, terrified he runs off, but is soon picked up by the Police.The question is, did her or didn't he?This is the art of storytelling at its finest, as a story, it's not exactly unique, but the way it's told, the way it unravels, the realism, that feels unique.Riz Ahmed is a revelation as Naz, brilliant from the first scene to the last, I believed every aspect of the character, he had an innocence and a sincerity that was crucial for the role. The transformation in his character throughout was amazingly played out. You'd struggle to recognise Naz in the last from the first episode.I loved John Turtutrro and his character John Stone, a superb performance, he made John so interesting, his eczema/psoriasis gave him a unique side story.I won't pretend to know a great deal about the American legal and penal service, but I think what the writer was trying to show was that you put a shy kid into the prison service, and he'll come out of it worse then when he went in.I can think of no negatives whatsoever, possibly only the ambiguity at the end, did he do it or not? I think I it was made 99% clear that he was innocent, but I'm sure a second series will reply explore.The Night of is fantastic 10/10
I loved this show, in fact, I still do. 
The storyline was interesting, and the cinematography was absolutely stunning. I am proud and I congratulate everyone involved in the making of this show, not only for their outstanding work, but how passionate they were with their roles throughout this show. Kudos,-Ayano


                
"The Night Of" (as in the commonly used court phrase, "on the night of") is a griping HBO drama filmed in the gritty sections of New York. The story innocently begins when a Muslim college student (Riz Ahmed) picks up a party girl in his father's taxi cab and drives her around the city. After a night of sex and drugs in her bedroom, he wakes up and finds her brutally stabbed, naked body. A legal "night crawler" (John Tuturro) happens to run into young Nasir during his arrest and claims him as his client but is forced to share his fee with a beautiful but untested Muslim lawyer (Amara Karan). They are a formidable team with his street smarts and her conviction in Naz's innocence and cast doubt in this "open and shut" murder case in spite of the brazen wrongdoings committed by the police, the prosecuting attorney, and the prison guards. The murky suspense keeps building as each thought provoking episode airs and the entire series deserves a 10 out of 10.


                
The best TV I have seen for a very long time, genius writing, visuals, and superb acting. I was mesmerized from first episode, every word, every expression I had to see. The whole ambiance was compelling, when I look back now, I feel that I watched it in black and white! The distractions of John Turturro, who was reminiscent of Dustin Hoffman's lawyer character in Sleepers, kept you personally involved with him, and his integrity and experience were real. I felt from the first episode that we (the viewers) did not know if Naz was innocent or not, but felt great empathy for him, the wonderful final episode showed that the jury did not know either. Naz himself was not sure - Helen Weiss finally got him to say he did not know! We wanted him to be cleared and walk free, so many other suspects who never came to anything but gave us hope. I feel the ending still had an element of doubt, even his mother was unsettled by the whole court procedure and showed her doubts. I really hope there is a second series to follow up on the last suspect and fully clear Naz. The other reviews are good on this page but maybe missed a subtlety of doubt that I feel was there, to keep us watching. This was brilliance! Great shame he became drug dependent -another reason we need another series.
When I started watching this I found it a bit too frightening, because I'm an Indian man, and this could so easily happen to me, or any of us.The show deals with the issue of assumed culpability, especially nowadays against people of Muslim heritage (or who look Muslim), and also the systematic criminalisation of the poor, as fodder to be pumped into the for-profit jail system. But the show is surprisingly even-handed. True, cops need to make their quotas, but they're not all evil dumbasses - they've seen it all and they can read who's a killer and who's an innocent kid in the blink of an eye. But someone has to be charged, and it just so happens that oftentimes that someone turns out to be someone non-white. John Turturro's arrival in the first episode was one of the best hero introductions I have seen in years and years. It was like he showed up on screen and I breathed an audible sigh of relief - John Turturro's here now and everything's going to be OK - or is it? He's a drunk, fuckup, ambulance chaser who's down on his luck with no one looking after him. Can he really save the day?The show has already made me cry a few times - like when Nasir's mother made him some home food when they were first allowed to visit him, and she took it there so carefully, but the guards wouldn't let her give it to him. The casting on this show is outstanding. John Turturro it goes without saying, but this is definitely Riz Ahmed's best ever performance - even better than in Nightcrawler. And it's lovely to see the wonderful Glenne Headley again.I have only watched the first four episodes, so don't have any idea how the story will unfold, but so far this is one of the best new shows I have seen for ages.


                
Of course I read the negative reviews. But they are all so one-dimensional.They say: a/ No answers to all questions in the end b/ No ridiculous twists in the end c/ The acting is supposedly very bad? Why? d/ The filming is stupidWell, I found this series superb!Nothing one-dimensional here, but multi layers. For instance, the good boy isn't all that good, the low life lawyer is in fact very clever. The detective is a gentle beast, but in the end he is still a good detective and goes investigating after retirement, and so on and so on. All characters are believable, there is no attempt to make the police the bad guy, or the DA, they all do their jobs.The filming is very nice and clever, the shots in close-up made sense, like the falling lighter out of the hands of Freddy, later out of the hands of Naz after smoking. And there are many close-ups that refer to an event...Some may say there are a lot of details that could be left out. I disagree...The whole struggle with the "feet" of the lawyer appeared to be "stress" in the end. And the feet did make him extra repulsive.Apart from humorous effects, the cat was symbolic in two ways. 1. As long as he cared for the cat the case was alive...when he thought the case fell apart, he brought the cat back to the animal home.2. He felt very alone, his son didn't want to know him, when the cat was there he could say goodnight, or "I am leaving".There was a link to Naz, he phoned Chandra to just say goodnight to someone...The change of Naz, to survive in prison you have to change, you can be a "yarn", but if held long enough, you will change.So many things in this series you can think about.OK, maybe it has done before, I do not mind, this is very well done, ...
Jeannie Berlin! Jeannie Berlin!!!! Need I say more. When ever I see her name in a Movie, Play, teaching, reading just plain speaking I'll be there because I know it will be an extraordinary experience. She's just so interesting and all the characters she plays are so unique. And this character "Helen" she's playing in "The Night Of" I can tell is a real ball buster. This show is so good. When the credits start to roll these last two episodes, I found myself in the same state, My hands, palms up resting on either side of me, my mouth agape, eyes wide open slightly stinging and totally dry because I didn't blink through the entire show! Can't wait till Sunday. THANK YOU HBO!!!!


                
This is what TV shows should be like. In an age of stupid teenage shows or stupid superheroes shows with far-fetched science, getting something as real and raw as The Night Of is so so so so refreshing. You get a real look (at least it feels at real as it can get without going into documentary mode) at the NY jail system and at how a normal kid can spiral down once he's in it. Nothing in this show feels fake or forced, not the acting, not the storytelling, not the facts of how things happen... nothing! Everything here feels so real. Don't go at this expecting non-stop action and big budget special effects, you'll crash miserable. The action in this show is delivered emotionally and mentally. There are so few good shows out there that once I finished this one I just felt like going back at it from the start, that's how good it is. Thank you for such a piece of art!


                
Where to start? So far only 3 episodes in The Night Of tells the story of a young Muslim guy, Nasim, who is an extremely likable young kid, who's never been in trouble in his life. I won't add any spoilers, but essentially he wakes up, not remembering his actions (Memento style) and he's in a load of trouble. The acting, the writing, the pacing, everything is superb so far, and it's the first show since I began watching Game of Thrones where I can't wait for the next episode to be on. Stop reading this and get watching. Keen to see where the series goes, but as of this moment i'd probably give it a 9.5/10 (rounded up on this review).


                
Watch the pilot of this episode, and I promise you will be sucked into the incredible depiction of a crime investigation from a perspective you haven't seen before.It's story, while predictable at times, is both haunting and enticing. The telling of it, however, is where this show absolutely brings the house down. From great acting to perfect music (as always, great job HBO), it feels like just about every aspect of this show has been nailed perfectly.From the moment the pilot starts, you can feel the directors set the story up deliberately, like a set of dominoes. You watch, in a tense, morbid realization, as the dominoes then come crashing down on the main character's world.Aside from the telling of the story, each shot of the show just feels right. Props to the director(s) and cinematographers on this one. The lighting and sets all perfectly display and reflect moods. I mentioned it before, but the music weaves in and out of this perfectly.Great show, I highly recommend it.


                
Great acting, great directing, great camera work and awesome story telling. The only negative I can think of about this series is that it isn't returning for a second season.


                
This caught my attention from the very start and kept me wanting to know more. The best character is the lawyer. I won't mention any spoilers, just WATCH IT !


                
This show just grabbed me by the proverbials.....bit slow to start but it reels you in and is addicting.....great acting,story line, production......I can't fault it in the least .....I watched the full series one after the other.....everyone needs to watch this show I just loved it


                
Wow. I love this show. I don't normally write reviews, but I've been telling all my friends to see it. The story is deep, each character is developed very well, not a cookie cutter stereotype. The camera work is amazing - I'm an amateur photographer so maybe I appreciate it a bit more than a regular viewer. They've really taken great care to make the experience very immersing. The best I've seen in a long time. This is not a show with fast action and lots of flash, but I was watching this along with GoT, and honestly I wanted to tune in to Tno before Game of Thrones to see what happens next (and I love GoT).


                
It's the start of a new brilliant TV show from HBO after The Wire and True Detective. It Carries hope on it so much. With a masterpiece song by Jeff Russo. Nicely done. It's Dark with stress and with the great acting and beautiful New York atmosphere on it. I hope the next episodes don't disappoint us and I expect more Police work and Criminal activities. My last word is that The Night Of is a totally well made TV show after a year from True Detective.and It's Totally recommended. I think this TV show will be one of the bests in Summer. This bloody IMDb Doesn't allow me to write a bloody review for maxing up the rate. The Night Of is the one. this is the one that we were waiting for. I guess it should be 10 lines by now. common IMDb let me post my freaking Review. YES!
I have never given any program a '10' before I watched this mesmerizing account of an incredibly realistic portrayal of law and order in the USA- of-today. You felt you were actually in the precinct, actually in the prison and right there in the court for the trial....where the ending was the most satisfying ever. The quality of the acting was beyond belief -mega congrats to all....but especially to the main leads. It would be great to try to fund and produce a second series but maybe better to leave perfection alone. The family of the late, great James Gandolfini (Exec Producer)must be very proud of his contribution to this wonderful achievement.


                
