Just another True Detective-like show. The ambiance doesn't work, it pushes a dark atmosphere to balance with the lacks of the screenplay. Most of the secondary roles do not have deep stories, they are not at all endearing. The only good thing about this show is John Turturro, who plays great an unusual attorney. The main character, "Naz" is rather good, the acting is great but his character evolve to quickly from an unknown nerd to michael scofield from Prison Break. There is a lot of useless scenes which aim probably was to install this dark atmosphere but it doesn't work. During those kind of scenes you just asking yourself: Could this show have been related in one single episode?
I really don't know why I'm still watching this, I somehow made it to episode 5.I'm very surprised that the master writer Steven Zaillian wrote and directed this considering his extreme talent. But what the f*** was he thinking? This show is one of the slowest, mundane, drawn out, cliché messes I've ever seen.In so many scenes things happen where I laugh, cringe, sign, you name it. Our main character is in jail and all these inmates want to help him, giving him detailed advice, talking really dramatically. For some reason they treat him well? I don't know maybe Steven needs to be locked up in a jail in New York for a couple weeks to understand the fear that exists there. In another scene a TV cameraman is walking around and John Turturro says HEY record me!! And the cameraman turns towards him and his rant is immediately being aired?? What the f***. I guess I forgot, TV cameramen actually have complete control of television stations, there aren't producers or directors or endless layers of security and structure and vetting, just a bunch of cameramen who wander the city and record s*** that ends up on TV. And we have our main character Naz, played by Riz Ahmed who I really liked before getting deep into this, who is just another math nerd who seemingly never says no to anything BUT once he gets into prison he's a big ol tough boy.? Another detail that was overlooked was the fact that Naz's father, who is supposed to be Pakistani, is played by Peyman Moaadi, an Iranian. A recurring theme is overcoming racism but the casting director still doesn't know the difference between South Asia and the Middle East? How disheartening to any viewer from either of those areas.On top of everything, I have no idea why the f*** it's taken so many episodes for nothing to happen. There's no drama, no comedy, no thrill, no payoff, f***ing NOTHING to look forward to. How the f*** is this rated so highly?!!?This show is so full of confusing decisions I don't how this has reached any layer of appreciation. If I feel like risking 5 more hours of my life I'll come back and update/delete this and write another review.
Sitting through all eight episodes of this junk (including the finale which by itself is the length of a feature film) is the biggest waste of time I can imagine. Not sure what's happening with the IMDb ratings - can only assume it's some sort of virus affecting the site. This show is incredibly uneventful and boring, and there's hardly any emphasis on the investigation of the murder case at all. The pilot looked fine, but after that it was as if the writers just stopped caring. Then the acting is abysmal, with the exception of John Torturro - can't quite decide who was worse, the couple playing the parents or the female lawyer, except that since the lawyer had more screen time she became the most excruciating to watch. Stay away from this one, but if you do go through with watching it then please don't come back here to troll the site by giving this show a glowing review.


                
From the very beginning, The Night Of was pretty stupid. The boy just met this girl, took her to her house, and did whatever she wanted him to do. He never asked what that white powder was that he snuffed. And when he saw her dead body with blood all over, there was hardly much reaction on his face just turning the lights on and off. Without thinking he took the knife and ran away. I mean the fingerprints of the killer on the knife. With that much blood splatter, no one ever wondered why his clothes had not a speck of blood. The only reason why I stayed on, with lots and lots of fast forward action, was because I wanted to find who the killer was. The order of the murder case is in reverse. They locked the guy up, charged him as a rapist and murderer and THEN started investigating. The old male lawyer was annoying. Who cares about his disgusting feet and who cares about the cat. I hate it when they try to make the series so long by adding extraneous material. And what also doesn't make sense is when the old lawyer tells him to take the plea like out of the blue. I mean he is no longer his lawyer and was investigating his innocence and then turns around and runs to the courthouse telling him to plead guilty. And then his new attorney Chandra ask the old lawyer for help. Who in their right mind would hire a lawyer who doesn't even want to prove his innocence. The trial is a farce, asking stupid questions. This show is so stupid. I was tired of seeing that old man's lawyers face. What is disgusting is the old lawyer making a pass at the young Indian woman . Is this some kind of perverse way HBO shows are. By the way I don't know why anyone would subscribe to HBO, Showtime, Netflix, and Hulu. There's nothing of substance to watch. I only have them because my roommate subscribes to them.


                
Yes the way it was filmed was good, yes it is good story telling, but after all is said and done it sucked!!!!!!!!! It had plenty of potential but failed to go anywhere, it ends right where it starts and you have ended up wasting 8 hours of your life! John Turturro delivers a great performance as does Riz Ahmed. HBO does a great job in the first episode of really setting the hook in you with this show. I was specially interested because I was a fan of Serial's season one podcast about a Muslim high school student who is convicted of murder. Note there are no similarities to the podcast and HBO's The Night Of other than they are both circled around a young Muslim man. If you start the mini-series it will keep you coming back somehow not for more, but for just something!


                
The Who done it is a waste of time besides the first episode and the last one where you find out who committed the murder. I don't see how anyone would care about the detectives nasty feet.


                
