The more I think about this pilot, the worse it gets. And to think I was so looking forward based on the talent.THERE WILL BE A FEW SPOILERS FOLLOWINGThe plot. Damn it's slow. And incredibly clunky. There are so many little -- no ways that add up to one giant clunker.SPOILER againI'll give you just one. The stupidest student on earth decides to borrow his dad's MEDALLION cab, which is parked outside his dad's house, in New York. The cab is "owned" by 2 others. It's their investment. Yet on a busy mid-evening, about what 9pm -- it's NOT in use. In New York.Err, NO WAY.There are so many of these, it's unreal.As you might guess I HATE plot holes and obvious plot devices.I won't even mention the idiocy involved in getting murder victim to interact with our "hero". So dumb.I really can't be bothered to watch Ep. 2. Again one of my fave actor John Turturro seems to be playing a walking talking cliché.Oh, and when are some HINDU characters going to get a shake in prestige US TV series instead of the usual Muslim.The cop shop look like is was dragged from a Stephen Boccho 70's series.Talking Boccho, check out Murder In The First. Less pretentious and far superior
They sold me this series as a combination between true detective and homeland, first 20 minutes were super boring, standard characters doesn't build anything, some sex scene (as any other first chapter of the any series), then the obvious thing happens they took about 35 minutes for just one thing to happen and it wasn't even original.A loser bullied with a boring life meets hot girl takes drugs, gets wasted, wakes up and found the girl dead. Non original at all. I even started to fast forward it cos it was too predictable. The image quality its good and that's it. Don't expect true detective or homeland from this.
Let me just post what others have said as I barely made it through episode 1 with out changing my mind to watch clouds pass by instead.Louis I turned this ridiculous show off after 5 minutes. It has about as much to do with NYC characters as the man in the moon. Take me to the beach? Give me a break. Richard Price was once capable of writing gritty naturalistic tales. Now he writes a cock-and-bull story that has mesmerized the critics. The emperor has no clothes.EdLouis, you know how I feel about not giving films/shows a chance before railing against them. That said, I've already seen the first two episodes of the miniseries and I can't say that I disagree. But if something feels "off" about its portrait of not just NYC characters, but NYC life in general, it's because there's a sense that the story, so blatantly capitalizing on this true-crime fad that's sweeping pop culture, has been rigged from top to bottom to score very easy points against a roll-call of capital-I issues, mainly the corrupt legal system. I'm going to stay with it to the end, and hope it redeems itself. Digging Riz Ahmed's performance, though.Jeff After two episodes, I'm not inclined to keep going. Slow, clichéd, on-the-nose. The HBO brand means Oscar-caliber direction and cinematography. But the script from Richard Price is a plodding disappointment.


                
So we are introduced with this bright young man, he is obviously an intelligent individual, he studies math and also serves as a math tutor for his university's Basketball team. Later that evening the guy takes his dad's taxi to go to a party, fine seems reasonable enough, young people do this things, but this is where the show goes full retardation. A girl walks into his cab, and he's like " I'm off duty", but the girl is like "take me places" so he's like "OK I will". Then the girl is like " take these drugs" and the dude is like, "no I don't do drugs" but the girl is like "common I'm hot, do these drugs with me" and he is like "OK". Then the girl takes out a knife and says "stab yourself with this knife" and guy is like "no way!" and the girl is like "do it!" and the guy does it. Then the girl goes "now stab me" and he's like "no" and she says "please" and he says "OK just once" and he stabs here. This is where I stopped watching, couldn't keep watching, it's like the main character doesn't have a will of his own, he just goes along with things, so why did the show try so hard to establish him as an intelligent person at the beginning?


                
nothing new under the sun.The sane old story of the goody good boy from humble working class family and the underdog lower. have we not seen it before in hundred films and TV shows?Slow going story that feels much like a literal copy. The only new idea is the leg eczema which I find extra repulsing ?The cast is great though Turturro is way beneath his great talent.Slow, boring too standard and a waste of time. I expect so much better from an HBO series. I sincerely advice anyone who hasn't seen the original to see it.


                
