The story line is just the same as a documentary i watched(shot and paralyzed by Manasseh Azuri in Ghana, just check it on YOUTUBE). i just love movies with DRAMA and investigation and the night of happen to be one of them. Guys this series is amazing, follow it.Every day in our lives we faces or hear about murder cases like the one portray in night of, as to whether these individuals commit such offenses depends on swift actions taken by police department and our criminal justice system. The legal system and the court plays a huge also plays a huge role in coming out with the truth,Is very difficult to predict if this young man committed this crime. i recommend this series for every one


                
This show starts really slow and stays slow, I usually hate that but they made it work with this show. You know what's going to happen next but it's so interesting you have to keep watching. The characters are awesome, the kid is an idiot but everyone is still watchable. Great show so far. This review has to contain a certain amount of lines, do I need to explain every detail about the show to give a review. It's a really good interesting show and I enjoy watching it. I would recommend this show, even to people who don't like slow shows. It's not a typical he done it show where the suspect is obviously innocent but looks a little guilty, he looks a lot guilty and you don't actually know for sure he's innocent but he could be........ Great show


                
I'll tell you this. This isn't some show where they show the audience things that happen that none of the characters know. You don't get a behind the scenes sneak peak at what actually happened. As a viewer you feel like you are part of the jury, putting together the pieces as you go to figure out what actually happened. 
Kind of a spoiler ahead:
This is why I believe the ending is the way it is. You get as much evidence as the jury did. No one knows what really happened. You see his story and then you get to see the evidence they find but that's it. I find from an entertainment point of view it could've been better but from a realistic point of view, thinking about how things like this happen in real life where you never know the full story, it was absolutely perfect. Personally I would've like it a bit more entertaining but that's me.
This nine (9) part mini series caught Mrs. Shullivan's and my own attention from the get go. We binged watched the series over two consecutive evenings. Dinner, then we binged on the first five episodes and couldn't wait for the next evening to find out if the young man named Nasir 'Naz' Khan (Riz Ahmed) was guilty of the brutal murder of a young woman who was discovered in her bed mutilated. The detective working the case was veteran Detective Dennis Box (Bill Camp) who just retired after making this last arrest of Naz and passing a substantial amount of evidence over to the state crown attorney. The murder suspect Naz whose father was a three way part owner of a licensed cab, Naz had taken his father's cab without permission so that he could get to a party that night, but instead inadvertently and quite innocently met the young women he would have sex with later that night before she was discovered the following morning murdered and badly mutilated in her own bed. Within the first episode we get to meet the ambulance chaser lawyer John Stone played to perfection by John Turturro. It would not be fair to compare John Turturro's performance to the likes of let's say Peter Falk as the sloppily dressed detective Columbo, but let's just say that John Turturro has a really bad skin condition that turns most of his clients off. While Naz sits in Rikers prison awaiting for his trial date to come up, he realizes rather reluctantly that he will not be able to survive in Rikers prison without some protection. An alpha figure in Rikers is a professional boxer named Freddy Knight (played by Michael Kenneth Williams) who likes Naz because Naz is one of a kind according to Freddy.There are a number of other great performances far too many to mention them all in this review. Oh, I digress. The following night Mrs. Shullivan and I had dinner and proceeded to watch the final four episodes. I must say that episodes 6, 7, and 8, were not as strong as the first five episodes, but the final episode reinforced our earlier opinion that the mini series was excellent. The series ended on a high note that I prefer not to write any spoiler. The Night Of cinematography took me back to the earlier 1970's era with films like (1971) The French Connection and (1973) Serpico. Yes the Night Of is in great company and well worth watching.I give the series an 8 out of 10 rating.


                
At first it seems a classic whodunit. But then, it quickly becomes clear that this isn't that at all. The character developments are brilliant and the performances put in by the cast are incredible.


                
I just finished the first 3 eps of this brand new HBO original mini- series last night from Steven Zaillian ("Schindler's List") and Richard Price ("Clockers"), and the premium cable network once again proves why they continue to be at the top of the game of original programming.This is a "who-done-it" of sorts concerning a young Brooklyn Muslim man who is accused of a brutal murder of a woman one night after he borrows his father's cab. John Turturro plays the "ambulance chaser" attorney who comes in to the rescue, only he's never tried a murder case before. And that actor who played "Nucky" on "Boardwalk Empire" has a real cool character as this imprisoned kingpin who takes the accused under his wings while he's awaiting trial.Of course, you're thinking to yourself, could he? Did he? The show sorta sets itself up for you to assume he's innocent, but you find yourself thinking something more is going on here -- but what is it!! Once again, bravo to the masters at "Home Box Office"!.......
I really enjoyed the first episode and I think it is the most interesting and amazing one among the others. I watched it three times the first night I got it and nearly I flew out of mind. That episode is a truly manifestation of this Persian poem by Hafez:
(I couldn't post the Persian text here, because of character error, so it can be reached in the following link below)
The meaning:
O heart, in His tress - like noose , dont twist , and come out from its fancy For , there Thou seest severed heads , crimeless , guiltless.The other episodes were actually some scratching of the first one, so the core of the film is embedded in the first episode. No
All the episode are absolutely riveting from start to finish. Almost everything about this show is well done. The acting is great, the cinematography is very expressionistic


                
Good show, but it gets a bit ridiculous at times. Prison is actually safer than the streets in terms of potential murder on average. Also, what are these subplots about John's eczema and cat? Is this just another thing where something physical bugs him until he gets the big break on the Nazir Khan case? I feel the same way about each of these scenes as I do when Maester Pycelle did the calisthenics in Game of Thrones. The show seems to be plodding along and I am somewhat reluctant to see how they're possibly going to wrap this all up in one more episode.


                
Is Nasir's demeanour at times. I appreciated Riz Ahmed's use of subtle performance at certain points in the show, however during the arc of Nas' "transformation" it came across as a bit disturbing. I could forgive the abrupt change in (his) character but think that his lack of emotions was totally unrealistic.


                
Didn't think it would be as good as it was. Really glad I watched it all.


                
Recent years have seen me moving from watching series with crime-per- episode to (mini)series you are recommended to watch in succession, as multiple flashbacks, sidelines and altering events would otherwise hinder to understand what is really going on and why. The Night Of is another good example of them, including different venues and character changes, enabling to create witty contrasts and contradictions, e.g. between home, prison and courtroom.Indeed, the biggest value here are characters and performances, leading with John Turturro as John Stone (particularly the mix of tragic and comic) and Riz Ahmed as Nasir "Naz" Khan (particularly his transformation from a mild independent boy to a tough dependent guy); their skills and versatility are always visible, although the number of scenes with them together is not so big. On the other hand, Bill Camp as Dennis Box was just okay, nothing special - or perhaps it was the intent to create an "ordinary", rather static character; the share of clichés here was the biggest.In general, the plot is logical and versatile, but some scenes a bit "naive" to me as an experienced viewer; I would have liked to ponder on and over till the final moments whether Raz was really guilty or not, but the answer was clear to me in Episode 1 already. Another issue that amazes me - is the hierarchy in US prisons still so "open" and widespread?As I have not seen the earlier UK version called Criminal Justice, I do not intend to delve into the debate on how the original one is better because "it always is". In this case, I liked the US version a lot. As I did with The Wire, where Richard Price was a co-writer as well.


                
This series is typical of HBO. It's well written, well filmed and brilliantly acted. But hey, the SOUND is annoying. I find I'm often straining to hear what's being said as the background noise is almost overwhelming. It's annoying as hell. I can't stress the word ANNOYING enough. The sound guy is the one who should spend some REAL time at Rikers Island.With that said, I saw the other choices for the part of John Stone. I can say I can see either one playing him, but John Turturro is brilliant. Here's a guy who has done insane comedy and tough drama seamlessly. He does so here. I'm glad he got the part in the long run, no slight to anyone. He's sympathetic and OK, he can pull off looking like a shlub better than almost anyone when we know he's NO shlub.Riz Ahmed is scary good. He almost has me believing he's becoming a real thug while in prison. Of course he's sabotaging his defense, but he's surviving.Peyman Moaadi and Poorna Jagannathan (I believe I've seen Peyman before)are magnificent as his parents, they are proud and determined and yet, real. This means, vulnerable and scared and desperate.Bill Camp as Sgt. Box is admirable. He's doing what he sees is right and with a case as seemingly airtight as this, he'd be a damn fool to do otherwise. He's not on a crusade, he simply wants justice done.Every other supporting cast member does a fine job. To acknowledge each and everyone would be not only lengthy, but would get a bit pretentious.Finish this up with a simple endorsement, FAN-DAMN-TASTIC! The photography is wonderful and every cast member does a splendid job. If only I could be 100% sure of what they were saying. What was that again? My rewind button is wearing out.


                
This show keeps you on your toes from the very first episode.Questions arise like Who killed the victim?How did the murder happen?The problem is they don't provide a very convincing end.The excitement after 7th episode seeing that 8th episode is the episode with the biggest run- time so it must be a very great end but trust me I expected better.I would have given it a 9 definitely if the ending was very convincing.It's not bad but,in my opinion,somehow blurry and unconvincing.Wish they had a better end but anyway recommended since it's a good series.
Nasir 'Naz' Khan (Riz Ahmed) is a Pakistani-American college math student. He was born and raised in New York, while never been in Pakistan. He sneaks out for a Friday night party, stealing his father's taxi cab. He is inexperienced. He gets lost in Manhattan and unable to turn on the Off-Duty light. Andrea Cornish jumps into his cab and Naz gives the pretty girl a ride. It ends with a night of drugs, sex, passing out, and discovering her dead body stabbed 22 times. Veteran police detective Dennis Box leads the investigation and Helen Weiss is the grizzled district attorney. Ambulance chaser John Stone (John Turturro) observes Naz in the holding cell and takes him on as a client. Throughout the events, he's dealing with foot issues and Andrea's cat which he's allergic to. Headline seeking lawyer Alison Crowe and her ethnic minion Chandra Kapoor convince Naz's parents to hire them instead. Naz is denied bail and forced into Rikers where he is recruited by prisoner Freddy Knight (Michael Kenneth Williams).This is essentially a police and court procedural told in a longer form than the usual weekly case. It is meticulously and superbly made. The acting is amazing. Turturro is fun. Riz Ahmed is a discovery. Everybody is great. There is a constant tension throughout. On the negative side, Naz is a little infuriating and there are some little unlikely turns. I don't believe the restaurateur would incriminate himself on the stand about selling drugs. Chandra falling for Naz is also a little awkward. The last two episodes fall a little flat as the case comes to a close. These are all minor quibbles and overall, this is top-rank TV.


                
The shows is great. I think all young men should watch as a warning of what can happen to one unintentionally.However, The portrayal of drug use is totally unrealistic. If Khan became an addict (especially a crack addict), there is no way he would be as calm as he was during the court sessions. Crack at night, Court during day? No way. A crack addict will be up all night and all movements will be under the influence.Court itself whether one is guilty or innocent would be nerve wracking. That being said all other aspects of the show,acting and writing are impeccable. I loved John Turturro's role, his acting and lines


                
I try not to exaggerate in reviews, but I must sing the praises of this well-crafted and well-executed crime drama written by one of my favorite authors, Richard Price, and performed by one of my favorite actors, John Turturro.All of our lives are shown in their myriad constraints throughout this mini-series, whether the constraints are sexual, medical, ethnic, criminal, social, or judicial. Even the animals are on dog and cat death row. No one is getting what they seek from the tattered, post- 9/11 American Dream, least of all the apparently innocuous Naz, whose one night stand goes south when he discovers his hookup unhooked from life. Soon thereafter he encounters "good cop" Box and "No Fee Til You're Free" lawyer John Stone. A stint on Rikers Island grows more promising when the boss convict takes Naz under his wing. Michael Kenneth Williams delivers his usual sterling performance, but at this point his several roles as African- American Criminal With Moral Compass and Compassion threaten to typecast him, which would be a too limiting result for his talent.There are a number of plot shortfalls that are saved by superb performances. The extent of the blood spatters versus the accused's freedom from blood. The prosecution's failure to provide the defense with the evidence concerning a third suspect, which would be grounds for ethical review were it not for the magic of the deadlocked jury.As dismaying and violent as much of this show is, several of the characters find their way to redemption in the end. Several do not. The viewer, however, will likely find himself or herself well satisfied by the performances turned in by the cast of "The Night Of."
So, just occasionally, they still do make interesting, grown up TV shows. For me, this is the best show I've seen for many a year, perhaps since Band of Brothers. The first episode was entirely predictable and I almost stopped watching. But once the plot had been established it turned into an intelligent exploration of how the US legal system can damage an innocent man. I particularly liked the parallel between the accused (Riz Ahmed) and his down at heel lawyer (John Turturro); the accused being given advise about his predicament by everyone, from cop to crook to lawyer, and not knowing who to believe - the lawyer visiting doctor after doctor to try to find a cure for his eczema, each one contradicting the advice of the previous. Naz was such a likable character, slowly corrupted in his efforts to survive in prison. The only other negative I have is that the defense lawyer (Amara Karan) had a very unlikely dalliance with Naz, resulting in her smuggling drugs into prison for him. These quibbles brought my overall mark down.
Watch it like a drama and you'll enjoy it. Watch it only for the suspense and you might feel underwhelmed. Story of a young man accused of a girls murder after a night out of fun goes terribly wrong. All the characters are developed slowly and nicely and the portrayals are very real. The parallel stories of different characters having similar undercurrents is a nice touch. Does get a bit gross at times in the garb of being realistic. Also the transformation of the protagonist from a decent college kid to a hardened prison inmate seems a little rushed. But minor niggles aside it is a good show for a mature audience. Good performances by Riz Ahmed as Naz the accused man and John Torturro as the inadequate lawyer defending him.


                
I really enjoyed this series..it took a while to really get absorbed..I have two continuity issues I would like to mention.. #1..And I have seen this A LOT and it drives me nuts...when blood spatter stays bright red days after an event. Now we all know it gets darker #2~Naz doing strenuous push ups shortly after an egregious assault on his arm Yes, little things but these oversights always bug me.. NOT a spoiler alert but the very very last scene..and I mean the last image gave me hope.


                
I began watching this series after some reviews i read that it remind season 1 of the true detective which i adored. Aftre i watched the pilot..very long by the way...i like the story! The lawiers character was my favorite one. Nobody believed in him he looked distorbing but to be honest he felt so real it was amazing what the story did . About the main character now .. the straggle he had inside prison and the people he met there where very interesting. The episode i liked most was the last one..i felt for the people and i wanted the truth to come out but it didn't and was a little disappointed about that.i really hoped they did because his life after prison would be better..but surely life is not always fair and we tent to judge badly who deserve better.i loved the messages it gave me .Thank you for that. bravo for the acting and the directing but it would be a ten for me if it was more original .


                
