What struck me after watching the first episode of "The Night Of" is that this is a story that has been told on countless iterations of "Law and Order". The difference is the luxury of not having to tell it in 40 minutes and the bringing to bear of HBO's prodigious production values combined with a first-rate cast of mostly little-known actors. The portrayal of the police is unlike anything I've seen before: annoyance about working past the end of a shift, the passing of the buck so someone else gets a case that will doubtless go into the wee hours of the morning, the careless handling of evidence due to available manpower. Here the police are neither heroes nor villains, rather they're just working men and women doing a job. The atmosphere of the precinct house in the middle of the night is palpable as is the overwhelming sense of helplessness felt by the naive lead character as his night goes from bad to worse. John Torturro's portrayal of a low rent defense attorney who stumbles onto a case much bigger than he imagined holds great promise for future episodes. As I said at the beginning, it's hardly a story we've not seen before but we've never seen it told this well. I look forward to watching it develop.


                
HBO's new crime drama 'The Night Of' has sucked me in right from the very beginning. The pilot starts up very slow but builds suspense as it starts to tell the story, and that's where it shines; in it's storytelling. It was dramatically convincing and had a pleasantly dark atmosphere.The pilot was very long (1hr 20min) but it felt much shorter, it was tense from start to finish, in the sense of the story it was actually very predictable, but it was the acting and how the story was portrayed that made it so gripping and watchable. Not a second went by where my attention wasn't glued to the TV screen. What really made me love the pilot was how REAL the story felt, there wasn't a moment that made me think that it was a stupid story, it felt REAL. The acting was superb by everyone, the cinematography was perfect with it's overall dark tone and lighting, and the music just set the scene playing in the background to the tone of the show.The overall mood of the show has been set for the series, and if it stays at this standard for the rest of the series it will be an ultimate success. I look forward to where the rest of this series takes us! No complaints yet!9/10


                
Really, really like this one. Right off I liked several of the characters, and as the first episode unfolded I was drawn more and more into the story line. The acting is very good, the dialogue intelligent, and the characters are real. The first episode has me anxiously awaiting the next one. As events unfolded and things got more and more complicated, I could almost put myself in his place and wondered what in the world would I do if this happened to me. I have watched a lot of series over the years and this one is right up there with the best I have seen. Usually go for the hard hitting action series like Banshee, 24, Prison Break, Strike Back, Vikings, etc. This one is very much different from them, but I found myself drawn to it right from the opening scene.


                
I never expected it to be this good, of course the creators are awesome guys with some amazing series in the curriculum like The Wire. And even our man Gandolfini was inside this awesome work at some point (RIP Tony Soprano).The story is so thrilling and immersive that you can feel yourself inside the show, the actors make it feel real fellas, you feel scary as if everything is happening to you, your heart will just burst up when you see a cop.We will be introduced to smart dialogues and awesome actuation.It is a must watch and there is no person who wont love this show, HBO is killing it again and we must follow this astonishing story. Even a 10 isn't enough to give for this series,nit is already a new hit and is already on my top 3.


                
I thought the opening episode of the new HBO limited series The Night Of, which Roger Ebert's website called Agatha Christie meets The Wire, was engrossing and compelling. Richard Price is a solid writer, having knocked out juicy realism before in scripts for solid films like Sea of Love, Color of Money & the Scorsese "Life's Lessons" segment of New York Stories, and Steven Zaillian, an even better writer, directs here with the same precision for detail he brought to the underrated A Civil Action (Travolta, Duvall).Great subtle acting abounds, and a modern day Twin Peaks meets True Detective emerges. I've always been a big John Turturro fan, and his grizzled and weary performance here as the suspect's attorney just might end up being Emmy worthy (time will tell). Riz Ahmed, as the main protagonist, brings the same innocent, befuddled but smarter-than-you-think characterization to the mystery storyline here that he aced as Gyllenhaal's doomed side-kick in Nightcrawler, and we just can't stop watching, because every time we ever felt stupid, cornered or scared is echoed in his soft spoken mannerisms of trapped anguish.I'm looking forward to watching the remaining 7 episodes every Sunday night at 9 on HBO.


                
Incredibly fabulous visuals in the exquisite detailing of each frame, tonality,depth of perspectives and the dynamic and graphic balance of each visual image is beautifully worked - a real visual treat! Really stunning work -thank you so much I am sure much of the subtlety of your frames go unnoticed but for those who recognize the depth and artistry involved your work is outstanding!!!Each frame is faultless, a treasure. Heaven on earth. I cannot recommend this series more highly enough to anyone who is interested in well crafted visual story telling that not only has great content but original execution with a tremendously subtle erudite evocative visual style. A true lesson in content, myth and culture in each frame!


                
An enthralling and disturbingly realistic insight into the permeating effects on an emotional, cultural and psychological level of the criminal justice system.
The script with good acting feel like watching fairly good picture.


                
"The Night Of" combines elements of the popular podcast "Serial"' and the TV series "Oz". "The Night Of" depicts the horrific conditions endured by Naz on Ryker's Island, reminding the viewer of "Oz". And half-truths and damning evidence suggest the Serial podcast about a young Pakistani American teenager, Adnan Syed. Did he or didn't he—that is the question in both. Both the real-life Adnan and the fictional Naz maintain their innocence, even as more distressing details of the crime surface.Read the entire review , "The Night Of"--"A Tale of Darkness" at www.unhealedwound.com and let me know what you think.


                
There have been plenty of police procedurals plotted, structured, written, filmed and rolled out in most mediums, that one can, in all fairness, complain of genre-fatigue. Well, something like this makes the case that, no matter how much fatigued one might be, of either the genre itself, or the true stories that do inspire a few works for some people, that quality work can still be mined from the plethora of stories happening in our midst. Like 'The Wire', and Denis Villeneuve's 'Prisoners' or David Fincher's 'Zodiac', and even, to a larger extent actually, the 'Red Riding' trilogy, this one is deliberately paced, on purpose, and saying that there's tremendous attention paid to every little detail, would either be apt, or an understatement, if one compares it to most of the other work being dumped across most networks. Sample these:* The main case, a homicide, is further complicated by wrongful/mistaken/discarded witness testimonies. Each and every instance is mapped out in detail, and their (d)evolution is painstakingly shown from beginning to end.* The main case, a homicide, is further complicated by suits and counter-suits (some filed, some not), few involving logistics used, and each of those threads is introduced carefully, allowing us, the audience to note the information necessary, and over a few episodes, touched-upon and covered, again, in great detail.* Efficient workers' work is showcased, as are the activities that could have been done but were not, and also instances where inefficient-appearing professionals end up inadvertently (or on- purpose, left to our interpretation) doing things that persons of their profile might not be able to. Ordinarily, this might smack of poor characterization, if executed poorly, but this, being as masterful as all of those masterworks I referenced earlier, dots all the i's in this regard. The most important part? It humanizes everything and everybody (proving it's not just another 'filmed' excerpt of sorts) while showing how the system around is capable of de-humanizing us. How many innocents have been trampled by the system we created, and are still trapped within, unable to find a voice to speak up for them?* The frailties and foibles of each and every character are peeled out, sometimes literally, forcing them to deal with stuff going in in their immediate vicinity, while also handling whatever it is they need to do in the main plot of the story. Each and every supporting character is given an amazing degree of depth to play with, and the superb ensemble acquit themselves wonderfully.Riz Ahmed, of 'Four Lions', 'Closed Circuit', 'Nightcrawler' and 'The reluctant fundamentalist' is simply superb, having the most difficult arc to sell, forced to be part of a metamorphosis (or reverse-metamorphosis) of sorts.John Turturro needs no intro, but he's on the top of his game, as always.Michael Kenneth Williams, once again, a la Turturro, needs no intro, especially to fans of 'The Wire', who've been following his career since then.Amara Karan is good, as are Poorna Jagannathan (Delhi Belly), Peyman Moaadi (A separation / Jodaeiye Nader az Simin), Bill Camp and Jeannie Berlin, among others. A few metaphors, though unsubtle (cat/prison) definitely hit home, and the lack of subtlety can be explained away easily. I enjoyed drawing those parallels. One of the best parts about this mini-series, a la the 1st season of Nic Pizzolato's 'True Detective', is that its self-sufficient, and even if they do not greenlight a season 2, there is no sense of threads left dangling. To most of us, I think that's really important. I look fwd to S2, but can live with it if they decide to end everything with the last episode (Turturro's monologue is one of the best I've heard in the genre). Not to be missed.
This is a hugely enjoyable series from HBO. I've always been a sucker for a drama where the hero in this case Naz has so much compelling evidence against him, in the eyes of the Police the DA and pretty well everyone, he had to have committed the murder. But we the viewer no he is innocent. His only hope is an ambulance chasing lawyer and a retiring detective who despite all the evidence still cannot convince himself that Naz is capable of such a vicious brutal murder. The performances throughout are all superb. The one blemish for me that stops me giving a ten, is when Nazs lawyer during a visit supplies him hard drugs. Would you study and work your arse off to get through the bar, then throw it away by giving drugs to a guy you hardly know? I know it's a piece of fiction And I know she had feelings for Naz but really?
I was browsing the web for some new TV-series, when I came across "HBO's new mini-series" The Night Of, and thought about giving it a try.The story is about a young Pakistani man, who spent a "crazy" night with a girl he'd just met on his day out. After lots of drugs, alcohol and sex, he regains his consciousness only to find out that the young woman is lying dead in bed, covered in her own blood. What you just read was the first half of the pilot episode. Throughout the series, we explore the impact that murder had on our character, Naz, and to the people close to him, the possibility of him being innocent or not, and more importantly the change of character he's going through. The story isn't original at all by itself, and for a guy who doesn't particularly enjoy crime thrillers, I must say that The Night Of never had me bored with it's slow narrative. The supporting actors are the ones to be praised for that. Each one of them has a reason of existence in the show, no matter how little their screen time may be. As of the main characters, they all have different personas, and what's unique here is that you may hate some of them at first, but as his character progresses into the story, you'll end up liking them. Or exactly the opposite. It's amazing, and you have no clue as to what to expect.To wrap this up, The Night Of is a TV-series you should definitely give a try, not because it's something different all together, but because it feels like a story that has happened or can happen. The people we meet here are realistic to their core, and not the comic-y portrayals we usually find in TV-series and movies. So, if you're still reading and have a weekend to spare, go and add that show on your "to-do" list.Have fun!


                
This is a great show that is so much more than the plot. We all empathize with Naz from the beginning, as it could have been anyone. Not only do we see his struggle as he copes with interim imprisonment, we also see the way these false charges affect and oppress his family and those around him: his father's friends and business partners turn against him, his brother is bullied at school and gets kicked out, his mother struggles with doubt - is whole community and Pakistani in general are persecuted, oppressed, and attacked.The show also dives into how interim imprisonment can turn a good kid into a hardened criminal - just to survive. He goes from being a clean-cut, innocent college student to a thug covered in tats and addicted to what I assume is heroine. I also like that the show addressed how, even though they have convincing evidence on another suspect, the government often continues prosecuting innocent men because it's almost assured win.I would have given it a 10, but I wanted to see (a) news of the financial adviser's conviction and (b) the affect of such news on Naz's family - did the oppression and hatred toward the Khan's dissipate once another man was found guilty, or did it continue?In addition to the plot the show's direction, music, acting, and photography all come together to create a truly unique and compelling drama. P.S. I'm pretty sure it was the CAT that was helping Stone's eczema; not the Chinese doctor's herbal treatment...
I just finished this miniseries, which plays like a 9 hour film (similar to True Detective's formula). The acting is superb, with a lot of believable dialogue and purposeful performances across the board. The ambiance of the cinematography is remarkable and fits the dark, slow burn mood of the series acutely. Ambiguity is a big theme, as is the interplay between good and evil, love and lust, violence and survival. I believe the piece is a meditation on the ephemeral nature of justice, the human error in all our faults and the constant tight- roping of fate we all encounter in some form. Some questions are still unanswered, but I like it that way. Check it out and unravel the mystery of Nasir Khan and Andrea Kornish!


                
HBO's true crime tale of Nasir 'Naz' Khan (Riz Ahmed) and the murder of Andrea Cornish (Sofia Black-D'Elia) explored the criminal justice system and thoroughly depressed me every Sunday night through eight weeks this summer. The story took viewers from the night of the crime through the experience of the suspect, lawyers, and investigating officers. The show is one of the most shocking and difficult to watch this summer and will stick with me most likely until the end of the year when I'm picking my top ten. As Naz was thrown into the meat grinder of prison, Jack Stone (John Turturro) worked the case with the help of another attorney Chandra (Amara Karan) picking up on all the leads that Detective Box (Bill Camp) did not investigate during his time as an officer, though he does come through upon his retirement. The show was stacked with other great character actors including Michael K. Williams as Freddy an inmate that takes Naz under his wing. Naz suffers under this mentorship developing a drug addiction, assisting with drug deals, and distracting guards while murders take place. The prosecuting attorney Helen Weiss (Jeannie Berlin) also delivers an impressive performance. Check out more of this review and others at swilliky.com
The Night Of is an interesting venture into a very stale genre. I'll just say up front that in this genre, were stories are almost always extremely predictable, I have absolutely no idea what the resolution will be. The writing has shifted the story and pulled the viewers from one angle (he's innocent) to another (well...maybe not) as I illustrate below.Naz does absolutely everything he can to frame himself for the murder. It's actually quite frustrating to watch. However, we still have some sympathy and faith that he is indeed innocent. This sympathy and faith come through the fantastic portrayal of the character, including his family roots, education, racial and religious "underdog" stereotype, and his boyish demeanor. All these attributes are delivered spot on by Riz Ahmed.The investigative team, as well as the prosecution, build a case so strong you have no doubt he will be found guilty, but there is still that thread of hope hanging there that he didn't do it.Just as the defense starts to find holes in the prosecution, and also secrets from the victims past promoting Naz's innocence, you start to see just how he could possibly be acquitted of this terrible crime. BUT...just as this angle of the story starts to develop you see Naz's own demons start to surface through his need to survive the harsh reality of prison life in Rikers. With these demons surfacing, it almost counteracts the case being built for him by the defense. Meanwhile his support system starts to corrode around him outside of prison, with very few people actually maintaining the belief that he is innocent.All of this is told brilliantly with the backdrop of the hard-working middle class of New York City. The criminal justice theme is shown here in a very realistic light, with much of the typical Hollywood creative liberties stripped, to provide a very gritty and down-to-earth feel. The acting is superb by all actors in the series. It is truly refreshing to have such a predictable and over-portrayed genre contain material that is not necessarily unique, but presented in a very interesting and thrilling manner! Highly recommended! 9/10 stars.
I have to admit that I am no fan of series like "who-dunn-it", because there are a lot of them and they are poorly made.This one, on the other hand, is a jewel. The camera is awesome, the actors are stunning, and the plot is compelling.I'm not much of a writer since I thought "Revenge" was good (referred to the #1 season), so I am laying low here. But this is another masterpiece (after GoT) from HBO. Cudos. I have not much series or shows I do advertisement for, but this is one really worth seeing.Very cautious attempt to the end: I hope he did it. :) To the girl/boy from Ghana some reviews before: I have seen African film making (produced and set in Africa)... The lions in a documentary are the only good ones if they catch their prey. And I'm pretty sure they filmed themselves by a go-pro. Nothing more to be said, nothing more to criticize, nothing more to be judged.
I came to this series on a recommendation, not knowing it was a remake of 2008's criminal justice starring Ben Whishaw.
I got all the way to the second episode before I started noticing the same story elements, in the prison scenes.
I almost stopped watching but I was very impressed by how the characters were rendered, the dialog was real, the characters were real and interesting, the cinematography was out standing, bring attention to small details like the worn corner of a desk or a window caked in age and dust.
This series surpassed the original by miles, and presented phenomenal acting well beyond what we expect from American drama.
The character arcs of the leads are exceptional and insightful, John Turturro turns in a nuanced and understated performance of a life time, and Riz Ahmed's was heart breaking perfection.
The small parts were also exceptional, the sarcastic chemist, the racist witness, the over worked cops, the prison inmates, often with short screen time but enough to filly render deeper dimensions.
The show make serious comments on the American judicial system, while offering no answers, it paints a dark picture, with moments and rays of light.


                
The Night Of is a mini-series about a young man who, after spending a night with a woman, is accused of her murder. Right from the get-go the show opens perfectly. The opening theme is great. It sets the tone really well, and gets the audience into the story and the dark, grittiness of it. Even after the fact, it's effectively used throughout the show. After that, the audience is pretty much bombarded by fantastic acting. Riz Ahmed in particular shines as the main character, a confused kid who hasn't had a bad thought in his life. He sells himself as a good kid who still has a lot going on, and as the plot thickens and his character is tested he himself progresses and takes on an entirely new persona. Yet somehow Ahmed makes this transition seamless. Other actors, like John Turturro and Bill Camp, stand out as well. They both pull off sometimes subtle, sometimes not so subtle performances that are equally great. Of all things in this series, the writing is probably the best. The story is presented in a realistic way, with most every step of the process being shown to the audience. And the great thing is is that it's all still interesting. The show isn't really ever boring. And the writing makes sure of that. Overall The Night Of is fantastic. It's realistic, it's well- written, it's well-acted, and it's got a solid soundtrack. I can't wait to see it again, and in the end I would definitely recommend it.


                
Is it good or bad, white or black? Or are people in shades of gray? The Night Of, shows that to us there is no pure kind or pure evil. The development of the TV Series shows that no one, including Naz, is pure, good or bad. In fact, each character is shown to travel in shades of gray.


                
Good story, good actors, good atmosphere. Everything is good. May be at the beginning it seems slow, boring and somewhere stupid , but very soon you get attached to the characters and then intrigue is kept through all the series. You see the justice system like it is.


                
"The Night of" besides its excellent film making qualities - cinematography, editing, lighting and sound - is a cultural examination of justice in America. The film delves into the social psychology of the people infected by the dysfunction of the justice system. Ahned Riz's quiet charisma coupled with the powerful screen presence of Michael Kenneth Williams hooked me on this series and then we meet Amara Karan. I loved the understatement in Amara's acting and in so many of the supporting characters. The casting is brilliant. The episodic or mini-series gives space and time to film makers to deepen characters and explore relationships. Every moment in "The Night of" oozes with interconnected detail and both drives you to discover how it will end while making you wish the characters could stay with you.
The Night Of is an interesting show which focuses on building suspense through the actions of the characters.Surprisingly much is known - or at least we think we know - about the story and the actions for the show to be this entertaining and keep the curiosity of the watcher intact.Riz Ahmed plays the lead character in the first episode and does a wonderful job of portraying a befuddled youngster unaware of his surroundings and the situation he is in. Bill Camp does an equally wonderful job of being the manipulating yet somewhat sympathetic cop who seems convinced of the young Pakistanis guilt.
You know that kind of special beauty that isn't pretty or lovely or even graceful in any traditional sense? That special beauty that isn't awesome or majestic (like the Grand Canyon's)? That special beauty that overwhelms you bit by bit in little ways - many different little ways - and which leaves you at the end of an hour's contemplation marveling a bit - then more - about how good that landscape is; how complex and skillfully constructed it is; how nuanced are its colors and patterns (dark and light and in-between; mostly dark & in-between); how masterfully its many artists fulfilled their roles; how true the canvas and how fortunate are you to have been there to partake, and to have somehow joined in the work? That's the beauty - the undeniable beauty - and the accomplishment of The Night Of.


                
I liked the trailers and the promotional material I saw for the HBO mini-series The Night Of but I didn't catch it till long after it was done for one reason and one reason only. I just don't like cop shows. There's way too many of them (both of the CSI and the Shield variety) and there's not enough to distinguish one from the other. I finally did check it out because HBO has been churning out some good stuff lately (who doesn't like Game of Thrones?) and I really like some of the actors in the cast. We all know John Turturro is a good actor when he gets good stuff to work with but Riz Ahmed was in a movie called The Reluctant Fundamentalist where he was just so good that his involvement convinced me to pick this up as a rental. I'm so happy I did, it would have been really easy to pass this by but I have to congratulate everyone involved on creating such a well crafted and interesting drama.I read about the formation of The Night Of becoming a mini-series and with the people involved pushing it, I'm surprised there was trouble getting it made. It's unfortunate about James Gandolfini passing away, he also would have killed it in this series but with the two people credited with writing it, Richard Price and Steve Zaillian, you would think they would get an automatic green light. Separately they've been behind the writing of The Wire, The Color of Money, American Gangster, Schindler's List, and Gangs of New York just to name a few. I bring this up because wow is this series well-written. The characters are all easy to relate to, they skirt so many of the clichés of this genre, there's so much good dialogue and they are able to present the atmosphere around the character of Nasir Khan as realistically bleak without overdoing it. Except for a few instances, I was constantly intrigued about what was going to happen next and The Night Of maintained my interest throughout.When it comes to awards for acting, I think the two leads of the series deserve Emmy and Golden Globe consideration. This was a big step for Riz Ahmed, being asked to anchor something like this but he pulled it off effortlessly. His character goes through so much, its through his performance that you see the pain in the transformation of Nasir and how he goes from shy college student to prison-hardened criminal. John Turturro was just amazing as John Stone, he was my favourite of the cast. I liked how he wasn't some starry-eyed dreamer about the court system. He was a realist, someone who was familiar about the dirty side of the justice system and was able to give Nasir sound advice about how to navigate what he was going through. John is completely believable as his character, you're rooting for him the whole time and I was always just waiting for him to just nail his next scene. I don't mean to fail to include the supporting cast, Bill Camp was great as Dennis Box. He was the right mix of curmudgeonly and street smart, in any other series he would be a straight villain but Bill makes him believably stubborn. I also really liked Michael Kenneth Williams as Freddy Knight, again he would have just been a bloodthirsty gang leader anywhere else but Williams is so charming you understand why he takes Nasir under his wing and despite your better judgment, you like him despite his flaws.I was enjoying this series when I was about halfway through it. It was hard to not just turn on the next episode because of how good it was. I didn't like it as much as some of my favourite shows but it was engrossing all the same. The last thing I want to talk about is how beautifully the show wraps up. TV shows usually either try to completely pacify the fans and lack the conviction to go the direction they want in the ending or they try and pull a surprise twist that makes no one happy. This show managed to find a balance of the two that was so satisfying for me. What you want to happen does happen but they're able to frame it in a way that sticks so well to the bittersweet cynicism that is show's consistent tone. I felt like clapping when the final episode finished and it easily bumped The Night Of a half a point up in my rating.Check this show out if you get the chance. There aren't any glaring weaknesses, it does tend to be a downer for most of it because its about how Nasir gets railroaded by the New York judicial system. There are also some violent images and violent scenes but I don't see why you would go in expecting anything else. The show also isn't always action packed, it's still a courtroom drama in the end so there's lots of scenes of gathering evidence, talking to witnesses and so on. I'm so impressed with The Night Of for being such a stellar entry into a genre that could use some spicing up. I hope it gets the award consideration it deserves.
This tense, dark and gritty 'who done it' crime drama will keep you on the edge of your seat. The relationship between an amateur lawyer & methodical detective is as intriguing as the murder case itself. The murder/did he do it/prison/lawyer drama story line isn't original (based on the BBCs 2008 Criminal Justice) however the acting is sublime. Be warned there are plenty of gruesome and nervy prison scenes to get your teeth stuck into.Key cast members: John Tutturro, Bill Camp, Riz Ahmed and Michael Kenneth Williams.For fans of The Wire, The Fall & The People v OJ Simpson.fb.me/inanutshelluk


                
