If there was a word to describe this show it would be dreadful. I was recommended to see this show by friends as it was described by them as hilarious and addictive.However after seeing the first season I could definitely say I would never ever watch a second season. The jokes are repetitive and obvious, the receipt used to create the show as been used over and over by likewise comedy series (not saying nothing about the quality of other shows) and the plot gets really evident reaching the end.Besides, in the beginning of the show the jokes changed between clever jokes and dirty jokes which is really good because of the balance between the target audience. Despite that, when you reach the end of the show you can only get puns and dirty jokes. For example one of the episodes revolves around a racist joke that starts as a funny way to improve the show but ends getting repetitive and irrelevant which makes that episode one of the most boring episodes ever.Watch one episode, if you like watch the rest with your hopes down if you don't like, don't waste your time on this show.


                
Silicon Valley is a poor excuse to keep HBO TV producers employed. The plots are forced. The humor is out of place.From an initial eye test, the actors, settings, and plot line panders to the pretentious HBO watchers and pseudo-intellectuals watching tech feeds on Yahoo Finance. The story and plot line is same old sitcom, yet it is dressed up differently. I could see the producers say "lets make the setting foreign to the average American: Silicon Valley! Add quirky down to earth characters as audience avatars. Squeeze plots out of the average sitcom formula. X character does one thing that creates a problem for Y character. Y character tries to solve it producing hilariously unexpected results and makes another problem. And there you have it. Silicon Valley.But, wait this is different. It's in Silicon Valley. It's smart and like real life. Nope. It's not different. It's about a bunch of nice guys chasing dreams facing the push back from traditions institutions. In this case, the institutions are the big bad tech companies. The characters are no different from artist trying to get record deals, Wall Street brokers aiming for he big bucks, or rookie cops conflicting with bureaucracy. Repeat for 3 seasons , dress it up with masturbatory techno-babble and you have Silicon Valley. The characters are by no means original. Let's go back to Seinfeld crew. Richard is the frantic and passive aggressive Seinfeld. That Mormon looking guy is the weird Kramer one who eats out of a dumpster. The Indian is the minority (Elaine) or "insert racist/sexist jokes character." The one with the beard is the quiet dull character to contrast the others and make snark comments. This is lost potential for HBO. The producers could have added women main characters as tech engineers. They could have added 40 somethings switching careers or learning new tricks. But no. They did cardboard cut out, millennial generation to throw tomatoes at as they navigate life in Silicon Valley. The settings and visuals range from a crappy house to giant tech company perks galore in Silicon Valley. It is so unoriginal and cliché that it doesn't take a Devry major in business to know that these places exist. Yet , HBO forces these images on you as if you are in on the joke. HA HA look at the juxtapositions! With a lack of interesting characters, stories, or plots, the visuals seem hollow and don't achieve the satirical effect that was intended. It just looks like a manufactured and pretentious TV show to be forgotten in 5 years. Overall, don't buy into the Sillicon Valley hype unless you truly want to waste time. If you are smart enough to get what HBO is trying to convey, you should be smart enough to spend your free time watching, reading, or listening to something else that is more entertaining. Do not force yourself to like this.


                
The first season was interesting and even with some logical errors in the script I continued to watch. However getting half way through the second season I started to see a pattern with the script. Whomever was writing this crap just kept spreading the story too thin. It was as if they needed to stretch stuff out because they didn't have enough content to make the episodes interesting.There are too many deus ex machina devices being used. The characters are supposed to be these amazing geniuses in the field of computers but they end up being morons. Too many episodes where they do stuff which isn't realistic or logical. Too many contrived scenes which feel like a square peg being forced in to a round hole.The predictability of the script was terrible too. I could watch the opening scene and then skip to the ending and miss nothing in the middle.I ended up stopping towards the end of the second season. I couldn't handle the predictability of the characters or the overacting, the terrible dialog or the lack of logic. A good analogy would be like watching Family Guy which often uses filler scenes of Peter farting for sixty seconds.


                
I won't watch anything martin starr is in. His hateful political tweets and comments are exactly what this country does not need. Anyone who employs him should be aware they're alienating a significant number of people no matter how good the work is. Stick to acting if that's what you're paid for.


                
This new season felt like long ad for Tesla. Drop from level 10 to 1.


                
I stopped halfway through Season 3 Episode 3 (got through first two seasons always hoping it would get better) and here's my assessment. Worst TV show I have watched in 5 years, at least. Acting is painful to watch and and the writing is amateurish, at best. If a high school student passed in these scripts I'd pat them on the back for trying. When they attempt to be funny, it's heartbreakingly bad, like watching a stand up comedian bomb. Really bad. I do not live and work in Silicon Valley, so maybe I'm missing all the REALLY inside humor, but I do work in IT and this show is an embarrassment. Do not waste another 30 minutes of your life. How this show has an 8.5 rating is an enigma.


                
One of the most racist tv shows I've ever seen created by 3 over privileged old white guys disguising their disgusting racist views as a comedic tv show. Repetitive jokes making fun of anyone not white with numerous appalling stereotypes.


                
