I really don't like other HBO Comedies like Girls and Looking. I heard about this show and I'm a programmer myself so i thought i will give it a chance and I'm not disappointed.The pilot was great and SMART, the lines were great and performances were all terrific.All the characters were kind of cool and i'm looking forward to see them again. The characters are believable and may exist in the real world. I can't wait for next episodes. i recommend it to all of you. Watch it and i don't think you'll be disappointed.VALAR JAVARIS (ALL MEN MUST CODE)


                
Richard's character has become so annoying he's painful to watch. Both Richard and Jared are OK in moderation but really grate on the nerves given too much screen time as they were in season 5. Even the Dinesh vs Gilfoyle routine, which I love, fell flat as it went on way too long. Jing-Yang was the only comic relief to a show that seems to have lost its edge. This show desperately needs to bring back Erlich's character, it isn't sustainable without it. I love Silicon Valley but season 5 took it from 10 stars to 1.


                
The characters are great. It's going to be a good show. You know a show will be good when there are a number of good characters introduced in the first 1/2 hour. Very rarely do I laugh out loud but it happened a few times in the first episode. I don't know a lot about tech, but you'll understand the humor in this. Guess it helps that I've been and have friends working in Silicon Valley... As long as you have an IT department in your business you'll be able to relate as well...Looking forward to next week. Glad to see HBO is still putting out good shows.


                
When I first heard of the show, I wasn't very excited, thinking it would be just another lame show targeted towards any random dude, thus making it pointless.However, as soon as I began watching the first episode, I became hooked. Being in a similar situation (minus the incubator) myself, the show was at the same time completely 'true' and hilarious. The characters are indeed the kinds you could find if you walked into some kind of startup event. Even though some of the jokes are taken to an extreme, it's all pretty believable, since it pretty accurately depicts the world of technology, advertising and startups.. In its own cool way.Needless to say, I watched the rest of the available episodes that night in quick succession and I was pleasantly surprised. It is genuinely a great show. Even though it's probably more popular around the startup scene, everyone should be able to appreciate the clever humor in the episodes.There aren't many series or films that I rate 10/10. This is one of them.


                
Silicon Valley does something that not many comedies shows do; that is making you become emotionally invested in its storyline and characters. it consists deep underlining themes about modern day life, business and friendship whilst remaining truly hilarious! It's why I love this show so much.It follows Richard Hendricks, a guy with a great idea; to start a tech company in Silicon Valley. He is shy and reclusive but wants to make the world a better place, he at first worked for an internet company named Hooli. On the side, he works on Pied Piper a music app and compression software. It is worked upon in a live-in start up business incubator run by entrepreneur and his friend, Erlich. After a shaky pitch to investor Peter Gregory to get funding for Pied Piper, he agrees, however unfortunately by the end of the season he dies, leaving Richard and his gang of nerdy friends and programme engineers to find investment throughout season and where do they find it? In the hands of a crazy and careless billionaire who wants the company in his vision for one reason only; to get richer and by doing this he inadvertently drives Pied Piper to almost its downfall. On top of this, they have to deal with Gavin Bellson, who runs Hooli and stole Pied Piper's algorithm to sell a similar music compression software; after a lengthy legal battle to the rights to the algorithm Gavin's reputation is compromised leaving Pied Piper safe from his competition and to find new investment. It is a long process but they never fail to keep striving for their companies success.Silicon Valley comments and makes humour from the hardships of business and starting a company. It's characters seem simple on the surface but are complexly built; their individual dreams and passions are inspiring! Silicon valley has a strong message; no matter what happens; never give up on your dreams! Despite all of the failures and hardships Pied Piper face they never give up and keep pressing forward. All of the characters are uncharismatic and awkward and are often knocked back by those they want support from, they don't giveup or compromise any of their product. It is a truly feel-good and motivating show to watch, and definitely hilarious. :)
I absolutely love this show. So I was barraged with advertisements for Season 4 while watching HBO. I'm always on the lookout for something new that seems worthy of binge-watching and the previews for Season 4 kept making me laugh, so I thought "what the hell?". I recognized a few of the actors and liked them from their other roles so I knew I'd like it. What I didn't know what how much I was going to like it.I went to my On Demand and began a couple of weeks ago with the first season. I began to watch one after the other. I found myself laughing hard out loud, by myself, at least once or twice an episode. They've cleverly written each character to a T, and the dynamic among them is hilarious. Before I knew it I was nearing the end of Season 3. Thank goodness it was not too far before last night's Season 4 premier. This show is great for everyone, but I'm guessing it's probably a guy's favorite. I tend to like this type more than shows like Girls, yuk, so this was a great fit for me. Very funny script, perfectly cast, and a whole lot of fun to watch. I highly recommend.


                
Others have written far clearer synopsis, I'm just here to gush. For reference: my idea of good TV writing and taste = breaking bad, persons of interest, the good wife, Battlestar remake, better call Saul, John Oliver, the Office, Arrested Development. Basically...with Silicon Valley you won't have time to pause and think because the deadpan silliness and ridiculously deep funniness will just keep coming non-stop. The pacing, timing, the punchiness and energy economy - well basically everything that matters in comedy craft are executed so freaking awesome and fabulous and BRILLLLLLIANT-LY it's beyond my vocab... Who would think a show with some unfashionable geeks fumbling and b****ing around in their make-shift incubator suburban open plan kitchen cum office cum home with a swimming pool would be SO captivating and rotf entertaining! And where did these actors come from? Where have this AAA writer producer director team been all these years? Please keep them well nourished. The world needs more of this caliber of performers please thank you TV show investors.The humor is fresh yet ageless, cutting yet human, original yet universal. Evidently there's been some serious research of the subject matter, obvious in-depth - or even insider - understanding of the techie culture and industry. Still it doesn't matter if you're into dot com start-up culture or VC courtship dramas or not; even if you're an occasional mindless Youtube surfer or online shopper or voyeur you can relate and be drawn in. The whole thing is so seamlessly put together, so tightly produced, the actors are SO IN THE SCENE WITH EACH OTHER...even the most absurdly irreverent and craziest lines managed to sound so logical and matter of fact, even realistic! After all that scathing sarcastic outbursts and drama queen nonsense and deadpan cynical madness there is still heart and sweetness - you'll care about the individual dilemma and where they're going and soon get sucked into binge watch mode. How the Silicon Valley team did it, with such consistency, I don't know. Just watch it and feel The Craft speak for itself. 11/10 if it's possible.


                
Catched this show few days ago, and after I watched Bing Bang Theory I must say I am thrilled about focus on strictly world of geeks, developers, angels and all those in the vast, yet strict world of IT industry.I am Graphic Designer and former web developer but been worked in various IT companies and met lot of geeks and similar girls & fellas, so I am bit familiar with that showed here.This is really great and funny show, and as it is from HBO it can't something cheap made and shallow. Actually by the third episode it becomes more and more involving. I adored how they managed humor through I believe real situations that exist in this world. I never been in USA or Silicon Valley but I believe the creator and producers did not degrade the core of it. I liked not just humor but also visual representation. For example, just some detail like T shirts with actual motives is awesome. To add final world, I think this is motivational show for getting new ideas in industry, if you are involving in it. I am not geek, just ordinary designer, but I see how motivational it is. I even looked on compressing algorithm myself :)


                
Story is nicely crafted and loves the concepts and it clearly explains how the startup company will face the difficulties initially and how they are succeeded after all difficulties. Pied Piper is the perfect name. Compression algorithm concept is new and it is most expected one on today world to manage big data. And Play between two billionaires is showing exactly how the tech industry is as of now. Initially I'm not interested in serials.. and after watching the trailer and impressed and started watching the shows on TV. It is already planned for next season. Currently I watched the Ep:07 from season 2. And waiting for the more seasons in future.


                
Silicon Valley - a US TV series running on HBO already in its 3rd season. The story is about a start up company founded by a guy named Richard who works with 2 other total nerd programmers, all living together in an "incubator" owned by Erlich who is a total pot head. There are also other peculiar and lovely characters in the series and altogether the writing is not only hilariously fantastic and well thought of, no, every episode ends with a twist that comes as a total new surprise - even for the advanced Silicon Valley watcher - that is the bliss of it - a series so well written and played that you'll always be looking forward to the next episode, forever.


                
Wow, just an amazing show I absolutely love it. The characters specifically are funny as hell and each one brings something new to the table. Mike Judge has created a sophisticated, funny TV show that is clever and well worth a watch. I had only seen a couple of Mike Judge creations (Beavis and Butt head and Office space) before watching the show so I didn't really now what to expect but I was pleased to find that he has made the show not only an accurate depiction of the real Silicon Valley but also accessible to the masses. I was especially impressed with the character of Erlich played by TJ Miller as he is not only funny but also the way he aggravates the other members of the hacker house allows for a lot of funny scenes. I really hope the show stays around for a while as I am really enjoying it.


                
It's been a while since I've watched something different from the usual geeky comedies. This is an awesome short 25ish series of great humor and fun. The plot is simple, characters are great. I recommend it strongly to everybody as I laughed grotesquely to all the steps that needs to build a "web giant".It has fun, it is smart, you will enjoy definitely if you are one of these people that read comments, search the web and are into the so called modern "trend" of web surfing.It is understandable humor for everybody!


                
In the last few years, being a bit nerdy has become more and more trendy. Smart is the new sexy. People like Chuck Lorre has tried to cash in on this trend with shows like The Big Bang Theory and I don't think there is anything wrong with that, but it is still a little flat and it still has a lot, and I mean a LOT, of stereotypes. The smart, but social awkward nerds with interests in comics and with no chance with women, are really popular.Don't get me wrong. I do not mind these comedies. Hell, I love Revenge of The Nerds, so I actually like The Big Bang Theory. But it has now been passed by the brilliant new show Silicon Valley.It is developed by Mike Judge, who made the brilliant Beavis and Butt-Head and Office Space. I love this show. It is intelligently written. The characters are deep and varied. It gives a realistic image of the technology world and its inhabitants. I hope the pilot is a good indicator of where the rest of the show is going. Erlich is brilliant character and Richard is someone I can see being a really great character as he grows. Anyway I can see this being my new favorite comedy show.


                
As the title says. I've NEVER wrote a review on any film or TV show. The fact that Silicon Valley has inspired me too speaks volumes. Best TV show I've ever seen... If you haven't started watching and have an interest in technology you need to see this! Favourite character? Depends on who's talking at the time!Technically correct (as far as I can tell!).Has literally made Mondays my favorite day of the week! Screw GoT, Walking dead and any other TV series I'm watching. Silicon Valley tops them all.Only downside is the episode length.


                
Silicon Valley is particularly good!This series is one of the best I have ever seen. I can give you 5 reasons for that:Firstly, fantastic performed! Very good actors and smart conversations.Secondly, the people are cool. These guys could have been real, it could be your friends.Thirdly, very interesting topics. The content is applicable to most; program, create a business from scratch.As a result, Silicon Valley is fantastic and is highly recommended to everyone.


                
I was looking for a new television series and I'm so glad that I decided for this .Silicon Valley on the one hand shows the classic life of people working in Silicon Valley , but also how difficult it is to succeed ( due to unfair competition ) even though you have a superior product .My rate is 10/10 and I warmly recommend it to all who want to see something new , fresh and interesting.My only criticism would be that there is only one season so far recorded and I have not managed to get the impression that I have favorite character , as was Joey in "Friends" or Neil Patrick Harris , who plays Barney in "How I Met Your Mother".


                
My current favorite TV show by far! As a veteran of Silicon Valley, I am always hypercritical of movies and TV shows that attempt to portray the history and lifestyle of the Valley, which typically are about 10% accurate and 90% nonsense (e.g. The Social Network, Jobs, Pirates of Silicon Valley, etc.). But I was pleasantly surprised with HBO's Silicon Valley, which not only gets most aspects of the high-tech start-up world dead right, it's also side-splitting hilarious! Of course it is over-the-top with tongue firmly in cheek, but to do good parody, you need to know your subject well, and Mike Judge (Beavis & Butthead, King of the Hill, Office Space), who was himself an engineer in Silicon Valley in the late 1980's, absolutely nails it.


                
7|-|3 r34$0|\| 1 |-|473 7|-|1$ $|-|0\/\/ 1$, 7|-|@ 7|-|3r3 1$|\|7 3|\|0U9|-| 3P1$0D3$! 3\/3R'/ |\|3RD \/\/1LL b3 4R0U53D, 3\/3|\| 1Ph 17 15 |\|07 (0/\/\PU73R r3L473D. 9R3@ 4(70R5, r34LL'/ b3L1\/4BL3! 7|-|0/\/\45 /\/\1DDL3D17(|-| d035 4|\| 4/\/\4Z1|\|9 j0B! 7|-|1$ $|-|0\/\/ 1$ r34LL'/ b3L13\/4BL3 4|\|D PhU|\||\|'/ 1 (4|\|7 \/\/417 Ph0R 7|-|3 53(0|\|D 53450|\| 70 b391|\| ;)The reason i hate this show is, that there isn't enough episodes! Every nerd will be aroused, even if it is not computer related. Great actors, really believable! Thomas Middleditch does an amazing job! This show is really believable and funny. I cant wait for the second season to begin ;)


                
Cutting straight to the Point. Had to write this so this show remains for a long time.The show is New , Fresh & Funny...Yeah at times its stupid but which comedy show doesn't have stupidity in it (even South Park becomes boring sometimes but its the funniest show) Its easily among my top 5 Comedy shows.. Underrated Character --> Jian Yang Favorite Characters & the funny ones --->1.Erlich bachman 2.Gilfoyle3.Zach Just finished watching Season 3 I would say its a little slow than the last 2 seasons which was great for me. The best thing is ITS BRINGS A NEW GENRE OF COMEDY,was bored & irritated with HIMYM & TBBT. For me ITS AN ABSOLUTELY MUST WATCH FOR THE COMEDY FANS OUT THERE.


                
I haven't been sucked into a story like this in a very long time. Was worth the hbo subscription


                
I love this show because it covers so much content in 30 mins. It has to much things happening everytime. Its the only that I can watch with full attention.
Thankyou for this show. I will be a loyal fan forever.


                
The only show as good as this is Its Always Sunny.


                
I dont think anyone can do better job creating such an masterpiece of comedy with technology as a subject. And this is just a reflection of how we engineers live through every single day with a touch of comedy in every bit is amazing !


                
One of the best tech show's out there. Something new and hilarious.


                
This is a smart, very funny and accurate satire of life in Silicon Valley. I've lived it and if you've always wondered what it would be like to get in on the action, give it a watch.


                
