I assign three, rather than zero, out of ten because the show does afford the occasional laugh.And now, to the meat of my review.I had thought "The Big Bang Theory" was offensive enough, serving solely to perpetuate the stereotype that every engineer and/or programmer in Silicon Valley is (a) God's gift to technology while simultaneously (b) an abject imbecile, utterly devoid of common sense. We even see people who--literally--lack the common sense to use the bathroom at a friend's house. Oh, but "Silicon Valley" is different because we're on HBO and these nerds and geeks are permitted to use words suck as 'f*ck'.While the United States continues its precipitous decline and Asian nations that respect learning continue their stunning ascent, America continues to dumb itself down by perpetuating the mythos that being intelligent equates to being an intergalactic genius, which equates to being an utter loser. The only things that matter are football and basketball.FYI, I've consulted all over the US for many, many years, and let me share a secret about Silicon Valley software engineers: they're the same as anywhere else. You've got good and bad; a few outstanding and a few wretched; and a preponderant majority of mediocre.
To quote the far better show "Veep", those guys are just a bunch of "cyber brats". The show actually really looks like the hilarious parody that "Veep" made of Silicon Valley, they really pinned the correct term. This show is a little bit better than "The betas" in that the sexism and misogyny is not so blatant but still there. There was some improvement with some innovations where one of the developer regrets he was sexist toward a stripper (lol) and they actually flee the stripper, very funny. However you see the stripper and hear the word "cum" in the first episode. I always wonder how many strippers the writers see everyday so that they are so overly represented on screen but let's move on. I actually kept watching because the content itself was not so bad, you see a little bit how the business works and how developers are. You also see the problems a start-up can encounter, it can be interesting. However I regret it had not enough geek content or references in terms of software development for example. They don't talk much about their actual work. It's much more about how to deal with the investors and other things. The only moment I found really funny was the guy whose start-up idea was to make a soup made of 1 and 0 -- very cool. But other than that, it's not that funny. That said, the founder's start-up idea to compress data is good and not so cliché, so this is a good point.I really stopped watching at Episode 3 because there is one character that is just painfully annoying and who makes the show very difficult to watch. It's the accelerator and flat owner. What a massive douche. I don't know why they felt obligated to represent that guy. His big advice is "be an asshole" and throughout the show this kind of advice is celebrated. The message is clearly, the more you are an asshole the more you will succeed. I think it's a really bad message. They should use the correct term instead, it is really "be decisive" as in "don't be afraid of taking the right decision" but it is not "be an asshole". This is such a terrible advice because it keeps encouraging people to be actual assholes without them even taking the right decision. I know, the plot is probably about the founder eventually not following this advice, but still, really the whole show advertises it as a good thing. So anyway, I wanted to watch the 8 episodes but I stopped at Episode 3 when the douche guy criticized the company's name and advised "the name of your company should be the kind of name you could say during intercourse" like "google, hulu, uber", and you see them all dumbly approving. Well, if you find that funny it's really because you are mocking the characters so much they are zero-ambition losers. Yes, once again, forget about "change the world" and all that jazz. The show is not at all for technology lovers, it's not even remotely motivating. At no point you feel they love technology or love what they do, sadly. The show just circles around those bad polluting jokes. I thought the level was too low and toxic for my mind so I stopped watching. If the whole plot is about a success story start-up, any start-up that starts in this context doesn't really interest me. The founder doesn't really want to solve a particular problem that's personal, he just wrote an algorithm that works. The thing is, success stories often start with a deeply personal problem the creator is trying to solve. The show makers really don't get that the crisp lies between the creator's deepest motivations and his or her abilities to make it in reality, that's what's interesting, that's where the adventure is, but it's not in low life jokes.


                
I loved this show in the first season and I still liked it the following year. Now I decided to stop watching it. There is nothing new. The story goes around in a circle. First there are those poor nerds with their genius ideas, so they getting successful for a while and then one of these guys makes a stupid mistake and down it goes, every time! I am bored watching the same story over and over. I have seen this often before. The writers are exited and come up with great, creative work. After two or three seasons they have other new ideas and they don't like to spend time with old ideas. They also have earned some good money on this projekt and they are not hungry anymore. So, they don't really come up with great writing anymore because it has become boring even for them.They want to do something new and exiting. The outcome is, that the showis not attractive anymore. It has become a cheap copy of itself! Thefirst two seasons were great, now it's just annoying and a waste of time, at least for me.
