I was a little skeptical about this show at first and went into with the impression that I would try it but it would lose my interest after an episode or two. This show so far has been a wonderful surprise. Unlike some comedies that create forced, awkward situations that are only funny to the recorded laugh track that plays, I have burst out laughing from a number of scenes that have aired in the few episodes so far. It is very original, smart, has a believable story and characters and has many funny moments with quite a few scenes that will catch you off guard and you will die laughing. At first this was just a show I was DVR'ing then watching at some point during the week maybe a few days later. However the last few episodes have been great and I have been watching live while it airs because it isn't a stupid comedy, it keeps you interested with a pretty good story.


                
I just LOVE most of the characters. There is so much good stuff going on, but every episode ends the same. Here we go. EPISODE #? - EVERYTHING IS GOING GREAT WITH PIED PIPER. - EPISODE#?, 'after 40 minutes, the company is worth ????? million, and nothing could be better. - Until - 43 minutes, by some strange twist, everything has fallen apart, and the company has gone to the dogs. - AGAIN! How long can this story go on? It is just far to predictable. There are only ever two different scenarios for every episode. - Either the company and everyone is multi, multi millionaires, or they have not got a pot to piddle in.


                
I saw the first season trailer years ago and thought it was going to be like the "Big Bang Theory'' (which didn't do it for me, because of the stupid laugh track at the end of every unfunny one-liner)Until I sat down and watched the full episode of this hilarious show! I was hooked. It's one of the best comedies I have ever seen. Even if you're not a techie , this show is for you.....one would be able to relate to at least one of the characters on the show.....Can't wait for Season 4!!!


                
Unless they bring Ehrlich back, this show is going to die a quick death....


                
The general consensus on this newest season of the hit HBO comedy series is that this was perhaps the weakest season, but compensated with an incredibly satisfying conclusion. For the most part, it sticks with the same patterns of the first four seasons. The characters have victories and setbacks in equal measure, inching toward making their dreams for Pied Piper a reality. However, after four seasons of making mistakes, it seems like the characters should be learning not to make such rash decisions anymore. Though creator Mike Judge has said that the level of chaos on the show is actually accurate to real life in Silicon Valley, there is still something that feels overly familiar about the causes of all the characters' problems. However, this is somewhat forgivable because of the way that the chaotic nature of the show creates a lot of uncertainty and suspense as to whether one situation or another will work out well for our characters and what it will cost them. The loss of TJ Miller's character Erlich Bachman is felt, and I think that is a definite factor that makes this season weaker than the others.Despite these drawbacks, there is plenty to like about this fifth season. Richard has reformed from his descent into corporate deception in Season 4, and in this season he has to deal more with running a larger-scale version of Pied Piper. The war with Gavin Belson continues as he struggles to maintain his position at the head of Hooli. Jared and Monica's roles are diminished, but they still hold vital roles in the company. Dinesh and Gilfoyle gain a bit more independence and begin having conflicts with the new Pied Piper employees instead of just with each other. However, their rivalry remains intact, and this season features perhaps their funniest struggle yet. Big Head and Laurie Breem get a little more attention and significance than usual. This is by far Jian Yang's best season as his ambitions make for a lot of good laughs beyond his continued hatred for Erlich. A few new characters are introduced, but none that are particularly memorable.This season shows Pied Piper as a more fully realized company that isn't just trying to get off the ground. Where Richard and company used to try to convince VC's to fund them, they are now trying to recruit other companies to join their platform. The series goes into some new technological territory, featuring Teslas and crypto coin in major ways and even brings up data-harvesting like the kind Facebook has been employing. Richard's creation of a new, decentralized internet also brings a new tech element that could be read as a call to action for real tech companies.So while this wasn't the best that we've seen from Silicon Valley, I do not think that it is an indication of the show's decline either. I am already anticipating Season 6 and hope that we will get Erlich back, but even if we don't, I trust that creators Mike Judge and Alec Berg will bring us something pretty good.


                
My favorite comedy is back right after my favorite show so Sundays are awesome once again. Television likes to pack this night full of great shows so I do my best to keep up with it all. Silicon Valley picks up in Season 3 right where it left off in Season 2 with Richard Hendricks played by Thomas Middleditch finding out that he was fired from the company he created Pied Piper.Pied Piper has made a compression algorithm that will make data smaller on everyone's computer and this got companies bidding, battling or suing to own the rights of the algorithm. Richard continuously dodges one problem only to find another. He always his friends with him but even now he is starting to see a split in his loyal crew. After season 3: One of the funniest shows on television concluded its third season tonight. Holding the timeslot right behind Game of Thrones, Silicon Valley provides the humor to balance the bloodshed and betrayal. The show explores the comedy of the computer development industry as Richard Hendricks (Thomas Middleditch) attempts to start a business with his new and highly effective compression algorithm. Along with his two programmers Dinesh (Kumail Nanjiani) and Gilfoyle (Martin Starr), his incubator owner Erlich Bachman (T. J. Miller), and his assistant or consultant Jared (Zach Woods). There are all sorts of hilarious hijinks but there are some exceptional hilarious moments like Erlich's giant luau party on Alcatraz or his pesca-pescatarian dietary restriction. Richard has to explain his compression to everyday consumers and deal with the press despite crippling social anxiety. Dinesh stumbled onto a successful video chat app and tussled with Gillfoyle about having friends and an ugly company jacket.Post season 4: The hilarious HBO comedy continues to skewer the tech business with the group of lovable loser coders. Richard Hendricks (Thomas Middleditch) has transferred his brilliant compression code into a video chat application, PiperChat, and tries to build a new internet. Erlich Bachman (T.J. Miller) struggles with Big Head (Josh Brener) and Big Head's father for funding of their company. Dinesh (Kumail Nanjiani) is dating a hacker who he is afraid will start spying on him through the computer. Gilfoyle (Martin Starr) harasses Dinesh for his poor girlfriend choice and becomes jealous as Dinesh rises in the company. Jared (Zach Woods) finds that he has more success when he pretends to be someone else. Over at Hooli, Jack Barker (Stephen Tobolowsky) rubs the CEO Gavin Belson (Matt Ross) the wrong way and finds himself in the basement. Dinesh finds himself at the top of the company but when he discovers that most of the users are underage, making this highly illegal. The only solution is to sell Piperchat to Hooli who will then have to deal with the repercussions of the young users. Gavin's decision causes him to lose his position at Hooli as Jack takes over. Big Head finds himself hired by Stanford because of his history as a big tech industry guru even though he has never had any success. Erlich tries to find his own success by investing in a new idea with Jian Yang (Jimmy O. Yang) and his app idea SeeFood. Check out more of this recap and others at swilliky.com
I finished second season yesterday and I was delighted with this TV Show. It's a smart Comedy TV show with a great plot. About laughter, I didn't laugh a lot like other sitcoms I've seen, but I have never seen a sitcom with better storyline.Every character is remarkable from A to Z. If someone asks me who's your favorite character, I'd be in very difficult position. I'd highlight Gilfoyle, Jared, Dinesh, Erlich.The story tell us about problems that rising companies have and how much work, disappointments and failure it takes to become successful. Also show us how big powerful corporations kills small companies, "Big Fish Eats Small Fish".Episodes are 30 minutes that I liked better than most of Sitcoms that are 22 minutes.


                
The series focuses on six young men who found a start-up company in Silicon ValleyWhen I saw this first time on TV, I've been excited. This show presents the real life of startup geeks. It is really worth watching if you are into Startup Culture. It was created by Stanford Professor Tsachy Weissman and graduate student Vinith Misra at the request of the show's producers.All the characters were kind of cool and i'm looking forward to see them again. The characters specifically are funny as hell and each one brings something new to the table.


                
I'm glad I stayed patient and kept on watching. Through the first couple of episodes the main characters actually annoyed me quite a bit.. also I don't normally like sitcoms. But then it changed and the characters grew on me.. and now I love them and the show. It has made me laugh a lot and I feel like I've gained entrance and insight into an environment I knew little about. Now on season 4 it might be getting a little repetitive but I love it too much to stop so Im gonna hope it catches up to its former glory.P.s. I love Jared


                
It's about time to have a series for techies. However, while I'm rooting for Richard, the writers are making him look like the Al Bundy of geeks. I'd like to see him win some of his battles sometimes. Also, they are making such a big deal of Richard's compression algorithm, which really deals with storing big data, right? But the episode on Pied Piper trying to get some publicity was more an issue of bandwidth rather than storage capacity. Richard needs to move on to a new projects, like finding how to use the least bandwidth for streaming large files (e.g., online games or live events). In the real world, programmers work on different projects simultaneously. They have tight schedules, too, like one project in 3 to 6 months.


                
Having watched up to episode four of the first series I would have to say — so far so good. This is quirky but has a ring of truth about it (not that I would know, I admit). It has some similarities to 'Community' and fans of that show should definitely check it out.The characters are not quite caricatures, nor are they wholly rounded human beings — just quirky enough to be funny and convincing. The storyline follows a start-up tech company, which does not sound promising as material to get you excited, but it is intriguing enough to keep you wanting to know 'what happens next'.Given all the great TV around at the moment, this show could end up getting lost, which would be a shame. It is good natured, funny and intelligent — certainly worth a watch.


                
I liked this from day one. You immediately have your favorite "characters you like", and dislike. -Something good to follow. BUT! I was getting really fed up with the plots. EVERY episode was the same. - - START :- P. Piper is the greatest thing since sliced bread. - 40 minutes later - P.Piper is being bought over/sold/ripped off/ made bankrupt/sued/ blah blah! Same plot EVERY episode. But now (Series 5) - It is getting better! - More imagination being used, and not always the same result!


                
I have never been in California, especially in the US too. Why do that guys, their clothers and house looks so worst? They are looks like homeless! Is thst really the Valley looks like that?


                
I love the cast that this series has. They nail the dialogues so perfectly and they carry the show well. I love the scenery as well since I'm a bit of a software nerd. Just the kind of audience that the series flirt well with. The show have one big minus though and that is that the show has twice as much as anxiety as the show Married with children. Its just way, way to much downfall. Its so much downfalls and superfails that you go like "ok its enough" half way. It bursts my bubble quite a lot and some of the jokes are silenced because of it. The comedy is carried by fun dialogues and epic casting, the constant super-high anxiety levels are just not necessary and unfitting. If you love see ambitious likable guys fail miserably over and over as if a god was working against them. Then you want have the same problem as me. I did find it funny in "Married with children" but they built fun dialogues around it and fitting characters for it.


                
I have been following Silicon Valley for quite some time. It has never been a exceptional show but keeps you laughing for its sort burst of episodes. Also I like the characters. Season 5 gained pace in the later episodes.


                
