I have been a member of IMDb for many many years now and am a big movie and TV enthusiast. That said, until now, not once have I felt the need to type up a review. Silicon Valley if possibly the funniest show I have seen, ever. The writing is thoughtful, with perfect comedic timing. The only word to describe the characters is awesome. They all work so well together that the comedy flows effortlessly. I am surprised to see that this show is coming from HBO. I would expect a show like this from Netflix but not HBO. But I must commend them because they hit this one out the park. I look forward to what I hope will be a long lasting series with many more seasons to come. You can see from my profile that I have been a member here for many years and have not ever written a single review, so you can be assured that what I say is true. If you haven't seen Silicon Valley you are missing out. Go check it out!


                
Silicon Valley is a TV show that was much talked about even before it's debut on HBO. With the Silicon Valley now finding a Hollywood-like atmosphere in the way it's viewed, the entertainment industry's focus on Silicon Valley and it's unique lifestyle and culture is somewhat new and has yet to find it's equilibrium of representation between the reality of the innovation happening there and the bizarre, comedy ammunition that lies in some of the more eccentric aspects. Mike Judge's Silicon Valley is a damn good start. It's witty and scathing, and takes an sarcastic approach to it with an outsider's eye. Of course, Mike Judge is no outsider, having worked in Palo Alto during the late 80's, and his disdain for it's people and culture shows.What makes the series work is that Judge is able to focus on all the small, ridiculous things that have become such an icon of the culture. From CEO's innovators with Christ-like followings, to the idea that the industry is somehow spearheaded by college dropouts, Judge wastes not time and has no problem putting every Silicon Valley cliché/reality on a pedestal for people to laugh at. As a native, I can say that the show does exaggerate a lot of things, but it also gets a lot right. If you've seen Judge's other work, then you will quickly see how well this fits in. With Beavis and Butthead, we got a critique about the stupidity and waste of a generation, with King of the Hill, we got a look at Judge's insight into Texas culture and the ideologies of an American culture trying to cope with the changes of a modern world, and here we have a completely new sub-culture that Judges dives head first into.The show most certainly has it's falls, but I was hard pressed to find them as I was too busy laughing most of the time throughout. I may have a skewed view of the show, with me observing this through a filter of the real Silicon Valley, in all it's great and weirdness. But in general, this bites down hard in the most hilarious way on a truly unique and fairly bizarre place in the world. And you don't even have to know the technobabble being spit out. I do think HBO has another winner here.


                
Great pilot episode. I love entrepreneurship, silicon valley and that whole tech culture so I was really excited about this show. I was very impressed with it. Lots of laughs, really accurate to the geek world of programmers and the characters are normal. They aren't glorified in any way which I really like.They really mimicked places like Google and other huge tech companies with the world of "Hooli" a tech company with a CEO that the whole entire company looks at like a savior, much like the obsessions people have about Larry Page, Elon Musk and Steve Jobs. I'm looking forward to future episodes on this one. I've never been a fan of King of the Hill but Beavis and Butthead was awesome and of course Office Space is brilliant. I think Mike Judge has another hit on his hands for sure.


                
As a programmer and an app entrepreneur myself I absolutely liked the first 2 episodes so far. I hope this will be a great series overall. Btw I also like other Mike Judge's works: the Beavis & Butthead cartoon series and the Idiocracy movie.I've never been to California and never worked for Google or Apple but I know this western IT culture pretty well, and the series makes good laugh of it. The main character should have taken 10 million :) Now the whole series will be about how he gets trampled over and over by the vultures of capitalism. Should be fun to watch.On a side note, it's great to see movies finally catching up with the new realities of life. Facebook, Twitter, Instagram - these words now play a vital role in lives of the vast share of the world's population, but movie directors have been far from these areas until now. Good work Mike, keep it coming! :)


                
Silicon Valley is an HBO tech-series with all the typical stereotypes. An overweight stoner, an emaciated wannabe cyber-criminal, a witty Indian with characteristic accent, and the centerpiece, a gangly socially awkward CEO.The show aims to provide an unrealistic yet overly comedic account of a startup company, aptly named 'Pied Piper, who has just created a nextgen compression algorithm. A bit campy? Yes. However, the production value and writing are on point, the acting is adequate, and the result is an entertaining collection of scenes which keeps one interested and expectant.As the series is only a few episodes in, not much can be said about a larger picture, but so far the show is akin to various HBO blips on a similar vein. Think 'Flight of the Conchords' minus the musical, or 'Bored to Death' minus the deadpan lethargy.That networks like HBO are under fire from online content providers like Netflix and Hulu, I appreciate the recent trend: more artistic license and less plodding predictability. Thumbs up for the effort as we can look forward to watching this grow!


                
For those expecting "Beavis and Butthead" right out of the gate when Judge and co. created "King of the Hill", the audience looking for silly shock humor were surprised to find spot-on characters populating the screen that could have come from their real life. That meant plenty of younger folks tuned out... But lots of us saw it for what it was and enjoyed the hell out of it. Now, to be fair, I'm not saying "ALL HAIL MIKE JUDGE", especially considering that I was not a big fan of "Extract" and was ho-hum on "The Goode Family.". Yet I DO have faith that Judge's work is trying to make something more thought-provoking with a good storyline than the average comedy.As a satire, this show is smart and funny and treading ground by focusing on a microcosm of society that in itself has it's own hierarchy and character. Despite the high amount of Geeks on screen, each has a unique personality and dynamic that feeds into the overall story. Not every episode ends happily, and some have a great silver lining, leaving expectations up in the air. It's saddening that Christopher Evan Welch has passed on seeing as how great of a performer he was and key to the show's vitality. However, there is still plenty of ground to be covered by this show and I have the feeling it'll be creative, funny and spot-on, not necessarily "SCATHING" as some reviewers had hoped for, and look forward to enjoying any subsequent seasons.


                
I rarely write reviews for TV shows, but considering how incredible "Silicon Valley" is, I felt like sharing my 2 cents on the topic. Many of the reviews for this show were after or during season 1, so i'm happy to say that the show is still amazing halfway through season 4. Like many other reviewers, I am a programmer myself so I have a great appreciation for the show's technical content, even if it is sometimes unrealistic (it is a comedy first and foremost, after all). While there is a variety of computer science related topics discussed on this show, you do not need a technical background at all to enjoy it's content. A lot of people I talk to seem uninterested in "Silicon Valley" simply because they feel like they won't understand it, but that simply isn't the case; while a background in IT/computer science will certainly help you understand some of the jargon used, it is not at all necessary to enjoy it. What makes this show so special is the characters; each character is hilarious in their own right and together, they make for some pretty fantastic moments (particularly the back and forth banter between the characters Dinesh and Gilfoyle). T.J. Miller is absolutely hysterical as the weed smoking Erlich Bachman and I highly doubt anyone could pull off the dialogue better than him. The writing is also very witty which definitely helps bring the characters alive. Those who follow the tech world will notice that some of the characters are archetypes of real people (i'm thinking of you, Mark Cuban) and helps bridge the gap between the fictitious world these characters operate in and the world we see around us everyday. I'm so glad this show has not lost it's way since the first season, and one could argue that it has gotten better as the years have progressed. The cast feeds off of each other so well, and coupled with the fantastic, intelligent writing, this may be the best comedy on TV right now (my opinion of course). If you don't know anything about computer science or IT, do not worry; it simply acts as a vehicle for the plot and in no way affects the comedy happening on screen. If you have not watched "Silicon Valley" yet, definitely give it a shot. It may not be for everyone, but I certainly think that most people will find it hilarious.


                
I liked the series Very much. Sad that the seasonfinale was VERY disappointing


                
For people who love the tech world, this is a very good show to follow. The best part about this show is its closeness to reality. The show beautifully displays how volatile the tech world is, how awkward smart people can get and how funny the stories behind some revolutionary innovations are. When I started the first season, I expected it to be some show about how some guys do wonders in the bay area, how they get rich with their tech, hangout. I thought it would be an " entourage " type show for nerds. I was totally wrong and that's what made me like this show.Sometimes while watching mainstream shows, I cringe when I see how ridiculously the lead character's love life changes and how unrealistic the scenes can get. Its different here, the characters in this show are actually relatable. They're goofy, awkward, smart, dumb, they win sometimes, they fail sometimes, its awesome. This is the only show where I felt " that's a good use of 25 mins of my life " after watching an episode. Just tolerate the first two episodes of s01 and you'll binge till the latest episode.


                
Coming from a surprising First Season, Silicon's Valley Season 2 doesn't disappoint either. The addition of new characters was a wise decision to not let the series become worn. As something already recognized in Season 1 and in this season continues is the well-done performance of the actors in creating different stereotypes of people who live in the valley, not only programmers, but businessmen and others too. In my opinion, the best additions to the Second Season were Russ Hanneman (Chris Diamantopoulos) and Pete Monahan(Matt McCoy), because when they were in the scene, they were the ones who made me laugh the most. But the one who stands out of all is Erlich Bachman(T.J. Miller), this guy is amazing.I have some friends who have spent a time in the Silicon Valley and they said that the series does a nice job in representing the actual life there, such as the companies and incubators. The new situations which the characters have to pass through are hilarious and the mess caused by their actions is even more. The arguments between Bertram Gilfoyle(Martin Starr) and Dinesh Chugtai(Kumail Nanjiani),representing the endless fight of software guys vs hardware guys, are really comical.


                
I completely wrote off Silicon Valley after the first two horrible episodes of season 5. None of the well-honed character interplay was at work, it was all over-the-top standard Hollywood underbelly humor with the characters caricatures of themselves, and silly plots. Out of boredom, I gave the third episode a try (director: Babbit), and oh wonder: back to its old self, as if nothing had ever happened! Which is: a gold standard in playing off opposites, all the types of real and demented Silicon Valley nerds. While extremely funny, at the same time it hits home because the scenarios and people are actually so believable.


                
It's fun, but subtle. It can make you laugh like an idiot but the scenes remain quite serious. It's not like a super silly comedy which only misses the added laughter. It's hilarious in a more realistic way. Some things that happen you understand later, and that makes some of the jokes funnier.The characters are lovely and each of them has their own persona, with their silly flaws and beautiful traits. You get attached to them but also get entertained by their adventures, even through the failures. But unlike many other shows, this one makes fun of everyone in a cute way and makes it hard for you to hate anybody, but rather feel sympathy and relate to the situations. It's always interesting and it doesn't go long without surprising you.When an episode ends, I feel like immediately watching the next one. They usually end with something mysterious and unfinished, which is common and understandable. I got charmed and hooked on it. It's worth watching. I will be happy to see the next season, and hopefully many more.


                
I have been a member of IMDb for many many years now and am a big movie and TV enthusiast. But not a Big fan of Comedy TV series or movies , i watched less comedy movies in compare of Action, Adventure, Drama, Thriller etc.So at the fist time i watched this TV-series, one think that attract me is , this show is about programmers, and by Profession i am a programmer too. watched all 2 seasons of Silicon Valley and its worth watching , It is understandable humor for everybody! this show is perfect in terms of comedy , a lot of fun moments in this show that i really enjoyed watching, i love the fighting of Gilfoyle and Dinesh :), Thomas Middleditch great acting skills.I am eagerly waiting for its season 3, Lets see what they r gonna do in the next season. :)


                
first of all, this show is probably not for everyone but even if you are not from IT you may like it. For people like me, who knows inside out of this world, its hilarious.The characters has performed so well, it hardly feels like they are acting, very natural and real. I just finished the last episode of season 2 and i was on the edge as it was really exciting finale. At times I feel like kicking the Lead actor coz he keep doing stupid mistakes but thats how the producer wanted this show to be, to make us all feel, damn he should have not done this. The story is really keeping audience on the edge and moves very subtly and logically forward. Its a great satire on the cliché of IT industry. I see some reference from Apple will come in season 3, coz this is where the show is heading.


                
Richard Hendriks (Thomas Middleditch) creates a new revolutionary data compression algorithm and Hooli (sounds like Google?) wants to buy his work for an impressive 10 million dollars. He says no and start up on his own along with his friends and the help of a Bill Gates alike investor type. This is the story of a computer geek and his group of "brogrammers" living together in their shared house. Sounds very boring. But it's actually quite amusing and the details and technical expressions are very accurate. There are A LOT of references to real life tech.Season 2 on it's way.


                
Loved this show and every single episode. This show presents the real life of startup geeks. It is really worth watching if you are into Startup Culture. Also loved to see Christopher Evan Welch as Peter Gregory. It was a pleasure to watch him. Another plus point is how many companies like google, facebook, myspace etc are used a reference in the show but it maybe too much for the non-tech audience. But then its a show about Silicon Valley so these things are expected. I gave it 9 just because sometimes its irritating to see Richard too confused to do anything. Show could have used Big Head more. The producers could have made it more than 8 episodes per season.


                
Having just gotten HBO after a long hiatus without it, I was able to download HBO GO and watch a couple of shows that I have never seen before. The first was Band of Brothers which I never saw 13 years ago when it first aired and thought it was utterly fantastic. Instead of going straight over to The Pacific, I decided on the recommendation of a few people to try Silicon Valley. They just said it was good show - nothing else.Without knowing anything about it - whether it was a comedy, drama or anything like that, I watched the first episode and was completely hooked from there. It took me 3 days to watch all 8 episodes and it's been a long time since I've laughed this hard without the laughter being forced. The chemistry between the cast and the different qualities that everyone brings to the table in this brilliantly funny show had me laughing out loud from minute one until the very end. Very glad to see it picked up for another season and look forward to it.The thing I probably like most about it is how the characters, despite how messed up they are and how cruel and stupid they act towards one another, always seem to have each others' back which adds another dimension - a more realistic dimension - to the show that zany comedies like this just don't have. The humor is crude but I highly recommend it if that kind of thing is up your alley. Try an episode and see if you like it. If not then so be it. This one happened to hit a nice chord with me.


                
This show is so good I't has a storyline with comedy, failing and winning I really loved watching the show there were moments I could not even stop laughing. Hbo has a lot of good shows but i didn't really like all of the comedy seriesSo when I found Silicon Valley i got really happyI'm not gonna spoil much in this review but its just an amazing series i recommend everyone to watch it.
As a programmer and database architect i have a bit of a background in the field. And i have to say: Even though the "technical stuff" in this show is a load of crap for the most time - This is a far better show than halt and catch fire.Though i'd love to see some non-weirdos coming in and contributing something major soon.The only nearly normal people were the ones who tried to steal the algorithm for huli. And they were a bunch of jerks...I think the great thing about this show is, that it can be watched by people with and without background in the industry without having to keep yourself of putting a screwdriver through your eyes like every time i watch cloe o brien in 24 open her mouth giving insane IP-Addresses or coding things that would take months in a few seconds.
Review of season 5Mike Judge's Silicon Valley keeps on trucking. The fifth season doesn't feel as strong as the previous one, but it's still really enjoyable, quality stuff. For a summary of the series, see review of season 4.Rating: 8/10


                
Review of season 4Silicon Valley might be my favorite currently running show. A satire of a bunch of friends/programmers trying to navigate through the highly competitive tech-scene of northern California. The cast consists of remarkably talented comedians such as Thomas Middleditch, T.J. Miller, Kumail Nanjiani and Martin Starr, and the satirical over the top take on Silicon Valley is such a great setting for everything (it's kinda cozy too). When I'm binge-watching the show, I sometimes feel that it's a tad too repetitive, but all in all, for me, this is pretty much the pinnacle of television at the moment. The fourth season is as good as seasons 1-2, absolutely fantastic!Rating: 9/10


                
Very funny and a great story can sometimes be a little repetedly


                
