This comment is to save those people who haven't seen it yet, from its false advertising... I have NO IDEA why this movie is rated #33 on IMDb! That just shows how weird people are. Maybe I wasn't all that interested in the characters and their interaction or development, but rather it was awkward, confusing, and such a waste. I didn't like the characters AT ALL, and there wasn't really any good chemistry between them. They were miserable together, and they ended it, and then they chose to give it another shot, even if it will be miserable again! Now, I give them the credit for going along for the ride - but relationships aren't supposed to be like that. There are actually good relationships out there, but this superficial world seeking for pleasure in temporal and destroying substances is indicative and portrayed in this movie. It's interesting that they needed alcohol to make things romantic, always. It shows a lot about their character, and the character of those people who loved the movie! I just couldn't wait for the movie to END! This movie is really terrible. It made me dizzy and confused. I had NO GOOD feelings come out of it, and felt I had wasted 2 hours of my life. It isn't entertaining, uplifting, or edifying AT ALL. Really, Don't Waste Your Time With This Movie.


                
In the proud tradition of other cinematic wonders like Barton Fink,The Big Lebowski, and Vanilla Sky this movie really hit rock bottom. Once again a Stellar Cast;Jim Carrey,Kate Winslet, Kirsten Dunst, Elijah Wood, among others in a movie that sank right after the scene where Jim Carrey drops off Kate Winslet to pick up some items from her apartment. My girlfriend rented this movie and it looked good but it reminded me of the fact that I am very proud that I don't go to the movies anymore because once again I would have asked for a refund on this one. My advice to the moviegoer is to borrow a copy from a friend who might have bought it because it's not even worth renting.


                
HOW can this boring piece of drivel get a higher mark overall than Aliens?? Absolute travesty. I watched it all the way through, tried to like it or even understand it but failed. Sorry folks - rubbish film and I have no idea why it is in the top 250. The film drags and drags without going anywhere and I for one felt no empathy or sympathy with the lead characters. In the end I nearly fell asleep and when that happens I know the film is a dud. Maybe I should watch it again as some films do improve with a second viewing but I just don't want to waste another 2 hours of my life on the film!! I will spend some time looking at other comments to try and get a better feel for the film, but my view is at present rigid - it sucks!!


                
I normally watch films to the end, even if I don't like them, but sadly I couldn't go all the way with Eternal Sunhine. Anything seemed more interesting than this boring twaddle.As such, having not seen it all, I don't feel that I can write a proper review. But really, nothing there was to latch on to, nothing of interest. This is one of those films where I think people rate it highly just because it blatantly tries so hard and is odd because it can be.First of all there was some obvious jumping around going on, time wise, because events were out of order. It's really becoming a tired cliché of cinema. And while it works wonderfully in some films (Closer, Mulholland Drive et al) I just felt it was complication for complication's sake in this film.But then what happens in this story? We have some teenagers wiping the lead character's memory while drinking his alcohol, smoking pot (ooh, how edgy) and larking about.I'm sorry. We're meant to believe in this story where people have their MEMORIES WIPED (i.e. messing around with their brains) and they let stoned kids do it? Yeah right, that's realistic. Ridiculous.Otherwise all that was happening was just flashes of the lead character's memories, which came across as one of those Star Trek episodes where one of the crew is being mentally invaded by some parasite or something, and the crew saves the crewmember in the end.In short pointless, nothing to draw me in and this DVD is going on eBay. Maybe I'm missing something, after all this is high in the top 250. But whereas many films deserve it, I can't see what people see in this film.


                
I have seen this movie after a couple of years because I am not very fond of Jim Carrey's theater of faces; so I tried to avoid him as much as I can. Finally, I found a good actor doing his job. Unfortunately, I also found a flat, fake, boring movie. Despite all of the favorable criticism, to me "Eternal.." is a corny love story decorated with pretentious elements, such as the editing. The director and writer have stolen son many little things of other great movies (particularily from Europe) that in America people could think this is an original stuff. That's understandable where even people who know about cinema do not know anything about movies from other countries. It's like a remake of a movie that has never been done. I am suspecting that audiences' memories are erased from time to time. This is the only way you think "Eternal..." is original. Should I choose a similar movie, I prefer by far "Total Recall" (Schwarzenegger - Verhoeven). This flick is pure joy, action and epic. America needs to find again it's own, strong voice again. Very fast.


                
Caught this last night. I ask those proclaiming Charlie Kaufman The Second Coming to remember the card sent to Joel's friends asking them to not tell him Clementine had him zapped. Seeing him again neither re-triggers her memory or fries her brain, so what possible reason is there NOT to tell him? And what about the woman with the mementos of her dead dog? Do these "geniuses" send out cards informing Buster's pals that his mistress has had him zapped, so please don't mention it to him? It's the stupidest plot device I've seen in ages!The nature of the sub-conscious is never explored, or how memory is intertwined with thought, or how the most random sight, smell or touch can trigger the most deep-seated memory. We not only dream of people (and pets) no longer a part of our lives, but of people we've never met. How do you zap that? And what happens if a person somehow reconnects with what they had zapped? Kaufman doesn't even begin to address any of this.He then trots out his trademark Twits Behaving Badly: the minions raid Joel's fridge, smoke pot, and dance on his bed with the stereo full blast; Mary tries to seduce Stan; Patrick swipes Joel's gift for Clementine so he can score with her; the Doctor zaps Mary's memory so his wife won't find out they've been playing doctor! Yuk, yuk!Kaufman also has a serious problem with women: Clementine, as are most of his heroines, is a total wack job who should never be allowed to reproduce, and Joel (a passive-aggressive wuss if ever there was one) shouldn't apologize for stating the obvious. After all, relationships are supposed to be based on honesty, especially when the truth hurts!
As this movie had already taken almost 2 hrs of my life, I'll try to be speedy on this one.Some interesting filming technique. Other than that, nothing.No, there's no sunshine in this movie. No, there's nothing eternal either. No, there's certainly nothing spotless in this movie. And by the amount of swearing, I'd say - anything but.No, there's no mind either - except when erasing its memory (they should had done that to me, to forget I ever saw this one).So what is in this movie? Well, 2 people. Poor in every department, including their minds. The anti-example at its most, with a large sign all over them (if you are able to read it): DON'T YOU EVER BE LIKE ME. And Hollywood thinks that we should be touched by them falling in love with each other, somewhere among all the bad words and foolish thoughts, bearing no interest whatsoever not only to any (even slightly) educated human, but to any AVERAGE (and even much below average) human anywhere.Now, naming this movie with such a name tells everything not about the movie (as we already established that) but about its makers. Twisted, profoundly sick minds must they have, indeed. Fit for this post-modern (read: post-any-values) world, and they're the hard workers of it. Like a pack of blood-thirsty wolves, they demolish anything humans hold dear or of value, and we stand by, even let them in our homes, in our minds.


                
So I've now seen the film, more than 10 years after its being created. The idea behind the movie is great and when you read the summary the story seems fascinating. Well, that's why I decided to watch it. The problem is, the movie doesn't fulfil these promises at all. It is simply boring. You can guess the end of the story after the first half an hour. Basically, the idea was great, the implementation very poor. The problem are, for example, the moments showing the two employees dancing in their underwear, plenty of meaningless stories within the main plot and generally, the feeling of chaos. The acting is good, even the actor from Ace Ventura. I can't believe this movie got so much critical acclaim.3/10
Going into this film, my friend said that this film was one of the greatest films he has seen. I still wonder where he was coming from when saying this.The premise of the film is pretty much your typical love story. Lonely dull man Joel (Jim Carrey) meets overly excited girl Clementine (Kate Winslet) and because the couple of the decade so to speak. Now, this film tries to be a bit too clever. We come to find out Clementine has erased her memory of Joel, and Joel wants to do the same. While in the procedure, he changes his mind and fights it, and the rest I won't spoil for you.While the acting wasn't terrible, the story and the point of the swerve was pointless and unremarkable. While it was a swerve, it was a swerve for the sake of a swerve. For a good chunk of the film, you're completely confused. Then, while everything gets explained, your only reaction would be, "That's it?" I don't care too much for the effects either, as well as I mentioned before the pay off. I feel there was no real message conveyed, and it was only a movie to get you to go, "OOOOO". Instead, I feel empty. I don't feel any kind of pay off was made, nor am I satisfied with wasting almost 80 minutes just for a swerve that has no basis other then just to be a swerve.I don't recommend this film for anyone seeing as it tries to be too clever with the cliché love story, and completely fails.
After I looked in the top #250 I decided to rent this movie. I just wanted to see it because the visitors of IMDb voted 8.6 This was a movie I had to see ! I'm sorry to say but is was a very big disappointment. The theme was interesting, but not THAT interesting to look at. Two great actors in strange shots. 50 % of the shots should be erased and filmed again. More picture than story. I don't understand the vote of 8.6 and I'm curious why people are that positive. I read the comments and still doesn't understand. I watch about 2 of 3 movies a week. That doesn't make me a specialist, but I had to make this comment ! And I'm not the only one who doesn't understand. Donnie Darko : great movie. Adaptation : also. But this : I voted 2. Could not make more of it.


                
I really hated this movie. Its astonishing that it scores so highly. I wont bother trying to convince you all I'm a normal rounded character but how other people of the same species as me, can actually take some enjoyment from this film is beyond me. Just plain boring. As disappointing as Gladiator was.First of all Jim Carrey has been so type cast as the lunatic that seeing him play a normal, average man here, just exacerbates the character's boringness. Its almost unbearable. Windswept is a very average actress in my opinion and fails to excite here. The film had me falling asleep and then there was a scene with flashing lights in the dark and that was just too much of an irritation, i had to turn off.


                
A couple don't know how much they love each other until one of them goes on to erase the memory of the other, what a joke!!!!! Clever movie this is claimed to be, what is so clever about this drivel. the only nice thing is how the initial phases of the movie prove to be shifted parts later. the way the operation was performed on him and the 2 guys and the girl was so irritating. no one on earth would imagine tinkering around with the brain under such circumstances.and damn it, the guy happens to be technician, not even a doc.plot wise, the movie again sucks, no depth by any standards, so they fell in love, then break up shown in mixed phases. she erases him from her mind, he proceeds to do the same and in his mind she helps him open his eye and yes, there he is jim carey opening his eye when the operation is being performed. crap crap and crap just avoid this
Umm, OK. Umm, OK. Umm, OK. Umm, OK. Nope did not like the movie. Reminds me of those college chicks who acted like cartoon characters from some poorly written teenage anarchists/rich bored kid novellete. However, Kirsten Dunsten has a nice back. That is all. Thank you for your time.I like cheese. I suppose I am just not smart enough or maybe I am a little too sober to enjoy multi-million dollar actors attempting to give themselves "credibility" by making bad faux art house movies.In conclusion, sanity and adulthood are more enjoyable than the polemedintic imagirations of Sally Cocoa Puffs and her own copy of the Nashville Scene.


                
Not a film I cared for at all. I hated the supposed quirkiness of Jim Carrey's character, while Kate Winslet remains as irritating as she always has been since TITANIC soured me to her. The film's basic exploration of existentialist themes feels pretentious in the extreme, and various supporting actors are wasted.
This movie is messy, frenetic, incoherent and it tries so hard to tell a story. Unfortunately for Jim Carrey, this is just one of many serious roles he chose that just didn't pan out. It works so arduously to be clever and touching but it isn't either. I got the point of the story, and I understood the direction and feel of the movie, I just didn't care. I was told by numerous people that they thought of me while watching this movie, and I had to see it. I wish I hadn't, honestly. Just a long, boring disappointment.Clementine Kruczynski (Kate Winslet) was an unlikeable character. Nothing about her or her actions made me care about her in the slightest.I just kept wishing the memory-erasing technology would slip, and wipe Joel Barish's (Jim Carrey) slate completely clean, he'd forget he was a character in a story, and the movie would end.


                
I am STILL waiting for SOMETHING to happen in this movie!I just knew that I would find many folks praise this bizarre movie simply because of its oddness. I actually HAD to force myself to finish watching this movie. I turned it off three times and I will sit through just about anything!! It is sooo pretentious and DULL. Unless one enjoys STUDYING camera tricks and angles, I just can't see where the enjoyment lies. There are problems from the start but I will focus on only two. 1. CASTING mistake. Jim Carey does a respectable job playing with his "serious actor's face." On the other hand, Kate Winslet is quite miscast as a bohemian, free-spirited, American. She fails on ALL three counts. Everything about her screams UPTIGHT. Watching Kate Winslet play a carefree American is about as convincing as watching your conservative granny turn into a glamorous sex kitten after simply putting on a mini skirt and go-go boots. Who NEEDS to see that mess?? Is she from New York or Boston? Her accent is very flat, very Midwestern with many lapses into a musical British twang. Was anyone coaching her on her accent at all?? She is a competent actress in most films, but few actresses can play ANY role. She is a glaring mistake that made it impossible for me to buy her role or CARE. 2. Where is the STORY? Problem number TWO is shocking to me. This movie takes an interesting idea and goes NOWHERE. Imagine this movie filmed in a direct, straight forward way ... NOTHING special, right? If the filming technique and style become the story, than there wasn't one to begin with. I do not care about the characters and I am not awed that the scenes are filmed out of order. Where is the plot? I tried to find one but despite forcing my eyes to stay open, I was just bored. Really bored.Bottom line: Interesting idea and filming technique in places. Overall, BORING and dreary.


                
When I learned that Michael Gondry had directed this a few weeks ago, I became interested in seeing it. Perhaps a dozen of Gondry's videos are so clever and rich that I had hopes his movies would be too. The preview for his next one looks to be on the grating and precious side; something out of the 80s. I was truly surprised that this movie is such an overwrought trifle. Overwrought in that the relationship is barely even registers with a viewer before it requires saving, and a trifle in that many pivotal scenes and the resolution are so weakly written that any of three other relationship in the movie seem more dramatically interesting, and more scaled for the focus of a feature length movie. They don't bear the burden of having to prop up Gondry's rep with some gimmick. The Carrey/Winslet relationship tries to wrestle itself out from under the FX but it never has a prayer. The idea is too intrusive.Videos seem to be Gondry's ideal format. Ideas that can bear five minutes of exploration are his forte. This is not an insult. Let forever be by the Chemical Bros is simply astonishing. As for movies, this is it? The only question Gondry's efforts in the cinema will be answering is how many times will he be allowed to remake Benny & Joon? Addiitonally he's been imprisoned by his age and thus must make something not too far afield from previously acknowledged high-watermarks by his peers. ESOTSM has one eye firmly glued to Being John Malkovich.That said, I was willing to give this the benefit of the doubt up till about the one hour mark where the movies most awful scenes start flowing. Jim Carrey acting like a five year old hiding out under a table. It's just a cheesy, stupid, sphincter-tightening place I wasn't willing to go and thus began a fast forwarding workout. By coincidence this is also where the films poor structure becomes a real liability. As music videos don't require scripts, the movies major flaw is the structuring of the film over a long hour and 45 minutes, and the immature script.Heaping insult on injury, the central relationship is composed only of childish moments, and Winslet is asked to portray nothing more than a b*tchy freak, a surrogate Bjork, the type of girl who should cease to intrigue after the age of 20. I can only see the marketing angles when I see movies now, and the damaged girl who is non-threatening to the target audience of straight guys with low self-esteem is not satisfying to a mature adult viewer. Oooh a misfit who creates her own world.... This is love? making snow angels, girls who dress up potatoes, Puh-lease...There is room for good performances here. Kristin Dunst (who I don't care for) does OK in an adult role and looks quite fine. Mark Ruffalo who has generally been consigned to sensitive hunk perfs is allowed to play a fully-realized and well-acted goofball here. It turns out he has a range viewers haven't seen previously. Whether he's dancing badly in his underwear, or tripping over something and working with it, he's really committed to this character which makes it fun to watch. As supporting roles go, this is a good one and he does good things with it. A few line readings in the movie (from various actors) are really terrific. Overall this precious trip through cheap, easy pathos and childish hogwash invariably reappears in french cinema. Seemingly only the french can stomach emotional lives that receive this treacly treatment. (Ma Vie en Rose, Subway, The Professional, etc.)


                
I turned this movie off after it was apparent that the director was not ever going to bring this into focus or tidy up the mess he had made. By then, Joel was an undignified 3 ft tall and Clem was a Southern ho. One viewer spoke of the movie as if an intoxicating poem but whatever he read into it was purely coincidental as this movie did not divulge any such information as to why the couple broke up, for example, although we glimpse an argument where Joel apologizes for a well-deserved comment hurled at Clem. One of the worst parts about it was the fact that the audience knew pathetically little about their apparently 2 year relationship or the threads that weaved their hearts together in the first place nor the cracks their love fell through. And why on earth anyone would want to be soul mates with the impossibly dimwitted, arrogant and offensive Clem is beyond all capacity for understanding. Once the erasing of the memories begins, the movie leaps and skids off it's digital tracks as if pieced from the cutting room floor by a five year old.


                
Did everyone else see a different movie?The best thing this guy could do is get away from this trashy crude jerk of a woman. Move on. Guess he needed a sticker to remind him to stay away after his memory was erased? If the point was, if you forget the truly hideous things about people you can make the same mistake again, okay...But as a great film? I think not! This is the type of fluff that isn't even worth the dollar show, and I feel for you if you actually bring this home from the rental store. The reason for this romance is up there with the romance in Star Wars Episode II. People like Clementine should come with warning labels. It might be different if there was something actually compelling about Clementines character, but there isn't. All I can see is a poor fool making the same mistake twice, and that isn't quality entertainment.


                
Perhaps this film would have been better had it been shorter, I don't know. All I know is that I'm quite disappointed with it. I didn't expect anything special (after all I didn't choose this film, my boyfriend did) but I did expect something, anything, to happen. But no... I might as well have left after the first 30 minutes, gone down to the nearest pub for a pint of cider and a chat with some friends, and come back to see the last 15 minutes without missing anything of importance to the story. I didn't do that though. Maybe I should have. Oh well. I'm guessing it just wasn't my kind of film. Spending more than an hour watching someones memories of lost love isn't exactly my idea of entertainment. I give this film 2/10.


                
This is the kind of slippery, pretentious film, that always tries to remark that it's talking about important issues in an intelligent way, but fails to be intelligent or anything but PRETENTIOUS. It Tries, but fails to be surrealistic. If you want to watch a surreal film try Buñuel's "Un chien andalou" or "L'age d'or". Those films from the 1920's are much more surreal, original, modern, innovative films. About Jim Carrey: I just see him keep playing "The Mask", no matter the role he tries. He's a complete collection of tics. Displaying the same face of grief all the film through is not what I consider good acting. He was good at 'The Truman's Show'. In other films I always see Jim Carrey, not the character he tries to give life to.


                
OK so i watched this film just part of it and was immediately confused. OK then i watched it again summoning great focus to understand it and this is what i have to say.so a therapy was invented to physically remove memories of a person ( highly unlikely and possibly dangerous in current technologies, maybe in 500 years its possible) how jims mind works to maintain his memory of his girlfriend is interesting kinda reminded me of willy wonka just too out there.the movie didn't move me in any way so in the end cute but having the master of funny being serious just wasn't right i was just expecting him to do something funny i had high hopes he would. easy role should of been an unknown character to jump him into stardom (like me)
I have already pretty much blanked this movie out of my mind.  I do remember a little bit of it still, before I walked out.  I've never done that before, by the way, and I like many different types of movies.  What I do remember is that I couldn't really care less whether Kate Winslett's and Jim Carey's characters stayed with each other or not.  I don't really recall any big love forming between them before the first time she went to have him erased from her memory.  I didn't find the "memory-erasing" idea fascinating at all.  I went with another person, and we both hated it, but we have decided that since so many people seem to like it, we will probably check it out when it is available for rental and try to make it through to the end. Maybe something happened after that awful first hour that will make us change our minds. Somehow, I don't think so, but I usually love Jim Carey's movies, so I will try to keep an open mind.


                
I like Jim Carrey whether he's playing a goofy lawyer who can't lie (Liar, Liar) or a blacklisted Hollywood writer who cracks not one joke throughout the movie (The Majestic). I also enjoy movies with circuitous plot lines. That being said, I was very excited to see this movie but missed it in theaters in 2004.Now that I've seen it, I'm glad I didn't waste the $8.50 for theater admission five years ago. This film confuses and disappoints from start to finish and left me totally disoriented with a mild headache...no joke.Carrey's performance is so involved in the character you feel his depression, sadness, and lack of passion for life oozing through the screen and infiltrating your own being. As for Kate Winslet, I hold no grudge against her for her role in 'Titanic' but I found her completely insufferable and annoying in this film. Perhaps she's a reminder of girls I'd like to forget in my own life.Feel free to see this movie but I still don't recommend it.


                
This movie simply didn't work for me. Early on I was quite interested in the relationship between Joel and Clementine, but things began to slip once the memory erasers came into the movei. Finally, 55 minutes of the DVD was all I could take. Perhaps I just didn't understand it, but I gave up about half way through the nighttime memory erasing scene. I wasn't enjoying, nor understanding what the purpose of much of the craziness of the attendants to the erasing was supposed to mean. I don't understand how this can be #32 on the IMDb all time list, even as I agree with many of the movies above it.Reminded me of another, less highly rated movie, "Barton Fink". I know I should have liked it. I've loved most of the Coen brothers subsequent movies. Although I've been meaning to give that a 2nd try one of these days, I also only got about 2/3 of the way through it.
