Ten minutes into ETERNAL SUNSHINE OF THE SPOTLESS MIND, it was clear that screenwriter Charlie Kaufman has a limited bag of tricks. What was clever in BEING JOHN MALKOVICH the first time I saw it became pretentious during the second viewing and insufferable during the third viewing. ADAPTATION was a similarly too-clever pretentious exercise in modernist style with no substance. ETERNAL SUNSHINE mines the same vein, but this time around the results are about as substantial as cotton candy and as permanent as a fireworks display. Except for the cutesy plot device--which was refreshing decades ago when handled by the likes of a Godard or a Philip K. Dick or a Harold Pinter--the film is like a second-string Woody Allen project fed into a blender (or rewritten by Donald Barthelme). The "insights" about relationships in this film are, as one critic aptly described it, about as profound as those in a Hugh Grant movie. And as "experimental" as Kaufman may think he is being, the plot is as predictable as that of any b-movie, once one figures out the premise of the story (which the slowest audience member will do in about 20 minutes). And what's the point of the murky faux-cinema-verite visual style in many scenes? The three points out of ten I awarded this film are primarily for the actors, Jim Carrey in particular. When will the Hollywood establishment and the critics finally learn that Kaufman is a one-trick-pony? The emperor is not wearing any clothes here. As someone who has championed and supported TRUE avant-garde filmmaking for decades, I see this as a cheap Hollywood pastiche of the avant garde. Those who found John Sayles' LONE STAR to be "multi-layered" instead of cliche-ridden will find much to praise and discuss in ETERNAL SUNSHINE. While Kaufman is not as bad as P.T. Anderson (at least Mr. Kaufman manages to honor traditional story structures while re-fashioning them, and at least he can create REAL if shallow characters, something Anderson hasn't learned to do), my evening would have been better spent watching a straight-to-video action film or some obsscure 1950s Allied Artists post-noir crime film. Rent this one...or better yet, rent something else!


                
Quack quack, quack. Say whatever pseudo-intellectual stuff you want. But in the final analysis this movie was beyond tedious. Jim Carey was great (an awesome display of well-crafted understatement, unlike his usual over-the-top Robin William impersonations). Ditto for Kate Winslett (it is worth money to see good Brit actors "speaking American" as opposed to watching American hacks in their pathetic attempts at mimicking an English (usually crappy-Cockney) accent. But despite the similar languid pacing of the FAR FAR SUPERIOR "Lost In Translation" (with another Canuck comedian icon -turned - serious actor) the structure, development, editing, and dialog of this movie just made me want to turn off the screen, go to bed, and erase the memories...
Yikes. I had to struggle to make it through this ridiculously overpraised film - REALLY overpraised in IMDb-land - it seems like all of Andy Dufresne's ("Shawshank Redemption") lil' pals have found a new place to languish their misplaced emotions. After being knocked out by "Being John Malkovich", "Human Nature", and "Adaption", I expected more of the same here. Instead, I learned a lot about Charlie Kaufman.What did I learn? Well, this is the first time I've seen Charlie work with a blank slate. In other words, the storyline that Charlie wrote is too weak to carry the movie (unlike the aforementioned Charlie masterpieces). And without a good story, it's a whole 'nother world out there for Charlie. What we're talking about is a peek-a-boo variation on the old "amnesia" plot line that really feels more like a turn on "Donovan's Brain". And so, unfortunately, there's almost immediately not much left to do except to send the characters into action. Running from here to there and back again in an ever changing universe is a favorite Kaufman underpinning that has really provided momentum to his hit movies, particularly "Being John Malkovich" (an absolute gem of a film). But without a substantive plot to grab onto, the panache of eye-grabbing images and set pieces that should really light up all of that running feels empty, strident, and worst of all, manipulative.I also learned that when Charlie doesn't have much going in the way of the ideas, the quirky neuroses that propel most of his characters move from background to foreground. And that isn't good - unfortunately, it's downright overbearing, and ultimately numbing. And in this film, the characters, as thin as tissue paper, are also held at arm's length from the viewer. This isn't the Charlie that I've known and loved - I just didn't care about these characters! Charlie does make a misguided attempt to deconstruct Joel's life, but who the heck really knows anything about Joel? The movie is competently handled by Michel Gondry, but he's at Charlie's mercy. The actors. Jim Carrey? He's surprisingly weak in a role that would seem to cater to his style. Unfortunately, Carrey underplays the role (!) early on and then has to get out of control later to catch up. Talk about episodic - he seems confused as he runs from here to there, with or without his ski cap. This may be the worst performance that I've seen from Tom Wilkinson, but he's working with cardboard. And Kirsten Dunst? She's still trying to prove that she can act..in ANY role.Looking for bright spots? There's Kate Winslet. Her blistering performance deserves the Oscar nomination that she received. She really does her best to elevate this leaden film. Superb art direction, set direction, and editing are also Oscar-worthy.But ultimately, I learned that Charlie has to have all cylinders firing or absolutely nothing works for me (as opposed to a LOT of other people). At its best, "Eternal Sunshine" is a mildly interesting mess, and no one has a lot with which to work. But if you've seen much of his other work, you know that he's failed here.And despite all of the jawing about Montauk, the bulk of the story seems to be set in Rockville Centre on Long Island. Funny, I always thought of Rockville Centre as a bit upper-crust. How the mighty have fallen.And the same can be said about Charlie. Hopefully, this is a low point for him, though I miss "Ned and Stacey". About a 3.5 out of 10.
The only redeeming thing about this film was the acting. Unfortunately, most of the actors do a little too good a job convincing you how pathetic their characters can be. I do not need to watch shallow people at their shallowest to make me feel deep. I haven't seen such self indulgent tripe aimed at wannabe intellectuals since Lost in Translation came out.Anyone who gave this film a nine or ten needs to spend a little more time at small theaters that play independent, documentary, foreign, and art house films so they know the difference. If you happen to live in the south Puget Sound area you should check out the Tacoma Grand Cinema.


                
Story running is fast.
After watching we have to sit and have to think and arrange the story plots in sequence.


                
I really want to like this film and so I watch it with a few years interval, but it never becomes a film I want to watch, rather it becomes a chore.


                
This movie is just another example of "artsy", confused with clever. Most people go to the movies for one reason, and one reason only, to be entertained. I can think of not one scene in this confusing mish=mash of a film that was entertaining. Instead of entertaining, in fact it was a strain to watch. Granted, it is well made, but that doesn't make up for the fact that the filmmaker should give the audience someone to care about in their story. While Carrey and Winslet are good in their roles, we just don't care what happens to them. I had a very similar reaction to the last Kaufman film that I endured(barely), "Being John Malkovich" I'm almost to the point of doing the opposite of what the critics recommend, in light of the fact that this garbage was almost universally acclaimed. What is amazing is that this film scores so highly by the IMDb members. I haven't spoken to anyone who remotely enjoyed "spotless"


                
What is it with Charlie Kaufman? He gets these weird little concepts that would work beautifully in a clean, spare, twenty-two minute "Twilight Zone" episode, and he insists on milking them and overworking them and pumping them up with pseudo-intellectualism and pseudo-artsy fartsy -isms, to two hour, faux deep messes. Doesn't Charlie Kaufman ever bore himself? I liked "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" much better before I actually saw it. Reviewers praised the movie. The concept was intriguing: brokenhearted couples, fresh out of painful relationships, hire a strip-mall MD -- with a gratuitously Polish name -- Mierzwiak (Tom Wilkinson) -- to erase the painful memories. Who among us has not had that wish? That we could erase the painful past? Now that I've seen it, though, I like the movie a lot less.Kate Winslet as Clementine, a gratingly obnoxious, psycho shrew with yet another gratuitously Polish name <U+0096> Kruczynski -- sort of a blue-orange-haired version of Elizabeth Taylor's Martha in "Who's Afraid of Virginia Wolf?" -- is terrific here. I wish Kate could have given this same masterful performance in a successful movie.Jim Carrey is always good. He's a multi-millionaire dollar box office star who has earned every penny. He conveys, with complete verisimilitude, Joel's vulnerability and social ineptitude.Clementine (Winslet) has borderline personality disorder. That's never stated; one can conclude that from her behavior. Joel (Carrey) has social anxiety disorder, or has no personality. Their relationship, in real life, would probably end up with a sawed-off shotgun, a manslaughter charge, and plea bargaining. Hard to root for this couple. I never cared if they got back together, or did not, or if they forgot each other, or did not. They have exactly two human moments together: when Clementine begs Joel to reassure her that she is pretty, and when Joel is urged, by bullies, to kill a wounded bird. Those two moments should have been in a better movie.Kirsten Dunst has a small part as the vapid, blond, half-naked slut no pretentious movie would be complete without; bug-eyed Elijah Wood irritatingly reminds us how lucky he was to snag the lead in those magical elf movies. Mark Ruffalo is all too believable as an unappealing nerd, who, in spite of a nice body, looks utterly icky dancing in his underwear.If only this film could have been made under the Old Studio system. The execs would have stolen Kaufman's nifty concept. Kaufman would have gone off to become a ruined alcoholic, but audiences would get a moving classic.As it is, we get chopped up images that are not moving, that are not coherent, that don't make you care about anything, and that alienate a vast portion of viewers.Scenes are unnecessarily ugly. Jim Carrey is a naturally handsome man; here he is denied shaving privileges, and apparently he was forbidden from washing his hair. Bad hygiene is Kaufman's trick for communicating that he's made an art movie. For the viewer, it just means that every character looks as if he or she has very bad breath.Will someone please tell Charlie Kaufman: LESS IS MORE. I'm using all caps because this guy is so heavy handed I'm guessing he wouldn't hear anything that isn't shouted.One scene where a character's face is melting is enough. You don't have to revisit that same trick fifteen minutes later and have four characters' faces melting.After the film conveys the cool "memory erasing" concept, it wanders aimlessly and repetitively for the next hour and a half or so of chaotic special effects. Houses fall down; characters disappear. There's nothing here that you haven't seen before; in fact, you can experience the essential effect just by looking at the Salvador Dali painting with the melting clock.Apparently a lot of people were confused by this movie. To clarify: 1.) Charlie Kaufman wants you to know that life is about both the bitter and the sweet. Life would be less if we took only the sweet, and deleted the bitter.2.) Charlie Kaufman wants you to know that Charlie Kaufman is a deep guy.3.) Hygiene is overrated; similarly, the lack of hygiene is a sign that this is a prestige film.I'm still confused about this: 1.) What's with the gratuitously Polish names?


                
I have reviewed this movie to make the review. I knew I did not like it, but I wanted to be specific. Seeing the other time, I see that I still do not like it, but I see that there are still more things that I did not remember and that I do not like. It's a great idea, although well thought out is a very dangerous idea, very sad and at the same time, I do not know if they stop to think that the human being is what is good and bad that happens to him and remember what he has lived . Without remembering things, you run the risk of repeating the bad ones. I'll need the spoiler part to explain some thingsThe actors are all great, yes, each one is more crazy than the previous one. I do not know how many people in real life would hold any of them more than a little while and would fall in love with them.He has a photograph that I would define as non-existent. There are moments when the light overflows the screen. In others he uses photography for two things, to make a different film and to cover, especially at night, all the faults.His address seems a little boring. I think the intermediate section seems very long. Apart from his typical style in all his films, the planes he makes are sometimes even poorly composed.I would ask people if they really want to forget about their past. It may seem great to the naked eye, but if something makes us human is the good and the bad and learn to overcome the bad times.Spoiler:The part that I like about the movie, the "idea" of forgetting the bad and even finding it again and falling in love with it would be nice if it were not so badly carried out. I think he spends most of the movie obsessing the character with not accepting what is no longer, however the nice part that you finally find your partner again, you only have a few minutes of film, nothing more and That is for me one of the big mistakes.It also has things as typical as the love of Kirsten Dunst with the boss, I have seemed a total topic.
as someone that has recently gone through a very long and very painful breakup you would think that I would be the perfect audience for this film. no. quite the opposite actually. It instead highlighted how lacking in substance the movie was. it in no way for one moment even came closethe idea is good and so the problem is in the execution, especially the casting of the lead roles. I didn't at any point feel that Winslet and Carrey were in love with each other which is kinda an important ingredient for this film to workI never really liked Winslet much to be honest, I find her very self absorbed and self indulgent and she never really appears to give anything on screen to her co actors. Jim Carrey is okay but feels shallow in this one. overall him and Winslet just do not feel like a good match at all. probably Carrey and Dunst would've been a more interesting couplein terms of production values I saw or heard nothing exceptional. visually and sonically I found the movie very grey


                
I had high hopes for this movie. I looked forward to a humorous yet thoughtful consideration of a fascinating question: If you could ease the pain of a breakup by eliminating all memory of the beloved, would you? And if you did, would it be good for you emotionally?Man, what a disappointment. The first problem was Clementine, one of the most repellent female characters I've ever seen on screen. Narcissistic, hostile, whiny, self-centered, ignorant, humorless, cruel -- who could spend 10 minutes with such a woman, let alone fall in love with her? Yet this movie asks us to believe that two men find her irresistible. Huh?Then there's the disjointed plotting. I suppose the film is supposed to evoke the dream state. Clearly, though, viewers have a lot of trouble figuring out basic chronology, not to mention how things remain between the lovers at the end. I personally felt as if the director were screaming: "Look at me! Look at me! See how clever and original I am?" Kind of like Clementine, as a matter of fact. The title is superb, and I enjoyed hearing the bimbo Mary mangle Alexander Pope's name while reciting it. But the movie is thoroughly unworthy of that lovely line.


                
When i was watching at eternal sunshine... i was thinking: well , cool idea,interesting ...but that's all.there's a good performance by Carrey but ... the other characters are... useful. I don't find interesting the e.wood or k.Dunst character.the movie is as boring as pretentious.I don't understand why the people love it. There's also lots of stupid moments that it is supposed to be funny.i don't get the humor of the situations. Michael Gondry don''t have a good narrative sense and the whole editing is a mess making the movie hard to watch... the time will move the movie to the place where this kind of movies has to stay: forgotten


                
Very hard to get through, my wife and I fell asleep twice trying to get through it and we are HUGE Jim Carrey fans of all his others, both comedy's and dramas alike, and really weren't looking for a comedy or drama but just couldn't get into the flow of the movie. Perhaps because it had no flow. I was trying to understand the premise on erasing his mind but even after that the movie just seems to go nowhere. The hardest thing was that it appears he didn't have any reason for going through this big mind-erase thing. They never really give you a reason to see why he wants to go through this process. Perhaps a third attempt is warranted...NOT!
Self indulgent. If the story were portrayed in chronological order it would be deemed trite. Neither of the principal characters is particularly appetizing; they lack depth and developed characters other than superficial traits.The secondary characters other than serving the need of explaining the memory erasure do not drive the narrative and serve mainly as filler.Kaufman uses film as a form of freudian analysis instead of seeing a psychiatrist. He might write better screenplays after having been analyzed.On the other hand he might quit screen writing altogether if he completed analysis.


                
My wife and I have never hated a movie as much as this one. We walked out and needed therapy after this one. Ruined our day. Just about the worst movie I have ever seen. I mean, who uses a hand held camera with a mundane incomprehensible plot? Depressing!!! I have never been so critical of a movie or should I even call it a movie. More like a wreck. Please explain to me why this movie was appealing? What is the appeal? The love story was entirely unconvincing. These two people would never get together. When does a women come up to a guy like that in America? If a woman came up to me like that I would run, I don't care what she looked like. Anything else?I said enough.


                
"Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" is a film which could, just, have worked. It is based around a science fiction concept which is the precise opposite of the one which forms the basis of "Total Recall". That film posits that that at some time in the future neuro-technology will have advanced to the point where it is possible to implant false memories into a person's brain- that is to say memories which the person believes to be genuine but which in fact relate to events that have never taken place. "Eternal Sunshine<U+0085>..", by contrast, explores the possibility that it might be possible to use neuro-technology to remove unwanted memories from a person's brain. Unlike "Total Recall", which is explicitly set several centuries in the future, it seems to be set in the present day; the fictional technique of "Targeted Memory Erasure" is the only futuristic thing about it.The film tells the story of two lovers, Joel Barish and Clementine Kruczynski who meet, fall in love, fall out of love again and separate. When Joel seeks out Clementine to try for a reconciliation, he finds that she has no memories of him and discovers that she has used the services of a firm called Lacuna, Inc to erase all memories of him from her mind. On the basis that what is sauce for the goose is also sauce for the gander, Joel decides that he will also have his mind wiped of all memory of Clementine and makes an appointment with Lacuna. During the mind wiping procedure, however, he decides that he wants to remember Clementine after all.This was a film which came as a great disappointment to me. Kirsten Dunst may have a fine nose for mediocrity, but its other stars have all starred in some of the finest films of recent years, Kate Winslet in "Heavenly Creatures" and Branagh's "Hamlet", Jim Carrey in "The Truman Show", Tom Wilkinson in "Girl with a Pearl Earring" and "Valhalla", and Elijah Wood in the "Lord of the Rings" trilogy. Winslet, admittedly, is an actress I am never quite sure about. It may seem unpatriotic to say so, given her current status of National Treasure Grade One in Britain, but her acting veers between the brilliant, as in "Heavenly Creatures" or the recent "Revolutionary Road", the good ("Sense and Sensibility"), the average ("Titanic", "Iris"), the technically proficient but soulless ("The Reader"), and the frankly weird ("Hideous Kinky"). Her performance here falls firmly into the final category, (although "Eternal Sunshine<U+0085>.." is a far weirder film than "Hideous Kinky" ever knew how to be). Her Clementine comes across as so emotionally dysfunctional (polite euphemism for bitch) that it is easy to understand just why Joel wanted every trace of her eradicated from his memory. What is more difficult to understand is why he changed his mind about the process or, indeed, fell in love with her in the first place. Jim Carrey can also be brilliant, as he was in "The Truman Show", but falls a long way short of repeating that triumph here, with his Joel coming across as just dull.The film seems to have plenty of admirers, currently being ranked at No. 62 on the IMDb Top 250 and having been nominated for all sorts of awards. I realise, therefore, that I am in a minority when I say that I disliked it. Part of the problem was that it is a romantic comedy (of sorts) where I was unable to sympathise with either of the principal characters, but the main reason for my dislike was that Michel Gondry's tricksy direction made the plot so difficult- at times impossible- to follow. "Eternal Sunshine" has been compared to "Being John Malkovich", the script for which was written by the same writer, Charlie Kaufman, but I found that film much clearer to understand.Gondry, particularly during the sequences where Joel's memory is being wiped, uses a number of disorientating techniques such as distorted perspective and an extreme form of non-linear narrative. The film jumps suddenly from Joel's memories, some recent, some of the more distant past, to scenes set in the present, which makes it very difficult to piece together exactly what is going on. The effect has been described as "surrealistic", but I have always found Surrealism to be something which works better on canvas, as in the works of Salvador Dali and Giorgio de Chirico, than it does on the cinema screen, except in small doses, an example being the dream sequence Dali designed for Hitchcock's "Spellbound". The best thing about "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" is its quirky title- a line from Alexander Pope's "Eloisa to Abelard". 3/10


                
First off, the consensus that this movie is unique is bogus. Anyone thinking that need look no farther than Total Recall. Memory manipulation is well-traveled territory in sci-fi and simply removing the action does not a unique movie make. Not to say a fresh take on the potentials of the technology is impossible, but this movie fails to do so. Here memory removal plays a very small role that does no more than exaggerate the classic "I'm throwing out your stuff and moving on" routine, an event so thin it can barely maintain a jeans commercial much less a motion picture.The core failure of this picture is that it tries to force together two people who obviously should not be. She's a flaky hipster prone to severe mood swings and he's an introverted nebbish with zero social skills. At these two extreme ends of the spectrum there's no chance of working it out by meeting in the middle. All they have in common is personality disorders and that's a poor basis for a relationship. Spiderman 2 has a similar failing.Speaking of Spiderman 2, we are once again subjected to the screen presence of Kirsten Dunst. This time she's the center of a B-plot (straight out of soap opera textbooks) that hijacks the third act. Girl has affair with married man, gets "amnesia" and forgets affair, has affair reintroduced to her memory and - oh-so-conveniently - confronts married man in front of a well-lit window facing the street where his wife has just pulled up in her car. The wife, as has been played out thousands of times, misinterprets this as infidelity and screeches away with the exasperated husband chasing the car.(Side note: Considering that disposing of all reminders of the removee is required for the memory wipe to succeed, how does Kirsten's character manage to work daily in the same office as her removee with no recall whatsoever?)Tacking on this subplot was unnecessary, but it serves as a welcome break from the excruciatingly slow flashbacks that comprise the bulk of the film. Carrey and Winslet's scenes are well acted and scripted but amount to nothing more than lengthy snippets of a mostly bad romance. More negative drama that only a soaps fan could enjoy. As for reuniting them at the end...There are two lessons to this movie. One is removing your memory (or simply forgetting the past) is a bad idea - a point made several different ways with no subtlety. Two is don't ever give your panties to a guy who works at a fly-by-night brain wiping operation. Let's focus on lesson one. Kirsten and the doctor both learn it the hard way. Carrey and Winslet don't learn it at all; although at their expense the audience does. By getting them back together with no memory of each other the audience knows they are doomed to repeat history. In conveying that point the movie succeeds. Unfortunately there is a long, boring, clichéd, needlessly convoluted road to travel to get there.3/10
The reverse of the classic Philip K. Dick story "We can remember it for you wholesale" (aka "Total Recall"). Three people, Joel, Clementine, and Mary, are interconnected by the fact that they have all attempted to have painful memories completely erased from their conscious and unconscious memory. The technique is only partially successful. At the end, all 3 remember fragments of their thoughts. The initial device looks just like a beauty parlor hair dryer a la "The Stepford Wives". Joel wants to forget Clementine, so he has the procedure performed in the doctor's office and then completed at home. Something goes terribly wrong and he almost can't be "snapped out of it" as he remains unconscious for a dangerously long period of time. Thus, the viewer is forced to relive the same imperfectly-erased memories many times and for me this became quite tedious and boring. As expected, Joel and Clementine both tried to erase each other, (she first) and Mary almost forgets her love affair with the married doctor where she is office manager. Good effects, as fences and buildings all dissolve metaphorically as the memories shift and change. Almost like the movie "Brainstorm" but not in a toxic or shocking way. I didn't like it at all and I don't care how wonderful and original everyone else thinks this movie is. The only good thing about it is that in spite of all the odds against it, Joel and Clementine finally reconnect and try to start again, possibly indicating that they really belong together after all. It's not worth 108 minutes of my time for just that revelation. As usual, Jim Carrey gives a good off-beat performance but Kate Winslet is wasted as his love interest. A minor "sexy" scene as Mary and the technician "get it on" at Joel's home and accidentally leave him "plugged in" too long, like a bag of burning microwave popcorn!
I am amazed at the praise being put upon this movie not only here on this web site but reviews in the newspapers. Jim Carrey does a decent performance allowing us to see a serious and dark side to him.  Some of the special effects were pretty cool.  Overall, I got bored with the movie and that was when I wasn't irritated by the timeline jumping back and forth, the hard to follow sequence of events and a general lack of interest in the characters. The biggest question might be why in the world did Carrey and Winslet's characters get involved in the first place.  There wasn't enough chemistry between them nor enough background to make us care about them.


                
once again, i have seen a movie with my friends who can't pick a movie to save their lives. The previews say comedy but thats not what it is at all, its more of a serious movie and when i mean serious , i mean seriously boring. I didnt care much for the characters. i came in with an open mind because i am into wierd movies but it has to keep me interested which this didnt. first half of the movie was so boring i was thinking of walking out but when jim carey realized he wanted the erasing of clementine to stop, things got slightly more interesting but not by much. for me this would have been a rental. I thought being john malkovich was more interesting than this, its written by the same guy. well hopefully my next review will be more positive. 3/10


                
This movie has no entertainment value. The acting is satisfactory, the story is week, disparately trying to be original using a minimalistic storyline backed up by artistic shots and big names. The artistic direction sells to the critics but certainly not to the general audience or myself. I'm sorry but this film is utterly depressing and increadably dull. Being a fan of quality and entertaining movies I don't rate Eternal sunshine at all. If however you enjoy artistic movies I would consider this as an 8 out of 10. IF YOUR NOT INTO ARTISTIC MOVIES DO NOT WATCH THIS FOR THE BIG NAMES OR REVIEWS, YOU WILL BE DISAPPOINTED. The worst movie that I have watched in recent years


                
It simply doesnt make any sense! Why would anyone make a movie like this? Whooever made this must have been really screwed up in the head. And i almost want to enquire about the well being of the person that made this.


                
This will just be short and sweet. This film did sound interesting to me when I first heard about it. Since, the previews from certain people about this film sounded good. So, when at a game store I saw this film and decided to buy it. I have to tell you I was expecting it to be very dramatic before I started watching it. And it was, alittle strange too. In my opinion, a film with a genre of Drama/Romance/Sci-Fi all combined does not mix well. I may be wrong but I think it does. This film probably have been better if its storyline was better. I had a lot of trouble following it. If it had been better to follow it I might have enjoyed it. I guess there was too much drama in the film. I don't know. I will have to give a "3".


                
OK, I'm not going to bash this movie because it did have it's merits. It was just an interesting concept that didn't work for me. Character development was nil which makes us apathetic about their relationship which makes for a rotten love story. Not a funny movie although probably not meant to be. Whats left? An average drama I suppose. Let's face it, two hours of dream sequences had a lot of us bored & restless regardless of how clever the concept may have been. I really liked Winslets and Carreys performances. The rest of the cast was expendable. Overall a 7 out of 10. Coulda been a contender(on my list). I feel as if critics jumped on the bandwagon on this one for fear of being passé or out of touch. Maybe with all of the Hollywood garbage out there now a carnation such as this comes out smelling like a rose. Worth a watch, that's it. The ending reminded me of Jerry McGuire(good film , bad love story). Two people settling for mediocrity.


                
If you are able to accept the basic premise of this film (not an easy task, IMO) you will be forced to endure painfully long repetitive sequences involving the two lead characters' relationship. I found this rather tedious and just didn't care much about this couple. The two bozos entrusted to perform the herculean task of "memory erasing", were just plain annoying. Yeah, two horny teen-agers, jumping up and down on beds, s***faced drunk, while performing a delicate medical procedure? And what the hell was Tom Wilkinson doing in this film? The affair that he had in the film was quite believable, don't ya think? Elijah Wood is used as a weak plot device and the more I think about it, the more ridiculous this movie becomes. Credit to Jim Carrey and Kate Winslet for doing the best they could with the material, but it just didn't work for me.


                
