I think it goes without saying amongst fellow film aficionados, that we all love films, especially the great ones. However over the years watching films I've noticed there seems to be that one film that is hugely popular, but when you sit down to watch it, you can't understand why it's held in such high regard. For me it's only happened a couple of times, but I unfortunately have to add Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind to the list.Whilst I appreciated the original screenplay from Charlie Kaufman(whose work I usually love), it felt completely flat. I was never engaged at any moment in the film, the characters were extremely unlikable and had horrible personalities. Other then one emotional scene towards the end with Kirsten Dunst's character, the film felt dull and lifeless. At no point did I feel invested in the story. I was unable to buy into Joel(Jim Carrey) and Clementine's(Kate Winslet) impromptu relationship, which dissolved just as quickly as it began, giving me no time with their characters to care about their eventual fate.Both Jim Carrey and Kate Winslet give excellent performances, as do the entire cast. I just disliked their characters. The technical aspects of the film were well done. The way the film showcases memories, and the way they subsequently disappeared/folded into each other was expertly crafted and brilliantly edited. The only issue is the story and the characters didn't work for me. No matter how good the direction and editing is, the majority of the the time a film lives or dies by the strength of it's story and it's characters, and here it ultimately failed.


                
*Very small Spoiler section at foot of page* Nice. That is the word I would use to describe this film, however it would have been 'nice' if this movie had been a 15 minute short but sadly the director decided it would be much better to make a 2 hour feature out of 15 minutes worth of material and fill in the blanks with a whole lot of 'nice'. The end product, quite frankly, is something that could result in a hangover. I can't stress enough how good and deep this film *could* have been. This film is half decent but it is not really all that smart or intelligent, in fact this movie is pretty much the epitome of dim and the humour here is fairly slapstick. That's maybe what lessened the impact for me, this was supposedly really though provoking, nope this is a fairly average 'chick flick'/romantic drama masquerading as intelligent art-house fare with a sci-fi twist, unfortunately quoting some poetry does not equate to intelligent. I appreciate the noble intentions and admit it had a refreshing feel good factor about it but unfortunately the sunshine really struggled to shine through Kuafman and Gondry's pretentious, patronizing and often tedious script. Some of the dialog left my intelligence feeling rather insulted, as did the film as a whole.With that out of the way I still felt this film was not really great on an entertainment level either. It's like a home movie, I don't just mean the shaky camera work but this is basically a selection of sentimental moments from 2 lover's relationship with a few childhood memories thrown in for good measure. I'm not against sentimental, in fact I sometimes enjoy it especially in something like Old Yeller for example, as long as it's not over done in 'grown up' films, like it is here. People who are very sentimental and who enjoy romantic comedies would enjoy this film the most. However if you have an aversion for over the top sentimentality, eccentric behavior and (especially deserving of a 'warning' label) stoned student types spouting poetry then you will probably want to be euthanized after watching this film! This is the tale of 2 lovers , Clementine and Joel (played adequately by Winslet and Carrey) who break up after a silly argument, Clem's hasty reaction to this is to permanently erase Joel from her memory via a revolutionary new technique. Upon finding out, Joel gets the same treatment as revenge but then has a change of heart mid erasing and attempts to salvage his memories of their relationship by hiding Clem in various recollections from his past. Where this film was lost on me I feel is that I found the lead characters completely unlikeable, the thought of meeting such people sends shivers down my spine never mind taking a look at their lives and relationships. Clem is one of the most irritating characters I have seen in a long while, she's a 30 something student/hippie type who loves to changes her hair colour with her mood and loves a good emotional outburst for no good reason every now and then. Kaufman seems to think that making her eccentric will somehow transform her from shallow, immature and moody to likable and deep. No, no, NO! Then Joel is almost as bad, he too is a tad immature and he is a complete, hopeless loser. The other characters involved are even more hideous so I won't even dare go into details.The whole message, which will largely depend on what the viewer extracts from the film, is roughly dispensed through some elementary ideas and clichés - love is irrational and makes us do irrational things and 'love at first sight'. The film also asks important questions relating to what memories mean to us and how they affect who we are, and if we could erase them would we make the same mistakes again. The whole topic of being able to erase memories is a very deep one, while the film delves into a very important and emotive aspect of the human condition via the concept it ignores a whole barrel load of possible directions to take the plot, deciding instead to concentrate almost solely on the leads relationship resulting in a very linear, slightly shallow experience. The plot also seems to stall with regularity, perhaps as a byproduct of having limited room to expand, it just plods and stutters along seemingly forever.*Spoilers* The film is very surreal at times and it is in the hazy insights into Joel's memories that the film achieves it's few high points, we get glimpses of mildly traumatic childhood experiences and most importantly the first meeting with Clem. It is upon the parting of Joel and his memories of Clementine that the film peaks, when he concedes his quest to salvage the situation is futile and decides to simply enjoy what little time he has with his last recollections of her and the time they spent together. That sequence is pretty touching and *almost* manages to make the film feel worth while. However it was not enough to rescue the whole experience for me as I had already developed a feeling of mild nausea before that point. The film was a bit pop arty at times but there were some lovely images featuring dream like sunsets and street parades and the director did create a unique atmosphere, I give him credit for that at least. Overall a disappointment, not a complete disaster but I can't help but feel this was an opportunity somewhat squandered. I did not really feel the impact I felt the film tried to deliver as I could not find it in me to empathize with the two leads, but I did appreciate the messages they were attempting to deliver.
As i have said before on more than one occasion ,I'm not a big Jim Carey fan. When i have mentioned this in the past there is always one person who says " but have you seen Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind"? Well i hadn't up until now and what i am going to say about it is bound to upset a few people.Joel is stunned to discover that his girlfriend Clementine has had her memories of their tumultuous relationship erased. Out of desperation, he contacts the inventor of the process, Dr. Howard Mierzwiak , to have Clementine removed from his memory. But as Joel's memories progressively disappear, he begins to rediscover their earlier passion. From deep within the recesses of his brain, Joel attempts to escape the procedure. As Dr. Mierzwiak and his crew chase him through the maze of his memories, it's clear that Joel just can't get her out of his head.Firstly there is nothing wrong with Jim Carey in this film . In fact it's refreshing to see him not pulling stupid faces. I enjoyed the acting of Kate Winslett too but the film itself left me cold.Looking at IMDb.com nearly everyone gives this top marks and it's listed as the the 59th best movie of all time. I don't get it? Is there something profound in this film that i missed? The idea is a good one but the execution is not. I found the timeline extremely confusing and the conclusion unsatisfactory. Perhaps my expectations were to high? I was expecting something special but i ended up getting a film that was trying to be far to clever for it's own good.It reminded me a little of Being John Malkovich. That too was pretentious nonsense and yet everyone praised it . Not Me. It's like the Emperors new clothes story . Once one person jumps up and say " I love it" everyone jumps on the band wagon.If i had the telephone number of the memory eraser's i would call them to erase my memory of this movie.To sum up i found Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind a self indulgent mess and if that upsets people i make no apologies for my honesty.4 out of 10


                
I usually like the type of films that are off beat (See my vote history), yet this one just didn't catch me. I don't know why, I see how everyone else likes it and everything. I think the film "Millions" should be in its spot. But there it is, sitting in the top 250. It really just didn't have the cinephotagraphy that I expected and the plot wasn't very good (I know that that's what everybody's saying was the best part; I beg to differ). Also, I hate how this movie was advertised to be a comedy. Especially with Jim Carry (although I have to admit he did a great job in the crossover). I thought this would be more like a thing where the main character played by Jim Carry loses every memory of everything bad that ever happened to him and so he walks the streets like an idiot thinking nothing bad's ever going to happen. So, I was geared up for a comedy and got more of an abstract type of film. Prehaps it was all in the advertising.


                
Talk about running an idea into the ground! This film takes one somewhat trite sci-fi idea spawned during the pulp era -- a helmet-like machine that can be fitted over the head to erase selected memories -- and lets us watch it work on two quirky, unhappy lovers... and that's about it. Way too much of the movie involves the flashily filmed fragmentary memories, dreams, half-memories, fantasies, etc. etc. experienced by the Jim Carrey character as he undergoes this improbable procedure (which proves the excuse for a number of special effects). Watching such fragments, on and on, is about as tedious as listening to someone recount his dream. I've seen three films so far written by Charles Kaufman, and the only one I've enjoyed was "Adaptation." This one -- like "Being John Malkovich" -- began to bore and annoy me before it was halfway through.


                
This movie tries to be "quirky" because it's a romance with two crazy people. The problem is that these people are so nuts that they don't need to date each other, they need case workers.Look, I can identify with Jim Carrey's character. I like to sketch weird drawings that don't make sense to anyone, and I'm not the smoothest operator in life. But this guy is so retarded that it's irresponsible to present him as a potential date for ANY chick. He sits cross-legged on the ground in public drawing in his sketchpad, he dresses like a damned fifteen year old girl with Aspergers syndrome, and he lives in his own world. He doesn't need a girlfriend, he needs someone to teach him that some of his behaviors are not helping him in life at all. Like a "big brother" for adults. The script should have known that.Winslet's character is a wolf in sheep's clothing, a damaged slut who would not just quickly tire of a boring nerd like Carrey and cheat on him once, but over and over again. She'll probably keep whoring it up until she's too old and/or diseased to make that work for her, and then she'll live with a lot of cats. Many people think this is "progressive," but it's really just the cultural equivalent of a Thalidomide baby: a nasty mutation that doesn't do anyone any good.The script should have known this, too. I hate how this movie unironically presents me with this "quirky" love story like it's doing me a favor, when all it's doing is trying to sell me some bullsh*t platitude about "meeting the right person" instead of stepping back and asking why these people are such losers in the first place. That's why this movie is so popular, too, because people are idiots who agree with its pretension that "weird" people just need to find other "weird" people to have relationships with, and then they'll be happy. The scene where the kids run the machine on Carrey and steal his food and liquor was just disgusting. What a couple of spoiled turds! They were such insufferable children that I stopped caring about the movie at all, I just wanted to see something bad happen to them. Like getting raped by wolves.
It's not that I didn't "get" this movie. It's not that I found it hard to follow. It's not that I only like romantic comedies or action flicks or whatever other kind of film that fans of this kind of movie think of as lowbrow. It's that I just couldn't make myself care about the characters. I didn't care if they got back together, I didn't care if they erased each other, I didn't like them, and I couldn't identify with them (never having, say, consumed illicit substances or been promiscuous, which sometimes seemed to be the two major activities depicted here).The premise is interesting, and goes back to Shakespeare and before with the whole 'better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all' bit. The pace and 'feel' was a bit too frenetic for my tastes, although I can see how it would appeal to a lot of people (it felt like watching the beginning of _Moulin Rouge_, a film I enjoy immensely except for the first fifteen minutes, for an hour and a half). Kate Winslet was brilliant, and Jim Carrey was, well, Jim Carrey, which is not bad, I suppose. It all comes back, though, to the fact that I just wanted these foul, vulgar, bizarre people to get out of my living room and never come back.


                
For the rest of my life, I will regret for watching this movie............... I have wasted bloody 103 minutes of my life.... and saw an absolute disaster...... i don't see any good in the film..... Jim Carrey and Kate sucked with their acting as the movie went on in the similar sucking manner.......Firstly, i didn't get the concept of spotless mind.... WTF!!!! who want to lose their memories...., at least i don't...... every bad memory is a experience to face the future..... i don't give a damn to the bad experience but i look forward to avoid that kind later on........--------------------------------------------------Please don't watch this movie just because it has 8.4 rating on IMDb......


                
Pretentious, overrated bore. Charlie Kaufman's screenplay seems to be trying to get at the way memory colors and shapes (sometimes inaccurately) our waking experiences and perceptions. But rather than developing that idea into anything of substance, Kaufman is content simply to hang an anchor around his neck and throw himself down a painfully repetitive, seemingly bottomless spiral of scenes in which Kate Winslet disappears from Jim Carrey's consciousness. The first time this happens, there's a fun, scary, "Twilight Zone"-y effect, but then it happens again, and then it happens again, and then guess what happens next, and then just when you think something new is finally going to happen, Kaufman follows it up with a big et cetera, et cetera.It doesn't help much that he hasn't made his two principal characters particularly likable or believable as a couple <U+0096> the relationship we're shown is all high and lows, without any of the "middles" that comprise 90% of human relationships in the real world (as opposed to the sort of graduate-student meta-universe Kaufman prefers to explore in his films). Like Adam Sandler in "Punch-Drunk Love," Jim Carrey for the most part tones it down, and like Emily Watson in that same film, Kate Winslet is a very good actress, but neither one is ever able to turn these characters into real people we feel we know well. (This is particularly laughable with Carrey, since most of the movie takes place inside Joel's head!) As for the other characters, they're uniformly unpleasant, even repulsive (the subplot surrounding Tom Wilkinson and Kirsten Dunst is particularly ugly), and they might have fit in perfectly with an aggressively satirical approach that this film entirely lacks.As for Michel Gondry's direction, it's sort of generically creative with over-heavy indie seasoning; it occasionally reminded me of smaller, better movies like "Dream with the Fishes," and there were times when I wondered whether I would have been easier on it if it was some little unknown thing coming out of left field, instead of a Major Indie Happening with so many big names attached to it. It really does sink under the weight of the collective star power, but I can't help thinking that the repetitiousness would have made it boring no matter what. It's not quite as empty and useless as Christopher Nolan's "Memento," perhaps, but it tries hard. 4 out of 10.


                
Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind is a complex character study of a couple's relationship with an experimental twist. What would happen if turbulent memories of their relationship were erased? How would they react to themselves, each other, and the world around them? The story on paper may represent an interesting scientific research project for some advanced college experimental psychology course. However, in being conveyed to film, ESOTSM doesn't work. The film has more continuity holes than swiss cheese! Time sequences shift all over the place, along with dialog that is disjointed and discombobulated. There are so many scene changes, life changes, and character subplots, that come and go on a whim that you don't know how to follow the movie, and if you do follow the movie, you become confused and utterly lost. What is worse, is that without a road map to follow, or at least SOME beginning, middle, and end to the story, many viewers will not care about this relationship, because there is no reason to do so.The movie would have been better with a firmer placed start, middle, and finish, getting to know the characters, the risks and benefits of the memory experiment, and having the actors relate to the viewers their thoughts and ideas through time periods that are at least somewhat organized or have closure to them. You need a PhD to try to figure out who's coming and going in this movie! By the time you learn about the character(s,) they disappear off the screen. When you see them again (if you even see them again) you're thinking, "Now, who were they again? What are they doing here?" The whispering, often drowning out the dialog, makes the plot even more hard to follow. There is far too much happening at once with not enough substance, consistency, or empathy, about the characters to really care about this film.


                
This movie is nothing more than a mind twisting, fairy tale. As in any American movie, it has a very small plot, an uninteresting story that has been made bigger with a tweak of laptops and electronic gadgets. Real life is not like that. Memories are not that limited and you can not play with them. This movie has beautiful imagery, good effects (as in any big budget small story movie), very good cinematography and camera techniques, very good use of light but has an awful script and it is obscure. And it abuses your mind until it comes to where it started. This movie proves one thing, if a relationship had finished once for a reason, it will finish again for the same reason and people will hate each other again.


                
then it became a jumbled, confused, and yes, tortured mess that did not know where to go or how to get there.  The middle part, which was the memory erasure part, was over an hour long and was way too long and boring and convoluted, with terrible and choppy editing, as the story and the director seemed stuck, as in Groundhog Day, and didn't know what to do next to get out of it.  Not well done at all, and it sure tortured me. Groundhog Day was a great film, by the by, and far superior to this flop.More emphasis on the differences and similarities between the two separate relationships of the same two people would have been a great improvement and would have saved the film.  Also, how others interacted with them in the two relationships, and how the two leads related to these people would have worked well too.  The film became so unworldly and screwball that it lost its humanity and love until a conventional  formula Hollywood ending "saved" it(for the box office).Also, why did the filmmaker think that sloppy and careless Gen-Xer slackers with bad hair, hygiene, clothes, and personal behavior would be the best ones to do the critical memory erasing jobs???  Absolutely no credibilty there, and surely was done because the filmmaker is obviously "one of them"'. I say, Booshwah to that.Spend your money somewhere else, you'll be glad you did. This film is going nowhere and will be another failure for Carrey.


                
You Don't Know What You Got Till It's Gone You Don't Know What You Got Till It's Gone You Don't Know What You Got Till It's Gone You Don't Know What You Got Till It's Gone You Don't Know What You Got Till It's Gone.Imagine that drilled over and over into your head for 2 hours. That would sum up this infinitely overrated movie from someone who clearly should stick to putting his ideas out in 3 minutes as opposed to 123.Jim Carrey is a boring pathetic loser who meets "vibrant" (her hair colour sounds like some type of condom) Kate Winslet on a train. They talk about stuff I couldn't honestly care about for a while. Then one day Jim Carrey finds out that she had her memory of him erased, so being the spiteful dweeb prone to peer pressure, he follows suit. What follows, is some of the most boring, decently edited, repetitive scenes to be praised to high heaven. Why on Earth would Jim Carrey want to hold on to his "precious" memories of her? She's clearly a bitch. There's also a rather weak subplot about people who work at the memory-erasing place, taking advantage of people after their operation. (Could it be a stab at governmental power abuse? Young people love to rebel against "The Man", so we must appeal to them). In the end, it turns out that when they first met on the train at the start of the film, that was AFTER their operation (which anyone with two brain cells could have guessed right at the start). Because we all know, films that start at the end are incredibly complex to figure out.The good points? The acting is OK, and some of the editing is nice, and it's OK to look at. But apart from that, this is an absolutely awful excuse of film-making. It has truly ignorant characters, it goes absolutely nowhere for 2 hours straight and gives you absolutely nothing profound or interesting to take from it. All it does is appeal to pseudo-intellectual's who have been spurned in relationships (because they are pseudo-intellectual losers who don't deserve to be in love), because let's face it, who hasn't been hurt in a relationship? Exactly, and because Michel Gondry is French, and apparently French films incorporate every single foreign language film, it can be classified as a French film, and is therefore cool (because you must have one french film in your list of favourite films, most people have that other overrated pile of garbage "Amelie" in there, but this can suffice).Overall, an absolute waste of time, you want to watch a real film about grown ups in love? "In The Mood For Love" and "2046". Please don't waste your time on this piece of garbage.
I became interested in this movie because I saw its position on IMDb top movies. At the time I watched it, it was at #44. I really do not understand why, it did not touch me at all.First of all, I never liked Michael Gondry's style of directing. Too technical for my taste. This might be an emotional idea, but the realization is very cold. Somehow I do not feel any strong emotion throughout the movie.All the time I was hoping and waiting for some kind of spectacular ending which will blow me off, like The Truman Show for example, but nothing special happened. Yes, they did meet again, so what? The atmosphere is similar to "Lost In Translation", which is another movie who I think is overrated. Maybe its the music, something there is that make these movies so unemotional to me. This movie might have been much better, but Gondry made it shallow and too complicated at the same time.
After seeing the user rating of this flick on IMDb and hearing from a Blockbuster employee of how "brilliant" this movie is, I decided to check it out. Needless to say I was extremely disappointed. Obviously, only the true Charlie Kaufman devotees seem to like this film as indicated by the rave reviews.The story was half-assed and the characters are shallow and uninteresting, especially Joel. The chemistry between him and Clementine is contrived from the very beginning. Throughout the entire movie, we're treated to memory after memory them together while Joel tries to hang on to each one. By the time the movie gets to the sub-plot, who really cares? The characters in this film are only about as naive as the entire cast of Mystic Pizza.I went back to reading reviews of this movie and none of them seem to indicate why this movie is any good. I hear "good cinematography," maybe; "artsy," sure; "original," not for a Charlie Kaufman film; but I would also add lackadaisical, pedantic and half-baked.


                
Take one fashionable screen writer. Add two fairly good actors. Have them play the mismatched kooky girl and the dull guy. Add one well-worn science fiction gimmick. Switch around in time (we're fashionable, remember). Shake, don't stir. The result, a herd-mentality flock of incredibly long-winded reviews.I didn't like either one of these characters. I didn't care about their relationship. Concerning the lovely ending -- I give them six months! (Oh -- IMDb told me I need at least ten lines. Maybe that explains the lengthy reviews. I felt that my seven original lines were quite enough to give my opinion on this over-blown film.)


                
Would someone please erase all memories of Michel Gondry's existence from Charlie Kaufman's mind? This is the second time that Gondry ruins one of Kaufman's scripts. Let there not be a third time."The Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" has an extremely interesting premise and a cast full of talented actors. The right director could easily have made this into a film that rivals "Being John Malcovich" or "Adaptation". Gondry, on the other hand, has made it into a pile redundant, self-indulgent nonsense. The bulk of the film consists of endless and absolutely pointless visual trickery that only confuses, bores and alienates the viewer. About halfway through the film, I was trying to decide whether to walk out or to wait for something to start actually happening. I'm not sorry I stuck it out, because things do wrap up in the end and it all ends in a relatively positive note, but all in all that doesn't make up for the fact that the entire previous hour of the film has been wasted. I also hate the way this movie looks -- drab, dark and unnecessarily ugly. I understand that these people lead uninteresting and pedestrian lives, OK? There's no need to shove it down my throat. BTW, this film has no actual nudity, but being directed by a Frenchman, it does have some T&A -- possibly to keep male viewers from falling asleep. Kate Winslett takes care of the "T" department while Kirsten Dunst is on the "A" case.


                
I watched this film and didn't like it. For starters, I wanted to see Jim Carrey playing the sort of character which is funny, but also has more depth. Well in this film, Jim's character had too much depth and not enough humour.Kate Winslet's character was presented well, but again, I would say she was unfunny. The rest of the supporting cast lacked a lot of imagination but there were a few interesting characters such as Ellijah Woods.The plot in this film is confusing and seems to have some flaws in between. You have to listen carefully to the dialogue and try to understand the film as a story, not a romantic comedy, otherwise, like me, you'll end up bored and not satisfied.


                
"Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" is one of the more overrated films of the past year. At best, one may say that the concept and screenplay are "clever." But the idea of remapping memory and the unethical human erasers removing the painful experiences was a shallow one. It is unfortunate that two fine performances by Jim Carrey and Kate Wislet were wasted in this film. The best scene was their initial meeting where we actually saw a believable and interesting relationship unfold. In the combination of Winslet's quirky character and the mild-mannered Carrey, I was reminded of a much superior film and screenplay in "The Sterile Cuckoo." With the outstanding dialogue and unforgettable performance of Liza Minnelli, the film actually shed light on human relationships and the emotional pain of breakups. By contrast, "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" was no more than a glorified gimmick. The film's title comes from the English poet Alexander Pope. But a better tagline for this film would be Shakespeare's image of "weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable."


                
This film must be the ultimate example of the "Emperor has no clothes" syndrome, not to mention the combined degeneration of both Hollywood and the general movie-going public.To start this naked but well-dressed festival, we have two lovers (Carrey and Winslet) with absolutely no on screen chemistry. The plot thickens -- lots of artsy photography with little substance (ala "The Cell" or "Vanilla Sky"), and it continues its well-plotted plotlessness with, well, no real plot to speak of.The silliness continues with soap-opera intensity, as we get a bizarre love triangle between the memory doctor and Kirsten Dunst, as well as Winslet and several servings of Sum Yung Guy.The film ends with a deep examination of the shallow question: "Is it better to have loved and lost, than never to have loved at all?" A pointless question if there ever was one, as one has either loved or not loved, and therefore need not inquire.Abstract art is often accused of being pointless and artless, a false accusation if there ever was one -- there's talented abstract art, and untalented abstract art, and it's not hard to pick which is which if you have any sort of eye for talent. In the same vein, there are "arty" films that are truly artistic, as well as pretentious vehicles designed to make money and help shallow people weep crocodile tears of joy at the sheer depth of it all. Unfortunately, ESOTSM is of the latter category.Can we dress the big fat guy wearing the crown now?
The premise of the plot was easily figured out within the first half hour or so, long before the director reveals the 'big surprise' that the plot revolves around. If you have half a brain, it's insulting. I also got the impression that the director wanted to impress viewers in his weird way, by including, what, 45-minutes of unnecessary mind-warp scenes that are supposed to, I suppose, show the viewer the bond that Jim & Kate's characters had formed in their relationship and how they had come to grow apart .. and wow us with his directing, creativity and unique way of putting on film what he had in his head. It's all very tedious and contrived, but the main problem with the film is that the chemistry between the 2 main lovers is never really believable. In fact, at one point we hear the reasons why they grew apart, leaving the audience to think to themselves: "Yep.. you were fools - you should have realized that right from the start". Why pursue something so wrong? By the end of the movie, you'll be thinking "what was the point?"I'm not spoiling anything here by pointing out that my above thought is foreshadowed by the other 'pseudo-couple'(Mary). If it ain't meant to be, it ain't meant to be!Jim Carrie was good, Kate Winslet was good. I liked his hat. I didn't like her hair. Elijah was uninteresting. Big-hair boy was annoying & wimpy, and I have to wonder what Kirsten's character might have seen in him (another unlikely coupling!). I have to mention though - the 'geek-at-the-computer-frantically-hitting-keys' scenes reminded very much of the film 'Hackers'. Tap-tap-tap! We're getting close. Damn, he's gone! Yawn...I gave it a 4/10. And that's only because we get to see Kirsten Dunst dance around in her panties..


                
This movie is listed as a comedy, but there's little humor in it.  It can't be a love story, as the two lead characters don't have any chemistry.  Is it a science-fiction/fantasy movie?  Kind of, but the plot is thin.  I KNOW !!! It's a JIM CARREY movie !!  That must explain why most people give it a 10 rating.  Granted, he is good in the movie, but I felt I was watching two other (better) movies at the same time:  What Things May Come (Robin Williams) and Total Recall (the Governator).  There were some good technical scenes, but overall the movie was depressing and somewhat dull.  Was the movie done on a shoestring budger?  It seemed they shot it within a three-month period, as most of the scenes were set in winter.


                
