Kate Winslett is always good. And I love seeing Carrey play "normally" for a change. But as with Memento, I find going through the memories boring, could have done without half as much of that. Too bad somehow, the movie could have been so much more compact with some added cutting. I suppose it was meant to be confusing, and it is so at times. For really good acting, I give it a seven, otherwise I would have given a six or a five.. I like many slow-paced movies - like Fargo or Smoke, but with this movie my hand started to move by itself toward the fast forward button of the DVD remote, and that's not good =) I thought long and hard about this, and maybe the worst thing about this movie is, that there simply aren't any deep truths, philosophies or revelations etc. to keep you occupied.. definitely NOT worth the Oscars.


                
Yes, I realize that any review that isn't an unabashed love letter to this film is likely to get a "No" vote! :-) I hope you'll note that although I didn't love this film, I didn't hate it, either. Charlie Kaufman's script deserved its Oscar, the acting is top-notch, the emotions rang true, and the DVD's got loads of goodies -- it was the direction that I felt dragged the film down.If Philip K. Dick had written a romantic comedy, the result might have turned out like ETERNAL SUNSHINE OF THE SPOTLESS MIND. In this seriocomic SF love story, Jim Carrey proves again that he's not just another mugging face, and Charlie Kaufman proves that he's the master of surreal dramedy. Director Michel Gondry, however, proves that Spike Jonze is really the most suitable director for Kaufman's particular brand of daffiness.Jim Carrey and Kate Winslet are stunningly believable as dysfunctional couple Joel Barish and Clementine Kruczynski. Clem initially seems like a sexy free spirit with a roguish streak, but as their romance continues, Joel sees the dark side of Clem's impulsive nature: on her bad days, hard-drinking Clem is needy and temperamental. What's worse, she sees Joel's relentlessly low-key, emotionally walled-off nature as a rebuke to her recklessness. Mutual misery ensues.No wonder Clem finally consults Lacuna, a Manhattan company run by avuncular Dr. Howard Mierzwiak (Tom Wilkinson) that erases your memories of a bad relationship. Lacuna even sends postcards to clients' intimates telling them not to mention the erased ex again, as Joel discovers when he sees one in their mutual friend's mail. Heartbroken, he also opts for the Lacuna treatment. While the erasing process takes him through memories of life with Clem, we discover that, when Joel wasn't being passive and Clem wasn't drunkenly cracking up Joel's car at 3 AM, the couple also enjoyed many good times together. Joel's reluctant to forget these happy moments, and that's where the film gets phantasmagorical as reality, fantasy, and memory collide. Within the maze of Joel's mind, he and Clem (who's been panicking and feeling like she's "disappearing" as she's slowly wiped from Joel's brain, despite having already forgotten him) team up and try to hide in all kinds of memories she has no part of. The funniest of these is the scene in Joel's childhood home, as a shrunken-to-child-size Joel faces Clem as his mom's miniskirt-clad, go-go-booted neighbor.The details of Lacuna's workings are ...SUNSHINE's most consistently witty, entertaining bits. Lacuna looks like a typical busy doctor's office, with receptionist Mary (Kirsten Dunst at her most winsome and dimply) constantly scheduling appointments: "Valentine's Day is our busiest time." Funny yet poignant details abound, such as the teary-eyed client loaded down with her dog's belongings, a crucial part of wiping away memories of a loved one. The actual procedure is performed by young computer techies Stan (Mark Ruffalo) and Patrick (Elijah Wood, leaving Frodo Baggins far behind) who erase the subjects' memories in their homes while they sleep. The techs act like a bunch of fun-loving but irresponsible babysitters, swilling the unsuspecting Joel's whiskey, smoking pot and having sex (with Mary, not each other :-) as he sleeps. But Patrick goes beyond mischievousness into unethicality: usually a strikeout with women, he's begun dating Clementine, having fallen in love with her while erasing her Joel memories. Patrick tries to take the expressway to her heart by wooing her with her discarded Joel mementos. Of course, he doesn't consider that since Joel's relationship with Clem went sour despite all those nice gifties, history just might repeat itself. I was disappointed that there wasn't a bigger payoff to the Patrick subplot; he just kind of disappears from the film as if *he* were erased. Of course, that may well be the point! :-) Director Gondry, who also directed Kaufman's HUMAN NATURE (2001), spends so much time cross-cutting, juggling the movie's timeline, and inexplicably staging certain scenes in darkness with only a flashlight rendering the characters' faces visible that instead of enhancing the storytelling, it's merely distracting. I kept getting the feeling Gondry didn't trust the story itself to keep moviegoers' attention -- ironic, since he shares story credit with Kaufman and artist Pierre Bismuth. Having said that, when the visuals work, they work wonderfully, like when our hero and heroine dash through Grand Central Station while commuters wink out of existence left and right.Refreshingly, the New York locations aren't the usual hip or glamorous places. Joel and Clementine live in Rockville Centre, Long Island, and their apartments look just like homes of college students or artistic types trying to inject Soho style into suburbia. The filmmakers also make splendid use of the stark beauty of Montauk beaches in winter.For Carrey fans seeking slapstick and belly laughs, ...SUNSHINE... may seem to drag on eternally; its humor is more in the rueful TRUMAN SHOW vein, shot through with Kaufman's trademark surrealism. If you want a love story that will make you laugh knowingly and think about the way people approach relationships, ...SUNSHINE... is worth seeing. Hopefully it will convince you that counseling is a better approach to your relationship problems than science-fiction gadgetry!


                
The theme, the story, the acting, have been covered thoroughly by other reviewers here, and I won't cover these topics yet again. On the whole I agree with the majority that all of these were excellent.The film would have been excellent in all respects were it not for two factors that I haven't seen discussed much, if at all, elsewhere. One of these is artistic and the other a combination of artistic and technical. First, the sequences of Joel's "internal" mental scenes as Clementine is being erased from his memory are too long - two or three or even six or seven surreal and poignant fading memories would have been plenty - by the time I'd seen what seemed like a dozen or more the point(s) had been made, I began to check my watch, waiting for the _story_ to move onward, Second, the excessive hand-held camera work is annoying. I realize that this cinematographic style is a current fad, but it was really quite distracting particularly in the first 45 minutes or so. While it never reached the nausea level, the continual camera motion kept me from getting "into" the film for quite a while. The overall feel of the film is clearly intended to be surreal, rather than real, so, with due respect to the director's expertise, I would maintain that the realism implied by the hand-held camera actually interfered with the intended artistic impression.I started out expecting a 9 based on reviews; halfway through the film this had dropped to a 5 or so; by the end I was back up to an 8, which would have been 9 except for the two factors I've just mentioned.


                
The fundamental problem with Eternal Sunshine Of The Spotless Mind is that, unlike the other films made from Charlie Kaufman's original screenplays - Adaptation, Being John Malkovich - there's really basically only one idea at work here. The acting is excellent (probably the best work that Jim Carrey and Kate Winslet have ever done, and kudos to the great English character actor Tom Wilkinson), the digital effects are great, and the elliptical plot is quite emotionally moving for something so clever, but once you know what's going on (and i'm not going to ruin it by saying what it is) then all you can do is sit back and wait for the Halloweenish funfair ride to finish. The great thing about seeing Being John Malkovich for the first time was the sheer mind-blowing inventiveness of the story, which left you constantly wondering what the hell was going to happen next; and likewise for Adaptation, which was just as original but had even more layers upon layers and circles within circles that Kaufman's laser beam of a brain always managed to refer back to the various disparate threads of the plot(s) without letting the whole thing dissolve into a self-canceling tangled mess. Even though the ideas and the intellect on display in the writing of these films are dazzling in their brilliance they still manage to move your heart as well as your brain, and while Eternal Sunshine Of The Spotless Mind will also make you laugh out loud at certain scenes and (possibly) cry in others, it's my opinion that maybe if Spike Jonze - who directed Adaptation and Malkovich - had directed this one as well then he would have pushed Kaufman creatively a bit more, because by halfway through the movie you pretty much know what's going to happen for the rest of it. I did really enjoy it but i'm looking forward even more to the next Charlie Kaufman/Spike Jonze collaboration which is currently in production.


                
I think it's pretty overrated and depressing. When I watched it I just wanted it to be over. Maybe something is wrong with me, you can give it a try if you want.


                
I've long been hearing people raving about how refreshing The Eternal Sunshine of A Spotless Mind is, and how unjustifiable it is that Jim Carrey didn't receive a Oscar nom for his outstanding performance in it, so I was really excited to check this one out (after all these years!!!). And I have to say the hype is well deserved.
The Eternal Sunshine of A Spotless Mind centers around an estranged couple's decisions to erase their respective memories of each other. this movie has a very unique/surreal approach of arranging sequences, with the bulk of the plot unraveling in a dreamlike state, which is a considerable divergence away from Jim Carrey's previous slapstick efforts. We see him reflecting on his memories of Clementine (Kate Winslet) in an almost melancholy undertone. He proved yet again, after his stellar performance in The Truman Show, his acting talents, as well as The Academy's biases against comedians.
That being said, this movie is far from perfection. For me the subplot of Kristen Dunst and Tom Wilkinson could be further explored, as it accords with the theme of this movie. And the placement of the opening sequence may be a tad questionable. But who cares? at the end of the day The Eternal Sunshine of A Spotless Mind is without a doubt one of Jim Carrey's finest works and will be remembered and revered for years to come.


                
Quirky describes both Jim Carey and ETERNAL SUNSHINE OF THE SPOTLESS MIND. Michael Gondry directs this exercise in futile love and heartbreak. Joel(Carey)and Clementine(Kate Winslet)are a couple who's relationship has ran its course. Experimental technology allows Clementine to have any and all memories of Joel erased from her mind. Joel reluctantly decides to do the same, but in the middle of the procedure he changes his mind and struggles to keep those memories he wishes to cherish. This romantic Sci-Fi is clever, humorous, heartbreaking and very entertaining. Rounding out the cast: Kirsten Dunst, Mark Ruffalo, Tom Wilkinson and Elijah Wood. The story is a definite head spinner. I was most impressed with Winslet and her various hair colors...tangerine being my favorite. And if nothing else; how can a movie with Dunst dancing in her panties be bad? A decent soundtrack keeps the flick changing gears. Listen for ELO, Beck and The Willowz.
Unfortunately, this movie is receiving way too much credit and praise than it deserves.Yes, it is a good movie. But at times, the plot seems to sway from centrality and thus lose its viewer's interest. This movie could definitely have been better plot wise. Without benefit, it seems to rely too much on vagueness and predicable scenes to explain parts of the movie.I believe that Winslet did a very good job in her role, and so much that when I first started watching the movie, I had no idea that it was her until 30 minutes into the movie! However, Carey pulled through with a run-of-the-mill performance.A good movie it is, but not deserving of all the praise and accolades. "Butterfly Effect" was far more brilliant than this film.


                
Didn't like it. In fact I couldn't keep my eyes open after half way through. I hired it because of the big names associated with the film and (muggins) again because of the high rating here.I warmed to Jim Carrey's character early on (not so much Kate Winslet's) and I liked the way the story twisted into a typically Kaufmanesque unreal situation. This seemed to be classic territory for him and I sat back ready to enjoy the ride I was being taken on...Maybe I'm just thick but it just didn't seem to happen for me. I lost the plot, got bored and frustrated with the scenario. It seemed to be trying to be just too clever for me and I couldn't stay interested.I've never switched a film off so late before but I really couldn't have given a damn what happened in the end.Algis Kuliukas


                
As the title says, I find the characters somewhat immature in this movie. I'd like to think people are more mature than as portrayed in this film. But I realize some of the characters obviously have problems which can mess you up far into "adulthood", and so with that in mind and without going into a whole discussion about what the writer(s) might be trying to convey...perhaps that we're all immature or that love makes us so or that love transcends differences in people...I'll continue.This is a film that, if nothing else (in case I haven't mentioned it enough yet), is about love. I get the feeling it might be a metaphor..something like that saying "it is better to have loved and lost than to have never loved at all." Although these people are trying to have their memories of previous botched relationships erased, they both cling to a certain (however small) part of their love. As we follow Jim Carrey's character, we see him realize he doesn't want to forget the beauty of the moments he shared with his lover and he desperately fights to keep those memories.I saw this film many years ago, in theaters if I remember correctly, and I remember how my friends really liked it and I thought it was okay but overrated and the characters were kinda dumb (what I now see as immaturity). Seeing it now, mid 2010, and having experienced a lot more of life and the people in it I can say this film is truly beautiful. If you are in the mood for a love story, but more of a disjointed and slightly (emphasis on slightly) Memento-style presentation than the usual lame romantic comedy - look no further. I think I can say this with some authority and authenticity: unless you are a young male, do not avoid.7/10
I really enjoyed this movie. Cast is good. Overall this movie is good.


                
After seeing Jim Carey in so many comedy's it's a great change to see him in more of a serious role and he plays it really well. A very good film


                
An interesting but far too complex film, which although full of many good ideas, does not execute them well. The subject matter would best befit a short science fiction story, and indeed the content of the film is so slim that it quite noticeably outstays its welcome. Like most short stories, the film would have best been told from a first person point of view only. The film threads in the story of the operators, just not just the operated too, however. This causes the film to become distracted from the more interesting part of the tale, and as a result, it is at times quite bland. It is not that the viewer does not understand <U+0096> there is just no reason to care. All that said and done, the film certainly has interesting elements, and it will keep one watching for at least three quarters of its duration. It is not really a poor film; it is above average, but I feel it could have been done a lot better.


                
While I enjoyed this movie very much at first, in the end it was a bit disappointing. Like in a detective novel, the plot is hugely important in this film. And while the acting and camera-work are really outstanding IMHO, the plot just isn't up to par; when 2/3's of the movie was over the plot was completely clear to me and the final 1/3 of the movie played out exactly as I figured it would. In my opinion the producers of this film underestimated the intelligence of their audience, thereby making this film less interesting than it could have been. Nevertheless, this film really IS worth your while, because of the originality and irony of the story.


                
wow. *no spoilers* this film was good but also difficult to face at times.it started off slightly disjointed but after a while you understand why and begin to really appreciate the way it works.I like art house films, but this seems to go further than i expected. -not in a bad way, or good. the concept of erasing an ex lover (and all memories of them) might be appealing to some people and the way its made lets you relate to the whole story, you relate to the pain of breaking up too (if you've been there especially!)it was distressing at times because of all the emotions that are thrown at you, but overall it works well. it had left me feeling a little cold, but appreciating the story.


                
"Although retaining the terms 'schizoid' and 'schizophrenic' for the sane and psychotic positions respectively, I shall not, of course, be using these terms in their usual clinical psychiatric frame of reference, but phenomenologically and existentially." - R. D. LaingThough praised for its "complex plot", "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" serves up a rather simple tale about a once romantically linked couple who are inexorably drawn back together despite having their memories wiped by Lacuna Inc, a company which specialises in "targeted memory erasure".Most interesting about the film is the fact that it was directed by Michel Gondry. Gondry is a corporate advertisement (Levi Jeans, Smirnoff Vodka, Air France etc) and music video director, both of which are professions which require him to master short form rather than long form film-making, constantly shift aesthetic strategies without perfecting a singular style, bow to the fact that his TV work is caught in the blip-time perishability of consumer capitalism, and capture, hold and release his audience in as little time as possible.In other words, music videos and advertising not only epitomise the schizophrenia of the postmodern aesthetic, but require the artist himself to be schizoid - akin to the characters of this film - his identity in flux. No surprise then that Gondry's subsequent films ("Be Kind Rewind", "The Science Of Sleep" etc) all spend their running times jumping from one half-finished reconstruction of a previous film/thought/memory/image to the next, their narratives all splintered or fractured. Like Gondry's "Be Kind Rewind", a film in which a duo recreate scenes from their memories of past movies, "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" is itself a series of short-form "music videos" or "advertisement-like" memory fragments, quirkily strung together.Indeed, philosophers like Frederic Jameson and Jean Baudrillard have long characterized postmodernity in terms of "amnesia" or "memory loss", aligning its ripples with clinical Schizophrenia, split personalities, temporal discontinuity and bipolar like emotional ground tones.But "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" is not only about science and society accelerating forgetfulness in a kind of Alzheimer's ward for young adults, but the desire to preserve remembrances of events, or rather, re-engineer memories to conform them to one's world-view, which of course is the clinical description of the narcissist. Where the film differs from most postmodern films about "memory" is that it couples its nostalgia to the understanding that memory is rarely about the past and always about the present.Beyond Gondry's TV commercial aesthetic you have Charlie Kaufman's screenplay. All of Kaufman's films revolve around a neurotic artist or self-pitying depressive who is undergoing some existential despair whilst being trapped in a narrative which takes the shape of a formalist game (often a self-referential meta-story or quirky surrealist fantasy in which the neurotic hero desires to obliterate himself). Here our hero is played by Jim Carrey, but his intellectual sad sack routine is identical to that of John Cusack in "Being John Malkovich" and Nicholas Cage in "Adaptation", two other films by Kaufman.Of course Kaufman's "postmodern angst" is not unique to cinema. In the world of twentieth century paintings, for example, we have Pablo Picasso's fractured world of vacant-eyed, disjointed beings, Edward Hopper's flat landscapes populated by emotionally out-of-tune men and women, the predatory horror of Willem de Kooning, Salvador Dali's obliteration of objective reality, Warhol's smirking trivialisation of mechanical reproductions and Edvard Munch's "The Scream", which seems to capture the horror of being a cipher in a world of hideously swirling near-formless shapes.The anxieties of all these artists stem from, or coincide with, the rise of philosophical theories of scepticism and irrationalism, a growing distrust in the cognitive faculties of perception and reason, the development of scientific theories such as evolution, entropy and uncertainty, the technological revolutions spurred by the combination of science and capitalism (which led to fears of dehumanisation) and the spread of liberalism and free markets (which in turn caused the political left and members of the artistic avant garde to view political development as a series of deep disappointments).Gradually these anxieties expanded such that art-work seemed to be about its own self-elimination, those who followed Picasso and Munch obsessed with reporting their depressed observations, retreating from the world and proceeding to strip away from art anything that they could. Many eliminated as much content as they could from their works, art becoming a self-contained study of dimension, colour, and composition or a game of self-reference and self-annihilation.This is the kind of cultural nihilism which many postmodernist film directors find themselves in today. Unlike existential directors of the past, everyone from art house folk (Dreyer, Bergman, Herzog, Bresson, Tarkovsky, Antioni, Wenders etc) to humble noir or Hollywood directors of the 40s and 50s (Nicholas Ray, John Huston etc), all of whom used the assumption of nihilism as the basis for the revaluation of all social values, postmodernists like Kaufman instead find themselves wallowing in the dead ends of their intellectual limits, locked into finding new and clever ways to playfully soliloquise over the vacuity of existence. Kaufman states this himself in "Adaptation", likening this very artistic movement to an Ouroboros snake consuming its own head.7.9/10 – A trial run for Gondry's "The Science Of Sleep", a more interesting film. Still, despite it's hackneyed message ("It's better to lose a lover than to have never loved at all"), some severe overacting by Jim Carey and Kate Winslet, and Gondry assaulting us with every annoying gimmick he picked up making corporate videos, this is a very likable film. Worth two viewings. Once for pleasure, once for pain.
I decided to finally bite the bullet and watch this film after many a recommendation from friends and colleagues. As I looked further I saw many familiar faces and institutions - Charlie Kaufman; screenplay writer for Adaptation (a nine out of ten for me), scriptwriter/composer of Being John Malkovich. Focus Films who were involved with a number of films I highly regard namely '21 Grams'. Charlie Kaufman presents, a film which promises to out do any of my expectations. It promises to take me by the hand and make me feel that anything is possible; reverse my psyche to a childlike state, and take me to a world of lost memories, undying love - a world where imagination overrules all. Let us dive in and see what all the fuss is about.I must say, approximately twenty four hours after pressing play, I keep having Freudian slips; my mind keeps re-living moments of the film, throwing them into my conscious for me to ponder, decipher. It is hard to pinpoint the magic of this film, as many aspects of it are somewhat flawed, yet it remains so, so beautiful. It leaves a feeling of contempt aimed at our ultimate creator; creating a being with so much feeling, and emotion, thrown into a nonsensical world and left to try to make sense of everything thrown there way. This is a quote which shall stay with me for some time:"Adults are a mess of sadness and phobias," Clementine.I feel that this film could greatly have benefited from being a short. It is a concept film, that should have been pondered more, been cut with more precision, and sucker punched the audience with it's a beauty. Instead we have a feature length film that whilst it retains its beautiful qualities, they only come in pieces, and not as a whole unit. This may be intentional, as the fragmented mind of our protagonist unearths, maybe this disjointed editing, and prolonged length is symbolic – I feel still, this film could have been so much more. Some of the set pieces are simply beautiful; the screenplay is, well, simply Kaufman – genius. The acting is SUBLIME. Kate Winslet simply blows the mind – not that I expected a bad performance. Her portrayal of a girl that will never fully commit herself, someone you can never truly know is inch perfect. You genuinely feel you never actually understand her character or what she wants, almost to the point of despair. Many a times in my life have I met people similar to this, and it is an identical melancholy feeling inside – it makes you question if you ever truly know a person, makes you feel useless.I fear I may be spoiling too much, too soon. A magnificent idea , executed well, but still – it could have been so, so much more.


                
This movie was an interesting twist on the usual themes of love and meeting "the one." On the surface Jim Carrey's character and Kate Winslet's Clementine seem ill-suited to each other and the break up seems in inevitable. But when the sci-fi memory erasing kicks in and they attempt to erase each other from their respective memories is when this movie gets interesting. It is a colorful, wild ride. Not my favorite movie, but it was entertaining. I suppose it was inevitable that Kirsten Dunst's character turns into the woman scorned who returns everyone's memory tapes, but that whole part of the film was a little sleazy. I think all of the performers did amazing characterizations. It was truly unique and gets points just for that. If you are not fond of the weird and the deep, rent Laws of Attraction. But, if you don't mind coloring outside the lines, Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind is worth a look.


                
This movie had it all, especially the goods. I talked to Jake this morning on the way to the gym and he said it looked boring. Well, if you're looking for Jim Carey to be like he was in that ANIMAL DETECTIVE MOVIE, then this is the MOVIE NOT FOR YOU.The movie is about a very emotional Jim Carey and his weird relationship with that girl from TITANIC. It was a good movie but FRODO did not deliver the goods as he did in the Lord of Rings movies. His character was lame. The doctor was good. He is the same dude who played Francone in BATMAN STARTS.I liked this movie however, and just have to emphasize, it's very odd.


                
I just have to write a few words to neutralize the overrated position that this movie holds in the top 250.The movie is quite entertaining and fairly original, but it certainly does NOT belong amongst the 250 BEST MOVIES OF ALL TIME.I have to admit that this movie was one of the best films of 2004, but hey, that was easy since 2004 was a disgrace. Many people thought that "Lost in Translation" was the best movie of 2004 and I think that says enough. Don't get me wrong, I agree that these two movies were the best in 2004, but (again) they cannot compete with the majority in the top 250.I saw this movie two months ago in the cinema and I can't even remember what it was about. I remember liking it, though. 7 points out of 10.


                
It has been a few years since I've added a user comment, but after seeing this film and reading some of the reactions before mine, I can't keep quiet. As of now, the Db has 783 comments in all for ETOSM, and from the 30 or 40 I've read, it would seem this film is destined to be the next all time classic: think Godfather, Citizen Kane, Casablanca, whatever. There are a few commentators who lean otherwise, and generally they seem to simply hate the film. I can't agree with either side, though.On the one hand, I liked the film on several levels. Underneath everything, it was an above-average average-Joe sentimental romance that keeps one hooked to the end. Overlying everything, it had technical appeal that almost erases any flaws. And throughout, Jim Carrey's acting nudges the film up another level, not just because Carrey is intriguingly out of character but because he actually makes a stereotypically boring nerd character more believable.On the other hand, there are flaws. I'm not impressed with the newest science fiction premises, the loop around plot or the various altered realities of the script, not because they're confusing but because in the end they are not much more than an emperor's proverbial new clothes. Ultimately they do not hide the writing flaws of an overly contrived wrap-it up conclusion, they do not excuse the weak and shallowly scripted subplots and they do not make the film more than a sentimental sci-fi romance. To the extent that love is profound and prevailing, this film gives us something to chew on, but not much more than, say, An Affair to Remember.In between the good and the bad, there is nothing really ugly about this film, although Elijah Wood's character, part of one of those weak and shallows, comes close. Kate Winslet's performance is respectable, although beyond the blue hair her character is not developed as much as it might have been. And the direction, with all the technical coattails is good, even if I'm not ready to burn the director's name to memory.I'll watch this film again on a rented DVD but I don't want to run out and buy it. Three stars.


                
I sincerely do not understand what the buzz about this film is about. Charlie Kaufman's story is based upon the idea of erasing memory and the way it affects relationship and love. For science-fiction fans the idea of memory manipulation is not that original at all. Recently the 'Bounty' series or 'Paycheck' brought it to the big screen, and did it in a more attractive way, leading to good action films. The relationship story in 'Eternal Sunshine...' is rather banal, and even Kaufman could not resist to a quite routine ending. A lot of screen time is spent into simulating the effect of memory erasing, but I found much of it not-inspired and artificial. Jim Carrey is mis-casted, he wears a monkey grimace much of the film that let me ask how he could raise the emotional interest of Kate Winslet. Kate is better than Jim, while Elijah Wood and Kirsten Dunst do good supporting roles. Overall, I did not find the film too interesting, it's just fair entertainment that tries but does not succeed to be something else. I cannot share the enthusiasm of many other viewers about it, and gave it a 7 out of 10 on my personal scale.


                
'Eternal Sunshine' is another brain-bending riddle from screenwriter Charlie Kaufman. I didn't like 'Being John Malkovich' or 'Adaptation,' but I thought 'Eternal Sunshine' was really a good movie. Long, but good.This is a movie with an interesting concept: how do people deal with bad situations? Here, a company offers permanent repression of memory.The story focuses on Joel (Jim Carrey) and Clementine (Kate Winslet), two people who awkwardly meet and fall in love (I suppose). But, their lack of communication skills prevents any sort of meaningful relationship. Over time, they grow weary of other.This are the most interesting, surrealistic scenes and once that force to you realize that everything you're seeing about Joel was a memory or something erased from his memory (pay close attention when you watch it again to the beginning scenes prior to Joel's going to the clinic).During the latter part of the memory wipe, Joel starts to concentrate on all the good times that he and Clementine had, realizing that he is still in love with her. And the latter part of the memory wipe is Joel trying to manipulate his memories to hide them from the fast sweep of the memory wipe process. Essentially, he tries to manipulate his memories and save Clementine in another part of his brain. It is like Atreyu being chased by the Nothing and salvaging what he can of Fantasia. Joel is salvaging what he can of Clementine and in the end, memory wipe doesn't seem like the best solution afterall (although, Joel probably would've gone for a technique that just wiped out the bad and kept the good). But the interesting part is the finale. Because, these people continue to have their memory wiped again and again (making it one wealthy enterprise, no less). Although, what I don't understand is why would those people keep doing exactly the same thing that led up to meeting that other person (or doing whatever it was the they had erased). Would Joel jump on the train to Montauk (something that seemed out of the ordinary at the time, anyway) every day after he got his memory wiped? So, even as an old man getting his memory erased for the umpteenth time, would he be compelled to go on the train to Montauk and start all over again? It seems pretty stupid.Though this movie is somewhat long, given that you're forced to follow Joel through every single damned memory of Clementine, the repetition is somewhat alleviated by this surrealistic journey until the whole thing becomes so totally bizarre and the situation for Joel so desperate. In the end, the movie suggests that it is more painful to try to ignore everything (and very counterproductive), instead of just trying to face those problems. It seems like Joel and Clementine, two eccentrics, seem really happy together when things are going well. If they just would've honestly confronted their problems, they wouldn't need the memory, and they'd have probably been a couple that was well off for as long as they could be (not to say that happy endings last forever). Kaufman's surrealistic style strikes gold here, as does a pretty fantastic cast. Especially, Jim Carrey proves he doesn't have to overact to do well. Although, I must say Elijah Wood does take yet another weird part as Patrick, the lab assistant, who tries to steal Joel's identity in order to woo Clementine. But, the whole movie is really Carrey and Winslet.


                
You can add Charlie Kaufman to the list of names (Hitler, Michael Jackson, Dr. Seuss) of people whom I never want to know what is going on in their own little minds.  As a writer of such films as Being John Malkovich, Adaptation and Human Nature, the slant to which this man sees the world is somewhat out of my comprehension.  Not that that's a bad thing.   David Cronenberg continues to create films that amaze me with his vivid worlds of sex, violence and the creatures that lurk in the dark, but I rarely turn down an opportunity to sit through one of his fascinating films.   Now, Charlie Kaufman releases his next foray into his mind-bending filmography with the poorly titled Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind. The film, stars Jim Carrey as Joel, a mild mannered polite recluse that meats Clementine (Kate Winslet), a free spirited outgoing alcoholic.  The two spark up a relationship that lasts the better part of a year before falling apart over a harsh conversation one cold New York day. 
Wanting to rid herself of the memory of Joel, Clementine seeks the help of Dr. Howard Mierzwaik (Tom Wilkinson) who operates a business that can remove selected memories in a non-surgical operation that is <U+0091>on-line with a night of heavy drinking'.  The movie then follows Joel as he fights the procedure and tries to retain the happier times within the relationship. 
The story as summarized in a single paragraph seems simple enough, but with the Kaufman slant thrown in, it is anything but.  We watch as Joel plays cat and mouse with the doctors working on his unconscious body and watch as Joel's dreams and memories begin to disappear before him.  Imagine your most vivid memory then conceive of it being stripped from you element by element. The house you were in disappears. The people you knew vaporize. Fences or other structures dissolve as if never erected.  You run, but it follows you relentlessly erasing everything one step behind you.  You try and hide in a suppressed memory, but the procedure is a success and soon these experiences will be nothing more than a file in a doctor's office.Exhausting.Now, throw in a few sub-plots to further mess with your mind.  There is the doctors' assistant, Patrick (Elijah Wood) who falls in love with Clementine and uses Joel's memories to woo her into a romance.  There is also the love story between Dr. Mierzwaik, his wife, his secretary (Kristin Dunst) and assistant (Mark Ruffalo) that is too complicated and quirky to reveal here. Each of these play out during the 108 minute running time and are as non-conventional ideas as any of Kaufman's work.  So, verdict time.  I am beginning to think that Charlie Kaufman might be the Martin Scorsese of our day.  See back in the 80's and 90's, Scorsese was able to get the best out of his actors and actresses and was able to provide an Oscar winning role to Paul Newman and a nomination to Sharon Stone. Anyone who can pull off this feat deserves credit.  Well, Kaufman should be no less regarded.  Catherine Keener pulled out a nomination for Being John Malkovich and Nicholas Cage was robbed of an Oscar for his duel role in Adaptation.  We can now add Jim Carrey to the list of actors that have proven their best following the written words of Mr. K.  By acting low key, without having us think he is being restrained, Carrey finally shows us the range he tried in other dramatic fare such as Man on the Moon and The Majestic.  The supporting cast, especially Dunst as the toke-smoking assistant are equally impressive.Oh yeah, the verdict.  Spotless Mind is not for all tastes, but in keeping an open frame, it might just end up on some critics <U+0091>best of' lists at years end.  Who wouldn't want to have a memory erased?  The loss of a pet, your most humiliating moment.  Kaufman exploits that notion and eventually shows us that each experience is there for a purpose, and good or bad, they make you what you are today.   This film challenged me into thinking of what I would dispose of within my own noggin and then further brought me to thinking as to whether I would regret the procedure.    I left the theatre without an answer, and aren't those the best kind of films of all? B+www.gregrants.com


                
I liked this movie but i couldn't help but wonder what the point of the movie is. I hardly ever care about the point but it just bothered me. The plot is pretty hard to describe and I'm sure you probably already it by now but if you don't read it somewhere else. This is one of Jim Carrey's best films beside Man on the Moon. I haven't seen Kate Winslet too many films and i liked her here but she was better in Heavenly Creatures. Elijah Wood and Mark Ruffalo play lab assistants and Tom Wilkinson plays the doctor who says that the lab precedure is brain damage. Kirsten Dunst plays his assistant who has a crush on Wilkinson but Ruffalo is the one who likes her and Wood falls in love with Winslet.


                
