Both Jim Carrey and Kate Winslet shine and give their best performances in their career in this movie that has one of the most creative scripts ever written, and it would have never brought to life without Gondry's wonderful direction to make one of the most emotionally devastating movies of all-time. It just may be was a bit too quirky for its own good halfway through.
 
Although Mary's subplot gave some depth to her character, I think it wasn't perfectly placed.(8.5/10)


                
Over the years this has developed massive acclaim and a cult following, with many stating it's one of the best romance stories available. Whilst I do not slot into that following, I can appreciate the admiration that viewers give this. Joel falls in love with Clementine, they are complete opposites but are attracted to each other's qualities. Her impulsive nature does not always sit well with Joel, and suddenly the two have each other erased from their minds through a specialist company that deals with this procedure. Halfway through the process, Joel changes his mind and must attempt to savour his last memories of her. Concept aside, what separates this from other similar films is the editing and overall creative environment. One minute they are in a library, only to transition outside on a frozen lake. Inside a cosy lounge? Don't worry, rain will start to pour down. It reflects how the mind works. The scattered nature of the narrative, consistently switching from scene to scene, resembles our brains and how memories are mapped. There is no linear path to memories, when you think of something nostalgically you then suddenly think of something else. You may find this jarring and slightly confusing, but it works. It's an intriguing concept that is thoroughly explored both in technique and the moral implications. We even have subplots regarding the team who are leading the memory erasing process. I do find this detracts from the focus on Joel and Clementine which is the more important element to the film. Having said that, Jim Carrey and Kate Winslet have ample amount of screen time. Both playing roles that they do not typically perform, yet the chemistry felt real. At no point was I thinking "this feels like typical Hollywood fabricated romance". The indie feel of the film allows the filmmakers to explore themes of memories and the mind without tarnishing the central romance. A creative and intriguing drama.


                
I never imagined that I would put Jim Carry as an elite actor considering his comedic background. I'm so used to him being silly and that led me to believe that he had nothing else to offer other than goofiness. Eternal Sunshine of a Spotless Mind blew me out the water after seeing his performance. The movie itself is amazing and captivating, but seeing carry playing a serious role was just as surprising.


                
I agree this is alternative movie, but what Jim Carrey doing in that movie? If you <U+0096> director - I'm talking to you, thinking that you can get to success point only if you have Jim's Carrey face in you movie. It's wrong idea.! This movie is O.K., even no matter that it's really cheap movie. And few more points that you should pay attention too: age mach of your characters - like (Kate Winslet she play's young and naive girl around 20 years old, but she is not young ), and Jim Carrey looks too established in comedy type movies for Toyota Corolla, also film quality: grayish cheap picture it's not helps here. And that scene at the beginning, in the train is too long and becomes finally very boring. DVD cover for this movie, is one of the most terrible design I ever seen in my life. Good luck with your new movies.


                
I heard a lot people talk about this movie. Many of my friends recommended it to me. But for different reasons I couldn't find any opportunity to watch it or <U+0085> may be I just didn't want to spend my time on it. But some weeks ago I heard again the name of this movie and I told to myself I had to watch it. So, I finally did it. And now I feel so disappointed with myself I didn't watch it years ago when I was told to see it for the first time! I am really impressed by this film.Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind is an exceptional romantic drama. I am saying exceptional because for me it looks more like a romantic psychological thriller because the main idea of this movie is centered, let's say, on the psychology of two main characters Joel Barish (Jim Carrey) and Clementine Kruczynski (Kate Winslet). Or I even would say, the movie shows the fight between the rational aspect of human nature and the emotional one. Watching the Joel and Clementine's story you understand that not always the rational is right. You can ignore your mind, but you can't ignore your heart and what it is telling you and your heart usually tells right things. Well, the plot of the movie is very simple: two different personalities Joel and Clementine meet each other, they fall in love, then they become a nice couple, they have great time together, but then this beautiful story comes to its end. And instead of talking and trying to find a way to amend their relations, they decide to erase all the memories related to each other. Clementine was the first to take such decision. So, she went to Lacuna, Inc., company dedicating to helping people to erase specific memories and let them start new happier life. When Joel knew about this, he decided to do the same, as a revenge, and went to the same doctor Howard Mierzwiak (Tom Wilkinson). And here is where the story starts. The whole movie represents the process of erasure of Joel's memories. So, when you watch the movie, it feels like you are inside of his mind observing his love story with Clementine. But suddenly he realizes he wants to conserve these memories, he doesn't want to lose her because she is the love of his life and starts to stop the erasure. All his attempts fail when Dr. Howard interferes and finishes this process. Along with this story appears another one. It results Mary, receptionist had an affair with Dr. Howard and her memories about it were also erased. When she knew that, she quit her job and stole all the records on doctor's patients and sent those materials to all of them. This is the moment when Joel and Clementine, after listening to their records, understood why they felt so familiar to each other and decide to try to start from the beginning.You see, the story is pretty simple. But the way it's operated, the way how different stories and different realities cross each other is incredible. Sometimes you even lose the touch with the reality because you think all this is Joel's memories and imagination. Thanks to such s great script and director's work, the movie is watched in one breath, you feel tension and you are totally absorbed by the story. Also, I would like to note the brilliant performance of Jim Carrey. I always thought he could perform only comic roles. But here he shows his abilities to play serious roles too. Honestly, I was shocked by his excellent performance. I believed him from the very beginning of the film till its end.So, now it's my turn to recommend this movie! If you want to live the story with its main characters, if you want to convince yourself one more time that you can't lie to your heart, so this movie is right for you. You will definitely enjoy it, or at least you will see another not typical Jim Carrey and original movie story.


                
The best excuse to see the film is the tour de force acting by Jim Carrey. He is paid millions to appear in other films that are supposed to be funny movies, but in reality, Mr. Carrey is at top of his craft when he plays against type, as is the case in this film.That Mr. Carrey is surrounded by some of the best actors working in films today, helps to make this  movie a favorite for a lot of IMDB contributors, judging by the hundreds of comments submitted to this page. Kate Winslet, Mark Ruffalo, Kirsten Dunst, Tom Wilkinson, are very good and very effective in playing the people in the story.As far as the writing of Charlie Kaufman goes, he is never boring. To every new project Mr. Kaufman brings his own fresh ideas on how to present them on screen. He is very lucky to have found directors that are sensitive to his material and do the job well. To have Michael Gondry bring it all together, it's just happiness.The only point I would argue with Mr. Kaufman is the suppression of those painful memories at the center of the story. It is utopian at best. Would anyone be better off by having a bad love affair, or even a death of a loved one, erased from one's mind permanently? I think not. I'd rather remember the good and the bad.


                
Both Carrey and Winslet are brilliant here, very touching relationship between the two. The plot is quite twisted, maybe a bit too constructed at times, but an intriguing mind journey that is nicely visualized.


                
Finally back on my quest for the IMDB 2005 Oscar's badge, the next film on the list was "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" which won Best Original Screenplay that year.After discovering that his ex-girlfriend Clementine (Kate Winslet) has had their relationship expunged from her mind, Joel (Jim Carrey) decides to undergo the same procedure. Whilst seemingly asleep, Joel experiences his memories being deleted like a fractured dream, during which he decides that he still loves Clementine and he's made a mistake. Desperate, he tries to cling to his memories whilst confused technicians Stan (Mark Ruffalo) and Patrick (Elijah Wood) try to complete the extraction.It's been a while since I'd seen "Sunshine", though I did watch the series "Kidding" towards the end of last year, which share some similarities and I loved that. To be honest, it took a while for the film to win me over, although it did before the end. Though Carrey is great, it's Kate Winslet's performance that I'd forgotten about. Initially I misremembered her character as being the "Indie Pixie love interest" that would become a trope a few years later, but she isn't really like that. She becomes an appealing character, or at least the version of her in Joel's memories is, and it's clear why Joel would repeatedly fall for her, but she also does appear to be very impulsive, perhaps to the point of being bipolar. That said, I think much of my initial apathy to the film came from seeing their initial connection (or perhaps reconnection) and not really feeling it was all that plausible.So, why did it win me over? I guess because I eventually found myself invested in that central love story, in wanting Joel to find a way to overcome his decision and keep his memories. You combine that with some excellent practical effects (techniques that Gondry still employs today) it makes for a truly memorable experience. (In fairness, some of the digital effects haven't aged quite as well as the practical ones). What I do find extraordinary is how few films we've had from the mind of Charlie Kaufman since that early 2000's period, including "Being John Malkovich and "Adaptation" was a hell of run, with two nominations to go with the previously mentioned best original screenplay win. Why we've only had one full feature since then presumably has to be his choice?Beautiful and memorable, though at bit patchy at the start, its charm may win you over, as it did me.


                
Similar to The Truman Show, this is a different kind of movie that Jim Carrey does. He plays a guy named Joel, and Kate Winslet plays a girl name Clementine. They form a relationship, and then later on Clementine erases Joel from her memory. This upsets Joel, so he does the same thing, but during the erasing process, he falls in love with her again.Vey creative and interesting movie. Has a wonderful heart to it, the cast does an amazing job, and the story was understood very well. This movie proves Jim Carrey is capable of doing dramatic stuff.Overall, pretty solid flick and one of Jim Carrey's best.


                
My favorite jim carry movie ever and a well made movie


                
The movie induces the idea of predestination. Somehow, the movie convinced me, the law of pre-determination rules our life. There are things, people and events that surely befall us, no matter how hard we try to evade them.
Having a touch of romance and sci-fi, it surely capivates and mesmerises the viewer.
Finally, not everyone can understand and appreciate the beauty of the making and psychological innuendo of the film. A good movie, I would say!


                
This is such a great quirky movie and all the credit must go to the writer Charlie Kauffman who is fast becoming a one man force to be reckoned with. A unique romantic comedy, unfettered by the normal expectations of the genre, is a rare and wondrous thing. That's precisely what director Michel Gondry, working from a screenplay by Charlie Kaufman delivers. Without being too offbeat or esoteric, Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind nevertheless manages to convey romance without forcing the mind to shift into neutral or dragging the characters through a formulaic structure where chemistry becomes the most important asset. It's willingness to flout conventions and eschew formulas is just one of many things to celebrate about this charmingly eccentric movie.


                
Ever been in a bad relationship? You might just want to erase it from your memory. Well, you can't. But what if you could? What if you could just erase the memory of a person from your brain overnight? Esteemed writer Charlie Kaufman and director Michel Gondry explore this possibility in their film Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind. Bolstered by career-defining performances from Jim Carrey and Kate Winslet, the film is a comedic and heartstring-tugging experience that examines human relation and companionship. We open with a look inside the life of Joel (Jim Carrey). He wakes up one morning and begins to get ready for work. We get the sense he's pretty boring and never really does anything besides work and sleep. But today he decides to skip and go out on an adventure. On his adventure, he meets Clementine (Kate Winslet), a fellow oddball that likes to talk and get personal. The two of them couldn't be more opposite, so naturally, that's what makes them attract. Their relationship initially starts out rough, but after some time it blossoms into something serious.And then the hard part comes. They can't stand each other anymore and decide to call it quits. Joel, taking things very hard, decides to undergo a strange procedure he heard about that can erase the memory of a person from your brain. As he tries to erase Clementine from his memory, Joel's mind reflects on his past and teaches him the merits of true love and how nothing ever works out perfectly. This is probably one of the most emotional films you'll ever watch. The relationship between Joel and Clementine is presented with such love and tenderness that will endlessly play with your feelings. There isn't a dull moment between the two of them. They're in a cycle of getting close, growing apart, and reconnecting, rinse and repeat. While it is predictable, it never feels repetitive. This is down to Gondry's ability to give each rotation a new spin through the use of the camera and visual effects. They're used sparsely throughout, but always at the right time with great effect. The shining moment of this comes from Joel's escape from Barnes & Noble through a seemingly magic door that leads directly to his house. It's a great sequence with lots of intricate techniques that come together neatly. Another element that works for the film is the questions it raises and the answers it gives. The beginning is muddled with the questionable and strange. From there we are slowly led down a path through the mess of human emotion. From this mess, we find our answers, ones that make you take a good look at yourself and the people in your life. It's not hokey or overplayed, it's gripping and used well within the context of the story. One problem that arises a couple of times throughout is the inability to solely focus on one relationship. You know the central pairing is Joel and Clementine, but there are actually about three other insignificant pairings that crop up from time to time. Now I'm not going to say who's involved in each one, but what I will say is that every time we were not watching Joel and Clementine is when the story loses some steam.The performances in this film are some of the strongest I've seen, and that credit definitely goes to our two leads. Jim Carrey breaks his usual routine as the rubber-faced madman and gives us a character that is sad, lonely, and complex. He still gets to use his antics from time to time, but he's mainly subdued and able to personally open up as a person.Kate Winslet plays his perfect opposite. She's rambunxious and overly dramatic, but you can always say that she means well. Winslet goes all the way, giving us a performance that is also different from expectations.Even though you never really get the sense of it, there is a good sized supporting cast always present. Kirsten Dunst and Mark Ruffalo are the strongest small players that are able to showcase their skills. While his character isn't well written, Elijah Wood does a pretty good job being the creepy weirdo among charming weirdos. Finally, Tom Wilkinson plays the straight part as the head doctor behind the procedure.Kaufman's got another hit on his hands. He's made one of the most important and educational relationship films out there. It holds a mirror up to you and makes you feel insecure about you and your past. If you're a person that doesn't easily open up, you might need this film. Even if you don't need it, still see it, it deserves your attention.


                
Eternal sunshine does a great job of sticking to a few central themes and delving deeply into them. I really liked the initial focus just on their relationship, and gradual expansion naturally in the same themes of memory, intimacy, and honesty in the workers of the company. I really liked the sequencing, particularly in the information they give you early in the movie. Acting performances were great all around, particularly Wilkinson, Carrey, and Dunst. I didn't find the explanation or depiction of Carrey running through his memory and evading them in his mind, fully aware. I also didn't think their central relationship was particularly well demonstrated. Nevertheless, it's an ambitious, fun, and successful movie in considering some fascinating and difficult ideas.


                
A great story about love and yet the same story about love. Just like many time traveling movies are about destiny. A conceptual thought that everything happens for a reason. Everything has the same purpose no matter how hard we try to change it. The nice thing about this movie is that the law of attraction breaks through anything we try to undo the past.If you are someone who loves to be mindfucked and yet wants to be moved by emotion, this is the movie for you.
With a daring script by Charlie Kaufman that's accompanied by Michel Gondry's dazzling direction, this picture is nothing short of an experience of a film, with a story as bizarre as the complexity of its themes, coming together to a fantastic result. Jim Carrey showcases his versatility for both the drama and the comedy with a great counterpart from Kate Winslet, delivering one of the most belivable and heartfelt relathionships to rise from the silver screen. Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind is a film that celebrates both the unsecurity of love and the irrationality of the mind, and by doing so it becomes one of the greatest romantic films to come out from the 2000s, if not beyond that.


                
After realizing he agreed to completely erase his life partner from his mind, Joel finds himself in a terrible situation. Remorse comes into action, reaching the point where he struggles to keep her memory alive, while reliving and sometimes altering memories in which she was present. Unfortunately, as he struggles, many failures start piling, but all seems in vain, although he's desperate to cancel the procedure.A movie with a plot like this one is almost guaranteed to be a success but this one wasn't able to leave me a remarkable impression. It has tension and drama but it lacks emotion, and a movie in which you don't feel almost anything for the main characters, cannot be fully enjoyed it as you should. I don't quite know if the presentation or the characters are to blame, but they weren't able to create an emotional atmosphere which should keep you eager to find out its finale. As with many movies, it had a brilliant idea which wasn't fully exploited by the producers, thus leaving a dull sensation, even after its ending, which wasn't as conclusive as I hoped.


                
Michel Gondry tell this interwinding tale of memory with incredible skill. The plot itself, though seemingly complicated, is actually quite simple, and lends itself to a modest narrative about an ended relationship. But the way in which it is told is truly remarkable. Not many films are able to reach this level of sophistication in storytelling. "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" creates philosophers out of all of us. It allows the audience to put the pieces together for themselves, and forces them to create their own interpretation. And it is a fun story that you can allow yourself to get lost in.


                
This some how manages to be the most unique and wonderful romantic comedy/drama ever but also the most depressing. Anyone who has ever gone through the break up of a serious relationship will identify with this film. Easily one of Jim Carrey's best roles. He masterfully handles the mix of drama and restrained humor.


                
Jim Carrey and Kate Winslet play young lovers who eventually have a falling out and their relationship ends. A bit later, Carrey sees her and she has no recollection of him--how could this be?! Later, Carrey learns that there is an organization that can wipe out specific memories and he realizes she's done this. And so, he decides to do the same. However, it's not that easy--Carrey really does love her down deep. Later, when they meet again, the story becomes VERY interesting and ends on a sweet romantic note.I read one review which said that "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" was incredibly original. Well, while it's original in some ways, the basic plot idea is actually recycled from an old movie from 1939, "Remember?". "Remember?" had a novel idea but the execution left a bit to be desired. In that film, Robert Taylor and Greer Garson marry and eventually grow to hate each other. They are offered a new experimental drug so they will forget each other completely--and they end up falling in love all over again! Well, if you take this idea and update it--this is, essentially, "Eternal Sunshine"....though this recent film is much better and ends well.Now I am not saying "Eternal Sunshine" is a great film. While it's rated extremely highly on IMDb, I disliked the style of the film at times. Lots of handycam shots and indie music made the film seem a tad pretentious at times. Plus, I was disappointed about the rough language in the film as it made it a rated-R film and the movie could have easily been a PG or PG-13 film--one that anyone could watch. But, if you can look past this, there is a sweetness about it that makes it worth your time.
A lovely story which must of been a hard feat to get it on film. If we could open up more to these type of movies it would help us evolve and understand ourselves.Like trying a new infusion it tastes odd to our senses, to be bombarded with various dimensions at once. Once we get more accustomed to stories that ask for our own awareness to be invested in to them, we can take a leap with our own lives and choose rather than just re-act as always.Many thanks to all of those who believed in this project.My only criticism for this film is the music, much more could have been done with moods with the assistance of the right background music.It has a very similar theme to "Being John Malkovithch! This film delivers a strong message of the dangerous areas the individual mind can take us. "Everybody's got to learn sometime" as the final tune sings "change your heart"best wishes Craig


                
Jim Carrey's first two serious movies were 'The Truman Show' and 'The Majestic'. Now, he has made a third, 'Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind', the title apparently taken from a quote from Alexander Pope, spoken by the Kirsten Dunst character. I like this movie and also liked 'Being John Malkovich'. Both of them require the viewer to accept that we are able to visualize what is going on inside someone's mind. If you can't accept that premise, then the movie is not for you. Carrey is good as Joel Barish, but Kate Winslet is even better as his kookie American romantic interest, Clementine Kruczynski. Tom Wilkinson plays Dr. Howard Mierzwiak who has developed the medical technique featured in the movie. But before you watch this movie, take out your map and locate Montauk, which is the most eastern community on Long Island, NY. SPOILERS FOLLOW, quit reading if you have not yet seen the movie. Seriously!!The first scene in the movie is also the last scene. We see Joel mysteriously running from his normal work-bound platform to take the train to Montauk, and he isn't certain why. He walks the beach, talks to himself, is shy, but sees Clementine there. They ride the same train back, she is gregarious and initiates conversation. This is their second time to 'discover' each other, but neither realizes that. In between the movie's beginning and end, we see them getting closer together, only to have issues appear, and she impulsively takes a new treatment where the doctor and his staff 'map' the brain activity of what a person wants to forget, then erases all those specific memories overnight with a contraption on the patient's head. She forgets Joel. Hurt, Joel does the same, but during his procedure has second thoughts, realizes he doesn't really want to forget her, unable to wake up he tries to hide his memories of her in places not mapped by the doctor. We view all this going on in his mind. As a last resort he whispers 'Montauk', and both of them end up there, re-discover each other, and we see them trying again. Point being, if you were attracted to each other before, even though your memories are gone, you will be attracted again.
Charlie Kaufman co-wrote the screenplay for "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" with director Michel Gondry.  Probably Kaufman, continuing his recovery from the largely senseless "Adaptation," was the prime writer. So a series of sometimes faintly explicable or borderline incoherent scenes somewhat camouflages an occasionally fascinating tale.  And that's what this film is.Joel (Jim Carrey) is a writer-illustrator with an unbroken record of failed relationships.  He's shy and lonely, open to falling in like if not in love with any attractive female who telegraphs an interest in him.Calling in sick on Valentine's Day, he goes out to Montauk Point (the easternmost part of New York's Long Island, a playground for the rich) and runs into Clementine (Kate Winslet), a bubbling, blithe spirit, a young woman who works in a Barnes & Noble bookstore and frequently changes her hair color from one attention grabbing shade to another (her idea of a perfect color name is "Agent Orange").A relationship starts and goes into high gear when, after almost a quarter of an hour, the opening credits roll.  That's a hint that an unconventional unfolding of plot is in store.Through scenes that too often confuse without enlightening, Clementine and Joel's relationship goes back and forth in time.  Mostly back as it's revealed that each separately engaged the services of Dr. Howard Mierzwiak (a laid back role well-played by Tom Wilkinson) to have their memories of past relationships erased through what must be a proprietary and non-insurance covered process.  Doc Howard's sci-fi practice enjoys the eager beaver services of receptionist Mary (Kirsten Dunst).What follows is contemplation of the role of memory and the opportunity for regeneration of relationships against psychical resistance (to say nothing of overcoming the effects of Mierzwiak's non-FDA approved therapy. "Lacuna" is the name of his enterprise.  Erasure leads to a missing part-but without any awareness of what has been deleted by computer machinations of a mapped brain there can be no sense of incompleteness.  There's a message here. Perhaps others can find and detail it.What fails is the too cute, confusing and slapdash alternation of time and place.  What succeeds is a surprisingly deep and laid back performance by Carrey, his second film in which his character's memory loss is central to the story.  Winslet, wacko hair colors and all, is engaging and warm, a woman who really wants the security and permanency of a close relationship but who has been hurt too often.Dunst displays a broad range of emotions from the freely and stoned sensual to the pained introspective.  A nice supporting role for this very talented actress.  Elijah Wood as Patrick, one of the doctor's nocturnal memory erasers, is flat-perhaps he hadn't decompressed sufficiently from his long foray into the wilds of New Zealand.The beach scenes at Montauk are nicely shot-the rolling Atlantic waves in the dead of winter are beautiful.  But there's a choppy quality to much of the cinematography that adds to the film's already scrambled elements.
It's a mixed bag.8/10


                
Eternal Sunshine of the spotless mind is hardly like any other movie I have watched,in a good way of course.It deals with the two main characters,Joel Barish(Jim Carrey) and Clementine Kruczynski(2004 Academy Awards Best Actress nominee Kate Winslet) who meet each other and strike up a relationship between each other.Clementine gets her memory erased to forget the bad parts of her relationships.Joel finds out and does the same after meeting the creator of the process,Dr Howard Mierzwiak(Tom Wilkinson).Kirsten Dunst,Mark Ruffalo and Elijah Wood join the ride in this romantic-dramatic and sometimes comedic film about the poignant looks of breakups,breakdowns and breakthroughs in a stereotypical romance between lovers.
This film will reduce you to raw emotion. Carey and Winslet did a fantastic job that really plucks those emotional strings. Definitely a Carey classic that in my view revitalized his career Back then


                
