Michael pena is a miscast. I'm struggling to take him seriously and to be honest, he is hardly a good actor. I liked seeing escobar in episode 5 but it's not even that good. Seasons 1 and 2 were amazing. Season 3 was good. Narcos mexico is below average as the characters are not interesting.


                
The narrative sucks, nothing further from what really happened, the "star" actors suck in their acting, the acting is soooo cheesy, corny, full of cliches and it's boring to say the least and you can know what happens next always. I stopped watching when all this big narco names started to pop up like if they all met in 5 minutes of their life.... it's just so soap opera it really sucks


                
Compared to the previous seasons, Mexico convinced me less. With the notable exception of Kiki, whose character seems to wear the whole season on his shoulders, others characters lack of depth, charisma and credibility. The main idea supporting the script - to grow pot in the middle of the desert and build an empire out of it- is great, but the realisation and the actors direction are poor, which ends up in a rather flat result. Again, given the intrinsic value of the pitch, it is a disappointment.


                
I'm so upset with season 4 as a whole, Luna ( the skinny) not really a character of drug lord and control the whole organisation. He is soft compare to other character that you have shown before. Tbh, the writers, directors and crews that setting up the entire season 4 is not completely the same like before. I'm not gonna finish watching it because i don't think it's worth to watch further!P/S: Season 3 is the real deal at Narcos series!


                
Great series, great characters, excellent acting but almost ruined by the inexplicable decision to use some weird video effects so that a lot of the screen is out of focus or blurred far too much of the time.Someone probably thought it was artistic or uber-cool but in reality it's simply distracting and annoying, especially when watching on a big screen.How this wasn't picked up during the video editing is beyond me unless they made the mistake of using non-standard camera lenses so that the effect couldn't be undone. A real shame that something so good was deliberately marred in this way but hopefully the next season won't be so afflicted.


                
Is there an officer named Kiki !!!Kiki knows everything and he gets angry quicklyThe sequence of events is illogicalThe Scenario is weakThe characters are unsuitable for their roles in the series.


                
