Finished the entire 10 episodes in one weekend out of fondness of the first 3 seasons of Narcos. Expecting some highlights all along. But at the end I have to say Narcos Mexico is much weaker than Narcos in every aspects from storytelling to acting. Still entertaining. Most likely I will keep watching the next season when it comes. But unlikely will finish them in one weekend.


                
Ill start by saying its a pretty good show. The story is interesting, acting is pretty good and there are some characters I really liked.
One major problem though.. the main guy, the drug dealer, supose to be this big bad dude who pretty much controls the entire drug trade in mexico, but he has the character of a rug salsman. Seems like he doesnt run anything and just berly reacts to things happing to him.. seriously he takes so much s*** from every one and doesnt do anything about it or even react as i imagine a man in his position would.Still a pretty good watch, everything elese around him is interesting enough for it to be a good series.
Narcos Mexico is undoubtedly a good series, whoever created and realised it clearly know how to do their job.
Good acting, good pacing and good photography.
But to me it misses something: it's just not as well balanced as it should be.
Pena's Kiki didn't convince me and it's a pity because i was waiting to see that character since i read about his real life story.


                
I love Michael Peña, but he is seriously mis-cast in this series and role. He almost brings in his natural comedic tone in to the series, sorry, really disappointed.


                
A good crime drama should always have an interesting anti-hero on the pivotal role. Narcos: Mexico definitely was way off the mark here since it squandered away a strong start for this character into a directionless endgame. Michael Pena did his job perfectly well with a bold performance of a dogged, straightforward no-nonsense DEA agent. However, the antagonist's (Felix Gallardo) motives, personality and decisions become way too inconsistent and forced that it doesn't seem like it is actually based on the life of a real person. On top of that, the plot treads its cliched lines of "crime creates tension in family relation" for no convincing reason. There is a scene where Escobar tells Gallardo "Don't give me that Bullsh**t" and that's exactly how I felt Gallardo's motives were.Narcos:Mexico, for all its problems, is still an interesting crime drama that deserves a one-time watch. Who knows maybe the next season might get better


                
Narcos Mexico Season 1 (or Narcos Season 4) feels a lot like season 3....starts out somewhat slow and picks up quickly about half way through. As with season 3, this particular season didn't have enough time to breath and develop their characters in the same way as Pablo Escobar is developed throughout 2 seasons. Kiki played by Michael Pena seems to be one of the main characters of the show but is rather 1 dimensional. Pena at times falls flat on his acting and only delivers towards the final end arc of his character. Alyssa Diaz as Mike (Kikis wife) plays an excellent emotional role at the end. Diego Luna playing Felix Gallardo also starts out slow and somewhat choppy but delivers excellent acting towards the middle/end of the season. Joaquín Cosio playing Neto is a joy to watch throughout. Most of the other DEA agents are average at best. The writing felt uneven towards the beginning and didn't give me much interest in continuing to the watch the show within the first few episodes. This irons out as the pace picks up. Definitely needed to stretch the season out a bit to make the show feel more even.


                
Can't be put upto the previous seasons.. watching it was like torture.. the final episode was a relief.. the only episode worth watching!


                
This series suffers due to its reconstruction. I don't know the facts. But I am sure as hell am not learning them watching it like this. This series is prepared to show the narrative from a misplaced representation, they won right caught their man/men. But that tale was through any means. In those days nothing was off the cards. Those nations many still torture today. But it's okay if the gangsters do it they're bad guys.My biggest gripe was the Jorge turning because of the 6 months to paradise and its ongoing disasters. Really? Like duh becaused duh. And then it just bugged from then on out.These guys were the smartest, so much smarter than last season, but we're cowboys. Because of the unicorns and CGI.Mildly binge watchable and hell it has a story. And the narration is gone making it more fluent. But not so much lost found footage. Because there isn't the facts. A lesser comparison.


                
I'm a white boy who liked the first coulple seasons but this one was all subtitles. Could'nt keep up 7/10


                
It wasn't bad but it wasn't as good as the other narcos series. There were some exciting scenes but apart from that the first couple of episodes were not so intriguing. And I didn't like the part about Miguel Angel that he appeared as some sort of romantic character, spending time alone in his office, thinking about his business and his long dead wife. I liked in the previous series that the characters were displayed from every possible angle and their flaws were also shown. This time however it was as if they tried to make him look more sympathetic.
The short appearance of the members of the Cali cartel and Escobar made the series better and it was amusing to see them again.
Despite of this I enjoyed this show and I hope to get the sequel soon.
Narcos: Mexico has the bad luck of, perhaps unnecessarily, being compared to the original series. Apart from the lovely introduction song and the high production standards, you have to forget what you new about the series. Everything is darker, simpler, grimmer in Mexico. The passion, the violence and tha glam of the first three seasons are missing. Even the story is much more straightforward and the characters less charming and complicated. The wonderful portrayal of Pablo Escobar from Wagner Moura is not there to compel you to savour every minute of his performance, nor are his colourful associates. But, please, don't get me wrong. Narcos: Mexico is a wonderful TV series on it's own, more close and realistic to the dark world of narcotics and drug lords. Perhaps more procedural than it's predecessor, more down to earth, more effective. And the performances, are all there. The heroic Kiki Kanamera by Michael Peña, the insecure geniusness of Miguel Ángel Félix Gallardo by Diego Luna and a cast that more than just supports them. Honorable mentions should also go to Tenoch Huerta and Joaquín Cosio. Even the story is all there, shared equally between the law enforcement view and that of the narcotraficantes.
Narcos: Mexico is happily viewed and enjoyed, maybe a tad less than the original series it spun off, maybe because we got used to more colour and glam. After all, it is mostly marijuana against cocaine, calling for a different approach and disposition.
I can but not wonder what is next from the series creators. Another season of Mexico, leading to the eventual capture of El Padrino, or even better another spin off, such as Narcos: L.A.? Because all that drug, has to go somewhere... Maybe it is time the series is brought home, to the USA, and create a shocking, grand finale, showing what drug really mean to the other end of the line.


                
