If we say that this series is addictive like drugs, we don't say wrong. I'd say it's really compatible with the name of the show. It is very enjoyable to watch such a drug war in Mexico after Colombia. No one from the old cast. We see a new battle with a completely new cast. I think the idea of adapting the same issue to another country is good. After beginning with Pablo Escobar in Colombia, "Narcos" shifted to the Cali cartel, an equally colorful and bloodthirsty bunch. Now we see the Mexican drug lord Miguel Angel Felix Gallardo. Also named as El Padrino, Felix Gallardo is a citizen of El Chapo. Both of them are from Culiacan. Though the episodes are lengthy, it's a absorbing story. Historically we may know the outcome but Narcos: Mexico has an interesting story. Definitely worth watching. 9/10


                
As far as the show goes it's fantastic but what really stood out in my opinion was the performance of Joaquín Cosío as "Don Neto" I believe this is one of the best supporting performances in any Netflix series to date! The arc that he goes through and the performance that he turns in cannot be ignored. He is a very talented actor and displays this in every scene he's in! He is the most believeable character in the show shining brightly over an already brilliant cast of actors.


                
The whole Narco series is really good. This stand alone season, focusing on Mexico, is of the same quality. And old Colombian acquaintances from the mother series appear in a kind of double crossover halfway through the season.
Looking forward to the "Narcos: Florida" season. ;-)


                
I expected absolutely nothing and yet I found it amazing. It trapped me since E01 and is very close to what really happened, showing the corruption on both sides of the border, I highly recommend it!


                
Well worth my spending all day Friday... the only downside is the long wait for another season (please!).Everything from Scoot McNairy as the Narrator to some former "Narcos" guest appearances was enjoyable.The only downsides for me was a bit of trouble telling some cast members apart from one another and that I'd like more (or longer) episodes.Well done Netflix, this alone gave value to my monthly subscription.


                
The 'Narcos' line of shows created by Netflix is an entertaining and, I think, educational body of entertainment that casts a light on a world that touches many lives, even if we don't know it.Although I think the series would appeal to viewers of many nationalities, I think it has a clever hook especially for those of us in the U.S. I wouldn't say that the series are formulaic exactly, but they do all seem to share some common traits. The most engaging of which, in my opinion, is the rags to riches element. Americans have an entrepreneurial spirit built into our DNA; that dream of building something from scratch, starting with nothing and slowly, with nothing but determination and hard work, building to undreamed of levels of success, speaks to us in a way few other stories do.The fact that you're watching the dream unfold for a horrible and destructive industry almost doesn't register until later, after you're invested in the characters and their lives. Which is good, I think, because it's easy to demonize and hate these people who pump poison into the world, but if we're ever going to win this "war on drugs", it probably won't happen without understanding how it started in the first place.I wouldn't call the show historical or biographical. They are about real people and roughly line up with real events, but of course like all entertainment a lot of the details have been switched up or altered for the sake of entertainment. Still, even knowing the broad strokes about how we got here has value, I think. Whether we're talking about the opioid crisis, cocaine and crack, meth, or just plain ol' pot, our nation has paid a horrendous cost in lives and money in this war. And, as these shows make clear, so to have the nations seduced by the wealth that supplying it brings.With a few exceptions, the people in these stories are villains in nearly every sense of the word. They are kidnappers, extortionists, and murderers. They may start out poor and desperate, with nothing but a dream of a better life for them and their family, but this isn't a normal product that they're making. If one thing is clear from these stories, it's this: this world robs you of your soul.But they are also human, and even if we ultimately despise what they represent, we can still understand what drives them. Maybe one day we can even stop find a way to stop the endless cycle that creates new copies of this sad chapter of humanity.


                
Narcos will be forever an incredible show, one of the best series of netflix


                
Idk & idc with others, but for me this is great series. The story is neat & clear. The tense is great that make me hold my breath. The actors are very good, they can optimize the characters and brings the best out of them. Can't hardly wait for season 2.


                
Quite on the contrary to the trend of hit tv shows making disappointing seasons to follow, Narcos:Mexico packs a powerful punch of hard hitting substance and impeccable writing. This watch will definitely be worth your while.


                
I've watched all of the Narcos and they seem to get better each season. While I enjoyed El Chapo and was able to ignore some of its weaker technical aspects in the interest of learning, I found it confusing because there was so much established in Mexican drug business before El Chapo came along. This show provides the back story. It's hard to know where cultural stereotypes cross over into poor acting, but there are only a few episodes of overcooking it in this show Atmospheric, accurately styled and well acted, this season far exceeded my expectations. Whether you agree with the war on drugs or not, this show is about much more than that. Moral decline, systemic corruption, frustration, cultural differences. The frustration of the DEA agents is captured brilliantly. It would be nice to see a show one day from the point of view of the Mexicans caught in the crossfire of this savage war. But for now, we have this.


                
How anyone can have anything negative to say about this show from season 1 till now boggles my mind. And I don't want to hear it doesn't compare to Pablo's seasons. Pablo is a infamous guy with a huge huge story. Not many people know Felix Gallardo but they will. Mexico will probably have 2 more seasons. Keep me coming.


                
I noticeed a lot of people commenting on how they thought Narcos would've died after leaving Colombia; clearly people need to read up on the modern drug war, because Mexico is dripping with story fodder.The Mexican cartels present some of the best drug cartel storytelling; with many powerful factions, not just having to focus primarily on Medellin or the Cali Cartel.Even as I write this El Chapo sits in court fighting for his freedom, promising he will fight fair and not have jurors killed - that in itself will make for an interesting movie or series. Guys like Guzman, plus all the others from the Sinaloa, Juarez, Los Zetas, Tijuana and Gulf Cartels etc present stories for many, many more series of Narcos. That, in addition to the pure brutality of the Mexican cartels guarantees this show will be a lock for years.


                
If you like this show please read "Drug Lord: the life and Death of a Mexican Kingpin" its the story of Pablo Acosta. It's a great story.


                
I am on the 9th episode of Narcos: Mexico and its been amazing so far. Be it acting, direction, narrative. Ofcourse the first season of Narcos is incomparable. But this one has got a different element altogether. Love it. Highly recommended this !


                
What a great show, binge it!There's not much to review as the name Narco's says and tells it all.Great acting, great storyline, great characters and once again nail-biting!


                
Narcos does it again. Not going into comparison with the previous seasons. The backgrounds are completely different.
Diego Luna was brilliant. Kiki Camarena was a more relatable character than Murphy or Pena. Acting and Cinematography were top notch. But would deduct one point for the slow pacing and the lack of loudness. Missed the suspense and loudness one could usually expect from a Narcos season. But a fun experience overall. Loved the cliffhanger at the end.
Really looking forward to the next season(s).
P.S: don't google any of the characters before watching till the end to have a spoiler free experience.


                
The first season was phenomenal, this didn't have the excitement like the previous seasons, but it had more depth and vibe in it, it told a dark and heavy story with its beautifully-crafted cinematography and an amazing style of visual storytelling, the way the camera moved and set up made you stress and yet so invested, though there are some flaws in the editing sometimes, it's still very enjoyable.


                
The production of this show is outstanding. Great actors and stays true to the tea
story line


                
Narcos is good as ever. it was the best Netflix show have been running successfully from its beginning.Never miss it


                
The first two series of Narcos were excellent, but they were basically history, so there was comfort in knowing that Escobar was going to die and the Cali cartel was going to be destroyed. Didn't make it any less compelling, but there was an end story we could anticipate. This one is different in that it's an ongoing story. Narcos Mexico takes us way back to 70s, the start of the Mexican cartels and considering what we know about what happened, and what is still happening, it has an extra edge of menace. Interesting appearance in Episode two of a certain Chapo "Shorty" Guaman, who this very week is appearing in court for his role in the saga.
Great acting and the story was paced just exactly right. My attention never wandered during any of the ten episodes. This series is why I like Netflix so much. It is miles ahead of network tv and more than holds its own with cable. I'm slowly becoming a Netflixanicac. I have only 16 shows recorded for the next two weeks on my Uverse DVR. Case closed. Some of NetFlix is not so good but the good stuff like this series is outstanding. The TV watching part of my brain is becoming rewired.


                
Outstanding!!
For me this season is the best of all the previous,the fact it gives you the story from how it all began and manges to keep you on the edge of your seat,the suspense in drug deals,undercover surveillance and ofcourse the action is brilliant,and we even get to see a few familiar faces from the past...enjoy troops!


                
No it's not as good as Narcos. No one can beat Pablo. But it is a great stand alone series. Cinematography and production are excellent. There's a lot of interesting characters and scenes. The story stays true to real life and is fascinating to watch.


                
Sometimes I think that apart from the occasional modern classic like Shawshank Redemption, Schindler's List or the Green Mile, the old Hollywood formula for movie making is nearing obsolescence because silver screen epics like this (and indeed the entire Narcos series) offer something far deeper, far more complex and both thoroughly entertaining and thought-provoking at the same time. For me it really lays bare the futility of, and suffering caused by America's "War on Drugs". I don't think I can single out any particular actor because they all perform their roles, however large or small, with great gusto. It helps that most of them are actually Mexican too. It's a tour de force on so many levels, from the sets to the language to the narration, the direction and beyond.


                
This show stands well on its own. Season 3 of Narcos felt incomplete after Pablo's death. Narcos: Mexico, however is a completely different show with great storytelling and brilliant performances.Felix Gallardo and Don Neto both deliver amazing performances. Diego Luna does a great job of showing Felix's unpredictable nature and ambition. Joaquin Cosio's acting definitely made Don Neto one of my favorite characters.Some places where the show bothered me are the fluctuating scenarios where one moment the power is completely with Felix and in the next he's helpless. His rise to Godfather felt a little underdeveloped. Also the exposition to his affairs felt out of place and surprising since he was never shown with any other women and also rejected Isabella's advances.The show is entertaining from the very first episode and never fails to keep the audience from wanting more, glad to hear it is renewed for season 2.
