Am I the only person not to like this film, or just the only one (almost) to say so? At the time it was made, it was put together in a rush by a whole group of different scriptwriters, with most of the people involved in the film seeing it as nothing special. I agree with them! I found it generally trite and predictable. Almost everything about this film is artificial - the setting, the plot and the ending, as is normally the case in wartime propaganda films hastily put-together or not. The person whose fate we are supposed to care about is presented one-dimensionally, whilst the characteristic which defines Bogart for what he is (hard-bitten worldly cynicsym) is the characteristic he will have to lose if the film is to have a schmaltzy ending. What is his real motivation? Why does he do the things he does? There is really no character development at all. Does he believe in ideals and if he does do they have to be other people's? Or is he just chivalrous, or even whimsical or perverse? At a time when the British Empire was close to exhaustion and millions had died in Russia and central Europe, there is a little too much of the lone American saving the conscience of the world about it for comfort. Of course, the makers of the film only ever intended to make a simple propaganda film and they did their job well.They gave the audience the Bogey they wanted and were suitably rewarded with affection from more than one generation of filmgoers. But this is not a serious film, whatever Woody Allen may think.


                
I was thoroughly excited to see this movie because of all the positive reviews I've heard about it in the past. However, this movie in no way lives up to the hype. Everyone hails it as an undisputed masterpiece, but compared to the many movies that have come out after and even before it, this movie doesn't stand strong. The acting was stale, the characters were un-relatable, and the story was drug out too long. I found myself bored throughout at least 80% of it. Please don't assume that I don't like it just because it's an older film; most movies I have scene are older films, and a lot of them are far better than this one. Believe me, I wanted to love this film, but I just couldn't. Even if it was "great" for its time, that doesn't mean that it's great for this time. However, I will say that there were a few memorable lines, and some parts that were better than the rest, but other than that a cliché filled snoozer.


                
For years and years (I'm 52), I've always heard how great this movie is. I've really never gotten into old movies a whole bunch, so I've never seen Bogart much at all. SO - it was time to finally watch it.Yawn... For starters, Bogart just wasn't that good of an actor. Scream and cry all you want, but that's an unbiased fact. Secondly, the story line was about as average as you could get. Finally, I seriously had trouble staying awake in this one. Cannot for the life of me see what so many others see in it.A sad disappointment. I'll give it a 4, as I honestly would have to say it's slightly below average...


                
This movie is the darling of the beret-and-baguette crowd in every self-important college town in America. Cineaste wannabes trip over each other between sips of chardonnay to gargle its praises.  That should tell you something right there.  It's a ridiculously overpraised "B" movie, and if you listen carefully you'll hear the tones of above-it-all irony in the cineaste wannabes' voices.  Still, if asked to name the greatest "films" of all time, be sure to put Casablanca up near the top, along with Citizen Kane and It's a Wonderful Life, just so you won't have to listen to it.


                
Is this film THAT good?  API named it #2.  Can someone tell me what makes this film the second greatest movie in film history? Yes -- I've seen it...TWICE.  I thought it was dramatically lacking in the screenplay -- the characters walk in and out and never truly involve each other.  You never get the truth about what these characters really want from each other, nor is there any clear central point to the story.It seems to me what people like about this film most is the glamour of Ingrid Bergman -- and the low key cool act of Humphrey Bogart.  It's all style -- no substance.


                
This movie is overrated in my opinion and I'm also not one of those teenagers who has a short attention span. A movie does not have to be loaded with sex or violence for me to enjoy it. Now to the movie. I guess I'm missing something here, I mean the first half of this movie took place in Rick's Bar with people talking and constantly asking for drinks. In fact I've never seen a movie with so many drinks ordered in my life, not that thats bad. After that, I was extremely bored. Surprisingly, I did enjoy Gone With the Wind.My Rating 4/10


                
I can see why men like this movie. How great to own your own bar, have a cool reputation for cynicism and dry wit, and most of all, have a desirable woman so in love with you she's ready to leave her war hero husband for you if you just snap your fingers. Of course, it's even better to be Rick, when he makes the great sacrifice of putting her on the plane with her husband. Ahhh, sit back, have a smoke.But why on earth do women like this? Ilsa is a completely passive, spineless thing who stands around sipping drinks while the men make all her decisions for her. What a total lack of moral courage, to let someone else determine whether or not she leaves her husband? Even the mix-up in Paris seems rather lacking in initiative on her part -- couldn't she have made some excuse to slip out long enough to send a telegram to the train station? I didn't even enjoy identifying with Ingrid Bergman's fabled beauty, because, frankly, without the soft focus lens she's just a round faced, thin lipped woman with a jutting nose.I love old movies, the ones made in the forties are my favorites. Paul Henried, Claude Raines and Bette Davis were wonderful together in "Now Voyager." Barbara Stanwyck made dozens of great movies during those years. Joan Crawford and Lana Turner played strong women. Gene Tierney and Hedy Lamar were breathtaking beauties. Of all of the hundreds of great movies made at that time, I'll never understand why this one is singled out as the best?
This film appears to have badly aged. Old sentimental and patriotic rhetoric about the "tough guy with tender heart", helpless woman who "suffers" because she's torn between two lovers, manichean vision of the good (Americans), rather lost (French collaborators), and bad (the Germans) guys. Even Titanic seemed much more convincing. And why is it that Humphrey Bogart is supposed to be such a seductive legend? I find him dull and devoid of expression, much less empathy. I think the demographic breakdown of the vote on Casablanca explain in part the basis for the enthusiasm: most positive have been old-age men. Those who are still admiring the patronizing male.


                
I have tried to sit through Casablanca several times through many ages of my life.  I still can not get through it.  I just quit watching it and turn it off.  I do not understand the film. I do not feel any emotion.  It is a boring picture.  Since it is considered a great film,  this time I made myself sit through the whole thing.  Perhaps the computer-colorized version would help.  I liked the ending though.  Nice piano music and songs.


                
This is pure War Propaganda in disguise of a "B" movie, and as it happens with every politicization of art, it ages quicker. Not that Casablanca has too much to age though, as a film released as a somewhat vulgar piece. The scenarios are cheesy, to which my guess is they didn't have time nor money to elaborate on that. The acting from the two main characters, portrayed by Bogard and Bergson are weak at best. He has basically two face expressions, and switch from number 1 to number 2 when so circumstances dictate.The two thumbnails to the trailers happen to show both. She doesn't glance that much neither. The close ups are there to highlight that, maybe. Saying more on Bogard, he is his predictable tough shell with a moral inner core, which in this particular case means to oppose the bad German guys. Not very inventive. The French Captain Renault (Claude Rains) is another painful figure to watch, an ugly caricature with a ludicrous accent, and his acting you can't buy as with most of these stagy-level-performance actors. One can save but one. Ugarte (Peter Lorre) is real amid fakes. And still on what brings this movie from a "0<U+2033> to a generous "4<U+2033>. I save ones and twos for disasters and this isn't one. It is more a case of sketchy story-telling, with lowsy characters. What saves it from being "3<U+2033> is the presence of some good camera angles, which in comparison to what had been done at the time in terms of US productions are quite innovative. And maybe on its release date it might have had some appeal, saying something like "let's kick some Nazi asses". It is an attempt at being glamorous as well; ill-faded completely nevertheless. Besides that, very little to offer with the pathetic "Here's is looking at you, kid".The last sequence, the airplane one, sums it up.Poor acting, poor Drama, cheesy carton airplane to end up an excuse of a classic. People are afraid of actually watching it and being critical, thus regarded as ignorant film-wise and hence the many 10 out of 10 reviews. It's easier to go with the flow ! with the bunch. However I tried, I can't. Casablanca is so lame! 4 out of 10 (could well be 3.5)
This is noting but a boring story. it take place in world war II. But it is not about World war II movie has mush has it just a love story. It is very badly written and very overrated.


                
I thought after seeing Saving Private Ryan no film could ever be as good as that was. But low and behold, I watch Casablanca and I am amazed at how brilliant it was. Many homages in other movies came from this one. Not to mention that the chemistry beetween Bogart and Bergam is great. The script also probably the best one ever writen. It was just so well told and many very famous lines came from it. Definetly one of the most memorible films ever made, especialy to me. Casablanca makes history in both Hollywood and in my mind by becoming the greatest movie ever in film history. And you don't know how hard it is to make a movie that becomes my favorite .10/10. Loiey, this may be the mark of a wonderful movie.


                
I've had this DVD sitting on my shelf for a while, and I'd been working my way through all of the other movies surrounding it. I finally forced myself to watch it using the logic of "it's ranked high on the IMDb Top 250, how bad could it be".To clarify, I am not saying that Casablanca is a bad movie, I'm just not saying it's fantastic. I can see how it might be "groundbreaking" and "innovative" back when it was made in the 40's, but in todays world, it is not amazing. It's very difficult to compare a movie from the 40's to a movie from the 21st century, in fact the only way I know to compare movies is based on my afterthoughts. What qualifies a movie as 10 stars for me, is a movie that either gives me the chills at the needs because of how amazing the ending was, or if the movie keeps me thinking about it for days afterward. It's a movie that has an ending that is permanently engraved in me. Movies like The Shawshank Redmption, The Sixth Sense, The Intouchables, Memento, The Green Mile, Full Metal Jacket, etc...A 9 star movie is a movie that I find to be entertaining, but not quite as memorable as a 10 star. The 9 star category for me has a lot of good movies in the category, such as Pulp Fiction, American Beauty, One Flew Over The Cuckoos Nest, Fight Club, etc... However, Casablanca is not as memorable as any of those movies either. The movie is not, I just don't find myself challenged by the movie. The acting was okay, but nothing that blew my mind. I understand the message of the movie, and how powerful it was supposed to be. The movie was slow, too slow for me. It left me with the same problems as the Godfather; I think that the movie is building up to some dramatic ending, but then it just mellows out. This seems like the kind of movie that was regarded as the best of all time for many years, but, unfortunately for fans of this movie, there are many other movies that surpass this one. My opinion is that people tend to rate movies they consider "classics" higher than the new blockbusters, even if both eras are capable of producing movies that are equally as good as one another. Honestly, the only reason why this movie doesn't get a higher rating than it has (from me) is because there was never a part in the movie where I felt like I couldn't take my eyes off the screen, but there were scenes where I began to fall asleep. Five minutes after the movie was over, I found myself thinking about my plans for the following day, and what I planned on having for dinner. When I watched higher rated movies, for example Into The Wild (10 stars), I found myself putting myself into the protagonists situation, and then i found myself running to the bookstore to get the book about the true story. This movie didn't have that lasting impression on me.Even though my opinion is most likely contrary to every other movie watcher on here, I think that i have a valid point by saying that this moving brings nothing "revolutionary" to the table, and by that I mean that there is no part of this movie that leaves me teary eyed, laughing hysterically, or piece together a complex mystery. The movie is just... ehh...


                
I'm sure I'll get voted down for this review, but oh well.Here's the reason; as pointed out in the commentary by the late great film critic Roger Ebert, what does anyone need with "letters of transit" to get out of Vichy / Nazi occupied Morocco? Just hijack a vehicle of some kind and get the hell out of there. How come nobody thought of that?As I sat through the entire movie many many years ago I kept wondering why Boggie didn't whip out his gun and just force some cabbie to take him and Garbo out of the nation ... south along the African Coast to some sleepy village and wait out the war, or at least long enough to book passage to the states for the both of them. But then again I attended SF State and not USC nor UCLA, so what the heck do I know?But the whole films like that. It's a reflection on a romance gone sour by the fact one of the parties, all those years, had a romantic obligation to someone else. So the whole film boils down to how much bitterness is in the lead character, and does he let that win out over "the greater good" to fight fascism. That's pretty much the film in a nut shell.Does it work? Well, again the plot holes arise. If this film had been true to form, then the lead character might have been thrown in the slammer or just shot on the spot without the formality of an arrest. And the woman and her husband detained without question and given to the nazi soldiers. I mean, this is war. Right? But, for some strange reason there's this whole thing about dealing with formalities of getting papers and rekindling old flames for the sake of "the greater good". I think a better script would have been a bit more gritty, forgone the whole parading of male egos to impress the female audience, and just let it be the shoot-em-up film that it was probably in its first draft, because otherwise this makes all parties, even the allies, look like complete idiots.I mean, come on, there's an enemy of the state who's trying to escape. You know his name, what he looks like, where he's staying, who his girlfriend is and everything else. You've got some troops there and the Vichy government operates at your blessing. Are you really going to just let that dude and his lady wait it out until he can get some passport saying he can leave? No. You wouldn't.Would you throw your weight around town pretending not to notice them? Probably not. But again the film is engineered for a female sensibility. The female audience largely bought into the notion of needing a stamp of approval from an enemy power to leave. It's complete and total nonsense, but there you have it.I don't get how and why this film was made, nor why it's called a classic, because if you think about it for a couple of seconds, then the whole thing should fall apart on its own premise.Still, I suppose I should add that if you can suspend your disbelief (or even belief) for this thing, and you can buy into the whole plot to begin with, and then really wonder if Bogart's character is going to give a rat's backside about the plight of a couple of wanted people.And, finally, I'm going to get dinged for this too, but the nazi military is not the only set of bad guys we've vanquished throughout our history. They're one of the most notorious, if not the most notorious we've ever come across, but if you look at other films about international conflict, you'll note a high degree of staging put into this film. And I think that should set the intelligent viewer to wondering about this film's merits in the first place.Watch at your own risk.
