Casablanca is deemed by many to be the biggest picture ever made and one of most famous movies of all time . It's a masterpiece produced in 1942 that was thought as a run-of-the-mill studio production . It was only afterwards which it became clear that it would be a landmark cinema . Humphrey Bogart's forty ninth film , would transform the studio contract player into a superstar and to be the first in a whole string of Warner Brothers's classics in which he would play the leading role . Producer Jack Warner assigned the Rick's role for George Raft , however Hall B. Wallis wanted to Bogart who luckily obtained the important character , but he previously played only mobster roles and afterwards romantic protagonists , besides tough main lead. It's an extremely romantic film converted in cinema history with images (Rick and Ilsa embraced) , moving scenes (final farewell in the airport) and dialogs have been used or imitated in other films, spots and television programmes .Casablanca is homaged with fascination as in ¨One from the heart¨ (by Francis Ford Coppola) or from irony as ¨Play it again Sam¨(Herbert Ross). The movie has immortal images with memorable quotes and the best scenes ever written , such as the exciting final when Bogart bids Bergman farewell at the airport with ¨Here's looking at you kid¨still has audiences choking back a tear. All film originates unforgotten characters as makes with Wilson, the piano player to whom Ingrid Bergman says : ¨play it Sam¨. Bergman is enticing and wonderful , stunningly photographed by Arthur Edeson , she was fortunate to have Orry Kelly an hugely talented designer costume to dress her. His shone as radiantly as Bergman's luminous beauty who never looked lovelier. Along with a fabulous plethora of secondaries such as : Claude Rains , Paul Henreid , Conrad Veidt , Peter Lorre , S.Z.Sakal, Madeleine Lebeau , John Qualen , Dooley Wilson , among others . And a large number of extras , as in the famous scene where the "Marseillaise" is sung over the German song "Watch on the Rhine", many of them had real tears in their eyes ; they were actual refugees and Jews who had escaped from Nazi persecution in Germany and elsewhere in Europe and were overcome by the emotions the scene brought out . The motion picture with sensitive score by Max Steiner was very well directed by Michael Curtiz . Well worth seeing for everybody and specially to the classic cinema lovers.


                
"Casablanca" is definitely not the best film of all time. It is actually overrated. It's a nice story, with a good script, has fair acting, and at times is very moving. After all these years it is still enjoyable and captures the audiences attention like all great films do. This is all it is, another great film.8 out of 10


                
Here is looking at you kid<U+0085>, these words are written by my current boss Bernhard Drumel in his skype. I never knew that they are from Casablanca, until I saw the movie.This is a love story during the world war second based in Casablanca, Morocco, North West Africa <U+0096> a port where refugee Europeans came to depart for USA. Old time lovers - Rick (Humphrey Bogart) and Lisa (Ingrid Bergman), meet after many years in Casablanca and remember their love in France. Lisa was and is wife of Victor (Paul Henreid) and the couple is planning to run away to America through Casablanca. Rick - now the owner of the most popular club in Casablanca is well connected among corrupt military and government machinery - sacrifices his love and helps the couple duo to go to America.It is the not the story in itself, but the way it is told that makes it a very interesting viewing. The pace is fast and engrossing. The story slowly unfolds and never lets the viewers guess the next till the very end. There is a sense of mystery and suspense. The backbone of the movie is a love story that has gone wrong. It connects with every audience. The misery and cynicism of Rick is so real that every man may feel a close resemblance to the feeling Rick is having. Though many, there are well itched characters that define the intent and purpose of their words and actions. The characters <U+0096> mostly representing different European countries <U+0096> and give an universal appeal to western audiences, and so I understand its relevance in people's mind and popularity.The character of Rick is brilliantly played by the chain smoking king Bogart. This was my first movie of Bogart and he impressed me the most. Like all olden days actors who <U+0096> each one of them <U+0096> had their unique style and so delight to watch; Bogart has his own. Ingrid looks and acts beautifully to say and hide her secrets with her eyes and body language. Paul Henreid was good, but not brilliant. Special mention of the local French Captain Renault, played by Claude Rains <U+0096> who plays the most engrossing characters with black and white, shrewd and sober shades <U+0096> a delight to watch him.Each and every dialogue of the movie is perfect and catchy. The lines are worth repeating even today and written with so conviction that they are ever-green. The one that I personally liked the most was when the German commander asks Rick which nationality he belongs to; and Rick with his usual cynicism replies <U+0096> I am a drunkard. There are so many such quotable lines almost unforgettable in the movie.This was Director Martin Curtiz's 132 movie production as director. It took him almost 20 years of making movie to come out with this gem. Martin kept on making movies till the last year 1961; he died in 1962. Great music, fantastic choreography of people, and definite acting by most crew! The only thing I disliked about the movie was that most of it was shot indoors on the sets, and that in itself did not give the movie the epic proportions that normally one would expect from such classics.There are many hate reviews about this movie, and I read a few of them. I found this movie to be very good <U+0096> made in 1942, it was much ahead of its time in terms of scripting, dialogue, pace and screenplay. Now a days we see so many movies <U+0096> but to think of the rave Casablanca would have created during world war second times, would have been enormous.My salute to Martin Curtiz and Humphrey Bogart! Now I know and understand what does my boss mean when he writes and says <U+0096> Here is looking at you kid<U+0085>! (Stars 8 out of 10)


                
"Here's looking at you, kid.""This could be the beginning of a beautiful friendship.""I don't stick my neck out for nobody.""Round up the usual suspects.""I'm shocked, SHOCKED, to find that gambling is going on in here!""Did you abscond with the church funds?""We'll always have Paris."These are just some of the lines from this movie which have made their way into our lexicon. Of course, I did save the most famous one for last: "Of all the gin joints in all the towns in all the world, she walks into mine."Welcome to "Casablanca", regarded as one of the most popular movies of all time. I know, I know, everybody says that, but it's true. When people criticize movies today, Casablanca is usually one of the "go-to" films they turn to when they say "They don't make 'em like they used to."And, they would be correct.Ask any woman to name her top-five most romantic movies, and "Casablanca" will likely show up on her list. And when it comes to movie romances, men's eyes usually glaze over at the mere mention of them. Well, I am here to tell you there is plenty to keep a man's attention in this film and, in the end, he may actually walk away in a non-catatonic state.First, you have Humphrey Bogart as Rick Blaine, owner and proprietor of Rick's Café Americain in the city of Casablanca. An expatriated American, Rick is a cynic whose establishment is just this side of illegal, yet he manages to stay in business and make a good living at it. And besides, it's Bogey!Then there's Claude Rains as the local chief of police, Louis Renault. Captain Renault is slippery as an eel, especially when it comes to dealing with those in authority above him. He's also inquisitive, intelligent, and hypocritical.Up next are the Nazis. Morocco was French territory in 1941, and the Germans occupied France during that time. Here, they are presented as ambitious warmongers bent on world domination (and that would be correct). With the Nazis around, there is an inbred conflict from the get-go, as Casablanca is portrayed as a hub for the French Resistance during World War II. I should also point out that this is the earliest American film I know of that not only uses the term "concentration camp" by name, but it also suggests that people have died within them.Throw in a murder or two, and you have the makings of a good film-noir. Okay, so "film-noir" officially sprang up after World War II, but it still feels like one. The camera angles, shot composition, lighting, use of shadow, a brooding leading man (Bogart), and a tormented femme fatale (Ingrid Bergman) all add up toward the formula.All of this is capped off with sardonic wit and tight drama, signs of a well-written script (which, interestingly enough, was cobbled together right up to the very end of filming). Also, the timing of this movie is what made it such a hit. It ranks right up there with "On the Waterfront" (1954), "The China Syndrome" (1979), "Guess Who's Coming to Dinner" (1967), "In the Heat of the Night" (1967), and "The Deer Hunter" (1978) in terms of topicality within the society of the day.So, you men out there, when your woman suggests watching "Casablanca", throw some popcorn in the microwave. Trust me, you'll be able to sit through this one!


                
Ah, "Casablanca."  Is there a line from the film that hasn't become a cliche?  That's not a criticism of the movie.  If anything it's the reverse. What greater compliment to a film screenplay can a film audience make than so completely absorbing every word of it into its common cultural consciousness?It took me a long time and multiple viewings before I warmed up to Michael Curtiz's 1943 film (by some accounts a 1942 release).  I'm not particularly a fan of either Ingrid Bergman or Humphrey Bogart, and the filmmaking techniques didn't strike me as anything inventive or unique and they still don't.  At best, "Casablanca" exists as an example of the classic Hollywood style of filmmaking working at its slickest and most polished.But then on about the fourth viewing, it struck me.  The people who love this movie don't love it for the striking visuals or the daring narrative or any of the elements that make, say, "Citizen Kane" such continual fuel for film discussion.  People still love "Casablanca" for coming out at exactly the right moment in our cultural history, and somehow it's retained that "right place, right time" allure.  America had been involved in World War II for at least two years by the time of this film's wide release, and many women had seen their men leave to face uncertain futures.  So no wonder a film with such an intense nostalgic glow about it would strike a universal chord.  No wonder the forbidden romance between the Bergman and Bogart characters seemed so instensely poignant.  And no wonder the patriotic, "do whatever you must for the good of the cause" propaganda (for let's call it what it is), seemed so stirring (and still does).Is "Casablanca" a great film?  I won't attempt to answer that, though it's not one of my personal favorites.  But any film that carries its legacy with it the way this one does can't be completely dismissed either.My grade: B+


                
... this must be the one where the romance of everything appeals to me the most. You have the passionate but doomed re-acquaintance, set against a time when to even look a day into the future was uncertain. Best of all, the guy I'm supposed to relate to from this couple is the boozing, sarcastic incarnation of Humphrey Bogart! Part of me feels like you haven't suffered unless you're someone who's destined for the gutter and bitter at how the world has turned out. An attitude that comes from reading too much pre-18th century poetry, no doubt... (Further insight may also be found in my review of "The Libertine".)Anyway, all of the most important details within the story seem to have been collected especially for my benefit, although I guess I'm not the only one, since the film continues to be popular right up to the present day. Truth is, this is a movie for anyone who inwardly looks upon themselves as a cynic with a heart of gold.The question I ask myself though is: Would I be brave and selfless enough to give up my one true love for the sake of humanity in general? I don't think so, although I still cling to memories of a faded love, I have no pretensions of being so noble about it. That is why we have indelible movie-stars and characters, though - Heroes who do the things we wish we could do, and are strong enough to take the consequences of the hardest choices. Rick Blaine and "Casablanca" are monuments to the notion of 'doing the decent thing', and it is this quality that makes the script and performances come alive. Watching it should be a magical experience.


                
Casablanca was a fantastic romance film but I feel as if people put it on a pedestal it doesn't deserve. Sure, the acting is terrific, the story relates to many people, and Michael Curtiz did a legendary job directing but what exactly made this movie the timeless classic it has become? I did enjoy the lighting in many scenes because it makes the viewer focus more on the charters facial expressions and body language, especially the scene in which Rick is alone drinking at the bar and Sam comes down to check on him it was also clever how the cigarette smoke blurs the screen and goes into Rick's flash back. The composition of the film is really what I enjoyed, everything is crafted so beautifully. The plot is great but just not for me I guess and if it wasn't for each scene being so artistically graceful I would have definitely lost concentration on the story. Definitely a master piece of 1942 that will never be forgotten but I would not agree with most that Casablanca is "the greatest film of all time". Give it a watch though if for some reason you were living under rock like me, guaranteed any viewer will find something they enjoy about the film.


                
i was actually surprised at how much i liked this movie. i didn't expect to be as drawn into it as i was. the characters grew on me fast and that really kept me interested. i loved the character that Humphrey Bogart played. just his rough Brooklyn attitude really was awesome. i found the story of the letters really interesting. it kinda made you on the edge of your seat. the incorporation of the love story i thought made the movie. as bad as you feel for Humphrey at points, in the end you look at him as "he's that man!" for doing what he did. everyone loves a heroic type guy in a movie and he played it great! the movie as a whole was very well shot. a lot of shadowy shots that really intrigued me and set the whole mood for the movie.


                
Humphrey Bogart (Rick) and Sydney Greenstreet (Ferrari) each own a café/bar in Casablanca which is frequented by those wishing to make an exit to Lisbon and a new found freedom. Casablanca is on French soil and Claude Rains (Renault) is the Captain in charge who must co-operate with Nazi Conrad Veidt (Strasser). The two cafes are riddled with black market shenanigans and into this town wanders Resistance leader Paul Henreid (Victor Lazlo) and Ingrid Bergman (Ilsa). In order to make it to freedom, an exit visa is required and this is what Henreid and Bergman are after.An entertaining film with a good cast and very amusing dialogue. Bogart rattles off some classic lines but it's Claude Rains whose delivery tops the charts. One moment that I found funny is when a grateful couple approach him and enthusiastically let him know that they will be at his office at 6:00am to collect their visas. "I'll be there at 10:00" is his reply. The moral of that is don't be so keen, it gets you nowhere. A good lesson for anyone starting a new job."Here's looking at you" gets a bit clichéd but it doesn't matter. I never cared for Humphrey Bogart and his man who stands alone image. It always struck me as cold and unpleasant. However, I'm starting to really like him these days.One daft thing about the film is how the Nazis didn't find the visas. The hiding place is pretty obvious if you ask me. A couple of last points - remember next time you get to a roulette table – number 22 - and the French National Anthem is way better than the dreary UK effort.


                
The enduring universal appeal of Casablanca lies within its classic Hollywood narrative style, with archetypal characters and plot beats that's as straightforward as what they represent for a romance movie.I have a certain fondness for romantic movies with bittersweet resolutions because that's when the movie can showcase a wide range of complex emotions for the characters and from the audience; neither simply riding off the sunset or all doom and gloom.Yes, everyone knows that the movie is about sacrificing love for the greater good, as heartbreaking as it may be. We observe that with sympathy within Rick and later Llsa. I think that's the main aspect the audience cheers for, not simply the romance between Rick and Llsa because the movie is too important for that. I wonder if some might interpret the love between them back in Paris is just all fleeting; a way to overcome (or rather forget) another heartbreak. A cruel cycle no doubt.The actions by the characters in Casablanca seem flawed because they themselves are flawed. But we must also remember that it also makes sense from a narrative perspective given how Rick used to be a freedom fighter. And yet, what stirred my heart and I'm sure for a lot of people is that despite the logic, our emotions can't help but disagree, just like Llsa later on. So it's essential a role reversal in how the characters feel by the end of the movie.From what I said in the first paragraph, La La Land owes a great deal to Casablanca.
CASABLANCA is one strange little movie. It takes place in French Morocco and is populated with characters and actors from all over war-torn Europe, yet it is quintessentially American. It is rich in humor, but it isn't a comedy. It is a war movie, but its one great battle sequence is the singing of rival national anthems. It is plotted like a soap opera -- indeed, it is essentially a "woman's picture" -- but is directed like a spy movie. It is a film filled with intrigue, but offers only a vague sense of danger -- mostly it is about people standing around talking. Considered one of the most romantic movies of all times, there is little romance and only fleeting moments of passion. Romance and heroism are defined not by what the characters do, but what they don't do. It is about sacrifice, doing without now in the hopes that it will benefit the greater good. The great triumph at the end finds two lovers parting ways, probably never to see each other again. And, yet, that is the happy ending as nobility conquers cynicism. Long before I actually saw CASABLANCA, I had already seen bits and pieces, read about it in reviews and film history books, and even owned the screenplay. It was parodied in one of my favorite films, Woody Allen's PLAY IT AGAIN, SAM. Its famed dialogue had long since become beloved cliché. So, when I finally saw the film, it was anticlimactic; I knew the story, the dialogue and even the ending -- watching it was like watching a rerun, nothing seemed fresh. I was vaguely disappointed. But over the years I've viewed it again and again, and liked it a bit more each time. I'm still not ready to concede that it is one of the great films, yet it succeeds at being something more; any failings it has as drama are inconsequential compared to its status as a cultural icon. It transcends being a mere movie and is as much of the American pop psyche as "Yankee Doodle Dandy," "Tom Sawyer," Norman Rockwell's paintings, Graceland and the '57 Chevy. America would be just a little less great without it.Basically, the film is a standard love triangle: Ilsa (Ingrid Bergman) finds herself torn between the dark, mysterious Rick (Humphrey Bogart) and the pure and noble Victor (Paul Henried). Yet, Ilsa isn't the film's central character nor is the film from her perspective; Rick, the "other man," ultimately controls everybody's destiny. In a broader sense, Ilsa is the world at large, torn between Victor and his resistance to Nazi aggression and Rick, an American defiantly striving to remain, if not neutral, at least isolated from the encroaching war. Rick's decision to "stick his neck out" is America's decision to enter the war. It is said that while filmming, no one knew just how it would end; in reality it couldn't end any other way and still be true to the American spirit. One thing that repeated viewings reveal is just how well the film is acted. It has a notable cast of character actors from the era -- Sydney Greenstreet, Peter Lorre, etc. -- and the inimitable Claude Rains practically steals the film as Captain Renault, the cheerfully pragmatic "poor corrupt official." For Bogart, it was the pivotal role of his career, bridging his persona from tough guy roles to a more heroic image as a leading man. His Rick is an enigmatic character, who he plays with cynical restraint and the occasional flash of sly wit. Bergman's role is remarkably small, yet she plays Ilsa with cool intensity that borders on cunning. She shows Ilsa to be a woman who is use to being quiet, almost subservient, as a means of camouflage. Bergman does most of her acting with her eyes, studying other characters and reading their motives. And she is absolutely gorgeous throughout. But perhaps the film remains so beloved, not because of the romance or its nationalism; but because it is quite funny. Humor in a film can be a sign that the material isn't being taken seriously, but when it is done this well, the opposite is true. Here wit defines the characters and reveals not just their attitudes, but their intelligence. A film that so easily could have fallen into the trap of easy patriotic platitudes instead uses humor to define cynicism and enhance conflict. More than just one-liners, the crisp dialogue defines the characters as intelligent and complicated individuals.Though CASABLANCA remains a beloved film, I wonder just how much of that reverence is based on nostalgia; so much of what the film represents is passe, or at least politically incorrect. A submissive woman who begs a man to think for her would be declared an insult in our post-feminist society. Few believe in the nobility of war any more, regardless of the circumstances; and fewer still see the value of self-sacrifice. Maybe that is the secret of CASABLANCA: it isn't about who we are or who we once were, but about who we would really like to be.


                
I still enjoy watching Casablanca, mainly for the snappy, rapier-wit dialogue written by the amazing Epstein brothers in the first half of pic. Peter Lorre's lines as "Ugarte" with Bogart never fail to get a laugh out of audiences: "You despise me, don't you?" Bogart: "Well, if I gave you any thought I probably would." Truly scintillating script-writing.I love watching the supporting cast members in Rick's "Cafe Americain" who have been indisputably reported as refugees who had actually fled Nazi-occupied Europe. When they sang "La Marseillaise," the tears in their eyes were the real thing. Pretty hard to top that, especially in a film made during the early days of WWII. Unfortunately, the Epsteins were given another writing assignment halfway through pic, and Howard Koch was ordered to crank out the melodramatic denouement of the yet unfinished script, written just days ahead of the actual shoot. Madeleine LeBeau (featured in a brief dalliance with Bogart's Rick in pic) is easily the sexiest woman in pic (at 17 years of age, a recent French refugee herself, and quintessentially nubile). She genuinely cries like a baby as she sings her French national anthem. Few actresses ever upstaged the polished super-star Ingrid Bergman, with the extreme close-ups of her carefully posed, glowing, porcelain complexion lighting up any theater screening pic. But the slinky, succulent, petit morceau LeBeau (who was the one player, besides Claude Rains, who exuded any genuine sexual energy in pic) still managed to steal the limelight in her small, supporting role.Bogart struts and grunts through pic with the same tough guy persona he uses in every gangster film he's ever been in. Imagine instead the witty and urbane Dick Powell (who breathed life into the very same "Phillip Marlowe" character in "Murder, My Sweet" that Bogart couldn't even touch in his portrayal of that private-eye in "The Big Sleep") as Rick, instead of the grumpy, unappealing Bogart. Powell was a former song-and-dance man who seamlessly transitioned over to dramatic roles, and he would have given a nuanced, heartfelt perf to the character of Rick. Perhaps he was unavailable, but he's the actor I would have cast as Rick. Ingrid Bergman herself seems like she hasn't the slightest sexual interest in the aging, sawed-off Bogart. She also mailed in her scenes with her husband Paul Henreid, who acts as stiff as a board with Bergman, though at 6' 3" Henreid at least didn't have to stand on an "Apple Box" (derisively known in The Biz as "The Man-Maker" in snarky filmmaking jargon) like the 5' 8" Bogart was forced to use in order to match the the height of the towering Swede Bergman's 5' 10" (without heels) stature. Bergman, obviously a sophisticated, blase', 30ish-looking woman, looks so far out of Bogart's league that it's almost laughable. Cary Grant was the only male lead to really ignite an on-screen chemistry in his roles with The Viking Queen.Predictably, the stuffy, classically-trained, over-rehearsed Bergman didn't have a clue on how to umpire Claude Rains' constant flirtations with her. Improv was never Bergman's strong suit. The ever-playful Rains stole every scene with Bergman, who turned out to be an odd, dour casting choice indeed for the role of the young, naive woman who was Bogart's young Paris squeeze. Worst of all, Bergman's crassly imperious and unmistakably condescending air in her dialogue with Sam, Bogart's black piano player, revealed her revoltingly supercilious sense of Nordic superiority. The fiery, spectacular Parisienne Madeleine LeBeau would have been a much more believable and tantalizing choice for the "impressionable young girl" that the worldly, independent Scandinavian Bergman ridiculously claimed to be when she fell for and married Henreid's heroic resistance-fighter character. If only the story had flashbacked to Bogart in his earlier Paris romance with the mouthwatering, patently underage LeBeau, maybe it would have infused pic with the Hays Code-busting, steamy sexual energy that it needed to propel it above its predictable, corny, propaganda-infused climax. Kind of like what Bogart actually did in his real life, when he gave his much older wife Mayo Methot the heave-ho to marry the beautiful 19 year-old Hollywood MAW ("Model-Actress-Whatever") named Lauren Bacall, who was an eye-popping twenty-five years his junior (they were enviously referred to in 1940s Tinseltown as "Bogey & Baby"). Life imitates art."We'll always have Paris," Bogart pontificates to Bergman as he stoically gives her up to Henreid in the last scene, who then both escape Casablanca to Lisbon by plane. Seriously?! Even a whiskey-soaked, man's-man like Rick would have shot Henreid's character dead in the blink of an eye to hang on to the stunning - if icy and unapproachable - Bergman.The saccharine Hollywood Ending with Bogart walking off with Claude Rains with their backs to us into the fog (actually a darkened sound stage at Warner Brothers Culver City lot), with Rains offering to use the 10,000 francs he lost in a bet with Bogart to get them both to safety of the Free French garrison at Brazzaville, has become the most quoted line in pic: "Louis, I think this is the beginning of a beautiful friendship." That mawkish, syrupy line - written by none other than pic's producer Hal B. Wallis himself - ran neck-and-neck for the final looped line in pic with the much more cynical, and entertaining, alternative line that he wrote: "Louis, I always knew that you had a little larceny in your heart," but that line was finally considered too unpatriotic for a wartime propaganda pic.
The first thing that comes to mind when watching "Casablanca" is the elegance and simplicity allowing it to be a timeless classic. The movie has a peculiar magic to it, and it's in the richness of its details that the viewer finds them self engrossed. The director's use of foreshadowing makes those aha moments that come later on in the film even more exhilarating, and allow one to wonder if these events are happening within a 24 hour time frame. While it's fascinating to examine and dissect all that went into the making of Casablanca, the greatest pleasure anyone can achieve from this movie comes from simply watching it. There are several events that occur throughout the film that allow us to make generalizations because these little peculiars add up. One of the many events that stick out in my mind is every time the plane to America flies overhead, the refugees look up, their faces longing for escape from Hitler's tyrant rule. We're reminded that old Hollywood was populated with those fleeing from Europe, and the creases in their faces say more than any studio narration used to set the scene. The use of facial expressions sets a common tone displayed throughout the movies. Another form of symbolism one can draw is that Rick represents the image of America during World War II. Rick did not want to get involved in other individuals business much like our war tactics during this time. Towards the end of the film he has no choice but to get involved and make sure Ilsa gets on that plane out of Casablanca, representing the protection of Pearl Harbor. Much like those refugees at the start of the picture, his life experience is written on his face throughout the film. The use of music also plays an important role in building emotion through the movie. Rick's saloon sets an atmosphere of paranoia, exoticism, and liveliness, and then comes romance, in the form of piano player Sam's rendition of "It Had to Be You." The paranoia is a result of those individuals trying to obtain traveling papers so they can flee the country, the exotic rush from gambling at this speakeasy which allows for liveliness during a time of despair. The underlying message throughout the film is Rick's building relationship with Ilsa. The story takes place about a year after the Germans invaded France. Ilsa and her husband, Czech freedom fighter Victor Laszlo, wander into Rick's Cafe in Casablanca. Her husband's character feels more like an abstract idea rather than an image of freedom, unlike the letters of transit that allow people safe passage out of Casablanca which are concrete items. The two are on the run from the Nazis, and have come to the American-owned nightspot to lie low. But the German government is on the move, and Laszlo has to act quickly to get the letters of transit he came for, then escape. Little does Ilsa know that the café is run by Rick Blaine, the one true love of her life. When the two see each other, sparks fly, and memories of an enchanted time in Paris come flooding back. Through the use of flashbacks,we find out that Rick and Ilsa had a romantic experience in France and Ilsa leaves Rick with nothing but a broken heart and an extra train ticket. This draws us to conclude that this is a major struggle for Rick and may be the reason why he "sticks his head out for nobody". It's not much of a stretch to say that Hollywood doesn't make movies like this any more because the bittersweet ending is almost uncommon in today's society. If Casablanca was produced today, Rick and Ilsa would escape on the plane after avoiding a hail of gunfire from the police. Who knows what would have happened to Victor Laszlo, but he wouldn't have gotten the girl. One of the things that makes Casablanca unique is the way it stays true to itself without giving into crowd-pleasing tactics. And because of this, not despite it, Casablanca has become known as one of the greatest movies ever made.
Great film about a man who owns a coffee shop during 1941. Many twists and turns throughout the film along with intertwined stories and alliances which make for an exciting story to follow. The owner of the cafe has to try very hard to remain neutral throughout all of the encounters with different people that come into his restaurant Great camera work by director Michael Curtiz. Especially when dealing with moving camera angles. Very appropriate lighting, for example, in the scene at the end it is dark and gives you a mysterious feel to the whole ordeal that occurs between the men. Overall a great movie, easy to get into.
Casablanca is a great,heartwarming film with a fantastic storyline and a very talented and inspired cast.Although I do find that this film is a bit overrated,it's still a great film and it definitely deserved the Academy Award for Best Picture in 1942.Humphrey Bogart plays a terrific role and I would say his performance is one of the best in film history.There are also many memorable line's in this movie that I would still hear quoted today.I have seen this movie a handful of time's,and the more I see it the more I enjoy it,probably because I am getting more mature.Casablanca is a movie that all fan's of film must see someday. Set during the early day's of the second World War,people from America are shipped to Casablanca in Africa.Rick Blaine (Humphrey Bogart) meet's a former love interest,IIsa Lund (Ingrid Bergman) and the two begin falling for each other all over again.


                
I am not much for romance films but the complex plot really kept you guessing until the very end.The lighting was the most beautiful I have seen especially on Ingrid Bergman she was always a bit brighter than everyone else and this really brought out her beauty and made her seem more elegant.I really liked the first scene in Rick's the lighting and focus kept you looking around the entire room even though you know what you were suppose to be focusing on.another great feature to this film was the music it was very elegant also and just added to that feel.


                
Having somehow never seen this classic movie, I was glad to have finally had the chance to watch it, and understand why it's seen as a classic. What I liked most about it was what it wasn't. Unlike most war movies that I've seen that were actually made during World War II, this has no battle scenes and no overtly patriotic binges (and what patriotism there is is French rather than American, which I found refreshing.) It comes across not as propaganda, but as a very human and very well done story about the struggles of living in Casablanca (governed by Vichy France) during the Second World War.Humphrey Bogart seemed to me to be perfectly cast as Rick Blaine - the owner of an American cafe in Casablanca who for the most part tries to stay out of politics, although his contempt for the Germans clearly comes across in a variety of scenes. Ingrid Bergman also did a great job as Ilsa, a former love interest of Rick's who desperately needs Rick's help to escape to America with her husband (played by Paul Henreid) who is a leader of the anti-Nazi underground and has escaped from a Nazi concentration camp. Bogart and Bergman were great together; to be honest I thought Bergman and Henreid were less so, although what I sensed as the awkwardness between them may well have been a deliberate way of portraying Ilsa's confusion about her feelings for Rick. Claude Rains I thought did a great job playing Police Prefect Renault. He seemed to capture the dilemma of most officials of Vichy France - as he said himself, he blows "with the wind, and for the moment the wind is blowing from Vichy." His relationship with the Germans is deferential, and yet one gets the impression that basically, trapped in a tough situation, he's looking out for himself, which is probably what many Vichy officials did.With a strong cast and a strong story featuring believable characters you end up with a very strong movie. It's interesting rather than exciting, and much better than most of the standard anti-Nazi patriotic binges that I've seen from the war years. (Having seen "Casablanca" I may now be inclined to watch some of Bogart's other war era movies.) 8/10


                
I have never seen Casablanca until today. I had planned for some time that this would be my 600th review and I think it's very fitting. Is Casablanca truly the magnificent piece of cinematic history or does it simply have something that many classics are fortunate to have...cine-magic as I will call it. Some films just have this style, this charisma, the perfect balance of the something special that makes them endearing to millions and I think Casablanca is the perfect example of this. Furthermore Casablanca is often known as one of the 'greatest romance films of all time' but despite the romantic undertone the film is more of a World War II drama about patriotism and escaping the Nazi grip on the area. For its time, and the film certainly is timeless, but the gritty, dark setting sets a tone for danger and intrigue and mystery and even that romance. The characters are so sleek and have so much depth and you are just immediately enthralled with this story and this beautiful Casablanca world. The true brilliance of watching Casablanca now is feeling the classic aura. This film has SO many lines that are now truly pop culture history and so many moments that you will immediately recognize even if you've never seen it before.This is my first Humphrey Bogart film and 'Bogie' is one incredible guy. He brings a whole new meaning to macho. Rick Blaine (Mr. Rick) is definitely a cinematic character you won't ever forget. He's rough and rugged and smart and has a deep history that unravels through the film and Bogart is terrific. He embodies the character and brings it right to the forefront of the film. From his drunken stupor as he cries for his lost love, to the final moments of saving lives he is amazing. Ingrid Bergman is beautiful yet her character is very subtle. She plays the mysterious and illusive Ilsa Lund. I can't say her performance is on par with Bogart's because her character is much more withdrawn and less bold but her magic performance comes from the fact that her and Bogart have incredible, unmistakable chemistry the likes of which you never see on screen anymore. For this reason no one else could replace her. Paul Henreid is also very good as the tough but decent Victor Laszlo. Henreid holds his own opposite Bogart, which is an impressive feat, and still creates a very impulsive and interesting character. Claude Rains also deserves mention as the menacing and self involved Nazi, Captain Renault.Casablanca is the perfect example of the all the right ingredients lining up to create something completely magical. It would be hard to not have a brilliantly directed film like Casablanca with a director like Michael Curtiz who has no less than an astounding 170 plus films to his credit. Casablanca might be one of his most famous credits but for good reason. Casablanca isn't a perfect film...hence my lack of a 10/10 on it...or even a 9/10. I think some movie goers especially nowadays might find Casablanca slow paced, maybe even with some less than stellar dialog and it does reek of it's anti Nazi moral (not that there is a problem with that) but it definitely has that tone. The terrific romance that is always talked about is slowly unraveled and never really hits a climax but is more about romance in the past and love lost. Its actually more of a tragic romance and in that respect might turn romance fans off. Still the romance that once blossomed between Bogart and Bergman is still fiery and the story is sweet AND tragic. Regardless of how you look at it Casablanca stands the test of time and is something everyone must see at least once and I am glad to have seen it and will most definitely see it again. If nothing else you must watch the final scene on the air strip which is packed full of more classic lines and moments than any other part. Simply brilliant. 8.5/10
Directing: 8
Acting: 9
Story: 8
Production values: 8
Suspence / Thriller level: 7
Action: 3
Mystery / unknown: 5
Romance level: 10
Comedy elements: 2


                
You either love or hate this film. Most people love it. If you are a Bogart fan, this is one of his best. A classic film of its day, Casablanca is a love story to some but remains a classic to most. Like Citizen Kane, this film can be pulled apart to show how great the film really is. Still, others don't care for the film for its straight forward qualities that most films in its time has. If you can't relate nor understand the genre that Casablanca falls under, you can't enjoy this film. If you go for those "romance movies" you'll enjoy this move more than you're suppose to. Enjoy!


                
"Casablanca" featured one of those all star casts that only come along once in a lifetime - Humphrey Bogart, Ingrid Bergman, Paul Henreid, Claude Rains, Conrad Veidt, Sydney Greenstreet, Peter Lorre, S. Z. Sakall, Dan Seymour, Marcel Dalio and Dooley Wilson. (The first choice of leading players was to have been Ronald Reagan, Ann Sheridan and Dennis Morgan but if this proposed casting had gone ahead I very much doubt if the film would have received the cult following it has today!). "Casablanca" won Oscars for Best Picture, Best Director (Michael Curtiz) and Best Screenplay (Julius and Philip Epstein). It also had nominations for Best Actor (Bogart), Best Supporting Actor (Claude Rains), Best Cinematography, Best Film Editing and Best Score.Surely almost everyone has seen this film and everybody knows the plot which is set during World War 2 at a night club owned by American Rick Blaine (Humphrey Bogart) in Casablanca frequented by many dubious characters of all nationalities when just to complicate matters in walks Ilsa Lund Laszio (Ingrid Bergman) his ex-lover from years before who had abandoned him. She is now married to resistance leader Victor Laszio (Paul Henreid) on the run from the Germans. Bogart can help by supplying them with the vital transit papers they desperately need to escape to America but is he willing to do that when his policy has always been: "I stick my neck out for nobody"? In addition he still holds strong feelings for Bergman so will this influence his decision?One of the great Warner Bros. films of the forties - possibly the most productive decade in the history of Hollywood .... and how about all those "classic lines"? It is very unlikely that any other movie produced as many quotable lines as did "Casablanca". Here are just a few of those legendary lines I still remember to this day:Bogart: "Of all the gin joints in all the towns in all the world, she walks into mine".Bergman: "Play it Sam. Play 'As Time Goes By'."Bogart: "You played it for her, you can play it for me .... if she can stand it, I can. Play it".Bogart: "Here's looking at you kid".Bogart: "The problems of three little people don't amount to a hill of beans in this crazy world".Rains: "Round up the usual suspects".Bogart: "Louis, I think this is the beginning of a beautiful friendship"."Casablanca" is worth seeing over and over again just to hear Bogart uttering those unforgettable lines in his inimitable style. And of course that celebrated song by Dooley Wilson - "As Time Goes By".   10/10.  Clive Roberts.


                
This takes place in the town of Casablanca in Morocco. During the war hundreds of Americans were kept there trying to get VISAs or letters of transit to get to Lisbon and out of Europe. Rick Blaine (Humphrey Bogart) runs a cafe in Casablanca and gets two stolen letters of transit. Then an ex love Ilsa (Ingrid Bergman) arrives there with her husband Victor (Paul Henreid). They need the letters to escape from the Nazis who are slowly getting in...but will Rick give them up? This movie is well made, beautifully directed and has some of the most quotable lines in movie history--"I stick my neck out for nobody"; "Play it Sam" (NOT play it again Sam); "The Germans wore gray, you wore blue"; "We'll always have Paris"; "Of all the gin joints in all the towns in all the world, she walks into mine"; "Here's looking at you kid"; "Round up the usual suspects" and "Louie, I think this is the beginning of a beautiful friendship". We also have Dooley Wilson playing and singing the haunting "As Time Goes By". The acting is superb across the board right down to the supporting performances-- Peter Lorre, Sydney Greenstreet and Claude Rains are at their best.BUT I find the story somewhat confusing and there are some huge loopholes if you examine the movie closely. People who love this film just say that they're a small price to pay because everything else is so good...but they bothered me. I'm giving it an 8 and I recommend it but I don't think it's one of the best movies ever made.


                
When I first saw this as a young film snob, I liked it, and said it was important, but I didn't really know as much about human emotions, or the topics depicted as I thought. I found some scenes (the ones I was too young to understand) to slow it down; the "morning after" dialog at the bazaar, the sale of the club to Greenstreet. All I really knew was that the surprise ending was regarded as a sentimental powerhouse.Now I find its storytelling structure to be so sleek and on-track that I seriously doubt the lore that says that pages of the script only arrived minutes before they had to be shot. It is a speedy, singular-minded machine that doesn't have an ounce of fat, that manages to be Bogart's best role and performance to boot.Fans attend viewings to hear iconic lines within a context that ingeniously frames its well-known, pithy phrases in relation to selflessness, patriotism and sentiment. The electrifying smack-down of the Nazis delivered to 'Le Marseilles' is one of the most rousing moments ever put on film. And it's kept in good company by boatloads of other famous scenes.It portrays patriotism in terms of idealism (not narrow-mindedness, victimization and/or hate) so even a liberal (the more idealistic of the two political viewpoints) can love it. This movie is a classic because it's an ennobling pleasure.
"...a kiss is just a kiss, a siiiiigh is just a sigh...." Ah, don't we just love "Casablanca"? Is it not one of the best films of all time, perhaps even one of the greatest romances? The answer is, of course, yes. But why? Well, there are a number of factors to this. The first will be the story. "Casablanca" has a fantastic script, filled with intelligence and quick dry wit. It is genuinely surprising as well, at least the first time you watch it. The twists and turns that Humphrey Bogart's character Rick goes through keep us on the edge of our seat.The second factor to the greatness will be the backdrop. The war, although only serving as just a backdrop, plays an incredibly important part in the story. Some people might argue that Rick's involvement in the plot signal's the need for America to enter the war. It also gives us our villain - that of Strasser (Conrad Veidt), the Nazi General sent to arrest Laszlo (Paul Henreid). Although this no doubt dates the film a little, it still provides a fantastic atmosphere. Casablanca itself is a seedy world of scum and villainy (That sounds familiar...) and the many characters that inhabit it bring it to life vividly, from the pickpocket to the street seller.The characters are the third reason why "Casablanca" is remembered so well. Rick, Ilsa (Ingrid Bergman), and Laszlo get drawn into the love triangle easily. Bogart and Bergman are superb, as is Claude Rains as Louis Renault, the head of police there whose lines are great comic relief when we get into the nitty gritty of the romance.The one person we don't see enough of, I feel, is Sam (Dooley Wilson). For a character who seems to be regarded by Rick as a good friend, he disappears halfway through the film and is sold like slave labour along with the bar - one can only hope that he had a good rest of his life.The last and most important reason as to why this film is so good is the ending. It's one of the most famous endings of all time - it has a surprise twist, a wonderful score, and then tension builds up as Strasser arrives to stop the plane to Lisbon. The ending also supplies us with perhaps some of the most parodied lines in film history - I'll leave that up to you whether you think this is a good thing or not.By the way, although it is standard belief that no one ever says, "Play it again, Sam", I reckon that Rick does when he whispers to Sam the second time Ilsa and Laszlo arrive at the bar. I have a feeling Sam would know what he was on about somehow...8/10
This film is one of the best classic pictures I have ever seen. An interesting story line and compelling performances are what I found so attractive about this movie. Kudos to Curtiz. The set was nearly perfect and was very convincing. I felt the heat of the Moroccan town as the camera swept through the markets in the streets. I was amazed to hear that this was shot almost entirely in a Hollywood studio. I wouldn't have noticed unless I was told otherwise. The song "As Time Goes By" was moving even to a former punk/grunge rocker like myself which says something for its power.The topic is very interesting in that it deals with the mystery and intrigue of WWII and the efforts to defeat Nazi tyranny. A beautiful love story was also mixed in with the political refugee plot which held my interest for the entire length of the film. The dialogue was excellent, the best I've seen from the era. This picture was so well written and directed that it would have been great without big name actors and actresses but it was because of the big name cast that it has become the timeless classic that it is.Humphrey Bogart as "Rick" was stellar in his performance. I believed the character to be a heart-broken man embittered and buried in self-pity all hidden under the mask of congeniality. This mask is rudely removed by a bottle of liquor. "You played it for her you can play it for me!" is only one memorable and dynamic line from this movie that launched the Bogart cult and mystique.Ingrid Bergman as "Ilsa" was adorable. I could easily see why two men would both share a common love for her. I was enamored by her delivery and found myself sympathizing with both Rick and Lazlo for losing or almost losing her. This movie has sparked in me an interest for the work of Ingrid Bergman.This was a film I would recommend for anyone who loves the cinema. It has truly lived up to its reputation as a dramatic film for the ages.


                
