While there's not anything new to be said about "Casablanca", it's good to see one of the classics still getting some attention.  By most standards it is at least very good, and there are good reasons why so many still remember it so fondly.  Not everyone who watches it today shares the opinion that it is a classic, but it's still good to see fans of modern movies giving it a try for themselves.The cast is one of its main strengths, not just Bogart and Bergman but also the fine supporting cast.  Rains, Greenstreet, Lorre, and the others are indispensable to the atmosphere and the story, and each has some very good moments.  It does have its imperfections, but it was not expected to be a classic or blockbuster - everything you read about the production suggests that it was made in a rather slap-dash fashion, under constraints that would have wrecked most other films.  It's not hard to see the little ways that this affected the finished product, such as the times when the plot strains credibility a bit, or the characters seem to behave somewhat oddly.  (In particular, it might have been even more satisfying if Bergman's character had been a little stronger - Ilsa is charming, but that's entirely thanks to what Bergman does with her; the character herself as written seems somewhat shallow.)But it turned out anyway to be an excellent combination of actors, characters, and story, a combination that more than makes up for everything else.  Different viewers probably remember and enjoy "Casablanca" for different reasons, because it seemingly has a little of everything.  While perhaps not perfect, it is well worth remembering and watching.


                
Most teenagers don't watch classics I know. But after they've seen this one, there's no turning back! This is the classic to end all classics (That and Gone With The Wind which rocked! but the ending was a bit unusual.) I had been an Ingrid Bergman fan after watching Gaslight with my drama class. It was great because I love a good mystery type thing. Casablanca was a bit confusing at first, but I found out in the end that it has just the right blend of romance, drama, and comedy. Plus, my dad instilled in me a love for all things World War II related.I would recommend this movie for children 15 and older, not because there's anything bad, but simply because I don't think younger children would understand it. You guys my age, this is a great Sit-down-and-watch-with-your-girl-on-a-rainy-afternoon type movie, and parents already love it, so everyone's happy.I always say when I write these things that, even though I liked it, you might not. CHeck it out for yourself and form your own opinion.


                
From 1942, comes a romantic historic drama directed by Michael Curtiz movie based on the stage play Everybody Comes to Rick's by Murray Burnett and Joan Alison. It's early Dec. 1941, American expatriate Rick Blaine (Humphrey Bogart) is the owner of an upscale nightclub in Casablanca, Morocco that attracts everybody from Vichy French, Italian, and German officials; to refugees desperate to reach the still neutral United States; and those who prey on them. Rick stands as an allegory to U.S polities at the time trying to stay neutral and not involves himself into the war affairs. I also think it's cool to point out that Humphrey Bogart himself was a decorated war veteran, and this is reflected in his performance. It wasn't until a former lover Norwegian Ilsa Lund (Ingrid Bergman) and her Czech Resistance leader husband Victor Laszlo (Paul Henreid) came into the bar looking for a way to escape Europe, where he states to question his beliefs. While most people know Casablanca as the exploration of the universal themes of love and sacrifice, people that look more into it viewed it as a political allegory about World War II. Ilsa can be seen as the wealthier of Europe who were able to escape due to their wealth, but whose warnings and pleas were dismissed in the late '30s and early '40s. Victor represents the poorer people of Europe who weren't able to escape and whose discovery prompted the change in attitude. When he appears, Rick finally grasps the true nature of what Ilsa is asking him. The film is set in Dec. 1941, the month in which the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor. That attack changed the course of American history, awakening the nation from political neutrality and thrusting it into the midst of World War II. By Illsa showing up, Rick become a symbol for America to take a stronger stand against the Axis Powers. The film also tells the story of another transformation, that of the local French commander of Casablanca, Captain Louis Renault (Claude Rains). Claude Rains is the second best actor in the film besides Bogart. He plays the role so well. Louis begins the film as a pro-Vichy Nazi-appeaser but winds up a committed partisan of free France. Scenes such as Captain Renault throwing away the Vichy bottle it was meant to shown a rejection of Petain's puppet government. Even the great line near the end, 'I think this is a start of a beautiful friendship' stands for United States becoming allies with the French into stopping the Nazis. There is a great scene in the middle worth checking out, where the Germans start singing and, to combat it, the other patrons start singing the French national anthem was a truly moving part. The use of shadows and lighting makes this movie into one of the greatest film noirs. The use of the spotlight that shines from a tall tower and lights up the city of Casablanca reminds people that they are always being watched. It was a great use of light to represent fear and a threat. The music by Max Steiner was just amazing. The song "As Time Goes By" by Herman Hupfeld had been part of the story from the original play; Steiner wanted to replace it, but Bergman had already cut her hair short for her next role and could not re-shoot the scenes which incorporated the song, so Steiner based the entire score on it. So, without Bergman cutting her hair. We wouldn't have that theme. The theme of Sam's piano is the symbolic heart and soul of Rick's Café. All the guests want to sit beside it, because they want to forget their worries by listening. The piano suggests purity, which may be why Louis doesn't even think to look there for the letters of transit. I love the smart dialogue. The exchange between Rick and Louis were funny and brilliant. There is a few criticizes that need to be address. The usual conspiracy-theory gang likes to say that this movie was just propaganda. I didn't care if it's pro-Allied propaganda, it was a good movie. Some people think its basically a rip-off of a previous 1938 movie called Algiers. The writers took the character of Rick from the unproduced play, the theme "As Time Goes By" from a failed early 1930s musical and even parts of the dialogue were cannibalized from other unproduced scripts. It's doesn't bug me because it was mixed so well. I honestly don't see how the line 'Round up the usual suspect' is famous. It seems very not important from the rest of the best one liners. I believe Ingrid Berman delivering lines acting was mediocre at best. Her eyes did most of the work. Paul Henreid was indeed a stiff. Henreid did not get on well with his fellow actors and it shows. His character seem plain compare to the others. I didn't like how the movie treat the German actors in the film. The German actors had to keep curfew, as they were classified by the US as enemy aliens and under restrictions. They were frequently cast as Nazis in war films even with the fact that there weren't any uniformed German troops in Casablanca during WWII. Then there is the colorization controversy. Don't see it in color, its work best in Black and White. Trust me. Overall: The story itself is straightforward a realistic romantic movie with political allegory. The film's lasting enchantment is due to its dramatic conclusion and the theme of the inescapable past. The plane theme works because it was the escape of such memories. If you don't get onboard and see Casablanca. You might regard it. Maybe not today, maybe not tomorrow, but soon and for the rest of your life.
Spoilers ahead.I didn't understand the film properly until I read Danny Peary's essay on it in the first of his three "Cult Movies" books (which, by the way, you MUST read, although you should be aware that Peary's complaints about "The Red Shoes" aren't even near the mark).  The key (and, in retrospect, obvious) insight is this: all along, Captain Renault WANTED Rick to become a hero again.  As long as Rick was content to adopt a cynical, self-serving attitude, Renault, a man made of lesser material, had an excuse to do the same - and he wanted that excuse to be denied him.  When it WAS denied him he was delighted.  THAT'S he joined the side of the angels, without even hesitating.  (It's also why he spent so much time earlier poking fun of Rick's former idealism, in an attempt to get Rick to defend it.)  This probably strikes many people as obvious; I regret to say I had to have it pointed out to me.I don't have to argue that this is a great film.  We all know it is.  Peary calls it the ONLY film that's everything the old-style studio films were trying to be, and he's probably right.  This doesn't, of course, mean that it's the BEST film of the 1940s; better still are the bolder, more ambitious productions made by more inspired directors: "Citizen Kane", "The Red Shoes", "Fantasia", and so forth.  But "Casablanca" is probably as high as it is possible to fly without making a Philistine studio executive reach for his heart tablets.  This is higher praise than it sounds.  And if you think it IS the best film of the 1940s, after all ... well, I can see your point of view.
Spoilers herein.Bloom said of Shakespeare that he invented humanity. Films will always have less depth than poetry, but they can have a similar, profound effect on popular culture. Movies are seldom about life, but life is often about film, the few films that find the groove.This film invented -- to a substantial degree -- what it meant to be a post-war American. It is not so much that it was perfect, but that we have remolded ourselves around it, as part of the victor's healing.I recently saw some other Bogart films (like `Treasure'), and they amazed me in how poorly they worked. How mannered his acting seemed.We have beautiful faces in other films, even this face (which we still have in Isabella). But nothing seems to compete for the certain archetype of passionate commitment, of pathetic yearning, of immature desire, of refugee desperation.The interior sets -- and how they are photographed -- show a definite post `Citizen Kane' influence. In fact, one can see much of the Mercury Player flavor in these characters, particularly Greenstreet.But you know, this film has so melded with dreams that you don't need to screen it.
Everyone remembers 'As Time Goes By' (the song that only stayed in the film, so popular culture has it, because Bergman had cut her hair for 'Joan of Arc', and couldn't retake scenes using another tune) but there is much more to this world-weary romance.Bogart, of course, was hardly the usual romantic movie hero.  Which is possibly what makes him so perfect for Rick, in his Casablanca nightspot, on nobody's side.  He spars with Claude Rains (the crooked police captain) and Sidney Greenstreet (a rival bar owner) like a trooper, has a quiet contempt for Paul Henreid (a freedom fighter) and Peter Lorre (a thief), gives Conrad Veidt (the Nazi Major) as good as he gets, is on the level with employees Dooley Wilson and Cuddles Sakall.Through all this, truly loves Ingrid Bergman (the beautiful Ilse, the love of his life).  It is their story, but not the story you might expect.  This is the secret, I think, of 'Casablanca' and its lasting success.  From the moment we see the map and the film title to the 'beautiful friendship' line at the end, we're hooked.   Every performance is a lasting joy.


                
What can I say about this movie that hasn't already been said? It is one of the best films I've ever seen. Usually when I see a movie that is as highly regarded as this, I perversely try to not like it. This one, however, is impossible to dislike. Peter Lorre gives one of the most memorable performances of his career, even though his screen time is roughly four minutes. Claude Rains is at his unflappable best, and has many of the most memorable lines in this film. Humphrey Bogart plays the type of character he does best, the bitter drunk. Ingrid Bergman is absolutely breath-taking, and not in an ugly baby way. I would recommend this to anybody.


                
Some of this review was edited due to this site's word limit.Regarding "Casablanca," Roger Ebert wrote in his Great Movies essay, "If we can identify strongly with characters in some movies, then it is no mystery that 'Casablanca' is one of the most popular films of all time." Add "and one of the most memorable" to that statement. Almost any list you happen to come across of great movies will contain "Casablanca," as it has almost nestled itself firmly into our world's foundation. It is what one would call a memorable film. It may not be memorable for the audiences of today who find it boring, long, weary and tiresome, but it will always be remembered. That isn't something you can say for most movies. In one hundred years, do you think "The Lord of the Rings" trilogy will really - really - be remembered?"Casablanca" is a love story, just as so many other films released to this day, but upon a viewing two nights ago, I asked myself what sets it apart from the rest. Just what has made it what it is today? Is it the direction by Michael Cortiz, the chemistry between the actors, or the actors themselves? Is it the sly side of dark comedy, or just the nostalgia of the film that drives so many viewers? Or perhaps it is the cliffhanger finale (those filming the movie didn't even know what would happen at the end of the film due to constantly changing scripts and the 1940s Production Code permitting a married woman from leaving her husband for another man). Even if it isn't, the ending is superb, depressing and uplifting, one of the strangest, saddest, and happiest endings I have ever seen, in which Bogart mutters the famous last lines, "I think this is the beginning of a beautiful friendship."Bogart plays Rick Blaine, a chain smoker and heavy drinker living in Casablanca, French Morocco, during WWII. During WWII, European immigrants fled from their homeland down to Africa, in hopes of sailing off the coast to Portugal, and then to America, land of freedom. Because of this, Casablanca is inhabited by petty thieves, vicious murderers, and ruthless citizens. Every day a plane leaves from the local airport, carrying the precious few with Visa Passes to freedom. Those applying for a Visa Pass on the black market might come in contact with the crook Ugarte (Peter Torre).One night the thief Ugarte visits Rick's bar in Casablanca and asks him to hide two Visa Passes he has acquired by unrespectable means. Rick reluctantly agrees, only to watch Ugarte be taken away by French officials the same night, in his very bar. "Rick, you have to help me!" he screams as he is dragged away. Rick takes a puff on his cigarette and remains solid. A bystander says, "Gee, Rick, I hope when they come to take me away you help me out a little bit more than that!" Rick remains a statue and says, "I stick my neck out for nobody."We can sense Rick was a good guy at one time, but as Marilyn Monroe once said, he probably "got the fuzzy end of the lollipop." He is tired of fighting for the good cause. So he maintains his bar and tries not to care about anyone. His piano player Sam (Dooley Wilson) knows the real Sam, and tries to evoke it, but Sam just sits in silence and drinks and smokes and lets himself stay drenched in misty smoke.That all remains until Ilsa Lund (Ingrid Bergman) walks through his doors. It turns out that Ilsa left Sam and Rick waiting at a train station in the rain some time ago in Paris, France, during the German occupation. Rick never saw her since. That night she walks into his bar, he sits at a table in his joint, and in a mopy tone says, "Of all the gin joints in all the world, she walks into mine." This is a very effective line.Do delve into the plot any further is pointless. Not only will it spoil interesting tidbits, but it is just plain pointless to explain anymore. But I will say that every frame is handled with care and the extreme close-ups in this film are amazingly effective. Sergio Leone was known for his extreme close-ups, but those in "Casablanca" seem to capture an innocence of the characters that I have rarely seen equaled in other films.Bogart is at the top of his game in this film, only equaled in "The Maltese Falcon." Ingrid Bergman is superb, as well, but the supporting cast is equally impressive. Sydney Greenstreet, Peter Lorre, Claude Rains, Peter Henreid and Dooley Wilson all steal the show - well, maybe not Henreid, but that's because he's not really supposed to. This is the perfect example of a well-rounded cast. Too often nowadays attention is paid to the lead actors and not the supporters - this has both great leads and great supporters.People often ask me what my favorite film is. And to be frankly honest, it certainly isn't "Casablanca." To me, lists of favorites in ranking order are pointless and silly - who am I to declare my favorite film, when I have not even seen some of the greatest unknown films out there? If someone asks me to tell them my favorite film I have seen, I usually say I don't have one. I still think lists of favorite-ever films are silly. I have various favorites in various genres, but not an "all-time-favorite." Despite this, "Casablanca" is one of those films that has permeated our culture. It will never go away. I'm not sure if it's one of my top ten favorites, but if there is a difference between a favorite film and a most memorable film, "Casablanca" sure does disguise it.


                
This movie can compete with the most famous and timeless love stories in history, like Romeo & Julia, the beauty and the beast, Julia Roberts and Richard Geere.Always remember while you watch it: 1942. Not such a nice time for the world! Not such a nice time for romance. Not such a nice time to stand up against something. It must have been quite an effort to shoot this film during such harsh times. I mean, it's quite a political movie and the scene with the Marseillaise must have been a punch in the face of every fascist.But all the political quarrels are combined with an amazing love story that hasn't lost a single ounce of its attraction or beauty throughout the years.But what really made a classic out of the picture is, in my opinion, Humphrey Bogart. I consider him the man of the millennium, a guy with so much masculine attitude and yet so much feeling. It's just an eye-catching experience to see him walk and talk and, most impressive, drink. Any other actor drinks quite ordinary. It's not a big deal to empty a glass of booze. But when Bogie does it, you can feel his pain. You can feel his grief and his anger. You can feel the person behind the scene. If you ask me for the man I respect the most in movie history, it has to be Humphrey Bogart.Sure, the rest of the cast does a great job as well, Ignrid Bergmann is responsible for half of the chemistry between Rick and Ilsa but well, I can only see them in the shadow of Bogie.This is one of those movies, you hear so much talking about and you begin to ask what's so great about a dusty old flick, but after you've watched it, you realize what everybody was talking about. At least, that's how I did.A truly timeless tale about romance with the perfect cast and probably the most memorable quotes in history. Terrific!
For a long time I felt ashamed that I had never seen "Casablanca" which is among the most legendary movies ever made. Last night I finally had the chance to watch it and I was very surprised how good it actually was even this day when movies are so different. If you are going to watch this movie you honestly have to relate to the time when it was made, because if you're going to watch it like any other movie, you may be disappointed.It was breath taking to see how detailed this movie actually was. Everything's just so precise, from the dialog to every single item that you see on the screen, even if it was only in the background. You can't even compare the acting to acting these days, it just isn't anything near it, as it's a totally different art form of its own, so significant and so great. Every single word spoken by every character is so powerful and compelling, every word is precise and carefully chosen. Humphrey Bogart is perfect for the role, a bad ass American, Rick Blaine, who owns a night club at Casablanca during the World War II, but yet he is surprisingly soft-hearted. Then there's the beautiful Ingrid Bergman, whose beauty shines through the screen in her role of Ilsa Lund, the woman who was Rick's one time love when they met in Paris. The story between Rick and Ilsa is filled with passion like no other, making the whole movie one of the most passionate movies ever made.The screenplay's just excellent and it also compliments the whole directing of the movie. It progresses with scenes that are just so phenomenal, so legendary and so nostalgic. It includes one of the most legendary quotes in the history of motion pictures, for example; "Play it once, Sam", "We'll always have Paris" and "I think this is the beginning of a beautiful friendship". Even when I had never seen the movie, I just immediately recognised those sentences and smiled, as they are among the sentences everybody knows even if they've never seen "Casablanca" before. The whole plot is also surprisingly exciting, comparing to the plots nowadays it would definitely work in any movie, as it is just so thrilling from the beginning till the end and you just can't know how it ends before the last minute of the movie. The final solution's just genius and it's actually so good that I had to start clapping my hands together when the movie ended. Superb.One of the best things now when I've seen the film is that I can finally be proud in saying "I've seen Casablanca. And I love it" Even after 65 years, "Casablanca" simply shines, making it enjoyable in every imaginable way. It's thrilling, it's passionate, it's flowing and it's just excellent. Throw away your thoughts of modernity and enjoy some real nostalgia with amazing role performances, superb directing and an excellent screenplay. A masterpiece.


                
Michael Curtiz's masterpiece, Casablanca, is easily one of my favorite movies of all time. The plot brilliantly demonstrates self sacrifice and ever- lasting love in a way that is untraditional and completely original. Humphrey Bogart and Ingrid Bergman have amazing chemistry that really brings the story to life. The lighting is perfect and natural, despite being filmed in a studio, the dialog has a good rhythm, and the composition was spot on. The image appeared to be very crisp and clear with no imperfections. The sets and prop designs were beautiful with a truly authentic Moroccan style. The flashbacks were very well shot and utilized effectively, there were a few comparison shots that were well thought out. Overall Casablanca is a movie far beyond its time that will be forever loved and respected.
So far, this movie has the best lighting I've ever seen. Everything worked so well that I don't think I'd have to see the movie in color. My favorite thing about it was how the lights outside of the club worked so well. Nothing was too saturated, and you could tell what was what, and who was who. Even characters who were darker than others were seen well, and that's something big with me. Sure, the movie was a little cheesy but I honestly liked it. Rick's character is probably my favorite, and both he and Lund were extremely good looking throughout the whole thing. It was a bit disappointing that they didn't get together in the end, especially with how their previous relationship affected Rick to become the cold man he was at the beginning of the movie. His development was interesting, and pretty good. The one thing I could say that I didn't like was how everything moved a little too fast for me. Though that in itself is great, a perfectly re-watchable movie. Casablanca had a wonderful setting, a well selected cast and I still can't get over the perfect lighting.
Casablanca is the story of an American man in WWII era Morocco and his struggle in choosing between "love and virtue". Confronted by the woman he once loved and her new husband, a Czech resistance leader and important figure in the fight against the Nazis, the film focuses on Rick's internal conflict over deciding between his desires or the good of many others.Casablanca is a testament to what you can accomplish with a spectacular cast and a beautiful, thoughtfully made set. The vast majority of the film takes place in Rick's Cafe Americain and focuses on a handful of characters, but even with it's relatively crowded story it never fails to feel well rounded and entirely better off than if were to use a wider array of characters and locations.Humphrey Bogart stars as Rick Blaine, the owner of Rick's Cafe Americain. Bogart gives the film a career defining performance and makes his character the most compelling male lead I've ever seen in a love story. When dealing with the politics brought into the Cafe Americain he's cool, calm, and composed in his efforts to remain neutral in all matters, but when we see him alone after hours in his office he becomes very convincingly distraught over his love interest Ilsa. He is shown on multiple occasions alone in his office shrouded by the complete darkness of a Casablancan night, with only a thin ray of light shining through a window to illuminate his face. He drinks from a tall bottle of booze with a grim, haunted expression that gave me a real empathy for the toll his endeavors were taking on him. The rest of the cast performed well enough that there were no noticeable weak links, but there was really no way for them to escape the shadow cast by Bogart's performance.My favorite thing about the film was Rick's Cafe Americain. The Cafe itself was just a series of sets constructed in Warner Brothers Studios in Burbank California, but it was so fitting and perfect for the film it left the same kind of impression that would be made by a well made fantasy location. Its stone walls were decorated in the shadows left by ornate lamps and intricate patterns made to shine light in from the outside. It was so packed full of extras during all of the scenes taking place there that it always created the atmosphere of a real bar. These things were vital to the film because so much of it was contained within these walls, and it was so great that I loved every moment of the scenes there.Casablanca is a real classic. It's the sort of movie that feels like an experience and makes you glad you've seen it. It was all so excellent that I wouldn't hesitate to recommend it to anyone who loves movies. When you see some of these scenes for yourself you immediately understand how they've had such a lasting influence to this day.
One of the greatest films of the 40's and one of the best American films of all times. This film gives you the view of WWII no body else can. From the little city in Morroco the story of Rick the bartender gives you the best story of life outside the U.S during the early years of WWII. I'm talking about WWII, but once you start watching this film you wouldn't be so sure if it really is about a war, a relationship, or fight within a war. This film can't be put in as just one genre because there is just so much different events happening nobody could put just one genre on this film.This classic film gives the viewers everything you can want in a film. The film is mainly filmed at night meaning there is a need for lighting that is practically done perfect for every scene. The acting shows great chemistry between the main couple that really only has chemistry in flashbacks. The photography is done so well for dark scenes and even give you scenes from France that make you feel like your in France while the war is only miles away you feel like your there. This film was done as an A film and I agree that it is and found no problems with the editing or any other part of the film.This film was intended to be a patriotic film, but today people who haven't seen would not know just by knowing the name of the film. This film takes the audience to the safe areas of the war and shows them how everyone in the film is affected by the war. The famous scene done with the two anthems being sung at the same time was done to predict the outcome of the war. In Ricks bar the German soldiers begin singing their anthem, but Rick gets Victor a man that was from France began to sing the French anthem and got the entire bar to sing along and got the band to get even louder, in which overpower the few German soldiers. As the film continues the German soldiers around the bar become more aggressive and show Rick that even though he is neutral they aren't afraid to stop him, but when Rick allowed Victor to sing the anthem really showed that Rick had picked a side and was going by it.This film was put out in theaters before the war ended and became a very Patriotic film for just Americans and anyone else supporting it. This film was seen as a normal film to the creators but the viewers saw the film as one of a kind and really was in a way propaganda against the Germans in WWII.
Casablanca was a great movie out of the 1940's. Scratch that of all time. Humphrey Bogarts is an absolutely outstanding actor. He plays this part just amazing. I thought the acting overall was phenomenal all around. This movie is also a romantic movie, just look at Rick's face when he first sees her in the bar. And every time there after for a matter of fact. I could watch this movie over and over again unlike most movies I have watched for my Cinema class, as I really enjoyed this film. I would recommend this movie to everyone not only because of how great a film it is but because it really is on of the best movies in all of American Cinema and thats not only my opinion.


                
I have always loved this film, and I will continue to love it indefinitely. There's nothing that I have a problem with, which is really unusual. The story is great, the atmosphere is great, and the photography is SPECTACULAR (I love the shadows and the lamps). And Bogart and Bergman are perfect. There's just enough mystery to keep it going at a steady pace. The dialogue is good too- - entertaining and witty, but it's not out of this world. I also like that the ending differs from the expected, leaving the audience intentionally disappointed that Rick doesn't go with Ilsa (in a good and necessary way, I think). Okay, I lied; there is one little thing that bothers me. I appreciate this film more from an aesthetic standpoint —I don't get much emotional connection to it.
Casablanca is a 1942 romantic drama directed by Michael Curtiz, staring Humphrey Bogart as Rick Blaine and Ingrid Bergman as Ilsa Lund. In the realm of American films, Casablanca is as well regarded as Gandhi or Einstein, and for good reason. You can make the argument about the films political messages regarding the time period, but nothing overall hinders the movie, in my opinion. Like most other movies of the time, the cinematography is excellent, not very exciting but well made none the less. Curtiz also uses dark lighting in an excellent way, in fact one could make the argument that this film is total film noir because of Curtiz's obsession with shadows. Otherwise, in terms of content, nothing else about the movie really stands out, with maybe the exception of the mini airfield they made for the movie. What keeps Casablanca as a hallmark in our collective movie going memory is the love story. With the exception of the part where Rick just casually asks Ilsa if she wanted to get married, a truly boss move on Bogart's part, the love story feels very natural, and realistic. Even a violence craving, Scorsese/Tarantino loving person like myself can't help but feel the plight of Rick and Ilsa, two humans in an extreme rut. 9/10
Seeing this movie for the first time in the 21st century, I asked myself, "Well...was it as great as expected?". I'd have to go with a yeah, sure! The movie was interesting. Was it the best movie I ever saw in my life? Uhh, not really. The main thing is that is kept me captivated (almost forgot I was watching it) and I was able to relate to parts of the film. When a movie is able to do that, create a relatable feeling for its audiences, then it's a winner. Casablanca was a real love story. Not this fluff that we see now a days that have the same concept and the same story line. I loved this films mise-en-scene. The props and effects used made the setting seem so real. There was great use of invisibility. Even though the scenes were not shot overseas, it kind of made you forget where they really were shooting.


                
It is one the most exquisitely well thought out and put together film in history. If you are not paying attention right from the beginning, you'll miss the beginning set-up, which is the key to appreciating the rest of the film. What really makes the movie is the importance and urgency of the time that the film is set -- for all the characters in this story, for this one small gin joint and this one very obscure city, for all of Europe and all the world. What is particularly important is the desperation of this moment in history. It is brilliantly boiled down into a tableau of detailed interwoven personal stories of greed, power and need, love and sacrifice, loyalty and betrayal. The acting is flawless across the board with these iconic actors really shinning; the screenplay dialogue is smart, witty, with hardly an unnecessary word; the direction and cinematography are flawless, with each scene framed like a movie poster; and the musical numbers contribute the environment and the emotional gravitas without making the film be contrived. I had to watch this film twice before I could fully appreciate it; there's that much to take in.


                
Here is a movie that has always found a way to remain in the top of the lists when it comes to the best movies ever done.Casablanca crosses the genre of drama and romance, the acting was top notch and the movie's screenplays were so well done, that you will be torn in two for Lily. Humphrey Bogart (Rick) was the perfect prince charming, and also a hero in all ways including love.Done in 1942 Casablanca is based on an unproduced play named "Everybody Comes to Rick's" by Murray Burnett and Joan Alison.The movies ending is one that I love and is something you can skip back to watch again, the dramatic scene, which showed sacrifice, love and suspense. The twist at the end is something the producers would have slipped in to catch the audience off guard, something I enjoyed.Casablanca's lines ("Here is looking at you kid" and "This Louis, I think this is the beginning of a beautiful friendship") have remained on the lips of many and it has fondly been repeated in more movies than I can bet the producers would have even dreamt.So what is this great movie about? Casablanca's plot is set during the early years of World War 2, In Casablanca (Morocco) the is a man named Rick Blaine (Humphrey Bogart) who owns the most popular handout spot in Casablanca, he had everything under control and he even had influence on the police. Everything was fine till the past came knocking.Ilsa Lund (Ingrid Bergman) an old lover of Rick shows up at Rick's nightclub and sparks were sent flying in both ways, as they lost contact (Ilsa's fault) without any explanations.Ilsa is not alone, with her is her husband Victor Laszlo (Paul Henereid) who is a renowned fugitive Czech Resistance leader.The couple needs letters to escape to America, letters only Rick can give. So Rick is in a dilemma to help the woman he loves escape with her husband or keep her in Casablanca.Nominated for eight (8) Academy Awards, Casablanca went home with 3, Best Picture, Best director and Best writing screenplay, Casablanca is a commercial success and has a strong cult following, which has disturbed any plans for a sequel and also the colorization of the movie.The movie cinematography was done by the cinematographer of the movie Frankenstein (1931), who made sure that any time we get to see Bergman her eyes sparkled.Here is a movie, AFI has ranked the 3rd greatest of all time in their AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies (10th Anniversary Edition). I advise you get a taste of Casablanca, an iconic movie that sets the trend of what a true romantic movie should be about.www.lagsreviews.com


                
this is a timeless film. the plot has a very good balance between complexity and ease to fallow. there is a lot going on at any given time, but the director Michael Curtiz and the editor Owen Marks do a great job of keeping everything under control so the viewer does not get lost. the acting is absolutely superb on basically every account, especially Humphrey Bogart's. his character Rick own the most popular café/bar in town, but Rick has a lot of things to deal with and i thought that Bogart really gave the character exactly what it needed. this movie is also interesting because it had a lot of political ties with the things that were actually happening when the movie was released.
There's such a wonderful since of composition and lighting throughout the whole movie. It was shot with low light however there were so many wonderful shadows and subtle highlights on the actors and walls that gave for a great feel to bring the audience into Rick's. The characters all have such great depth and it makes you wonder how these people all ended up in Casablanca and whether they'll be able to escape the town. It has so many different great themes such as politics, romance and comedy. The chemistry between Rick and Isla is fantastic and believable. The movie has a few twists in it and even though it was a post code movie there are some little things that you get the hint of that might not necessarily appropriate for the code. I have to say a real American classic that everyone should see at least once in their life time.


                
Casablanca is an absolutely amazing movie, the acting was top notch, the plot kept the movie interesting the entire time. The style of witty comedy and its political hints were great. Humphrey Bogart played his role very well.The plot of the movie was amazing there were points throughout the film where you might think that you know how the movie is going to end but it goes in another direction which makes you want to keep watching to see what actually happens. The high point in this film came at the end of the movie at the airport, it was something that you wanted to happen and it did so it made it that much better to see the outcome of it all. This movie is a must see for anyone who loves an amazing movie.


                
Play it again Sam". "We'll always have Paris". "Here's lookin' at you kid". "Of all the gin joints in all the towns in all the world she walks into mine".These famous lines are just a few amongst the many memorable lines in the 1942 blockbuster Casablanca that was re-released Wednesday, March 21st to commemorate the monster classic's 70th anniversary. I was not about to wait for Casablanca's 100th Anniversary screening to see the hit movie on the big screen so I purchased a ticket to enter a silver screen time portal to view the film the way it was meant to be seen<U+0085><U+0085>.on the big screen. Unfortunately, the prices of the ticket, the popcorn and the soda did not go back in time but if there is a movie that is worth every cent of admission and snacks it is Casablanca.For the very few of you who are not familiar with the plot of Casablanca here is a very brief synopsis of the classic. It is WWII and Casablanca is a haven for refugees who are escaping the stronghold of the Nazi military in eastern Europe. Escapees are willing to do whatever it takes to Get from Eastern Europe to Casablanca, Morocco to Lisbon, Portugal and finally, to absolute freedom in America. Rick's Americain Cafe is a hotbed of political corruption and refugee deal making in the tumultuous city of Casablanca. As interesting and complex the goings ons at Rick's may be it really just serves as a sub-plot to one of the most famous love affairs in movie history between the beautiful Ilsa Lund played by Ingrid Bergman and the timeless, cool, calm and collected Rick Blaine who owns Rick's Americain Cafe played by, of course, Humphrey Bogart.I am not going to waste your time by going any further with the plot summary of this movie but I will say that with each time I see this phenomenon of a movie I am more and more amazed by the screen writing of Philip and Julius Epstein with Howard Koch. Incredible as the performances that are given by Peter Lorre(Ugarte), Claude Rains (Capt. Renault), Paul Henried (Victor Laszlo), Humphrey Bogart and Ingrid Bergman the ingenious screen writing of the Epsteins and Koch cannot be overlooked. To write a screenplay that embodies the beautiful complexities of love and the heinous complexities of WW2 politics is truly a feat of artistic genius displayed by the Epstein's and Koch. As the old saying goes, they don't make movies like this anymore.Unfortunately time portals are not yet a reality but a movie theater is a great place to escape to another time, especially if you are seeing a classic like Casablanca. For those of you who have not seen Casablanca on the big screen please do not miss the next chance you have to do so. Here's to Casablanca being played again Sam.Like what you see here? Then check out our full site at 3guys1move.com
Let's not rehash the old accolades of Bogie & Bergman which still ring true. I watch this over and over because it represents a type of commitment and honor that I believe we all wish we were capable of. The dialog is full of the utmost courtesy, while the humor can bob and weave into the script that still manages to pull the romance through the end. The side characters are very strong, if not stereotypically played out, but ultimately memorable, none the less. Of all the quotes that echo, it is Ricks' heartbreak and bitterness wrapped up in his replying if he remembered Ilsa, "The Germans wore gray, you wore blue." War, romance, humor and dignity and all in seven words, that's class!


                
