To start, I would like to say that this movie is not even as good as Batman Begins. Christian Bale is one of my favorite actors, Batman is one of the best super heroes, but that still does not mean this equates to The Shawshank Redemption or The Godfather.This is a very good movie, but it is not deserving of all of the hype surrounding it. Health Ledger's death had more of an impact on this movie's critical acclaim than anything in the actual movie. The Joker is pretty cool because the screen writers made him cool, not because Health Ledger delivered an Oscar worthy performance or any of that other BS. People seem to forget that Liam Neeson played his character in Begins at least as well if not better than Heath Ledger played The Joker. Also, Christian Bale is predominately playing his snobby Bruce Wayne character in this film, which is quite annoying. After seeing the movie, you might even realize that Christian Bale's obscure placement throughout the film is a major flaw.The Godfather is around 3 hours, this is around 2&1/2 hours, yet this movie feels much slower. Rather than keeping a steady pace, the movie seems to doze off for a while followed by huge explosions and overly drawn out 30 minute action sequences. It's ridiculous.The best movie of 2008 is In Bruges, not TDK.


                
I just watched "The Dark Knight" and I really am shocked that people who vote on this site can possibly say that this film is on the same scale as "The Godfather", better than films like "Ben- Hur", "Raging Bull", "Goodfellas" and pretty much every film made since talkies started in 1927. I mean everyone who could possibly rate this film so high has to be born after 1990. I mean I'm 38, have seen and own over six hundred films, and to me this was an overlong over-hyped film to the max. Being a video/film editor I thought the editing was appalling. The acting, well it wasn't bad I mean Heath Ledger was good in his role his acting was tremendous. His character, however has no background, all we know is that either he or his father gave him scars. Bale's Batman which was great in the first film, doesn't know whether to hang it up, be a hero, or become a hunted animal. The rest of the cast well, Michael Caine, Morgan Freeman can never do wrong, but in this film they are really just used for show. Gary Oldman, one of the best actors working today who is generally a chameleon when it comes to characterization, doesn't even bother to try to cover his English accent. Eckhart's Dent was just plain annoying until he becomes Two-Face, and that's almost 2 hours into the film. I was just disappointed, the first film blew this away.
In Christopher Nolan's darker reboot of the Batman franchise, Christian Bale plays the masked hero. Gary Oldman, Morgan Freeman, and Michael Caine join the cast as regulars, with guest stars in each installment as villains or temporary females. I watched the previews for these films and never had any desire to watch them. To me, Michael Keaton is Batman, and no remake can ever compare. My brother practically forced me to watch The Dark Knight, after Heath Ledger won his posthumous Oscar, and even though he raved and raved, I remained unimpressed. To me, the Batman films aren't supposed to be that dark and disturbing. Batman originated in a comic book, and should therefore be accessible to children. Nolan's imagination of Gotham City does not keep in view of the original comic or previous adaptations. It has the same feel of the types of films that specialize in serial killers.My brother raved about Christian Bale's American accent. I'd heard him show his talent at accents in other films, so this gravelly-voiced performance didn't terribly impress me. The villains—Aaron Eckhart as Two-Face, Heath Ledger as The Joker, and Cillian Murphy as The Scarecrow—were needlessly frightening and relied on gimmicks rather than acting. Heath Ledger's untimely death was extremely tragic, but his performance in this film didn't warrant a nomination, let alone an Oscar win. He had a lot of makeup on, spoke in a different accent, and flicked his tongue in and out so audiences would think he's insane. The tongue flick is as old a trick in the book as it is to chew gum when playing a bimbo.There are extended action sequences that showcase vast special effects, so if you only watch movies based on how impressive the special effects are, you will probably want to rent this one. And, to be honest, younger audiences will probably really enjoy the reboot of the series. They didn't grow up watching it as originally intended, and today's audiences have short attention spans that need to be sensationalized every few minutes. Older folks who liked the Michael Keaton movies should stay far away from these.Kiddy Warning: Obviously, you have control over your own children. However, due to scary and upsetting images, I wouldn't let my kids watch it.


                
The Batsuit can deflect bullets, but it can't withstand a dog attack? Holy Wardrobe Malfunction! If I were Bruce Wayne, I would have kicked Morgan Freeman's backside back to The Electric Company, and sued the crap out of the firm that made the material that was supposed to protect my richer-than-God self from the likes of Cujo! But then, that would make way too much sense, and "sense" is something that the Batman franchise has never been accused of having!Say what you will about Tim Burton's and Joel Schumacher's Batman movies: at least they never pretended to be anything other than silly popcorn flicks. Christopher Nolan, on the other hand, wants to be Ingmar Bergman when he grows up -- which is why he rips off Burton! Don't tell me that ridiculous standoff was a happy accident, Ledger grunting "Come on, come on, hit me" à la Jack? Batman doesn't turn The Joker into roadkill because he has a moral code? Give me a break! And, for a self-proclaimed "agent of chaos", every one of The Joker's actions are oddly well-planned and executed. Memo to Nolan: look up "chaos" in the dictionary!Which leads me to Ledger. Since when does twitching like a coked-up Mexican jumping bean constitute acting? No disrespect, but let's be real: if he hadn't died, that truly morbid Oscar campaign wouldn't have sprung up, and he wouldn't have been nominated, much less, won. As I could never understand Ledger half the time because none of his directors had the balls to tell him to enunciate like a normal human being, he had to have been dubbed, because I actually understood every word he said!And it's "close to the vest", NOT "close to the chest"! Idiots!
Finally got to see this - I was disappointed. I haven't been this bored in a movie in quite awhile (not since Titanic at least). Heath Ledger's turn as the Joker was fine, but come on, I hate to say this, but are people saying his performance was a "tour de force" because the performance was so outstanding (it wasn't) or because he died prematurely (it was). The movie was dark, plodding, and overly long. There were some tense moments (ie: the ferry boats), and some of the twists and turns were interesting enough, but not enough to sustain this dank, overloaded barge. Time is always the true test of worth, and like Titanic, this movie will not hold up.


                
I feel sorry for Heath. He has always been interesting and brings a light to the screen. Like Brandon Lee in The Crow, his horrible legacy is to be remembered as an evil, lisping, greasy villain in this uninteresting, worthless film.What a waste. What a waste of time, What a waste of money, what a waste of talent. Don't waste your time. Remember Heath Ledger for the excellent parts he has played in other films, and don't be taken in by the hype and shameless promotion of this actor's untimely death. The length of the film is obnoxious- the story could have been told in one third of the time. I just kept waiting for it to end.


                
After the excellent Batman Begins, I expected this sequel to be so much better, instead we are left with one big mess of a movie. Don't get me wrong, all the actors do a splendid job with their roles especially Heath Ledger (RIP), however the film itself is just not very entertaining at all. In fact, this is hardly a Batman movie itself, the film focuses more on cops and corruption, which is fine so long as you remember that your supposed to be watching a comic book hero.The problem here is there is too much going on, and with little explanation, the film starts to get very confusing, as you start to wonder who is really the hero and who is the villain. Batman's Gotham City now looks more like New York City, and his Bat cave is absolutely horrendous, not to mention his irritating voice.In its defence, the actors perform well, and some of the special effects are quite good, especially the opening scene where Batman kicks butt, only trouble is, its well too brief. If your going to watch The Dark Knight in terms of action, then you will surely be disappointed as there really isn't much action at all, only about fifteen minutes at the most.If you want a proper comic book superhero movie, I recommend Iron Man (a far more entertaining movie), or even the second Hulk movie with Edward Norton. Its just a shame, that this second Batman movie was not what I expected, and after the brilliant Batman Begins, The Dark Knight is a big disappointment. Take my advice; stick to the excellent Tim Burton classics, they are far more entertaining and faithful to the comics. Or just watch Batman Begins and skip the sequels.
Christopher Nolan is a simple, discreet, hard-working man. His work on Memento was made with great talent and The Prestige is a pleasant movie. Unfortunately this is not the case with his batman movies. "Begins" has many defects (mainly Katie Holmes) but it is not bad. This is just an average movie with no chance to date in film history. The Dark Knight seems to have been made by a pretentious man (a pretentious crew, at most). The major lacks of the movie is a dense scenario with no rhythm and no emotional implication and a flabby direction. After the two third of the movie, I was actually blunted and the only thing that I wanted to see was "The End" on the screen. Because I didn't care of the fate of the batman or the commissioner Gordon or Harvey Dent and because the story slacks from the beginning to the end. I don't think that Nolan was the good choice for such a movie, and excepting the early 90's McTiernan, I can't see what director would now be good enough to make this ambitious movie. Hiring a talented script-writer wouldn't have been bad for the sake of the movie, and a director who knows the making of good action scenes (but not like the bad Michael Bay). Nevertheless, The Dark Knight has some qualities : the actors are good, particularly Heath Ledger, and it's better than nothing.


                
Yes, the special effects were amazing. In some ways it's the modern day's Star Trek: The Motion Picture. The plot was predictable,boring, and extremely long. I saw it in theatres and had to force myself to stay to the end. Yes, Heath Ledger was good. A playful psycho. But the film itself is something I'd have to be tied down to see again.So much of the accolades this film had seems based on Heath Ledger's death. It would be interesting to know how the reviews would be if not for that tragedy.I suspect the next generation would look back on this film and say "boring".


                
2 and a half hours!!!!! are you kidding? that time is reserved for great movies, not crap like this. oh yeah, movies must have a lot of "action", flashing lights and special effects along with gadgets. Of course batman always had the gadgets, but the fight scenes were pathetic, and the special effects made for 14 year old. "dude did you see that.....! no sense of where batman comes from, and the joker, why not show some of his childhood instead of him just telling it. noisy and juvenile. lousy effects and stunts. 2 and a half hours!!!!! are you kidding? that time is reserved for great movies, not crap like this. oh yeah, movies must have a lot of "action", flashing lights and special effects along with gadgets. Of course batman always had the gadgets, but the fight scenes were pathetic, and the special effects made for 14 year old. "dude did you see that.....! no sense of where batman comes from, and the joker, why not show some of his childhood instead of him just telling it. noisy and juvenile. lousy effects and stunts.


                
I've been a fan of Batman since I was a kid so I didn't need much persuading to see the latest movie especially with everyone saying how good it is. Shame I didn't read page two of the reviews before seeing it! The story is overly long, disjointed and goes nowhere. Seriously what was that whole Hong Kong thing about? The bombings are highly contrived and would have been more credible if the film was going for a cheeky jokey style but it tries to be serious and doesn't have any logic to it.I really can't believe the rave reviews this movie got, it's at best a three out of ten. I had no expectations but still came out feeling let down. I had to watch the original movie afterwards which has a plot, interesting characters and a Batman that doesn't sound ridiculous every time he opens his mouth. A crap effort all round, but people are loving it which explains why Hollywood puts zero effort into most movies and lots of effort into advertising.It's not even visually interesting except for the odd shot where it looks quite gritty. Compared to the wonderful scenes of Gotham from the first movie though this is nothing to get excited about. By the way at the time of writing people rate this movie 4 places higher than Casablanca, unbelievable.


                
The Dark Knight actually got lucky. Movies over the last six years have been crap. Scripts poorly written, over budgeted for the visual effect - yet not transferring well to the big screen, bad story ideas, copy cats of other films,lack of creativity, films that hold vulgarity and violence as a high standard of film making. That's what we've had over the years. Now comes Batman - Dark Knight. Which is written well enough but whose aim isn't good story telling. It's written to move about from pointless spot to pointless spot until you reach the end. Why another Batman Joker movie? It's been done already.It has a mindless assembly-line quality to it as each scene is repeated over and over during the 2 1/2 hours of this film. The scenes are different only by location and a few faces. Something bad happens, the joker appears, Batman appears. Then the joker disappears and Batman disappears. Over and over and over again.The other big comment people had made about this movie is that it is very dark. Like that's a good thing. I don't get it. Maybe because I've had too many real life experiences that were truly dark. Motion pictures trying to have this quality and then for others to celebrate this seems ignorant and not very entertaining. Besides, movies over the last few years are all dark - even the light-hearted ones.This movie made me tired.


                
Is most of humanity on serious drugs? This film is a mess. The script rambles, the characters come in and out of the film for no reason, no one does anything that makes any sense. This was written using a Vegetamatic The writing is bad!! This NOT a good film and yet the population heads for that cliff like Lemmings. Have the studios turned our brains to mush? BATMAN BEGINS is GOOD... This is BAD. OK, so Heath Ledger does a good job in the film... that still doesn't make it a good movie. Demand better!! Seriously... Now. Put that potato chip bag down, call the Office of Homeland Security and tell them Jihaadists have taken over Warner Bros. and are pretending to be David Goyer (a great writer most of the time). He must be being held captive by the guy impersonating Paul McCartney. Is putting on a black cape and some cat ears all it takes to amuse the populace... This is down right Orwellian.. God Help us!!


                
1) A general comment...This movie typifies why I would like to see IMDb have a system that deletes user ratings every year for ten years after a movie is released (maybe keep the last years ratings and delete the years before that one's user ratings until ten years is up, if you catch my drift). If "Twister" 1996 came out now a days there would be 300k people voting in 3 days and giving it an 8.6 rating (still to high at 6.0, but the movie wasn't very old when IMDb started up).2) Review...I couldn't finish watching "The Dark Knight". I tried earlier this year and then again the other night. It was horrible..... Let's start with the actors shall we...Ken dolls trying to act; a "cough-cough" not very attractive leading lady; and, of course, the highly overrated, yet not all that terrible, performance from Heath Ledger. Let's face it, anyone who saw "Batman" 1989 could see the rip off with Ledger's Joker. Michael Caine as Alfred???? Could you take him seriously as Alfred after seeing him in Austin Powers. The Chinese bad guy was the best actor in the movie...Are you starting to understand how bad this is yet?!I just can't go into how poor the story elements are too much. I'll get a migraine. Example: The prosecutor punches the witness and then takes a gun off someone, pulls it apart and then leaves it in front of the defendant. No, I didn't oversimplify it. I didn't leave something out. It's really that stupid. The rest of the movie (at least as far as I got) is also that bad. I think that's all I need to say. There's just no point in going on. I'll just add the one positive aspect...The effects are top notch. 3) Summary...Money, hype, dead actor hype, special effects, blah blah blah. You know the drill. You only get one pair of eyes, so take care of them. Stay away!!!


                
How could the critics and the public be so WRONG about a movie? Well, the public is easily influenced, especially if they are teenagers with no broad movie-going experience to allow them to contrast this with other films. But the critics? More and more I get the feeling that the reviews we see are no longer about quality but only about sales. In this world of "reality" shows that are anything but - and MTV music videos that are to what film-making is that McDonald's is to cuisine - well, who can blame them if they no longer have any reliable criteria?What is WRONG with this movie? Just about everything... First and foremost, we don't CARE about anyone. Whether they live or die doesn't seem to really matter at all. Did ANYONE get teary-eyed over Maggy Gyllenhaal's death? I certainly didn't. We are not really given any time to FEEL anything. Second: no real suspense about anything. We're not given enough information, there is almost no attempt to build suspense... we just sit there passively watching as events keep happening all around us with NO attention to logic. Just one example: the Riddler is left in a locked room with a policeman. He has bizarrely been left without his handcuffs on... and all of a sudden the two of tehm are outside the jail-cell, and the Riddler has a knife at the man's throat. We don't know where the knife came from, we didn't see him overpower the guard, we don't know how they got out of a locked room. This is LAZY film-making... and it happens over and over again throughout this film. Events happen but there is no logical progression. The action scenes. Terrible. Everything is shot like an MTV video. Close-ups of the action that leave us with very little idea of what is really happening. The car-chase sequences were boring, because we had no real idea of who was where. It was all just a lot of close-up chopped editing. If this is supposed to be thrilling, then I suggest everyone go back and watch the chariot race from Ben Hur. No special effects, no insane wild editing in close-ups that don't allow us to really see what is happening... and yet it is three (four, five?) times more exciting than anything in this film. Bruce Wayne/Batman: stupid voice for batman, is he trying to channel Darth Vador? Wooden acting ... no sense of humour. A bore. The Riddler: better than I expected, but not as brilliant as everyone says. OF COURSE he'll get the Oscar, but mainly because he should have gotten it for Brokeback Mountain, and because he died. Everyone else? Just wasted talent... Such a disappointment, after Batman Begins...
When I saw Nolan's "Batman begins" I thought it was poorly directed - Not because Nolan is a bad director, but because this style of directing does not fit a comic. You can't take a movie about a guy in a bat suit too seriously and dismiss all comic aspects. Tim Berton knew this, directed accordingly (although this is also his usual style) and the result was a good movie. Nolan ignored this fact. The result was a movie that was not realistic at all, and yet tried to seem serious - an unintentional parody. The "eastern wisdom and training" montage clichés didn't help either.With "The Dark Knight", Nolan keeps making the same mistake, only this time its much worse. If the film is supposed to be realistic, you can't have so many unrealistic assumptions. One example: How is it the the Joker can get anywhere and do anything he want? He plants powerful radio activated bombs everywhere (it takes a whole company just to design these), He infiltrates the world's most powerful crime organizations etc. He keeps talking about how people start behaving like animals once you start disrupting their ordered world. But a plan of the Joker's magnitude would in real life require a huge, organized and coordinated group. Actually, in order to create "anarchy" in real life, you would have to organize and create a new form of order, so the Joker's point is moot.And that is just one of many contradictions I feel this movie has. That's OK for a movie that doesn't seem to take itself too seriously (like Berton's), but not for this one that seemingly aspires to be 'realistic' and to be taken seriously.The reason to give 2 stars instead of one: Superb acting by Heath Ledger.
Should have been titled The Joker as his character is the only interesting thing in the movie.Hokey fight scenes,Batman talking under his breath in every scene.Plot was typical crap.Joker was good for the most part.The district attorney was a joke,his g/f was sleeping with him and Batman at the same time(this is good ideas to put in our kids minds eh?)This movie got a whole bunch of PR but did not deliver,luckily for the movie creators there are a lot of ignorant people out there willing to pay for this garbage.Christian Bale lowered his integrity as an actor with this one.Ironman and Spiderman 3 are so much better than this its pathetic.If Heath Ledger didn't die during the filming i wonder how many sales it would have made.


                
I finally finished watching this movie on DVD, and it was a big disappointment. It was very poorly made and very poorly written. The believability factor is almost zero. If the film was going for fantasy, fine, but it is seeking realism. There are many aspects of the movie which are completely unbelievable. While the Joker can not catch the armoured truck with bazookas and taking down a helicopter, somehow he could catch and tie up two of the main characters. How? We don't know. We weren't shown that. But he did it! In the scene where the helicopter is taken down, the armoured truck turned randomly from the underground passage to a street. So how did the Joker's men know which street to be on? Speaking of his men, where do they come from? Since he proves himself willing to kill and discard his own guys on a whim, why does anyone continue to work for him? What kind of mob boss shows up for the money with almost no guys? But the joker, who burns their money, he has lots of guys. This is the school of film-making where you can just write whatever you want. It's very apparent. That makes for a rather pathetic viewing experience. Near the end where Dent explains his motivation: I could not believe a film of such supposedly high calibre reached like that. It's like a kindergarten melodrama. And notice the two choices, either him or Batman. Why not Mr. X? Or Ms R? Or the Joker? No. No. We're writing this script the way we want to: stupidly.And by the way, you kill the Joker. Dead. Again, we see more and more in the pathetic school of film-making that has become somewhat dominant, the bad guys aren't killed, they just fall off a cliff, or stumble, or something. Why give the audience the satisfaction of watching this piece of crap buy a bullet.
Seriously, this movie is long, tedious and predictable, and in all honesty you cant be bothered what happens in the plot because the characters are so two dimensional.in fact, its been a few weeks since I watched this movie and for the life of me i cannot remember what happened in it...That perhaps tell you how good it was?Anyway, god knows what crack these people are smoking who have given it 8/10...IS THIS TEN LINES YET????Pope


                
OK, while there some new effects for the franchise, this film had its problems. Like Batman Begins, it brings in the guy who wants revenge against the guy that's causing the problems. Enter Heath Ledger. I really do not think that he did a good job. I mean, the first Batman film in 1989 introduced the joker, so why bring him back? Jack Nicholson stole the performance, and Heath ruined it. The problem with the Joker in this film is his looks. Jack's Joker had a smile surgically fixed on his face. Heath's Joker has a smile painted on his face. Pathetic. The original look was better. The jokes and puns are terrible, as are most of the action sequences. Now, seriously, someone bring back Michael Keaton? 2/10 sorry, guys, but this is just my opinion.


                
Batman raises the stakes in his war on crime. With the help of Lieutenant Jim Gordon and District Attorney Harvey Dent, Batman sets out to dismantle the remaining criminal organizations that plague the city streets. The partnership proves to be effective, but they soon find themselves prey to a reign of chaos unleashed by a rising criminal mastermind known to the terrified citizens of Gotham as The Joker. We Can All Argue About The Quality Of This Movie Until The Cows Come Home But This Is What I Saw.I Saw An Extreme Amount Of Violence In A KIDS MOVIE (Its Like Making Dora The Explorer Into Punisher War Zone) And As Far As Flaws Go This Was Jam Packed. There Is This Nerdy Guy On TV Who Claims He Knows Who Batman Really Is Yet It Goes Nowhere...It Doesn't Take An Idiot To Figure Out That It Would Take A Millionaire To Afford That Crap.The Cell Phone Gag Was Idiotic. They Actually Could See Everything Including People Who Weren't On Cell Phones & When They're Trying To Find The Joker They Need To Wait Until He Speaks.Another Flaw That Is Pretty Obvious Is That A Gunshot Does Nothing To The Bat Suit Yet...A Dog Can Harm The Wearer.When The Bombs Are About To Be Activated The Sailor Only Just Finds Out The Thousands Of Gallons Of Flammable Liquid In The Engine Room At That Point.I Could Go On And On About This But What Really Pisses Me Off Is Its Place In The Top 250...So What Everyone Is Saying Is That Its Better Than "Psycho", Better Than "The Seven Samurai", Better Than "Alien", Better Than "Seventh Seal", Better Than "Amadeus", Better Than "The Matrix", Better Than "The Terminator". The List Goes On So Much That I Could Be Here Reviewing This Film For Days.As Far As Acting Goes Heath Ledger Is The ONLY Performance That Is Descent. Christian Bale As Batman Is Hard To Understand To Me What I Heard Is "Ruta Ruba Runa Roo!" This Might Sound Weird When You Say This Review To Yourself But Say It In The Batman Voice & You'll Find Similarities In Both Forms Of Dialogue. Hell This Isn't Even The Best Movie Of 2008. "Iron Man", "The Incredible Hulk", "Let The Right One In" & "Hellboy 2" Are The Best Because They Had...You Know...Thought Put Into It.I Realise This Review Might Get Slagged To Death Because I Insulted Everyone's Favourite Movie (Apparrantly) But In Every Decade There Is An Overrated Director. In The 70's It Was Copolla, In The 80's Its Spieldberg, In The 90's Tarantino & In The '00's Its Nolan.Overall I Think I Have Made An Okay Argument But I Also Expect Fans To Beat The Living Crap Out Of This Review Because "Its Nolan" & "Heath Ledger Died In Shooting" I Can Honestly Say That Not Every Movie That Has Had An Actor Died While Shooting Is A Good Movie...Take "Plan 9 From Outer Space" Bela Lugossi Died While Making That & Thats The Same With This (I AM NOT COMPARING MOVIES!!! I WOULD NEVER DO THAT!!!) Heath Ledger Died But Now They Treat This Movie & His Performance Like The Second Coming. What Happened To Him Was Tragic But It Doesn't Mean That His Performance Is Legendary. The Only Time When A Good Movie Has Come Off The Death Of An Actor Is "The Crow".Rating: 1/10
You'll like this movie... if you're between 8 and 15 year old. In USA the age bracket can probably be extended to 18. I need to post minimum 10 lines of text here to be accepted as a review, but I'm not sure I have that many words about it. It had the same puerile plot as all super hero movies with an attempt of Shakespearean twist. The hero going to the deep voice when behind the mask (so people won't recognize him?! how about the crocked teeth?) wanted to be theatrical but to me it seemed ridiculous.I think the effort to make it a somewhat sophisticated cartoon produced a move too dark for kids yet too childish for grownups... but of course I am wrong based on the number of votes here that put it on the top 10 all time :)


                
TDK is a long and tedious with themes common in superhero action movies. Some examples: 1. The hero who's not sure he wants to be one: Same as Spiderman 2, Superman 2, X-men, and even the previous Batman 2 movie.2. The hero who must chose between the woman he loves and his duty to be a hero: again, the Superman movies, Spiderman movies, etc, etc.3. The theme where the characters have to make a choice between two unappealing options: Every SAW movie.4. And of course, the hero as martyr. "Why is he running Daddy, he didn't do anything wrong?" "He has to son. He's the hero we need but not the hero we want." Oh for the love of....blah blah blah. This was the entire theme of Spiderman 2.Waste of time and over rated. Come on folks. Let's demand a little more originality in our movies!
I watched it yesterday. I came here to read user comments and I was :O, No 3 movie of all times?If it wasn't 3 hours LONG I would go and re-watch it just to see what did I miss that most of you loved so much. I honestly fail to see what all this hype-hysteria is about..First of all I think the film is way too long than it should be and got to be repetitive after one point. I mean how many times you need to see Joker doing the same things to understand that he is a very intelligent maniac/schizo/sociopath/whatever and can trick and manipulate everyone? Yes we got it, Joker is a schizophrenic genius or whatever, like Ledger's irritating acting wasn't enough. Oh yes, there are many horribly given Oscars out there you will soon can add one more for Heath for probably the worst performance of his career. If that wonderful and extremely talented actor was still alive he wouldn't even get an nomination. Except if you think that talking like crazy and overusing your tongue tick to show you are unstable is a first class acting. I thought Jack Nickolson typecasts but his Joker was a masterpiece comparing to Ledger's. Its really unfortunate that for this caricature acting he will be remembered and honored.The only performance worth of mentioning was Gary Oldman's. As for the rest of the movie, directing was first class, art direction not bad, cinematography was OK, the music was good, the script was.....What was the script about again? OK its a comic so that could justify the numerous plot holes (I can't even imagine how Joker with the help of mentally ill people can trap a whole city like this, not to mention the ridiculous two-face unreal makeup to name a few..). What else the script was about? That you can only beat chaotic terrorists by bending human rights (the mobiles sonar system) but its OK if you only do it once? hmmm dangerous! That good in people always beats evil? yeah! that! it 's like ethics for dummies...but maybe this is what young people need now-days, basic ethics and values teached by a rather boring Hollywood Movie. Which now makes me understand why it is rated so high.. doh.. hmmm dangerous.. learning values from Hollywood...
For all those who think, that it is The Masterpiece - it's not, not even close, here's why: 1) The only strong role was Joker. Acting of others was above average. But Ledger, in my opinion, deserves a huge credit for making his character so impressive and realistic. 2) Second half of the movie got boring, because of the action scenes that were made only for the sake of action. At some point I started to ask myself a question "Why". I didn't find an answer in the movie. 3) Story is quite acceptable, but those that claim Dark Knight to be an art are floating somewhere near the epicenter of Americas self-indulgent "culture", where grown people are still more interested in comics than real art.It's a shame to see this movie near the top of IMDb 250. Even though I would like to write 3 or 4 for it, I decided to give those extra minus points in the name of some disoriented cinema spectator, who thought it to be perfect. Just beside Shindler's list and Pulp Fiction? Are you serious?To sum it up - I would advise all those that praise Dark Knight, have a few hours lecture about history of cinema. They might be surprised, what genial directors are capable of. I would suggest starting with Kubric, Tarkovsky, Copolla, Lynch... And after the lecture adjust their evaluation scale accordingly.


                
